FOLFOX-HAIC Plus Lenvatinib and Toripalimab vs. FOLFOX-HAIC Plus Lenvatinib for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma: a Randomized Controlled and Double-blind Trial
Our previous study showed that hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib and toripalimab improved the survival of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. However, Leep 002 study showded that lenvatinib plus PD-1 antibody is not superior to lenvatinib alone for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Thus, wo conduct this study to compare hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib and toripalimab with hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: oxaliplatin , fluorouracil, and leucovorin
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause. Participants who were lost to follow-up were censored at the last date the participant was known to be alive, and participants who remained alive were censored at the time of data cutoff., 18 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST), or date of death, whichever occurred first., 18 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on mRECIST. CR was defined as disappearance of any intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (enhancement of arterial phase) target lesions taking as reference to the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions., 18 months|Adverse Events, Number of adverse events. Postoperative adverse events were graded based on CTCAE v4.03, 30 days
Our previous study showed that hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib and toripalimab improved the survival of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. However, Leep 002 study showded that lenvatinib plus PD-1 antibody is not superior to lenvatinib alone for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. Thus, wo conduct this study to compare hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib and toripalimab with hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy plus lenvatinib for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.