Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy in Treating Younger Patients With Lung Metastases
This pilot clinical trial studies intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in treating younger patients with lung metastases. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Adult Rhabdomyosarcoma|Lung Metastases|Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma|Previously Treated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Wilms Tumor and Other Childhood Kidney Tumors|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Wilms Tumor|Stage V Wilms Tumor|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiation therapy
Feasibility of Delivering Cardiac-sparing IMRT With Central Quality Control in 20 Subjects, Feasibility is defined as an enrolled patient receiving the IMRT treatment as stipulated in the protocol. Feasibility of delivering whole lung IMRT will be demonstrated by obtaining central (Quality Assurance Review Center 'QARC') quality control approval of enrolled patient treatment plans according to the protocol guidelines for the 20 subjects enrolled onto the study. If an enrolled patient did not receive the IMRT treatment as stipulated in the protocol this subject then the treatment will be considered not feasible in this patient., All IMRT treatment plans were centrally reviewed within 1-2 days of receipt of the radiation therapy plan. The feasibility was determined as 'feasible' if deemed in accordance with protocol guidelines after central QARC review within 1-2 days of receipt.|Short-term Efficacy (Lung-metastases Free Survival, Overall Survival, Pulmonary Relapse, Deceased From Progressive Disease), Serial CT scans of the chest were examined to determine lung-metastasis free survival, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, relapse or date of death from any cause up to an average of 3 years.
Mean Percentage Radiation Dose to Organ Volumes, The IMRT and standard anteroposterior (AP-PA) treatment plans were reviewed and compared for target coverage and organ dose-volume histograms. The mean percentage volume of the organ or organ sub-region receiving a percentage of the dose was estimated from the computerized treatment plans for these two techniques were estimated and compared statistically, This outcome is measured from central review of radiation plans within 1-2 days of receipt.
OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate the feasibility of delivering cardiac-sparing IMRT in a multi-institutional setting with central quality control for children and young adults with metastatic tumors in the lungs.

II. To prospectively determine the dosimetric advantages of whole lung IMRT treatment over standard whole lung irradiation by comparing treatment plans and different organ dose-volume histograms such as lungs, heart, thyroid gland, liver etc. in all patients enrolled in this study.

III. To determine the short-term efficacy (lung-metastases free survival) and acute tolerance of whole lung IMRT at a minimum period of six months after IMRT.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo cardiac-sparing whole lung IMRT.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1-5 years.