Study of Safety and Tolerability of Nivolumab Treatment Alone or in Combination With Relatlimab or Ipilimumab in Head and Neck Cancer
The aim of this study is to potentiate adaptive immunity to enhance the anti-tumor activity of anti-PD1 antibody by the addition of anti-CTLA4 antibody or anti-LAG3 antibody (relatlimab) given in subjects with resectable locally advanced HNSCC prior to surgical resection.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC)
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Relatlimab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Adverse Events related to treatment of nivolumab in combination with relatlimab, Number of participants experiencing adverse events greater than grade 3 related to treatment with nivolumab in combination with relatlimab per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., Up to 4 months|Adverse Events related to treatment of nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab, Number of participants experiencing adverse events greater than grade 3 related to treatment with nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., Up to 4 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of patients with partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to the treatment per RECIST 1.1. criteria. v1.1. Per RECIST v1.1: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or nontarget) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): ≥30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 4 months|Pathologic Response Rate, Percentage of patients with complete response (CR) to the treatment per RECIST 1.1. criteria. v1.1. Per RECIST v1.1: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or nontarget) with reduction in short axis to \<10 mm., Up to 4 months
Levels of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) subsets, Levels of tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) subsets in peripheral blood. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes are white blood cells that have left the bloodstream and migrated towards a tumor. The presence of lymphocytes in tumors is often associated with better post-surgical clinical outcomes and after immunotherapy., Up to 6 months (prior to the first day of treatment, on Days 1 and 28 of treatment, day of surgery, 1, 3, 6 months post surgery)|Levels of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL), Levels of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in blood. PBL levels may be useful in predicting response to chemotherapy., Up to 6 months (prior to the first day of treatment, on Days 1 and 28 of treatment, day of surgery, 1, 3, 6 months post surgery)|Effector CD4+ cells, Presence of CD4+ cells in tumor tissue at the time of biopsy and resection specimen collection. CD4 T-cell can play a role in the development of tumor immunity., Up to 6 months (prior to the first day of treatment, on Days 1 and 28 of treatment, day of surgery, 1, 3, 6 months post surgery)|Effector CD8+ cells, Presence and level of CD8+ T cells in peripheral blood. CD8-positive T cells are a critical subpopulation of MHC class I-restricted T cell and are mediators of adaptive immunity. They include cytotoxic T cells, which are important for killing cancerous cells., Up to 6 months (prior to the first day of treatment, on Days 1 and 28 of treatment, day of surgery, 1, 3, 6 months post surgery)
Tumor mutational burden, A measurement of mutations carried by tumor cells. It is a predictive biomarker being studied to evaluate its association with response to the study therapy, which may help to plan the best treatment. Tumors that have a high number of mutations appear to be more likely to respond to certain types of immunotherapy., Up to 2 months (prior to treatment and day of surgery)|Gene expression signature, A single or combined group of genes in a cell with a uniquely characteristic pattern of gene expression that occurs as a result of cancer or other altered or unaltered pathogenic. Gene signature can serve as a prognostic biomarker for the associated disease., Up to 2 months (prior to treatment and day of surgery)|Single cell RNAseq pathways, Cellular pathways that examine the sequence information from individual cells with optimized next generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, providing a higher resolution of cellular differences and a better understanding of the function of an individual cell in the context of its microenvironment., Up to 2 months (prior to treatment and day of surgery)
Immunotherapeutic agents have been well tolerated in the recurrent/metastatic patient population. Studies have shown that delay of surgical resection for 3-4 weeks after diagnosis is acceptable. Overall survival for locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma are poor with the current treatment modalities available. Previously untreated, locally advanced (AJCC 8th edition stage III-IVa) HPV+ and HPV- head and neck squamous cell carcinoma patients who are candidates for surgical resection, as deemed by the multidisciplinary team will be included in this trial. Patients with histories of autoimmune disease or with current or previous histories of immune modulating agents will be excluded from participation.

Relatlimab will be given IV at a dose of 480 mg IV on D1 (and on D28 if surgery is postponed at the discretion of the investigator). Nivolumab will be given IV at a dose of 480 mg on D1 (and on D28 if surgery is postponed at the discretion of the investigator) when given alone or with relatlimab. Nivolumab will be given at dose of 3 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks on D1 and D14 (and on D28 if the operating room time is not yet available, and the 4-week CT scan demonstrates at least stable disease ) when given with Ipilimumab. Ipilimumab will be given at a dose of 1 mg/kg IV once only on D1. Patients will undergo biopsy and CT scan prior to treatment initiation. 4 weeks (± 1 week) after, patient will undergo surgical resection. CT scan will be repeated prior to surgery (from 1-72 hours prior to surgery).The patients will be monitored from time of biopsy until 6 months postoperatively.