Poziotinib and Ramucirumab for the Treatment of EGFR Exon 20 Mutant Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial tests whether poziotinib and ramucirumab work to shrink tumors in patients with EGFR Exon 20 gene mutant stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Poziotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Ramucirumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving poziotinib and ramucirumab may help to control the disease.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Poziotinib Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: 1429757-68-5, HM781-36B, NOV-1201 Hydrochloride, NOV120101 Hydrochloride, Poziotinib HCl, POZIOTINIB HYDROCHLORIDE
Progression-free survival, Estimated using the Kaplan and Meier method., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of poziotinib and ramucirumab as measured by progression free survival.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the objective response rate per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for the combination of poziotinib and ramucirumab.

II. To estimate the disease control rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease), overall survival, and duration of response of the study combination.

III. To assess the safety and the toxicity of the study combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess molecular markers associated with resistance and response to poziotinib and ramucirumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive poziotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1 and ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days, then every 6 months thereafter.