Statins for the Primary Prevention of Heart Failure in Patients Receiving Anthracycline Pilot Study
Anthracycline (AC) chemotherapy has substantially reduced the mortality rate from several common cancers globally. Unfortunately, AC treatment is associated with up to 19% risk of heart failure (HF). Current standard of care for preventing AC induced HF (AIHF) is cardiac surveillance followed by initiation of treatment once HF is diagnosed. With this approach 89% of patients fail to recover heart function and 46% will experience adverse cardiac events. Therefore there is a need for effective preventive therapy to reduce the risk of AIHF. Based on small human studies, animal studies, and our own pilot data, statins are an ideal class of drug for this purpose.

We will conduct a pilot double blinded, placebo controlled, randomized controlled trial to assess whether pre-treatment with statins before AC can prevent heart dysfunction. Eligible patients with cardiovascular risk factors scheduled to receive AC will be recruited. They will be randomized to statin therapy or placebo and followed until the end of cancer treatment. Primary outcome is the difference in cardiac MRI-determined left ventricular ejection fraction between pre-AC and end of treatment.
Cancer|Heart Failure|Cardiotoxicity
DRUG: Atorvastatin|DRUG: Placebo oral tablet
Cardiac MRI measured LVEF within 4 weeks of anthracycline completion, Cardiac MRI LVEF at the end of treatment will be measured before cancer treatment and within 4 weeks after completion of anthracycline-based treatment. The pre-treatment measurement will facilitate a baseline adjusted comparison between placebo and statin treated groups., Within 4 weeks of cancer therapy completion
Cardiac MRI measured LV end diastolic volume (LVEDV) and end systolic volume (LVESV) at the end of treatment, these measures will be obtained at the same time as the LVEF measures with pre-treatment measurements facilitating a baseline adjusted comparison between placebo and statin treated groups, Within 4 weeks of anthracycline completion|The incidence of cardiotoxicity, defined by LVEF fall \>10% from pre-cancer treatment assessment to \<53%, From start of anthracycline therapy to upto 4 weeks of anthracycline completion|Interruption of study drug due to side effects or permanent cessation of study drug or cancer treatment due to cardiac dysfunction, as defined by reduction in drug dose or delay of cancer treatment by more than 1 week or permanent cessation, From start of anthracycline therapy to upto 4 weeks of anthracycline completion|Troponin I, Maximal increase in troponin I, Maximal increase in Troponin I between pre-anthracycline therapy to within 4 weeks of anthracycline completion|BNP, Maximal increase in BNP, From start of anthracycline therapy to within 4 weeks of cancer therapy completion|Myocardial strain, Maximal change in myocardial strain, From start of anthracycline therapy to within 4 weeks of cancer therapy completion|MRI tissue characterization parameters, Maximal change in myocardial tissue characterization parameters as measured by cardiac MRI from pre-anthracycline treatment to within 4 weeks of anthracycline completion, Within 4 weeks of anthracycline completion
STUDY DESIGN: This is a double blind, placebo controlled randomized controlled trial (RCT). We will also use stratification to ensure that the proportion of patients with different malignancies is balanced between the study arms.

PATIENT RECRUITMENT: Patients will be recruited from respective oncology clinics at Princess Margaret Hospital, Mount Sinai Hospital, St. Michael's Hospital, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and Scarborough General Hospital.

INTERVENTION: Patients will receive treatment with 40mg/day of atorvastatin or placebo started 2-10 days prior to the initiation of AC and continued for up to one month after completion of the AC portion of cancer treatment.

CARDIAC MRI (CMR): Studies will be performed on a 3.0T scanner (Siemens) and will include complete function and tissue characterization. CMR studies will be performed pre-therapy, after completion of AC, and 2 years after completion of AC. After de-identification and randomization, a research assistant blinded to all clinical data will perform all CMR analysis using commercially available software.

ECHOCARDIOGRAPHY: Routine echocardiography studies will be performed at baseline, post-anthracycline completion, and at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years follow up.

SERUM BIOMARKERS: Blood work will be obtained on the day of baseline imaging, immediately after each cycle of anthracycline, on the day of post treatment imaging, and at the 6 months, 1 year and 2 year follow up. At each time point, optional samples of bio-banking may be collected. Blood sample collection will be done locally at the participant's respective site and transferred to University Health Network (UHN) biobank for future analysis or analysis of markers that are not available at all sites (e.g. high sensitivity troponin I and BNP).