Placebo-controlled, Study of Concurrent Chemoradiation Therapy With Pembrolizumab Followed by Pembrolizumab and Olaparib in Newly Diagnosed Treatment-Naïve Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (LS-SCLC) (MK 7339-013/KEYLYNK-013)
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (LS-SCLC), a type of lung cancer that has not spread from the lung to other parts of the body. The purpose of this study is to learn if pembrolizumab and olaparib, when given with chemotherapy and radiation treatment (CRT), can be effective in treating LS-SCLC. The researchers want to know if participants who receive CRT and pembrolizumab, with or without olaparib, have a longer overall survival compared to participants who only receive CRT.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab 200 mg|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab 400 mg|DRUG: Pembrolizumab placebo (saline)|DRUG: Pembrolizumab placebo (saline)|DRUG: Olaparib 300 mg BID|DRUG: Olaparib matching placebo|DRUG: Etoposide 100 mg/m^2|DRUG: Platinum, investigator's choice|RADIATION: Standard Thoracic Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Prophylactic Cranial Irradiation (PCI)
Progression-free Survival Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); the time from randomization to progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) is the time from randomization to progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 59 months|Overall Survival: the time from randomization to death due to any cause, Overall Survival (OS) is the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 82 months
Number of Participants Experiencing an Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 82 months|Number of Participants Discontinuing Study Treatment Due to Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 82 months|Objective Response (OR): Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a best overall response of either confirmed CR or a PR per RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 82 months|Duration of Response (DOR): the time from the earliest date of first documented evidence of confirmed CR or PR until the earliest date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, DOR is the time from the earliest date of first documented evidence of confirmed CR or PR until the earliest date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first., Up to approximately 82 months|Change from Baseline at Cycle 1 in European Organization for Research and Treatment (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status / Quality of Life (Items 29 & 30) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 scores will be presented., Baseline and 82 months post randomization|Change from Baseline at Cycle 1 in EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer Module 13 (QLQ-LC13) Cough (Item 1) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQC30 questionnaire. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 cough (Item 1) score will be presented., Baseline and 82 months post randomization|Change from Baseline at Cycle 1 in EORTC QLQ-LC13 Chest Pain (Item 10) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQC30 questionnaire. Participant responses to the question "How was your chest pain?" are scored on a 4 point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 chest pain (Item 10) score will be presented., Baseline and 82 months post randomization|Change from Baseline at Cycle 1 in EORTC QLQ-C30 Dyspnea (Item 8) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-LC13 dyspnea (Item 8) score will be presented., Baseline and 82 months post randomization|Change from Baseline at Cycle 1 in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1 to 5) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better quality of life. The change from baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) score will be presented., Baseline and 82 months post randomization|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Status / Quality of Life (Items 29 & 30) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status. TTD was defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 scale scores., Up to approximately 82 months post randomization|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in Cough (LC13/Item 1) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQC30 questionnaire. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in cough EORTC QLQLC13 cough (Item 1) scale score., Up to approximately 82 months post randomization|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in Chest Pain (LC13/Item 10) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQC30 questionnaire. Participant responses to the question "How was your chest pain?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in EORTC QLQ-LC13 chest pain (Item 10) scale score., Up to approximately 82 months post randomization|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Dyspnea (Item 8) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better outcome. TTD was defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in EORTC QLQ-C30 dyspnea (Item 8) scale score., Up to approximately 82 months post randomization|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) in EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1 to 5) Scale Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better quality of life. TTD was defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in EORTC QLQ-C30 physical functioning (Items 1 to 5) scale scores., Up to approximately 82 months post randomization|Objective Response (OR, according to RECIST 1.1 by BICR) assessed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels, Percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a best overall response of either confirmed CR or a PR per RECIST 1.1, analyzed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels., Up to approximately 82 months|Duration of Response (DOR, according to RECIST 1.1 by BICR) assessed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels, DOR is the time from the earliest date of first documented evidence of confirmed CR or PR until the earliest date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, analyzed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels., Up to approximately 82 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS, according to RECIST 1.1 by BICR) assessed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels, Progression-free Survival Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1); the time from randomization to progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, analyzed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels., Up to approximately 59 months|Overall Survival (OS) assessed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels, Overall Survival: the time from randomization to death due to any cause, analyzed by programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression levels., Up to approximately 82 months
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (LS-SCLC), a type of lung cancer that has not spread from the lung to other parts of the body. The purpose of this study is to learn if pembrolizumab and olaparib, when given with chemotherapy and radiation treatment (CRT), can be effective in treating LS-SCLC. The researchers want to know if participants who receive CRT and pembrolizumab, with or without olaparib, have a longer overall survival compared to participants who only receive CRT.