Efficacy of ICG-based NIR Imaging in Intralesional Curettage of Giant Cell Tumors of Bone in Limbs: a Prospective, Single-center, Single-arm, Open Study
ICG fluorescence imaging will be applied during the intralesional curettage of giant cell tumor of bone in the limbs. This study aims to preliminarily explore whether ICG fluorescent-guided curettage could find small residual tumors and reduce the recurrence rate of tumor.
Giant Cell Tumor of Bone
DRUG: ICG (Indocyanine Green)
local recurrence rate of tumor, To explore whether based on ICG-based-NIR fluorescence imaging assisted intralesional curettage can reduce the local recurrence rate of giant cell tumor of bone in limbs., From surgery to 2 years after surgery
Accuracy of ICG prediction tumor residuals, To explore the accuracy of ICG fluorescence in detection of small residual tumor lesions and calculate the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value., From surgery to 2 weeks after surgery|Correlation between fluorescence intensity and pathology findings of tumor residuals, To explore the correlation between ICG fluorescence intensity and accuracy of detection of residual tumor lesions., From surgery to 2 weeks after surgery
Recurrence is a problem in the treatment of giant cell tumor of bone(GCTB). With the application of high-speed burr and other adjuvant therapy (phenol, liquid nitrogen freezing, cauterization, etc.), the recurrence rate is greatly reduced, but it is still as high as 20%. The main cause of local recurrence is the difficulty in distinguishing small residual tumor lesions by the naked eye. The application of frozen section is limited due to the long-term decalcification of bone specimens.

Intraoperative near-infrared (NIR) imaging is a promising technology expected to solve the above problems. It allows for real-time scanning of a wide area with tumor showing fluorescence. Such intraoperative fluorescent signals provide objective evidence for the surgeon and are more reliable than subjective visual and tactile information.

This study aims to explore whether ICG-based NIR imaging guided curettage could find small residual tumors and reduce the recurrence rate of GCT.