Ambulatory Measurement of Physical Activity in Pancreatic Cancer Patients
Pancreatic cancer is the 5th leading cause of death from cancer in France. When chemotherapy can be proposed, the choice of treatment is currently based on the patient's profile and expected tolerance. The endpoints currently used in trials, such as time to therapeutic failure, do not take into account the patient's experience of the disease. The use of quality of life questionnaires is often proposed, but frequent missing data and filling time can be a problem. In oncology, some studies have demonstrated, through questionnaires, the link between physical activity and quality of life. In this situation, ambulatory measurement of physical activity by wrist actimetry could be an integrative reflection of the impact of the disease and treatment (efficacy, tolerance) on patients. This type of evaluation, if accepted by patients, could usefully complement the measurement of quality of life in this population. No study has specifically looked at the use of devices of this type in the context of digestive cancer. The investigators propose to evaluate the acceptance of this type of device by pancreatic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy before evaluating its potential interest.
Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: wrist-worn accelerometer|OTHER: Auto-questionnaires
average time wearing the accelerometer, in hours, the amount of time the accelerometer is not worn will be estimated using the standard deviation and range of acceleration in each of the 3 axes, calculated for consecutive 15-minute windows, every 2 weeks for 6 months
Pancreatic cancer is the 5th leading cause of death from cancer in France. When chemotherapy can be proposed, the choice of treatment is currently based on the patient's profile and expected tolerance. The endpoints currently used in trials, such as time to therapeutic failure, do not take into account the patient's experience of the disease. The use of quality of life questionnaires is often proposed, but frequent missing data and filling time can be a problem. In oncology, some studies have demonstrated, through questionnaires, the link between physical activity and quality of life. In this situation, ambulatory measurement of physical activity by wrist actimetry could be an integrative reflection of the impact of the disease and treatment (efficacy, tolerance) on patients. This type of evaluation, if accepted by patients, could usefully complement the measurement of quality of life in this population. No study has specifically looked at the use of devices of this type in the context of digestive cancer. The investigators propose to evaluate the acceptance of this type of device by pancreatic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy before evaluating its potential interest.