CCCG-HD-2018 for Children and Adolescents With Newly Diagnosed Hodgkin Lymphoma
The incidence of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) in Chinese children and adolescents is only 1 / 10 of that in Europe and the United States, which is a "rare" childhood tumor. Due to the "drug shortage" and extremely low incidence, it has brought great difficulties to the domestic clinical research and failed to achieve the desired effect. In this study, we apply a well-documented effective protocol on newly diagnosed children and adolescents with HL to understand whether the same treatment regimens can obtain similar event free survival rates and overall survival rates and then find out the problems existing in the current clinical care of HL in China, so as to make continuous improvement in the future and prepare for innovative clinical research.
Hodgkin Lymphoma
OTHER: Combined chemotherapy with or without involved-field radiotherapy
Event free survival (EFS), EFS was measured from the day of diagnosis to an event (relapse or progression, death for any reason, abandonment of treatment, second malignancy) or to the date of the last follow-up contact., 5 year EFS
Overall survival (OS), OS was measured from the day of diagnosis to the date of death., 5 year OS
In this study, enrolled patients from age 1 through 18 years with newly diagnosed and biopsy-proven HL are stratified into 3 risk groups according to 3 COG published trials: AHOD0831 (high risk-all Ann Arbor stages III and IV with B symptoms), AHOD0031 (intermediate risk-Ann Arbor stages IB, IAE, IIB, IIAE, IIIA, IVA with or without bulk disease, and IA or IIA with bulk disease) and AHOD0431 (low risk-Ann Arbor stage IA or IIA without bulky disease). Staging was determined with contrast-enhanced CT scanning or MRI, bilateral bone marrow biopsies and FDG-PET. B symptoms included weight loss \> 10%, unexplained recurrent fever \> 38°, or drenching night sweats. Bulk disease included a mediastinal mass with diameter greater than one third of the thoracic diameter on an upright anterior-posterior (AP) chest radiograph or extramediastinal nodal aggregate \> 6 cm in the longest transverse diameter on axial CT.

Low risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of doxorubicin,vincristine, etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (AVE-PC) followed by early response (ER) evaluation. Rapid early responders (RERs) receive 2 additional AVE-PC cycles. Slow early responders (SERs) receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by involved-field radiotherapy (IFRT). IFRT consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is scheduled within 4 weeks after chemotherapy.

Intermediate risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of doxorubicin, bleomycin, vincristine, etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and prednisone (ABVE-PC) followed by ER evaluation. RERs receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles. SERs receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by IFRT. IFRT consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is scheduled within 4 weeks after chemotherapy.

High risk group: Patients receive 2 cycles of ABVE-PC followed by ER evaluation. RERs receive 2 additional ABVE-PC cycles followed by IFRT. SERs receive 2 cycles of IFOS/VINO and 2 cycles of ABVE-PC followed by IFRT. IFRT consists of 21 Gy in 14 fractions of 1.5 Gy per day and is scheduled within 4 weeks after chemotherapy.

Patients who have disease progression at any time will be removed from this protocol.