Aromatherapy in the Treatment of Early Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is a major threat to women's health, and chemotherapy is one of the most important treatment method. Chemotherapy is cytotoxic , and has a positive tumor immune effect. However, it is worth noting that anxiety caused by breast cancer itself and adverse reactions of chemotherapy not only affects the patients' quality of life, but also reduces the treatment compliance and even survival benefits of patients. Previous literatures have shown that aromatherapy may improve chemotherapy-induced anxiety and even affect anti-tumor immunity.

Therefore,we envisage that aromatherapy conbimed with chemotherapy in the treatment of breast cancer in clinical practice has the advantages of improving efficacy and survival.

However, there is still a lack of relevant clinical studies. We planned to design a prospective clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of aromatherapy combined with chemotherapy on anxiety, relevant sympathetic neurotransmitters and tumor immunity in breast cancer patients.
Early Breast Cancer
OTHER: neoadjuvant chemotherapy|OTHER: aromatherapy
Change in anxiety score, Changes of anxiety scores (Hamilton Anxiety Scale and State-trait anxiety inventory scale) before and after two neoadjuvant chemotherapy courses., before neoadjuvant chemotherapy and at the end of neoadjuvant chemotherapy course 2 (each course is 21 days)
Overall Survival, OS, The time from the start of randomization to death due to any cause, 2 years|Quality of life scale score,QoL, The function or quality of a patient's physical, psychological, and social adaptability is also known as quality, which is assessed according to the EROTC C30 scale., before neoadjuvant chemotherapy and at the end of neoadjuvant chemotherapy course 2 (each course is 21 days)|Pathologic complete response,pCR, Proportion of patients with pathologic complete response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 2 years|Disease-free survival,DFS, The time from diagnosis to first recurrence or death of the patient, 2 years|Complete response,CR, All target lesions disappeared, no new lesions appeared, and tumor markers remained normal for at least 4 weeks., 2 years|Partial response,PR, The sum of the maximum diameters of the target lesions is reduced by≥30%,maintained for at least 4 weeks., 2 years|Stable disease,SD, The sum of the maximum diameters of the target lesions is within the prescribed range of partial response and progressive disease., 2 years|Progressive disease,PD, The sum of the maximum diameters of the target lesions increases by at least 20%, and their absolute value of diameters increases by at least 5mm, or new lesions appear., 2 years|Objective Response Rate, ORR, The proportion of patients with a tumor volume reduction of ≥30% and a minimum timeframe according to accepted response evaluation criteria (e.g., RECIST version 1.1 in solid tumors), including cases of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate, CBR, Proportion of confirmed complete response, partial response, or stable disease ≥ 24 weeks., 24 weeks after enrollment|Anxiety rating scale, The scores of self-rating anxiety scale (SAS) before treatment, after each treatment and 3 months after the last treatment., before treatment and 3 months after the last treatment|Sleep rating scale, The scores of Pittsburgh sleep quality index(PSQI) before treatment, after each treatment and 3 months after the last treatment., before treatment and 3 months after the last treatment|Depression scale, The scores of Hamilton Depression Scale(HAMD) before treatment and after 2 times of treatment., before neoadjuvant chemotherapy and at the end of neoadjuvant chemotherapy course 2 (each course is 21 days)
Breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor in women all over the world. In China, the incidence of breast cancer is increasing, especially in the economically developed cities. Studies have shown that the breast cancer patients have a higher incidence of anxiety and depression to the general population. Tumor burden is an important chronic stressor that can cause a wide range of negative emotions, such as anxiety and depression. According to the data published by the World Health Organization, the incidence of depression in cancer patients is between 20% to 45%, which is far more than the incidence of 6.1% to 9.5% in the general population.Among them, the depression tendency of breast cancer patients is particularly obvious, and up to 80% of breast cancer patients suffer from different degrees of depression. Depression and anxiety have a crucial influence on the physiological and psychological function, treatment compliance and the quality of life of breast cancer patients, and may even be an important factor affecting the mortality of breast cancer patients.

Therefore, how to improve the anxiety of breast cancer patients to improve the quality of life and even the survival time of patients has vital clinical value. Considering the adverse reactions and tolerance of current anti-anxiety drugs, more mild and effective anti-anxiety methods are expected in clinical practice. Among them, as an important means of rehabilitation treatment, aromatherapy has obtained surprising data in the prevention of adverse reactions of chemotherapy and the improvement of insomnia, so the value of aromatherapy in the improvement of anxiety is also expected.

In conclusion, Breast cancer is a major threat to women's health, and chemotherapy is one of the most important treatment method. Chemotherapy is cytotoxic , and has a positive tumor immune effect. However, it is worth noting that anxiety and depression caused by breast cancer disease itself and adverse reactions of chemotherapy not only affects the quality of life of patients, but also reduces the treatment compliance and even survival benefits of patients. Previous literatures have shown that aromatherapy may improve chemotherapy-induced anxiety and even have influence on tumor immunity. However, there is still lack of relevant clinical researches. Therefore, we plan to design a prospective clinical study to evaluate the effect of aromatherapy combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy on anxiety, sympathetic neurotransmitters and tumor immunity in early breast cancer patients.