TACE Study-Liver Embolization Perfusion (VGH Radiology LIU)
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the quantitative information of utilizing C-arm systems in liver tumor care in hopes this potential clinical combination of imaging could aid in diagnosis and evaluation of tumor therapy.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Undergoing Chemoembolization and Radioembolization
Liver Tumour Perfusion using CT & C-arm systems in 40 patients at VGH over a 3 month period, The purpose of this protocol is to study the potential predictive and prognostic value of tumor perfusion assessment utilizing computed tomography and C-arm systems in the treatment of liver tumors.

Observational nature of study; post hoc analysis precludes determination of primary endpoint.

3 month follow-up CT scans as per protocol involving standard of care 4 phase CT scan in addition to perfusion CT

Utilizing intraprocedural flow and perfusion dynamics as a predictor of response in 40 patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma undergoing intraprocedural flow and perfusion dynamics as a predictor of response in chemoembolization and radioembolization (Y90), 3 months
Blood flow imaging for liver tumors is normally carried out using clinical Computed Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) systems prior to going to the cath lab. This study aims to determine if measuring flow using a C-arm system and/or CT perfusion can be used to improve diagnosis and evaluation of liver tumors.

The major difference between C-arm CT systems and clinical CT systems is the difference in imaging speed. We have developed a new approach that should allow us to overcome this speed limitation. The major difference between conventional CT versus CT perfusion is the obtaining of an extra series of images. CT perfusion results in an increase in the amount of radiation exposure during the CT scan that measures the blood flow of the targeted tumor; however, CT perfusion is much faster than conventional CT.

Prospective participants are being invited to the study because part of the treatment towards the tumour therapy involves obtaining an angiogram.