Study of ADXS11-001 in Participants With High Risk Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer
Locally advanced cervical cancer at higher risk for recurrence (HRLACC) following concurrent chemotherapy and radiation therapy. This is a group of participants with a significant unmet need. The estimated probability of disease recurrence or death within 4 years of diagnosis is 50% and the prognosis is very grave for those who experience a recurrence.

The purpose of the study was to compare the disease free survival (DFS) of ADXS11-001 to placebo administered following cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy and radiation (CCRT) with curative intent in participants with HRLACC.
High Risk Cervical Cancer|Advanced Cervical Cancer
DRUG: ADXS11-001|DRUG: Placebo
Disease Free Survival (DFS), DFS was defined as the time from randomization until death or recurrence. The date of recurrence was defined as the date of the first time point when recurrence of disease was determined. The determination of recurrence should occur by definitive pathologic tissue confirmation (e.g., biopsy/fine needle aspirate). However, in those cases where it was not medically feasible to obtain a tissue sample then radiographic evidence, when confirmed by independent radiology review, was used to determine recurrence., From the time of randomization to recurrence or death (Maximum duration: 44.7 months)
Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Adverse event (AE): any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a study treatment \& which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the study treatment. An AE is, any unfavorable \& unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of study treatment. AE with onset dates on or after the first dose of study treatment were considered treatment emergent., From first dose of study drug until end of study (Up to 44.7 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause., From the date of randomization until death due to any cause (Maximum duration: 44.7 months)
This was a double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized study of ADXS11-001 administered in the adjuvant setting after completion of CCRT in participants with HRLACC, or death. All eligible participants had received CCRT administered with curative intent according to institutional/national guidelines as well as meeting the minimum standards defined in the protocol. Participants initiated the Screening period within 10 weeks after the completion of CCRT. Baseline radiographic assessments and clinical laboratory assessments were completed no longer than 28 days prior to and 3 days prior to the first study treatment infusion, respectively. Eligible participants were randomized 1:2 to receive either placebo or ADXS11-001. Participants received 1 infusion of study treatment administered every 3 weeks for 3 doses for the first 3 months. Thereafter, participants received study treatment every 8 weeks for a total of 5 doses or until disease recurrence. Participants received a 7-day course of an oral antibiotic or placebo starting 72 hours following the completion of study treatment administration.