Tivantinib in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Malignant Mesothelioma
This phase II trial studies how well tivantinib works in treating patients with previously treated malignant mesothelioma. Tivantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Epithelioid Mesothelioma|Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma|Stage II Pleural Mesothelioma|Stage III Pleural Mesothelioma|Stage IV Pleural Mesothelioma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Tivantinib
Objective Radiologic Response Rate (Complete or Partial Response) Assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 1 year
Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded Per NCI CTCAE Version 4, Grade 3 or higher AE of any type, regardless of attribution., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Time to disease progression or death from any cause. Analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years
Change in Baseline Levels of Continuous or Ordinal Markers (e.g., Serum HGF/MET IHC) Between Responders and Non-responders, Fisher's exact test will be performed for binary variables (e.g., presence/absence of MET gene amplification). Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test, whichever is appropriate, will be used to examine the changes with treatment in the laboratory correlates that are continuous and McNemar's test will be used for binary markers., Baseline to 1 year|Change in Serum HGF or MET IHC and Tumor Size Change (Percent Reduction in Sum of Longest Diameters), Will be evaluated by Spearman's rank correlation coefficient., Baseline to 1 year|Association Between Baseline HGF, MET Gene Amplification, MET IHC and PFS, Will be evaluated using the Cox regression model., Baseline to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate of patients with malignant mesothelioma who are treated with ARQ 197 (tivantinib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression-free survival of patients with malignant mesothelioma who are treated with ARQ 197.

II. To determine the toxicity experienced by patients with malignant mesothelioma who are treated with ARQ 197.

III. To determine median and overall survival of patients with malignant mesothelioma who are treated with ARQ 197.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency of mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET) gene amplification in malignant mesothelioma patient tumor samples, and to correlate the results with MET immunohistochemistry (IHC).

II. To determine whether MET gene amplification results in increased sensitivity to ARQ 197 as observed by improved clinical outcomes (response rate \[RR\] and progression free survival \[PFS\]) compared to those without MET gene over-expression/amplification.

III. To determine whether high baseline serum hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), as well as changes in serum HGF during treatment at pre-defined early time points, correlate with treatment efficacy and clinical outcome, as measured by response rate and progression-free survival.

IV. To identify mutations by sequencing of specific areas of the MET gene in tumor samples (semaphorin \[SEMA\], jumonji \[JM\] and tyrosine kinase domains).

V. To perform immunohistochemistry (IHC) of mesothelioma tumors for HGF, MET and phosphorylated (p)-MET (pY1003 and pY1230/34/35).

VI. To assess serum HGF and serum soluble MET levels by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) (R\&D systems) pre-treatment, after 2 cycles and at disease progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive tivantinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.