The Effect of Discharge Training on Surgical Recovery in Oncology Patients
A randomized control trial was made to examine the effect of discharge training developed using Nursing Interventions Classification on surgical recovery in patient who underwent oncological surgery.
Surgery--Complications|Nursing Caries
BEHAVIORAL: Intervention group
The surgical recovery score averages in patients, assessed using the Patient Evaluation Form, nine defining features of the diagnosis of "delayed surgical recovery" defined in NANDA-I (delaying starting activities at home / work, understanding that more time is required for recovery/ recovery, need for assistance in self-care practices, evidence indicating impaired surgical site presence (discharge, swelling, redness, pain, presence of one of the bleeding in the area mild; the presence of all will be marked as severe distress), loss of appetite with nausea, loss of appetite without nausea, difficulty in moving around, pain or discomfort, fatigue) It contains questions.

The patient evaluation form was created using the Nursing Outcomes Classification of the five-point Likert-type scale measuring the severity of descriptive features. The expression "severely distressed" was "1 point"; The expression "significantly distressed" was evaluated as "2 points", "moderately distressed" as "3 points", "mildly distressed" as "4 points", and "no, before discharge in the postoperative days|The surgical recovery status after intervention, assessed using the Patient Evaluation Form. The form is composed of nine items. The form is The expression "severely distressed" was "1 point"; The expression "significantly distressed" was evaluated as "2 points", "moderately distressed" as "3 points", "mildly distressed" as "4 points", and "no distress" as "5 points". The patient can get a minimum of nine and a maximum of 45 points. As the score for each evaluation question increased, the improvement was evaluated as positive. It was applied by telephone in the second week after discharge., In the second weeks after discharge|The surgical recovery status after intervention, assessed using the Patient Evaluation Form. The form is composed of nine items. The form is The expression "severely distressed" was "1 point"; The expression "significantly distressed" was evaluated as "2 points", "moderately distressed" as "3 points", "mildly distressed" as "4 points", and "no distress" as "5 points". The patient can get a minimum of nine and a maximum of 45 points. As the score for each evaluation question increased, the improvement was evaluated as positive. It was applied by telephone in the fourth week after discharge., In the fourth weeks after discharge|The surgical recovery status after intervention, assessed using the Patient Evaluation Form. The form is composed of nine items. The form is The expression "severely distressed" was "1 point"; The expression "significantly distressed" was evaluated as "2 points", "moderately distressed" as "3 points", "mildly distressed" as "4 points", and "no distress" as "5 points". The patient can get a minimum of nine and a maximum of 45 points. As the score for each evaluation question increased, the improvement was evaluated as positive. It was applied by telephone in the eighth week after discharge., In the eighth weeks after discharge
The concept of surgical recovery is defined as "starting activities aimed at maintaining daily life, health and well-being after surgery" and delay in surgical recovery "increasing the number of days after surgery required to start activities aimed at maintaining daily life, health and well-being after surgery". Problems such as fatigue, pain, incisional surgical site infection, loss of appetite, which are common in patients in the postoperative period, are symptoms associated with delayed surgical recovery. In addition to these symptoms, the presence of conditions such as delayed return to home / work activities need for self-care, nausea, anorexia, pain, and difficulty in moving indicate that surgical recovery is interrupted. It has been reported that delay in surgical recovery is common after surgeries such as gastrostomy, colectomy, and exploratory laparotomy.

Patients who have undergone gastric or colorectal cancer surgery should receive discharge training before returning to social life and business life. Nurses should determine the problems they may experience at home in patients who have undergone surgeries such as gastrostomy, colectomy, and exploratory laparotomy, where delay in surgical recovery is frequently reported, plan and apply discharge training for these problems, and monitor patients in terms of surgical recovery processes at home. It has been reported that this way, the surgical recovery process can be supported and delays in surgical recovery can be prevented.

This study was conducted to determine the effect of a discharge training developed using the Nursing Interventions Classification on surgical recovery in patients undergoing oncologic surgery.

It was tested the hypotheses that there was no difference between the post-intervention intervention and control groups in terms of the surgical recovery score averages in patients who had undergone oncologic surgery were tested.