PERT for Treatment of Exocrine Pancreatic Insufficiency in Patients With Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
Does pancreas enzyme replacement (PERT) decrease weight loss and improve quality of life in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer?
Pancreatic Insufficiency|Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Enzyme Abnormality
DRUG: Pancrelipase|DRUG: Placebo Oral Capsule
Change in Body Weight, Body weight will be measured at the time of accrual, and at 4 and 10 weeks of cross-over treatment., Baseline, 4 weeks, 10 weeks
Change in Quality of Life Score as Measured by FACT-Hep Scale at 4 Weeks, Quality of life will be measured using the FACT-Hep questionnaire (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for patients with liver, bile duct and pancreas cancer) for physical, social, emotional, and functional quality of life at the time of accrual, and at 4 weeks of cross-over treatment. The FACT-Hep scale consists of 45 questions, with possible responses ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Therefore, the total score can range from 0 (not at all - no issues) to 180 (very much - very poor quality of life)., Baseline, 4 weeks|Change in Quality of Life Score as Measured by FACT-Hep Scale at 10 Weeks, Quality of life will be measured using the FACT-Hep questionnaire (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for patients with liver, bile duct and pancreas cancer) for physical, social, emotional, and functional quality of life at the time of accrual, and at 10 weeks of cross-over treatment. The FACT-Hep scale consists of 45 questions, with possible responses ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Therefore, the total score can range from 0 (not at all - no issues) to 180 (very much - very poor quality of life)., Baseline, 10 weeks|Change in Body Weight Composition, Body weight composition will be determined at the time of accrual, and at 4 and 10 weeks of cross-over treatment., Baseline, 4 weeks, 10 weeks
Randomized, double-blind clinical trial aiming to assess the impact of pancreas enzyme replacement therapy in weight loss and quality of life.

Prevalence of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency (PEI) will be determined with fecal elastase-1 test (FE1) in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer, without evidence of pancreatic duct (PD) or common bile duct (CBD) obstruction based on MRI or / and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS).

Patients with PEI (FE1 \<200) receive Pertzye or placebo in a cross-over fashion, each for 4 weeks.

Body weight, body mass index (BMI), body composition (Bioimpedance), are measured at the time of diagnosis of PEI and at 4 and 10 weeks of cross-over treatment. Baseline measurement of Vitamin D-25, Vitamin A, iron (ferritin, total iron binding capacity (TIBC), iron), Vitamin B12,Tissue transglutaminase IgA (tTG) with total Immunoglobulin A (IgA).

Quality of Life (pain, diarrhea, weight, bloating, etc.) assessed at 0,4,10 weeks with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for patients with liver, bile duct and pancreas cancer (FACT-Hep) for physical, social, emotional, and functional quality of life.