Comprehensive Yoga Therapy Based Lifestyle Prehabilitation Program for Women With Ovarian Cancer
To provide a comprehensive yoga therapy (CYT) program to patients with ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are scheduled to receive chemotherapy and then undergo surgery. Researchers want to learn about the effects of the program on patients' quality of life and other outcomes described below.
Ovarian Cancer
OTHER: Yoga Therapy for Nutritional, Physical, and Psychosocial Prehabilitation
1. safety and adverse events (AEs). Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version (v) 5.0, Through study completion; an average of 1 year
Primary Objectives:

To assess the feasibility of a CYT prehabilitation program in women with ovarian cancer scheduled to receive NACT and IDS. Feasibility criteria will include consent (30% of those approached) and study retention (60%) rates.

Secondary Objectives:

Examine the effects of the CYT program on physical conditioning as assessed by the 6 min walk test (6MWT) and sit to stand reps (30secSTS) compared with WLC.

Examine group differences in surgical outcomes including post op stay, readmission rate, post op morbidity, surgical site infection rate, transfusions, and time to first chemotherapy post operatively.

Examine group differences in patient-reported outcomes including QOL, fatigue, stress, sleep disturbances, mental health, social support, and mindfulness.

Examine if there are group differences in preoperative albumin level, vit D, magnesium levels.

Examine group differences and changes over time in microbiome biodiversity.

Examine group differences in body composition (sarcopenia) as measured by routine abdominal CT scans.

Explore the association between adherence to the components of CYT with ability to sustain behavior changes and between changes in lifestyle parameters with outcomes. This will be explored both within and across groups.