Comparison Capsule Sparing Cystectomy and Radical Cystoprostatectomy in Men with Bladder Cancer
Bladder cancer is a common malignant tumor of the urinary system, radical resection plus urinary diversion is the first choice of treatment for muscle invasive bladder cancer. Urinary diversion of surgical options related to patient'survival and quality of life.

In 2000, professor Chunxiao Liu invented "detaenial sigmoid neobladder", this surgical method overset the traditional intestinal detubularization approach, which detached the serosal layer with smooth muscle from the bowel without split it. This kind of neobladder is easier to construct and have less impact on intestinal function. So far, it has been implemented for more than 700 cases in Zhujiang hospital, the age of patients range from 9 months (bladder rhabdomyosarcoma) to 88 years old.

The filed of standard radical bladder cancer resection includes the structure of the prostate and seminal vesicles. More and more studies and long-term clinical experience in our hospital have confirmed that capsule sparing cystectomy can achieve good tumor control and excellent functional recovery.

Our project is going to perform a randomized controlled trial for capsule sparing cystectomy and conventional radical cystoprostatectomy and look forward to assess the oncology outcome and functional recovery of these two procedures which provide an objective basis for the patients undergoing orthotopic urinary diversion in the future.
Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: Capsule Sparing Cystectomy (CSC)|PROCEDURE: Conventional Radical Cystoprostatectomy (CRC)
Post-operative urinary function, Assess post-operative urinary function using the bladder cancer index (BCI) at the 12th month after surgery, At the 12th month after surgery
bladder cancer specific survival rate, Determine bladder cancer control with CSC compared to CRC as measured by margin status and time to disease recurrence, 36 months|Sexual function, Assess post-operative sexual function using IIEF-5 score, 36 months|Intraoperative conditions, Including surgical time, bleeding volume, blood transfusion volume, etc., 24 hour|Early postoperative rehabilitation indicators, Including intensive care time, time to restore full flow diet, hospitalization time, drainage tube removal time, visual pain score, etc, 30 days after surgery|Rate of serious complications, Assess rate of serious complications using Clavien Dindo Complication Grading System, 36 months
CSC group：patients undergoing transurethral resection and enucleation of the prostate first, do not open the bladder neck to maintain the integrity of the bladder neck. The enucleated prostate capsule is preserved under laparoscopic surgery, and the urinary catheter is stretched during the operation to avoid implantation and metastasis.

CRC group：patients undergoing conventional radical cystoprostatectomy. All the patients undergoing detaenial sigmoid neobladder after cystectomy and accept at least 36 months follow up.

Followup: Patients were followed up at every 3-6 mo after surgery in the first 2 yr. The last follow-up was in the 36th month. Biochemical examination、blood and urine routine tests were done every 3 to 12 months. Urodynamic investigation, cystoscopic examination, pelvic computerized tomography, renal dynamic imaging and retro-cystogram were also performed every 3 to 12 months postoperatively.

Postoperative complications were classified as early (90 days or less) and late (greater than 90 days). Early and late complications were subdivided into those related and not related to the neobladder. Complication grade was classified according to the Clavien-Dindo system. Major complications were defined as grade III or higher.

During the follow-up period, patients were asked about daytime and night-time continence and erectile function (EF). Bladder Cancer Index and International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5) are designed to evaluate patients' urinary control and sexual function