LONsurf and G-CSF Use: Being On A Right Dose-intensity to Optimize Treatment Efficacy
Prospective cohort of patients treated with trifluridine/tipiracil, maximal sample size 250 patients. It is expected, that 89 patients will experience a grade 3-4 neutropenia and will be included in the phase II.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Trifluridine/Tipiracil
Rate of patients free of trifluridine/tipiracil dose reduction or postponement of cycles of > 7 days at 6 months or at progression or death or stop of treatment for another cause than neutropenia if observed in 6 months., To assess, in mCRC patients treated with trifluridine/tipiracil after the introduction of G-CSF in a secondary prevention attempt, the rate of patients free of trifluridine/tipiracil dose reduction or postponement of cycles of \> 7 days at 6 months from G-CSF first intake date or at progression or death or stop of treatment for another cause than neutropenia if observed in the 6 months., At 6 months
Overall survival (OS), OS - defined as the time from study enrollment to death (from any cause) or to the last date the patients was known to be alive, Up to 30 months|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS - defined as the time (in months) from study enrollment until objective PD or death from any cause. If the patient dies before reaching PD, the date of death is considered as the date that PD was reached. For patients that had not reached PD at the time of the analysis, and for patients for whom the PD date is unknown, PFS is censored at the date of patient's final assessment prior to data cut-off., Up to 30 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR - defined as proportion of patients with reduction in tumor burden of predefined amount. It refers to the number of patients with CR, PR according to RECIST v1.1, Up to 30 months|Disease control rate (DCR), The disease control rate (DCR) is defined as the proportion of patients in whom the best overall response is determined as complete response, partial response or stable disease, Up to 30 months|Safety descriptive analysis, Patients will be assessed for AEs throughout the study at every visit during treatment. Investigators using the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 will grade the severity of AEs., Up to 30 months|The rate of dose reductions, Number of patients for whom a dose reduction was required and the reasons for dose reduction,, Up to 30 months|Clinical or biological factors at baseline associated with the occurrence of grade 3-4 neutropenia, Identification of clinical and biological factors at baseline associated with the occurrence of grade 3-4 neutropenia in the whole cohort and design of predictive model of neutropenia occurrence, Up to 30 months
Trifluridine/tipiracil has demonstrated its efficacy in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) resistant to standard drugs (fluoropyrimidine, oxaliplatin, irinotecan, bevacizumab, and panitumumab or cetuximab in case of RAS wild-type tumors). This treatment has a marketing authorization.

Neutropenia is a classic complication of cytotoxic treatments. Febrile neutropenia are associated with a mortality rate of 9.5% and a hospitalization of 6 days in median. Recent meta-analyses have reported that the use of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (GCSF) allows to maintain the dose-intensity of cytotoxic treatment and was associated with a better overall survival (OS).

There is currently no clear recommendation for the use of G-CSF with trifluridine/tipiracil.

Unpublished analyses that various clinical parameters may be associated with the risk of neutropenia: age ≥ 65 years, female sex, level of leukocytes at baseline, and time of initial diagnostic to randomization ≥ 36 months.These data are too preliminary to allow proposing a G-CSF primary prophylaxis in a defined subgroup of patients. However, a secondary prophylaxis based on the administration of G-CSF seems efficient, with a prescription from day 14 to day 18.

The aim of this phase II study is to assess the efficacy of the secondary prophylaxis with G-CSF in case of first episode of grade 3-4 neutropenia in the aim to maintain the optimal dose intensity.