Primary Aldosteronism and Surgically Curable Forms in Hypertension Patients Using 11C-Metomidate
10% of patients with hypertension potentially have the treatable condition - primary aldosteronism. Primary aldosteronism (PA) is caused by either bilateral adrenal disease (\~40%), managed with lifelong medications; or unilateral disease (\~60%), cured with laparoscopic surgery (adrenalectomy). Unfortunately, many patients with curable hypertension remain undiagnosed and consequently develop cardiac disease and strokes. The difficulty with identifying curable unilateral disease is due to adrenal vein sampling (AVS): an invasive, and technically-difficult procedure, with inconclusive results in 50% of patients. An alternative novel imaging, 11C-metomidate Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT), can detect adrenal tumors, and concurrently confirm their over-activity. It is non-invasive, non-operator-dependent, and can identify more patients with curable hypertension.

Investigators hypothesize that 11C-metomidate PET-CT can accurately identify patients with surgically-curable unilateral adrenal disease among hypertensive Asians with primary aldosteronism.
Primary Aldosteronism|Primary Aldosteronism Due to Aldosterone Producing Adenoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: 11C-Metomidate PET/CT Scan
Cure of Primary Aldosteronism Post-Adrenalectomy, Percentage of patients accurately identified with unilateral PA (determined by post-surgery biochemical cure) using 11C-metomidate PET/CT compared to percentage of patients accurately identified with unilateral PA (determined by post-surgery biochemical cure) using AVS, 6 months
Clinical Diagnosis of Unilateral Primary Aldosteronism, Percentage of patients accurately identified with unilateral PA (determined by clinical diagnosis made by multidisciplinary team) using 11C-metomidate PET/CT compared to percentage of patients accurately identified with unilateral PA (determined by clinical diagnosis made by multidisciplinary team) using AVS, 6 months|Cost-Effectiveness of Diagnostic Test, Cost-Effectiveness of Diagnostic Test to identify unilateral PA, 6 months
Diagnostic criteria using 11C-Metomidate PET/CT, To assess the cut-off level of SUVmax which offers the best sensitivity and specificity for lateralisation in 11C-metomidate PET-CT, 6 months
25 patients with confirmed PA who are keen for a surgical cure if unilateral PA is confirmed, will undergo conventional tests, CT, AVS, as well as 11C-metomidate PET/CT.

Results will be reviewed and discussed at a multidisciplinary meeting, and patients with unilateral PA will be offered surgery. Patients will be reviewed 6 months post surgery to assess for cure of PA.