Aesthetic Outcomes of Oncoplastic Breast Surgery for Breast Cancer in the Upper Inner Quadrant
Oncoplastic breast surgery, combining oncological resection with plastic surgical techniques, has emerged as an important surgical strategy to optimize conventional breast-conserving surgery. The upper inner quadrant is one of the most difficult and challenging tumor locations for surgeons to perform oncoplastic breast surgery. There is a pressing need to develop a simple and effective oncoplastic surgical technique to cope with the unfavorable anatomy and location of tumors in the UIQ. Here, we present a new oncoplastic volume displacement technique for UIQ using the DSG flap. This trial was design to estimate the aesthetic outcomes of an oncoplastic technique using a droplet-shaped glandular flap for breast cancer in the upper inner quadrant.
Oncoplastic Breast Surgery|Breast Cancer|Aesthetic Outcomes
PROCEDURE: Oncoplastic technique with a droplet-shaped glandular flap
aesthetic outcomes, ABNSW system. The total score was 15 points, outcomes were good when it was 11-14, fair when it was 6-10, and poor when it was 0-5., half a year to one year
Patients' quality of life, EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, half a year to one year|Local recurrence, Local recurrence defined as histologic evidence of ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive breast cancer in the ipsilateral breast or chest wall., half a year to one year|Patients complications after surgery, The occurence of scarring, radiation fibrosis, seroma, fat necrosis and infection, half a year to one year
Oncoplastic breast surgery, combining oncological resection with plastic surgical techniques, has emerged as an important surgical strategy to optimize conventional breast-conserving surgery. The upper inner quadrant is one of the most difficult and challenging tumor locations for surgeons to perform oncoplastic breast surgery. There is a pressing need to develop a simple and effective oncoplastic surgical technique to cope with the unfavorable anatomy and location of tumors in the UIQ. Here, we present a new oncoplastic volume displacement technique for UIQ using the DSG flap. This trial was design to estimate the aesthetic outcomes of an oncoplastic technique using a droplet-shaped glandular flap for breast cancer in the upper inner quadrant.