Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres in Treating Patients With Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This trial studies how well yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres work in treating patients with hepatocellular carcinoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Radioactive drugs, such as yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres, may carry radiation directly to cancer cells and not harm normal cells.
Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres
Oversight to treatment with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres, Associated with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres treatment. Data analysis will be limited to descriptive reports of the number and characteristics of the patients treated and their clinical and adverse event experiences., Up to 2 years|Patient experience, Associated with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres treatment. Data analysis will be limited to descriptive reports of the number and characteristics of the patients treated and their clinical and adverse event experiences., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Associated with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres treatment. Data analysis will be limited to descriptive reports of the number and characteristics of the patients treated and their clinical and adverse event experiences., 30 days after each treatment|Overall survival, Associated with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres treatment. Data analysis will be limited to descriptive reports of the number and characteristics of the patients treated and their clinical and adverse event experiences., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Provide oversight to treatment with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres (TheraSphere) to eligible patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) of the liver who are not surgical resection candidates.

II. Evaluate patient experience, toxicities and overall survival associated with TheraSphere treatment.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres via a catheter over 5 minutes on day 0. Patients may receive additional treatments at 4-12 week intervals until all tumors in the liver have been treated in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3-6 weeks, then annually for up to 2 years.