Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Selinexor, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment (Temozolomide) for Brain Tumors That Have Returned After Previous Treatment
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of selinexor given in combination with the usual chemotherapy (temozolomide) and compares the effect of this combination therapy vs. the usual chemotherapy alone (temozolomide) in treating patients with glioblastoma that has come back (recurrent). Selinexor is in a class of medications called selective inhibitors of nuclear export (SINE). It works by blocking a protein called CRM1, which may keep cancer cells from growing and may kill them. Temozolomide is in a class of medications called alkylating agents. It works by damaging the cell's DNA and may kill tumor cells and slow down or stop tumor growth. Giving selinexor in combination with usual chemotherapy (temozolomide) may shrink or stabilize the tumor better than the usual chemotherapy with temozolomide alone in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
MGMT-Methylated Glioblastoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma, IDH-Wildtype|Recurrent MGMT-Methylated Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Temozolomide
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (Phase I), Any eligible patient who receives at least one dose of protocol-defined therapy will be considered evaluable for dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) if either of the following occurs: (1) the patient experiences a DLT during cycle 1 of therapy; or (2) the patient receives at least 4 doses of temozolomide and 1 dose of selinexor. All other patients enrolled during the phase 1 portion of the study will be considered inevaluable for DLT and may be replaced for the purposes of establishing the RP2D., Up to 28 days|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), Patients who experience disease progression or death will be considered to have experienced a PFS-event; otherwise the patient is considered censored at last contact., From randomization to date of disease progression (either progression of existing lesions or appearance of new lesions), death, or date of last contact, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years
Response according to response assessment in neuro-oncology criteria (RANO) criteria, A patient who is evaluated as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) will be considered a RANO-responder. All other patients will be considered RANO-non-responders. Response rate will be calculated and comparisons made using categorical data methods., Up to 3 years|Six-month progression-free survival (PFS-6), Any patient considered evaluable for RANO response will be considered evaluable for PFS-6. Any evaluable patient who is considered progression free for the primary analysis will be considered a PFS-6 responder. All other evaluable patients will be considered PFS-6 non-responders., At 6 months|Median overall survival, Will be calculated from the Kaplan-Meier estimate of the probability of death as a function of time since enrollment. Ninety-five percent (95%) confidence intervals will be calculated as well., Time between the date of randomization and the date of death or date of last contact, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Molecular signatures of vulnerability, Will be assessed using logistic regression for the outcome measure (RANO response) and using proportional hazard regression with the biological characteristic of interest as the predictor variable for risk for PFS event. Patients considered evaluable for RANO response and PFS, respectively, will contribute to the analyses for these exploratory outcomes. Two-sided statistical testing will be employed, and a p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered as indicating significant evidence of association between the particular signature and the outcome of interest., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of temozolomide followed by selinexor in recurrent glioblastoma patients as determined by dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the total toxicity profile. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy of sequentially administering temozolomide and selinexor in recurrent glioblastoma as determined by progression-free survival (PFS). (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall response rate as determined by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) response criteria.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of sequentially administering temozolomide and selinexor in recurrent glioblastoma as determined by 6-month PFS (6mPFS) and overall survival (OS).

III. To validate signatures of vulnerability to predict response to selinexor through ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing for 6 top-scoring gene pairs, whole exome sequencing, P53, EGFR, and Mcl-1.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of selinexor in combination with fixed dose temozolomide followed by a phase II study that compares selinexor temozolomide combination therapy vs. temozolomide monotherapy. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups for the phase II part of this trial.

GROUP I (Phase II): Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP II (Phase I and II): Patients receive temozolomide PO on days 1-5 of each cycle and selinexor PO on days 8 and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Phase I completed as of April 2024)

Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study and blood sample collection while on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months up to 2 years.