TIGER-1: Safety and Efficacy Study of Rociletinib (CO-1686) or Erlotinib in Patients With EGFR-mutant/Metastatic NSCLC Who Have Not Had Any Previous EGFR Directed Therapy
The purpose of this study is to compare the safety and anti-tumor effect of rociletinib with erlotinib in patients whose tumors have specific EGFR mutations and who have not previously received any treatment for advanced/metastatic EGFR mutated NSCLC. This study is a 'Randomized' Study. This means that upon entering the study, patients will be randomly assigned to be dosed with either rociletinib twice a day or erlotinib once a day. Patients will continue to take either rociletinib or erlotinib until it is no longer beneficial.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rociletinib Mono-Therapy|DRUG: Erlotinib Mono-Therapy
Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by Investigator Review (invPFS), To compare the antitumor efficacy of oral single-agent rociletinib with that of erlotinib as measured by progression-free survival (PFS), when administered as a first-line targeted treatment to patients with EGFR-mutated, advanced NSCLC.Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months
Confirmed Response Rate, Proportion of patients with a best overall confirmed response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions, defined by and assessed as:

Complete Response (CR), is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Partial Response (PR),at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameter.

Overall Response (OR),is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The patient's best response assignment was dependent on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months.|Duration of Response, Duration of Response in Patients with Confirmed Response per Investigator, Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months
This is a randomized, Phase 2/3 study of rociletinib versus erlotinib as a first-line treatment for patients with EGFR-mutant advanced/metastatic NSCLC whose tumors have EGFR-activating mutations. The study will consist of Phase 2 and Phase 3 parts which will use the same enrollment criteria and treatment assignment principles. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to erlotinib or rociletinib. The Phase 2 part is an open-label study. In the Phase 3 part, the sponsor will be blinded to the efficacy and safety results. The study will consist of a screening phase to establish study eligibility (including tumor genotype) and document baseline measurements, a treatment phase, in which patients will receive either rociletinib BID (twice a day) or erlotinib QD (once daily) to ascertain safety and efficacy until protocol-defined disease progression, and a follow-up phase, to monitor survival status and subsequent NSCLC cancer therapy. In the Phase 2 part only, patients initially randomized to erlotinib may be eligible to participate in an optional crossover phase to receive rociletinib if they demonstrate the T790M resistance mutation after radiographic progression on erlotinib treatment among other eligibility requirements. Patients eligible for this study must have EGFR-mutated NSCLC who have not been treated with an EGFR-directed therapy.Treatment with rociletinib or erlotinib is continuous. Each 28 day period of treatment will represent one cycle, with dosing initiated on Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1 D1).