National Cancer Institute "Cancer Moonshot Biobank"
This trial collects multiple tissue and blood samples, along with medical information, from cancer patients. The "Cancer Moonshot Biobank" is a longitudinal study. This means it collects and stores samples and information over time, throughout the course of a patient's cancer treatment. By looking at samples and information collected from the same people over time, researchers hope to better understand how cancer changes over time and over the course of medical treatments.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Esophageal Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Gastric Carcinoma|Hormone Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Melanoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Multiple Myeloma|Ovarian Carcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage III Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Medical Chart Review|PROCEDURE: Paracentesis|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Procure, store and distribute longitudinal biospecimens and associated clinical data, Will procure, store and distribute longitudinal biospecimens and associated clinical data for current and future cancer research in order to elucidate molecular mechanisms of sensitivity and intrinsic or acquired resistance to standard of care systemic therapies, including immunotherapy. Cases will be grouped according to patient demographics, cancer type and treatment regimen. Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each Biospecimen Source Site (BSS) as well as study aggregate., Up to 10 years|Percentage of enrolled patients by cancer type and treatment regimen overall, Will assess the percentage of enrolled patients by cancer type and treatment regimen overall and those who contribute samples to the Drug Resistance and Sensitivity Network and other approved investigators. Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of minority and underserved study participants accrued, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years
Pan-cancer gene panel tumor next generation sequencing test, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Cancer Research Data Commons, The Cancer Imaging Archive and database of Genotypes and Phenotypes data contribution, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of minority and underserved study participants accrued, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of enrolled patients for whom molecular profiling is attempted, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate. Will also be assessed by patient demographics, cancer type and treatment regimen., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of enrolled patients for whom molecular profiling results are generated, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate. Will also be assessed by patient demographics, cancer type and treatment regimen., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of enrolled patients for whom samples are obtained at each longitudinal timepoint, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate. Will also be assessed by patient demographics, cancer type and treatment regimen., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years|Percentage of collected biospecimens that are delivered to the Patient Derived Models Repository, Statistical analysis will be descriptive and will be analyzed for each BSS as well as study aggregate. Will also be assessed by patient demographics, cancer type and treatment regimen., Until completion of biospecimen collection, up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To support current and future investigations into drug resistance and sensitivity and other National Cancer Institute (NCI)-sponsored cancer research initiatives through the procurement and distribution of multiple longitudinal biospecimens and associated data from a diverse group of cancer patients who are undergoing standard of care treatment at NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) sites and other National Clinical Trials Network (NCTN) sites.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide a service of value to study participants and their medical providers through the performance of molecular profiling assays on tumor samples in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA)-certified laboratory and reporting of results to physicians and patients that they may opt to use in clinical management, including analysis of data for acquired resistance mechanisms.

II. To enable the development of patient-derived models such as cell lines and xenografts for cancer researchers through the provision of biospecimens from up to 20% of study participants to the NCI's Patient Derived Models Repository (PDMR), a national resource available to investigators.

III. To develop and implement robust approaches in patient and provider engagement to improve understanding of biobanking and its relationship to cancer research and increase representation of minority and underserved study participants in cancer research.

IV. To develop increased capabilities in United States (U.S.) community hospitals and clinics for contribution to cancer research through biobanking activities.

V. To enable secondary research generated from the project through deposition of data in public repositories such as Cancer Research Data Commons (CRDC), The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA) and database of Genotypes and Phenotypes (dbGAP) and other potential NCI databases, including clinical, radiology and pathology data with an emphasis on treatment response and outcome data.

VI. To provide residual biospecimens and associated data from the project to the cancer research community.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of tissue samples during baseline and at time of disease progression and collection of blood samples throughout the study, including at time of disease progression. Patients with hematological malignancies also undergo collection of bone marrow and cerebral spinal fluid at the same time points. Archival blood and tissue, as well as bone marrow of patients with hematological malignancies, is also collected if available. Additionally, patients may undergo computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study, and may undergo paracentesis on study. Patient medical records are reviewed, and data is collected for at least 5 years.