Prospective Phase I Study of GAX for Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
GAX represents a novel approach to the development of cancer chemotherapy agents in pancreatic cancer and is based upon extensive laboratory investigations for the induction of apoptosis in pancreatic carcinoma cells.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: GAX - Gemcitabine, Abraxane and Xeloda
Identification of Maximum Tolerated Dose and Dose Intensity in Patients with Pancreatic Cancer, To determine the dose for Phase II study - identification of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose intensity in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. As a Phase I study, primary objective is toxicity identification, not treatment efficacy., 24 months
Progression Free Survival, To evaluate the response rate (using RECIST 1.1 criteria), the Progression free survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) with treatment., 6 years
Assess Safety and Toxicity based upon NCI Common toxicity criteria version 4.1., To assess the safety and toxicities to this regimen based upon NCI Common toxicity criteria version 4.1., 24 Months
It is the investigators expectation that this combination will induce apoptotic pathways downstream of biochemical mechanisms of resistance and synergistically induce pathways for apoptosis that are non-p53 dependent, which have not been previously explored in chemotherapy trials for this cancer. ABRAXANE® is novel in that it induces apoptosis to the same degree in mutant and wt p53 cancers. Mutant p53 tumors occur in 80-90% of PC and mutant p53 is thought of as one of the major mechanisms of drug resistance.

Furthermore, the investigators will be starting Xeloda and gemcitabine at slightly lower doses than the initial GTX studies. This is because the investigators have found that the efficacy is maintained at these slightly lower doses while side effects are minimized. The reason that GTX works at lower doses, as well as higher doses, is the synergy between drugs. Drug regimens that are synergistic can maintain their antitumor effect at doses lower than in non-synergistic regimens, but must maintain their dose intensity to achieve their anti-tumor effect. RECIST 1.1 criteria will be utilized for judging response, progression and stable disease. Overall assessment of the data will be by intention to treat analysis (ITT).