A Phase 2 Study of Lenalidomide to Evaluate the Efficacy in Japanese Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
To determine the efficacy of lenalidomide in combination with low-dose dexamethasone in Japanese subjects with previously untreated multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: dexamethasone
Overall Response Rate, Number of Complete Responses (CR) plus Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) plus Partial Response (PR) based on the International Myeloma Working Group criteria (IMWG). Any participant who achieved a CR, VGPR, or PR while on study treatment was defined as a responder.

CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. In addition to the above, if present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From first dose until the data cut-off date of 15 July 2014. Median time on follow-up was 61.6 weeks.
Time to Response, Time to response was calculated for the responders as the time from the first dose date to the initial documented response (CR, VGPR or PR).

CR: Negative serum and urine on immunofixation, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and ≤ 5% plasma cells in bone marrow; VGPR: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥ 90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein level \< 100 mg/24 hours; PR: ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-Protein and reduction in urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \< 200 mg/24 hours. If present at baseline a ≥ 50% reduction in size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required., From the first dose of study drug treatment until the data cut-off date of 15 July 2014. Median follow-up time was 61.6 weeks.|Duration of Response, Duration of response was calculated for the responders as the time from the initial documented response (CR or VGPR or PR) to the first documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Duration of response for participants last known to be alive with no progression after a CR, VGPR, or PR were censored at the date of last adequate response assessment., From the first dose of study drug treatment until the data cut-off date of 15 July2014. Median follow up time was 61.6 weeks.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was calculated as the time from the first dose date to the first documented progression based on IWG criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. If progression or death was not documented at the time of data cutoff date, these observations were censored at the last adequate assessment date showing evidence of no progression or death., From the first dose of study drug treatment until the data cut-off date of 15 July 2014. Median follow-up for PFS assessments was 61.6 weeks.|Overall Survival (OS), The time from the start of study treatment to death due to any cause. OS was censored at the last date that the participant was known to be alive for participants who were alive at the time of analysis and for participants who were lost to follow-up before death was documented., From the first dose of study drug treatment until the data cut-off date of 15 July 2014. Median follow up is 14.2 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any noxious, unintended, or untoward medical occurrence that may appear or worsen in a participant during the course of a study. A serious AE is any AE occurring at any dose that: • Results in death; • Is life-threatening; • Requires or prolongs existing inpatient hospitalization; • Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; • Is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; • Constitutes an important medical event. The Investigator assessed the relationship of each AE to study drug and graded the severity according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, Version 4.0): Grade 1 = Mild (no limitation in activity or intervention required); Grade 2 = Moderate (some limitation in activity; no/minimal medical intervention required);-Grade 3 = Severe (marked limitation in activity; medical intervention required, hospitalization possible); Grade 4 = Life-threatening; Grade 5 = Death., From first dose of study drug treatment through to 28 days after the last dose, until the data cut-off date of 15 July 2014; median treatment duration was 60 weeks
To determine the efficacy of lenalidomide in combination with low-dose dexamethasone in Japanese subjects with previously untreated multiple myeloma.