Pemetrexed and Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Advanced, Persistent, or Recurrent Cervical Cancer
RATIONALE: Pemetrexed may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving pemetrexed together with cisplatin may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects of giving pemetrexed together with cisplatin and to see how well it works in treating patients with advanced, persistent, or recurrent cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: pemetrexed disodium
Patients With Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]) Using RECIST Version 1.0, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle until disease progression or study withdrawal; and at any other time if clinically indicated, up to 5 years.|Frequency and Severity of Observed Adverse Effects, All eligible and evaluable patients, every 21 days during study treatment and up to 30 days after the last cycle of treatment.
Progression-free Survival, Duration of progression-free survival in months., From enrollment onto the study until the onset of disease progression or death, up to 5 years|Duration of Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually, up to 5 years.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To estimate the antitumor activity of pemetrexed disodium and cisplatin with objective tumor response (partial and complete response) in patients with advanced, persistent, or recurrent carcinoma of the cervix.
* To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* To determine the effects of this regimen on progression-free survival and overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior cisplatin therapy as a radiosensitizer (yes vs no).

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and cisplatin IV over 1-4 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.