To Assess Efficacy and Safety of Oral Reparixin in Patients With Fatigue and Locally Advanced / Metastatic Breast Cancer
Primary objective:

• To assess the efficacy of reparixin compared to placebo in limiting CRF in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer undergoing single-agent taxane chemotherapy, using FACITFatigue scale.

The secondary objectives are:

* To evaluate change in Quality of Life in the two treatment arms
* To assess the percentage of patients treated with reparixin compared to placebo delaying and discontinuing chemotherapy
* To assess Patient Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S) score and Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) score associated with reparixin compared to placebo
* To assess the effect of reparixin compared to placebo on ECOG PS
* To assess the effects of reparixin vs placebo on Objective Response Rate (ORR), Progression Free Survival (PFS), Overall Survival (OS)

The safety objective is:

• To assess the safety and tolerability of reparixin in adult patients undergoing taxane-containing chemotherapy.

The pharmacokinetic (PK) objective is:

• To define the PK profile of orally administered reparixin, its metabolites (DF2243Y, DF2188Y, ibuprofen) and concomitant antineoplastic agents (paclitaxel, or nab-paclitaxel or docetaxel) in adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer.
Fatigue|Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Reparixin|DRUG: Placebo
Change from baseline in FACIT-F score, The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - fatigue (FACIT-fatigue) scale is a 13-item instrument designed to assess fatigue/ tiredness and its impact on daily activities and functioning in a number of chronic diseases. The instrument includes items such as tiredness, weakness, listlessness, lack of energy, and the impact of these feelings on daily functioning (e.g., sleeping, and social activities).

The FACIT-fatigue scale is a 13-item patient-reported measure of fatigue where items are scored on a 0 - 4 response scale with anchors ranging from "Not at all" to "Very much so". To score the FACIT-fatigue, all items are summed to create a single fatigue score with a range from 0 to 52, where higher scores represent better functioning or less fatigue., week 16
Change from baseline in FACIT-F score, The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - fatigue (FACIT-fatigue) scale is a 13-item instrument designed to assess fatigue/ tiredness and its impact on daily activities and functioning in a number of chronic diseases. The instrument includes items such as tiredness, weakness, listlessness, lack of energy, and the impact of these feelings on daily functioning (e.g., sleeping, and social activities).

The FACIT-fatigue scale is a 13-item patient-reported measure of fatigue where items are scored on a 0 - 4 response scale with anchors ranging from "Not at all" to "Very much so". To score the FACIT-fatigue, all items are summed to create a single fatigue score with a range from 0 to 52, where higher scores represent better functioning or less fatigue., weeks 4, 8 and 12|EQ-5D-5L score, The EQ-5D-5L consists of 2 pages: the EQ-5D-5L descriptive system and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ VAS). The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems. The patient is asked to indicate his/her health state by ticking the box of the most appropriate statement in each of the 5 dimensions. This decision results in a 1-digit number that expresses the level selected for that dimension. The digits for the 5 dimensions can be combined into a 5-digit number that describes the patient's health state.The EQ VAS records the patient's self-rated health on a vertical visual analogue scale, where the endpoints are labelled 'The best health you can imagine' and 'The worst health you can imagine'. The VAS is used as a quantitative measure of health outcome that reflect the patient's own judgment., day 1 of each 21- or 28-day cycle, off treatment visit (or withdrawal), which means up to 70 weeks|Patient Global Impression of Severity (PGI-S) score, The PGI-S is designed to capture subject's perception of overall symptom severity at the time of completion on a 5-point categorical response scale: "Please choose the response below that best describes the severity of your fatigue over the past week" and is scored from 1 to 5, with 1 indicating "None", 2 "Mild", 3 "Moderate", 4 "Severe", 5 "Very Severe". The higher the score, the worse the outcome., day 1 of each 21- or 28-day cycle, off treatment visit (or withdrawal) which means up to 70 weeks|Patient Global Impression of Change (PGI-C) score, The PGI-C is designed to capture the subject's perception of change in their overall symptom severity from baseline until the time of completion. Change in severity is captured using a 5- point scale: "Please choose the response below that best describes the overall change in your fatigue since you started receiving the taxane-based chemotherapy" and is scored from 1 to 5, with 1 indicating "Much better", 2 "A little better", 3 "No change", 4 "A little worse", 5 "Much worse". The higher the score, the worse the outcome., day 1 of each 21- or 28-day cycle except for cycle 1, off treatment visit (or withdrawal), which means up to 70 weeks|Proportion of patients delaying next administration of chemotherapy due to CRF, Proportion of patients delaying next dosing of chemotherapy due to chronic renal failure (CRF), throughout the study, up to 70 weeks|Proportion of patients discontinuing chemotherapy due to CRF, Proportion of patients discontinuing chemotherapy due to chronic renal failure (CRF), throughout the study, up to 70 weeks|Change in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS), ECOG PS is graded as follow:

0 Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction

1. Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work
2. Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities; up and about more than 50% of waking hours
3. Capable of only limited selfcare; confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours
4. Completely disabled; cannot carry on any selfcare; totally confined to bed or chair
5. Dead The higher the score, the worse the outcome., baseline, day 1 of each 21- or 28-day chemotherapy cycle, off treatment visit (or withdrawal) which means up to 70 weeks|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with best overall response of CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1., Through study treatment, up to 70 weeks|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS will be assessed based on local investigator assessment per RECIST 1.1., Up to 12 months post-treatment|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of first administration of study treatment until date of death due to any cause, Up to 12 months post-reparixin discontinuation
This is a phase 2, multinational, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. It will evenly randomize 68 evaluable men and women adult patients with CRF in locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who are candidates to start single-agent taxane chemotherapy (paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel or docetaxel). CRF will be assessed at baseline on a scale from 0 - 10 (with 10 being most severe), enrolling any patient who report a score of 1 - 6. Recruitment will be competitive among the study sites, until the planned number of patients is randomized. Patients will be assigned (1:1) to receive either oral reparixin treatment (1200 mg t.i.d. - treatment group) or masked placebo t.i.d. (control group). Randomization will be stratified by site and according to the type of chemotherapy (paclitaxel vs docetaxel vs nab-paclitaxel). Sparse blood samples will be collected in the whole population for reparixin (and metabolites), docetaxel, nab-paclitaxel, paclitaxel PK analysis. Reparixin or placebo will be administered for 16 weeks or until disease progression, withdrawal of consent or unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs first. Following the completion of the treatment, or after premature discontinuation during the double-blind phase the patients will be followed up for safety assessments for an additional 30 days after last study therapy administration and will be followed for progressive disease and survival until twelve months after last enrolled subject off treatment, or until trial is terminated for other reasons, whatever occurs first.

Number of Patients Sixty-eight (68) evaluable adult patients with CRF with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who are candidates to receive single-agent taxane chemotherapy will be included in the study. Assuming that 10% of subjects will not be evaluable for primary analysis, a total of approximately 76 subjects is expected to be enrolled.