TGR1202 in Relapsed and Refractory Follicular Lymphoma
The primary objective is to determine the overall response rate (ORR) of TGR-1202 in R/R FL.

Secondary Objectives

* Determine the genetic and other novel biological markers that may be predictive of response or resistance to TGR-1202 in patients with relapsed or refractory FL.
* Describe the Progression Free Survival (PFS), Duration of Response (DoR) after treatment with TGR-1202.
* Describe the number of dose delays and dose reductions and other safety profile.
Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: TGR-1202
Overall Response Rate, The sum of patients with partial responses and complete responses., Up to 3 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) After Treatment With TGR-1202, The length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, such as cancer, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response (DoR) After Treatment With TGR-1202, The time of initial response until documented tumor progression., Up to 3 years|Number of Dose Delays, The number of instances of patients having a dose of study drug delayed 1 or more days., Up to 3 years|Number of Dose Reductions, The number of instances of patients having to reduce the dosage of study drug based on specified toxicities., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events \[Safety and Tolerability\] broken down by adverse event and CTCAE v4.0 grade of each event., Up to 3 years
This is an open label, phase II study of TGR-1202 in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) Grade 1, 2, or 3A follicular lymphoma (FL). FL is the most common subtype of indolent lymphoma. The prognosis of FL depends on the histologic grade, stage, treatment and age of the patient. More recently, efforts have been made to find novel regimens for the treatment of relapsed FL that do not contain non-specific cytotoxic agents.

One of the important goals of this phase II study is to discover novel genetic, biochemical, and immunological markers that are associated with the response and safety of TGR-1202 in patients with FL. TGR-1202 blocks PI3K, a signal that is required for cancer to grow.