Holistic Needs Assessment in Outpatient Cancer Care
This study evaluates the impact of holistic needs assessment (HNA) on patient/clinician communication in outpatient cancer care. Half of the participants will complete a HNA prior to their clinical consultation. They will then take it into the consultation and it will inform a discussion around any identified areas of need. Half of the participants will be in the control group meaning there will be no additional intervention they will receive care as normal. The consultations will be audio-recorded. The patient will complete two outcome measures following the consultation.
Oncology [See Also, Affected System]
OTHER: Holistic Needs Assessment
Patient participation, Measured through analysis of the audio-recordings from each recorded consultation between a clinician and patient. Specifically, through measuring dialogue ratio and preponderance of initiative. These two measures indicate who is speaking, when and for how long., This outcome measure will be collected during the patients first clinic appointment after treatment for their cancer. The consultation will last approximately 15 minutes.
Shared decision making, Measured through patient self-report using the measure CollaboRATE. CollaboRATE is a survey-based validated tool designed to create a fast way to measure how much effort clinicians make to explain their patients' health issues; how much effort they make to listen to the issues that matter most to their patients and how much effort they make to integrate the patients' views and health beliefs., This outcome measure will be collected following the patients first clinic appointment after treatment. The patient will return to the researcher and complete this measure. It is expected to take no more than 1 minute to complete.|Self-efficacy, Measured through self-report using The Lorig Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease 6-Item Scale., This outcome measure will be collected following the patients first clinic appointment after treatment. The patient will return to the researcher and complete this measure. It is expected to take no more than 5 minutes..
Holistic needs assessment is a checklist completed by the patient prior to consultation. It signposts issues of emotional, practical, financial and clinical concern. The purpose of a HNA is to identify patient's individual needs in order to facilitate better collaboration. During consultation the HNA facilitates a dialogue that will have the patient's concerns at the centre. In conjunction with a subsequent care plan the process supports timely intervention based on a collaborative, person centred discussion. However, there is little evidence on how HNA impacts upon the dynamics of the clinical consultation. This study aims to establish a) how HNA affects the type of conversation that goes on during a clinical consultation and b) how these putative changes impact on shared decision-making and self-efficacy.