Determining the Feasibility of MLN9708 as Maintenance After Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant for Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of the study is to determine the safety of MLN9708 as maintenance therapy following allogeneic stem cell transplant in patients with multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: MLN9708
Number of Phase I Patients Receiving 2.3mg, 3mg, or 4mg MLN9708 Experiencing a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) to Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of MLN9708 will be determined as the dose at which ≤1 of 6 patients experiences a DLT during one cycle (28 days) of therapy utilizing the National Cancer Institute Common Technology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0, Collected from day of first dose to the end of the first treatment cycle, up to 28 days|Number of Participants With Grade 3/4/5 Serious Adverse Events and Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety of MLN9708 When Used as Maintenance After Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant for Multiple Myeloma Multiple Myeloma, Defined as the number of participants with treatment-emergent grade 3/4/5 adverse events/serious adverse events utilizing the National Cancer Institute Common Technology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0 determined to be related to MLN9708., Defined as the time from Day 1 of study drug administration until 30 days after treatment completion for up to 2 years.
Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS) at 2 Years Post-maintenance Therapy, PFS is measured from the date of first protocol treatment until date of disease progression or death occurs, or date of last adequate tumor assessment using the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. IMWG disease progression is defined as an increase of ≥ 25% from the nadir in at least one of the following criteria: 1) serum M-protein, 2) urine M-protein, 3) only in patients with non-measurable serum and urine M-protein levels: difference in involved and uninvolved FLC levels, 4) Bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute % must be ≥10%). OR Disease progression also could include development of new lytic bone lesions or increase from baseline in size of lytic bone lesion(s); development of new soft tissue plasmacytoma(s) or definite increase from nadir in existing soft tissue plasmacytomas; or development of hypercalcemia, every 8 weeks for approximately 24 weeks then every 3 months thereafter for 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS) at 2 Years Post-allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT), Overall survival is measured as the interval from first study treatment until date of death, or date last known alive., every 8 weeks for approximately 24 weeks after ASCT, then every 3 months thereafter for 2 years.|Number of Participants With Incidence of Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease (cGVHD) After Receiving Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant and Maintenance With MLN9708, Incidence of chronic Graft-versus-host disease GVHD was assessed based on the National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Project on Criteria for Clinical trials in Acute and Chronic Graft-versus-host-disease (Filipovich et al. 2005) from date of randomization until date of first documented progression, or date of death from any cause., from date of enrollment every 28 days, up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Incidence of Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (aGVHD) After Receiving Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant and Maintenance With MLN9708, Incidence of acute Graft-versus-host disease GVHD was assessed based on the National Institutes of Health Consensus Development Project on Criteria for Clinical trials in Acute and Chronic Graft-versus-host-disease (Przepiorka et al. 1995) from date of randomization until date of first documented progression, or date of death from any cause., from date of enrollment every 28 days, up to 2 years
Although multiple myeloma is considered fatal, survival has dramatically improved over the last two decades with the introduction of more effective treatment options. Proteasome inhibitors have an anti-myeloma effect and are often used as either initial treatment or at relapse in patients with multiple myeloma. MLN9708 is an orally bioavailable, potent, reversible inhibitor of the 20S proteasome. Phase I studies have shown MLN9708 to be very well tolerated with minimal peripheral neuropathy. It has also shown impressive anti-myeloma activity in both the relapsed/refractory setting and the upfront setting (Kumar et al. 2011, Berdeja et al. 2011, Richardson et al. 2011). These characteristics make MLN9708 an ideal proteasome inhibitor to use after allogeneic stem cell transplant. In this Phase II, open-label, multicenter, non-randomized study the investigators will investigate the role of MLN9708 as maintenance after allogeneic stem cell transplant in patients with high-risk multiple myeloma, and in patients with multiple myeloma who have relapsed after an autologous stem cell transplant.