Cabozantinib Plus Pembrolizumab as First-Line Therapy for Cisplatin-Ineligible Advanced Urothelial Carcinoma
This is an open label, non-randomized phase 2 study of the combination of pembrolizumab and cabozantinib to assess overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6), and overall survival (OS) in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) ineligible for cisplatin.
Metastatic Urothelial Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Count of Participants With Response Measured by RECIST 1.1, To evaluate measurable disease overall response. Subjects were evaluated by CT scans at regular intervals for disease assessment by RECISTv1.1 criteria for the duration of treatment.

Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) is a standard measure of how well cancer patients respond to treatment. Possible scores are CR (Complete Response; total disappearance of all target lesions), PR (Partial Response; at least a 30% decrease of the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions), PD (Progressive Disease; at least a 20% increase of the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions), and SD (Stable Disease; neither a sufficient decrease for PR, or sufficient increase for PD). Overall response is the count of PR and CR scores among the participants' best RECISTv1.1 responses., From baseline disease assessment to best response disease assessment, measured up to 28 months.
Count of Participants Who Were Progression-free at the Completion of Study Follow-up (PFS)., To evaluate progression-free survival at completion of study follow-up (PFS). PFS is defined as the count of participants who remained alive and progression-free completion of their follow-up period. Participants were followed up to six months after completion of the study treatment.

Subjects were evaluated by CT scans at regular intervals for disease assessment by RECISTv1.1 criteria (as described in the primary outcome) for the duration of treatment., Up to 34 months from the start of the study treatment.|Count of Overall Survival (OS) at Completion of Study Follow-up, To evaluate Overall Survival (OS) at completion of study follow-up. OS is defined as the count of participants who remained alive after their follow-up period. Participants were followed up to six months after completion of the study treatment.

Subjects were followed via telephone contact or medical record review for survival 6 months after completing the study treatment., Up to 34 months from the start of the study treatment.|Occurrence of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, To evaluate toxicities associated with the combination treatment. Subjects were monitored for adverse events from the start of treatment through 30 days after the last dose of study treatment, and serious adverse events were collected until 90 days after the cessation of study treatment.

The severity of adverse events was assessed using CTCAE v5.0 criteria, a 1-5 scale with higher numbers indicating greater severity. Grade 1 indicates "mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated" and Grade 5 indicates "death related to AE". The treating investigator evaluated each adverse event to assess its attribution to the study treatment.

This outcome measure will report the following:

* The count of participants who had a grade 1-2 event, related to study treatment.
* The count of the participants who had a grade 3-4 event, related to study treatment.
* The count of the participants who had a grade 5 event or higher,, Up to 31 months from the start of study treatment.
This is an open label, non-randomized phase 2 study of the combination of pembrolizumab and cabozantinib to assess overall response rate (ORR), progression free survival at 6 months (PFS6), and overall survival (OS) in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma (UC) ineligible for cisplatin.