Ribociclib and Doxorubicin in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcomas That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of ribociclib when giving together with doxorubicin hydrochloride in treating patients with soft tissue sarcomas that has spread to other places or that cannot be removed by surgery (advanced). Ribociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ribociclib and doxorubicin hydrochloride may work better in treating patients with soft tissue sarcoma.
Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Locally Advanced Angiosarcoma|Locally Advanced Leiomyosarcoma|Locally Advanced Liposarcoma|Locally Advanced Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Locally Advanced Myxofibrosarcoma|Locally Advanced Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma|Metastatic Angiosarcoma|Metastatic Epithelioid Sarcoma|Metastatic Fibrosarcoma|Metastatic Liposarcoma|Metastatic Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Metastatic Myxofibrosarcoma|Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Metastatic Synovial Sarcoma|Metastatic Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma|Myxofibrosarcoma|Pleomorphic Rhabdomyosarcoma|Stage III Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Undifferentiated (Embryonal) Sarcoma|Unresectable Leiomyosarcoma|Unresectable Liposarcoma|Unresectable Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Unresectable Synovial Sarcoma|Unresectable Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Ribociclib
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of adverse events, Will be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.03. All adverse events (AEs) will be tabulated and summarized by major organ category, grade, anticipation, and drug attribution. Serious adverse events (SAE) specific incidence and exact 95% confidence interval will be provided where appropriate., Up to 21 days
Progression-free survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier product limit method will be used to estimate PFS of the median PFS and PFS rates at clinically relevant time points will be provided with the 90% confidence interval (CI)., From first dose of protocol therapy to time of documented radiographic and/or clinical disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 12 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Will be defined as the proportion of patients who achieved a complete response or a partial response. Will be assessed based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1. The ORR, along with exact two-sided 95% confidence intervals, will be reported for the study., Up to 12 months|Incidence of adverse events, SAEs, Will be assessed by NCI CTCAE v 4.03. Analyses will be performed for all patients having received at least one dose of study drug. Serious adverse events, AEs will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 12 months|Incidence of dose modifications (interruptions, reductions, intensity) due to adverse events, Analyses will be performed for all patients having received at least one dose of study drug. AEs leading to withdrawal/dose interruptions/dose modification will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of ribociclib in combination with doxorubicin in subjects with advanced soft tissue sarcomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess preliminary anti-tumor activity of ribociclib in combination with doxorubicin in subjects with advanced soft tissue sarcomas.

II. To characterize the safety and tolerability of ribociclib in combination with doxorubicin.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ribociclib.

Patients receive ribociclib orally (PO) daily on days 1-7, and doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on day 10. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients without disease progression after 6 cycles receive ribociclib PO daily on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days and then every 12 weeks for 12 months.