Robotic Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery Compared to Robotic Assisted Surgery for Median Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the short-term outcomes of roboric natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES-II) compared to conventional assisted robotic surgery in the treatment of median rectal cancer. The main question it aims to answer is: is it safe and feasible to perform roboric natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES-II) for median rectal cancer? What are the advantages of roboric natural orifice specimen extraction surgery (NOSES-II) compared to conventional assisted robotic surgery for median rectal cancer.
Natural Orifice Specimen Extraction Surgery|Middle Rectal Cancer|Robotic|Short-term Outcomes
PROCEDURE: robotic natural orifice specimen extraction surgery|PROCEDURE: robotic transabdominal specimen extraction surgery
The rate of all complications, incidence rate, 1 months after surgery|The rate of all complications (Clavien-Dindo grade ≥ III ), incidence rate, 1 months after surgery|The rate of anastomotic complications, Anastomotic leakage and anastomotic bleeding, 1 months after surgery
operative time, minutes, Intraoperative|estimation of blood loss, milliliters, Intraoperative|postoperative hospital stay, days, 1 day after operation|visual analogue pain score, score, 1 weeks after surgery
A major concern to the safety of the public's health is the prevalence of colorectal cancer, which is the third most prevalent cancer and has a very high fatality rate. There are multiple treatments for rectal cancer, and surgery remains one of the most important ways. Laparoscopic surgery as a minimally invasive technique for the treatment of colorectal has been confirmed by many studies to ensure its safety and reliability. Laparoscopic surgery has also been widely used in clinical. So far, NOSES, as an emerging minimally invasive technology, has caused heated discussions in the minimally invasive surgical community, especially in rectal surgery, the emergence of NOSES, which solves the problems caused by incisions in traditional surgery, improves the mental health of patients, and has good short-term efficacy. In recent years, the popularity of robotic colorectal cancer surgery has been rising, and the concepts of radical treatment, precision, and minimally invasive have been continuously refined, and NOSES surgery, as an emerging minimally invasive technology, has further reduced the impact of surgical trauma on the body, eliminated abdominal scar incision, and avoided complications related to abdominal wall incision, and has been widely used and carried out. In addition to the benefits of patients, the high-definition lens of the robotic surgery system and the flexible robotic arm greatly remove the trembling of the operator's hand, improve the flexibility and accuracy of the operator's operation, and are more conducive to challenging operations in narrow spaces. Compared with laparoscopy, the robotic surgical system has great advantages in some aspects, such as postoperative patient urination function, sexual function, surgical complications. Robotic surgical systems, combined with NOSES, may bring greater benefits to patients.