Anti-PD-1 Antibody Alone or in Combination With Decitabine/Chemotherapy in Relapsed or Refractory Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility, safety, and efficacy of anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with low-dose decitabine in patients with relapsed or refractory malignancies, including Non-Hodgkin'lymphoma, Hodgkin'lymphoma, gastrointestinal cancers, hepatocellular carcinoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer or lung cancer or renal-cell cancer or pancreatic cancer or bile duct cancer.
Malignancies Multiple
DRUG: Anti-PD-1 antibody|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Chemotherapy
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., 2 years
Objective response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1)., 3 years|Objective response by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for lymphomas., 3 years|Progression free survival, 3 years|Overall survival, 3 years
Primary objective: To assess the feasibility and safety for Anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with decitabine and/or chemotherapy administered every 3 weeks to subjects with relapsed or refractory malignancies.

Secondary objectives: 1) To assess the antitumor activity of Anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with decitabine and/or chemotherapy in subjects with relapsed or refractory malignancies. 2) To characterize the immunological effects of Anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with decitabine and/or chemotherapy. 3) To characterize the immunological effects of Anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with decitabine and/or chemotherapy.

Exploratory objectives: 1) To analysis of potential biological parameters correlated to clinical response and toxicities. 2) To search predictive biomarkers to guide the choose of patients undergoing the treatment of Anti-PD-1 antibody alone or in combination with decitabine and/or chemotherapy.

Safety Evaluation: Adverse events will be assessed continuously during the study and for 100 days post last treatment, and will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.0.

Efficacy Evaluation: 1) Treatment response to lymphoma was defined using the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Lymphomas; 2) Treatment response to solid tumors was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1).

evaluation index: BOR; ORR; PFS and OS.