Impact of "Targeted" Nutritional Apport and Exercise on the Modulation of Metabolic and Immune-related Gene Expression Signatures in Early Breast Cancer (eBC) Patients Candidate to Neoadjuvant Therapy (NAT)
NEOMET is an exploratory randomized prospective, multicenter study whose primary aim is to explore if metabolomic signatures can be modified by a lifestyle intervention including dietary supplements and physical exercise intervention, in eBC patients candidate to NAT. Eligible patients will be randomised to one of 4 groups: A. NAT, according to molecular subtype; B. NAT plus nutritional supplementation; C. NAT plus supervised physical exercise; D. NAT plus supervised physical exercise plus nutritional supplementation. Nutritional supplementazion will consist of two main long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids omega-3 (n-3 Lc-PUFA), EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) plus a source of palmitoleic acid (hexadecenoic acid).
Early Breast Cancer|Neoadjuvant Treatment
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: omega-3 (n-3 Lc-PUFA), EPA (eicosapentaenoic acid) and DHA (docosahexaenoic acid) plus a source of palmitoleic acid (hexadecenoic acid)
Variation of fatty acids concentration, Plasma metabolic sample will be analyzed using a GCxGC-MS instrument for the relative and absolute quantification of small molecules in order to evaluate the impact of a lifestyle intervention including dietary supplements and physical exercise on the modulation of metabolomic signatures in eBC patients candidate to NACT., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|Omega3 Index, Assessment of Omega-3 Index in all patients cohorts at:

* baseline
* pre-operatative (at the end of NACT)

The omega3 index will assessed by the sum of DHA and EPA in erythrocytes expressed as a percentage of total erythrocyte fatty acid., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)
Combined lifestyle intervention, Impact of the combined lifestyle intervention on body composition. Body composition will be assessed with a multifrequency bioelectrical impedance analysis., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|Lymphocyte subpopulations, Assessment of the immunophenotype of lymphocyte subpopulations and their correlation with metabolomic profile and response to therapy; characterization of immune-related and metabolic-related gene-expression signatures in tumor tissue and their correlation with metabolomic profile and response to therapy.

Lymphocyte subpopulation will be assessed collecting blood at 1st cycle and at the last cycle of NACT (before surgery). Gene-expression signatures will be assessed on tumor biopsy and surgery tissue., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|Antitumor activity, evaluation of pathological Complete Response (pCR) in the different treatment arms (ypT0/Tis ypN0), From T0 until surgery, approximately 6 months (according to biological subtype)|changes in health-related Quality of Life, Quality of Life will be assessed among all patients included in the study using patient-reported outcomes (PROs) collected using a validated and standardized questionnaire: the European Organization for Cancer Research and Treatment Quality of Life Questionnaire C30, ranging from 0 to 100. A high-scale score represents a higher response level., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: at three months after inclusion; T2: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|changes in health-related Quality of Life, Quality of Life will be assessed among all patients included in the study using patient-reported outcomes (PROs) collected using a validated and standardized questionnaire: the European Organization for Cancer Research and Treatment Quality of Life Questionnaire BR45, ranging from 0 to 100. A high-scale score represents a higher response level., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: at three months after inclusion; T2: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|changes in health-related Quality of Life, Quality of Life will be assessed among all patients included in the study using patient-reported outcomes (PROs) collected using a validated and standardized questionnaire: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, ranging from 0 to 21. A high-scale score represents a lower response level (0-7 normal, 8-10 borderline, 11-21 abnormal)., T0: baseline, prior to cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days); T1: at three months after inclusion; T2: end of NACT, before surgery (NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype)|Impact on treatment-related adverse events, Evaluation of safety and toxicity profiles according to the NCI-CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) v.5.0., Evaluation will be performed before of each cycle of NACT (each cycle is 21 days). NACT is approximately 6 months, according to biological subtype.
The primary objectives are: 1. To explore the impact of a lifestyle intervention including dietary supplements and physical exercise on the modulation of metabolomic signatures in eBC patients candidate to NAT; 2. To assess the Omega-3 Index at baseline and before surgery in all patient cohorts. Secondary objectives are: Impact of the combined lifestyle intervention on patient metabolic profile and body composition, by bioelectrical Impedance analysis; assessment of the immunophenotype of lymphocyte subpopulations and their correlation with metabolomic profile and response to therapy; characterization of immune-related and metabolic-related gene-expression signatures in tumor tissue and their correlation with metabolomic profile and response to therapy; evaluation of the pharmacokinetic interactions between nutritional supplementation and chemotherapy; evaluation of pCR in the different treatment arms; changes in health-related QoL (EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-BR45, and EQ-5D-5L), and safety and toxicity profiles according to the NCI-CTCAE v.5.0.

Due to explorative intent of the study no formal sample size calculation is provided. A total of 160 consecutive patients will be enrolled into the four arms of the study, with an allocation ratio equal to 1:1:1:1 (40 pts/arm). It can be estimated that the accrual will be completed in 20 months. Data collection, molecular assessments and data analysis with final scientific output are expected to extend the study duration to a total of 26 months.

The following analyses will be performed: - Conversion rate from a poor to a good metabolomic prognostic signature from baseline to end of NAT. - Change in Omega-3 Index and body composition variation.

- The association between Immunophenotype of lymphocyte subpopulations and tissue-based metabolic and immune-related gene-expression signatures will be described according to the type of metabolomic profile at baseline (poor versus good) and with response to therapy (pCR versus RD).