Decitabine in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying how well decitabine works in treating patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as decitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: decitabine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: high performance liquid chromatography|GENETIC: microarray analysis|GENETIC: RNA analysis|OTHER: mass spectrometry|GENETIC: DNA methylation analysis|OTHER: matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry
Rate of Complete Remission, Per International Working Group criteria: Morphologic complete remission (CRm): Defined as morphologic leukemia-free state, including \<5% blasts in BM aspirate with marrow spicules and a count of \> 200 nucleated cells and no blasts with Auer rods, no persistent extramedullary disease, ANC \> 1000/uL, platelet count \> 100,000/uL. Patient must be independent of transfusions for a minimum of 1 week before each marrow assessment. Morphologic complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi): Defined as CR with the exception of neutropenia \<1000/uL or thrombocytopenia \<100,000/ul. Complete Remission Rate (CRm + CRi), Up to 24 weeks
Measurement of DNA Methylation in Peripheral Blood or Bone Marrow Cells, Standard paired statistical tests, parametric and nonparametric, will be used to baseline with treatment values. With data collected serially over time, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to analyze data., From baseline to up to day 28 of course 1|Measurement of DNMT Protein in Peripheral Blood or Bone Marrow Cells, Expression studies were conducted using quantitative RT PCR. Expression of DNMT were normalized to the internal control to the ABL and levels of miR-29 to RNA U44., Pre treatment|Measurement of HbF in Peripheral Blood or Marrow Cells, Standard paired statistical tests, parametric and nonparametric, will be used to baseline with treatment values. With data collected serially over time, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to analyze data., From baseline to up to days 28 of course 2|Measurement of Gene Expression in Peripheral Blood or Bone Marrow, Standard paired statistical tests, parametric and nonparametric, will be used to baseline with treatment values. With data collected serially over time, repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to analyze data., From baseline to up to day 28 of course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the rate of complete remission (CR) in patients with previously untreated acute myeloid leukemia treated with decitabine.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the rate of overall survival at 1 year in patients treated with this drug.

II. Determine the overall response rate (CR, incomplete CR, and partial remission) in patients treated with this drug.

III. Correlate the biological activity of decitabine with clinical endpoints and maximum concentration of plasma decitabine.

IV. Correlate intracellular concentration of decitabine with global DNA methylation, other biological endpoints, and clinical response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive decitabine IV over 1 hour on days 1-10. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo bone marrow aspiration and blood sample collection periodically for pharmacological and correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for gene expression, methylation of gene promoters, fetal hemoglobin (HgF), DNMT1 protein expression, maximum concentration of plasma decitabine, and global DNA methylation. Samples are analyzed by RT-PCR, Bio-COBRA, matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, SDS-PAGE (polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis), immunoblotting, and LC-MS/MS.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for at least 30 days.