Test Up Now Education Program
This study will test the effectiveness of an outreach strategy to increase colorectal cancer screening in African Americans. The investigators will recruit 250 African Americans ages 45-64 years who are not up-to-date with colorectal cancer screening or have never been screened, with the goal to evaluate screening knowledge, behavior, and intervention effects on colorectal cancer screening outcomes. Participants will be randomly assigned to the TUNE-UP intervention or a control group. The TUNE-UP intervention arm will utilize a community health advisor to encourage return of stool blood testing kits through cell phone outreach. The control group will receive educational materials about colorectal cancer screening plus a resource list but no community health advisor counseling support or cellphone / text contact. The primary study outcome is receipt of colorectal cancer screening (colonoscopy or Fecal Immunochemical Test) following the intervention. The secondary outcomes will include colorectal cancer screening knowledge, self-efficacy (confidence to receive colorectal cancer screening), intention to screen, and follow-up in the case of an abnormal test result. The research objective is to test the community health advisor intervention effectiveness for promoting stool blood testing as a preferred screening test in an under-screened African American population.
Colorectal Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: Community Health Advisor|BEHAVIORAL: Usual care
Number of Participants Up to Date on Colorectal Cancer Screening, The colorectal cancer screening measure asks about completion of colonoscopy and blood stool tests. These tests are described prior to questions about completion of each test. The first question asks when was the most recent stool blood test (\> 1 year but \< 2 years ago; \> 2 years but not more than 5 years ago; or \> 5 years). The second question asks when was the most recent colonoscopy (a year ago or less; \> 1 year but \< 5 years ago; \> 5 years but not more than 10 years ago; or \> 10 years). Colorectal cancer screening receipt will be determined based on self-report and chart review to determine screening rates for each screening modality. Those answering a "a year ago or less" for the most recent stool blood test and "less than 10 years ago" for most recent colonoscopy are considered up to date., 12 months
Colorectal Cancer Screening Knowledge Measure, Participants are asked four multiple choice questions and 10 True/False questions to test knowledge about colorectal cancer and colorectal cancer screening. The range of the scale is 0-14. Each answer is scored as correct or incorrect. A score of 11 to 14 is considered "high". A score of 7 to 10 is considered "average". A score less than 7 is considered "low.", 12 months|Colorectal Cancer Screening Self-Efficacy Scale, A validated 4-item measure of colorectal cancer screening self-efficacy (alpha = 0.82) asks participants to respond using a Likert scale about colorectal cancer screening test difficulty, finding time, ease of completing the test, and scheduling the test. Total scale scores range from 1 to 4. A score of 3 to 4 is considered "low self-efficacy" and a score of 1 to 2 is considered "high self-efficacy.", 12 months
This study will test the effectiveness of an outreach strategy to increase colorectal cancer screening in African Americans. The investigators will recruit 250 African Americans ages 45-64 years who are not up-to-date with colorectal cancer screening or have never been screened, with the goal to evaluate screening knowledge, behavior, and intervention effects on colorectal cancer screening outcomes. Participants will be randomly assigned to the TUNE-UP intervention or a control group. The TUNE-UP intervention arm will utilize a community health advisor to encourage return of stool blood testing kits through cell phone outreach. The control group will receive educational materials about colorectal cancer screening plus a resource list but no community health advisor counseling support or cellphone / text contact. The primary study outcome is receipt of colorectal cancer screening (colonoscopy or Fecal Immunochemical Test) following the intervention. The secondary outcomes will include colorectal cancer screening knowledge, self-efficacy (confidence to receive colorectal cancer screening), intention to screen, and follow-up in the case of an abnormal test result. The research objective is to test the community health advisor intervention effectiveness for promoting stool blood testing as a preferred screening test in an under-screened African American population.