Platinum-Based Chemotherapy With/Without INCMGA00012, an Anti-PD-1 Antibody, in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of platinum-based chemotherapy with or without INCMGA00012 in participants with metastatic squamous and nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Metastatic Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Metastatic Nonsquamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Retifanlimab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: nab-Paclitaxel
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause., up to 39.1 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the length of time from the date of randomization until the earliest date of disease progression by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), as determined by blinded independent central review (BICR), or death due to any cause, if occurring sooner than progression., up to 35.8 months|Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants who had a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST v1.1 based on BICR at any post-Baseline visit until the first progressive disease or new anticancer therapy. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of any new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: complete disappearance or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters, no new lesions, and no progression of non-target lesions., up to 35.78 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response was defined as the time from the earliest date of documented response until the earliest date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, per RECIST v1.1 based on BICR. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no appearance of any new lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in the short axis to \<10 mm. PR: complete disappearance or at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum diameters, no new lesions, and no progression of non-target lesions. PD: progression of a target or non-target lesion or presence of a new lesion., up to 34.3 months|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) in the Randomized Treatment Period, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. TEAEs were defined as any AEs either reported for the first time or the worsening of pre-existing events after the first dose of retifanlimab/placebo and within 90 days of the last administration of the randomized period. AEs that occurred after new anticancer therapy (including monotherapy treatment) were to be excluded., up to approximately 39 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Drug Due to TEAEs in the Randomized Treatment Period, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. TEAEs were defined as any AEs either reported for the first time or the worsening of pre-existing events after the first dose of retifanlimab/placebo and within 90 days of the last administration of the randomized period. AEs that occurred after new anticancer therapy (including monotherapy treatment) were to be excluded., up to approximately 39 months|Number of Participants With Any TEAE in the Monotherapy Treatment Period, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. TEAEs were defined as any AEs either reported for the first time or the worsening of pre-existing events after the first dose of retifanlimab/placebo and within 90 days of the last administration of the randomized period. AEs that occurred after new anticancer therapy (including monotherapy treatment) were to be excluded., up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Drug Due to TEAEs in the Monotherapy Treatment Period, An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered drug related. An AE could therefore have been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. TEAEs were defined as any AEs either reported for the first time or the worsening of pre-existing events after the first dose of retifanlimab/placebo and within 90 days of the last administration of the randomized period. AEs that occurred after new anticancer therapy (including monotherapy treatment) were to be excluded., up to approximately 27 months|Cmax of Retifanlimab, Cmax was defined as the maximum observed plasma concentration of retifanlimab, Cycle 1 Day 1: predose and end of infusion (EOI). Cycle 2 Day 1: predose. Cycle 4 Day 1: predose and EOI. Cycles 6, 8, and beyond Day 1: predose (every 4 cycles thereafter) and end of treatment visit or 30-day safety follow-up visit|AUC of Retifanlimab, AUC was defined as the area under the curve., Cycle 1 Day 1: predose and end of infusion (EOI). Cycle 2 Day 1: predose. Cycle 4 Day 1: predose and EOI. Cycles 6, 8, and beyond Day 1: predose (every 4 cycles thereafter) and end of treatment visit or 30-day safety follow-up visit
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of platinum-based chemotherapy with or without INCMGA00012 in participants with metastatic squamous and nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).