Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of bortezomib in treating patients who have persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.
Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Tumor Response Duration, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., From study entry, up to 5 years|Frequency and Severity of Observed Adverse Events, Up to 5 years|Objective Partial/Complete Tumor Response Based on the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria, Number of participants who experienced an objective tumor response up to 5 years. Per RECIST version 1.0 criteria: each target lesion must be \>= 20 mm when measured by conventional techniques, including palpation, plain x-ray, CT, and MRI, or \>= 10 mm when measured by spiral CT. Complete Response is a disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Partial Response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of LD., From study entry until disease progression/intolerable toxicity/study withdrawal
Overall Survival, From study entry, up to 5 years following disease progression|Progression-Free Survival, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From study entry up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the antitumor activity of bortezomib in patients with persistent or recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian epithelial or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

II. Determine the nature and degree of toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bortezomib IV twice weekly for 2 weeks. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.