Inducing a Hypothyroxinemic State in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma or Gliosarcoma
This early phase I trial studies the safety and feasibility of inducing a hypothyroxinemic state in patients with glioblastoma or gliosarcoma that has come back (recurrent). This trial aims to see if giving a specific thyroid hormone, such as methimazole and liothyronine, is safe and could benefit cancer treatment.
Recurrent Glioblastoma|Recurrent Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Liothyronine|DRUG: Lomustine|DRUG: Methimazole
Incidence of adverse events, Descriptive statistics (e.g., frequency and percentage) for each adverse event/severe adverse event will be tabulated by association and grade., Up to study completion, an average of 2 years
Overall response rate, Will be assessed by Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria. Will be summarized with the 2-sided 95% confidence interval using the Clopper-Pearson method., Up to study completion, an average of 2 years|Progression free survival, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median survival time or time-specific survival rate with a 95% confidence interval., Up to study completion, an average of 2 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to estimate median survival time or time-specific survival rate with a 95% confidence interval., Up to study completion, an average of 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of inducing a hypothyroxinemic state in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of inducing hypothyroxinemic state by assessing progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

II. To evaluate the correlation of PFS and OS with thyroid hormone levels. III. To evaluate the correlation of overall response rate (ORR) with thyroid hormone levels.

IV. To evaluate the correlation of potential side effects with T3 levels or methimazole dose.

OUTLINE:

CATEGORY 1 (normal baseline thyroid function and no levothyroxine replacement): Patients receive methimazole orally (PO) daily and lomustine daily. Treatment with lomustine repeats every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles or 12 months. Patients may receive liothyronine PO twice daily (BID) when thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is above upper normal limit. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CATEGORY 2 (baseline primary hypothyroidism in patients taking levothyroxine): Patients receive liothyronine PO BID to maintain lower free T4 below lower limit of normal and TSH and free T3 in the normal range. At the time of cessation of exogenous T4, patients receive lomustine every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles or 12 months. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CATEGORY 3 (secondary/tertiary hypothyroidism): Patients receive liothyronine PO BID to maintain lower free T4 below lower limit of normal and free T3 within normal range. At the time of cessation of exogenous T4, patients receive lomustine every 6 weeks for up to 6 cycles or 12 months. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 and 8 weeks.