Liposomal Cytarabine, Daunorubicin, and Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin for the Treatment of Relapsed Refractory Pediatric Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the best dose and side effects of liposomal cytarabine, daunorubicin, and gemtuzumab ozogamicin in treating pediatric patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has returned after treatment (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Chemotherapy drugs, such as liposomal cytarabine and daunorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Gemtuzumab ozogamicin is a monoclonal antibody, called gemtuzumab, linked to a toxic agent called ozogamicin. Gemtuzumab attaches to CD33 positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers ozogamicin to kill them. Giving liposomal cytarabine and daunorubicin and gemtuzumab ozogamicin may help to control the disease.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin|DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine
Maximum tolerated dose, Will employ the Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events, The overall incidence and severity of all adverse events using Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0., Up to 28 days
Objective response, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics overall and per dose levels., Up to 28 days|Duration of response, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics overall and per dose levels., Number of days from the date of initial response (partial response or better) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed p to 28 days|Overall survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Number of days from study enrollment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 28 days|Event free survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Number of days from the date of treatment initiation to the date of documented treatment failure, relapses from complete response, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety of liposomal cytarabine and daunorubicin (CPX-351) in combination with gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) in relapsed refractory pediatric patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the preliminary assessment of efficacy by overall response (OR), including complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete blood count recovery and partial remission), overall survival (OS), event-free survival (EFS) and duration of response (DOR) of pediatric patients treated with this combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the minimal residual disease (MRD) after treatment with this combination and its impact in long-term outcome (OS and EFS).

II. To determine the effect of the level of pre-treatment expression of CD33 with response to this combination.

III. To determine the effect of this treatment combination on responding pediatric patients transitioning to hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) i.e., number and percentage of patients that are able to transition to HSCT.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION 1 (28 days): Patients receive CPX-351 intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 and GO IV over 2 hours on day 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

INDUCTION 2: Patients who do not attain a defined clinical response after cycle Induction 1 receive CPX-351 IV on days 1 and 3 and GO IV over 2 hours on day 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Beginning 4 weeks after last induction, patients receive CPX-351 IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 and GO IV over 2 hours on day 1 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 days.