Scar Appearance After Postoperative Hydrocolloid Dressing Versus Standard Petrolatum Ointment
Patients will be randomized either to receive standard daily dressing or hydrocolloid dressing using a randomization generator. After closing the wound with the sutures,the scar will be covered by a hydrocolloid dressing, which will be left in place for 7 days(Experimental) or the standard dressing (Control) that will be covered with petrolatum jelly and bandaging during this time period, which has to be re-applied daily. Patients and dermatologic surgeons will then complete surveys 7 days, 30 days, and 90 days after surgery to evaluate the cosmetic appearance of these scars.
Scar|Skin Scarring|Skin Cancer|Wound Heal|Wound of Skin|Surgical Wound|Patient Satisfaction|Patient Preference|Surgical Incision
DEVICE: Hydrocolloid dressing|OTHER: Petrolatum jelly dressing
Cosmetic Outcome, Patient and surgeon assessment of cosmetic outcome using modified visual analogue scar scale. The minimum value is 1 and the maximum value is 10. 1 is the worst possible scar appearance and 10, is the best possible scar appearance., 7 days|Cosmetic Outcome, Patient and surgeon assessment of cosmetic outcome using modified visual analogue scar scale. The minimum value is 1 and the maximum value is 10. 1 is the worst possible scar appearance and 10, is the best possible scar appearance., 30 days|Cosmetic Outcome, Patient and surgeon assessment of cosmetic outcome using modified visual analogue scar scale. The minimum value is 1 and the maximum value is 10. 1 is the worst possible scar appearance and 10, is the best possible scar appearance., 90 days
Number of Participants With Complications, Complication rate including hematoma, seroma, wound infection requiring antibiotics, opening and drainage of wound, dehiscence. Complications will be assessed by physicians other than operating surgeon, 7 days, 30 days, 90 days
Patients will be randomized either to receive standard daily dressing or hydrocolloid dressing using a randomization generator. After closing the wound with the sutures,the scar will be covered by a hydrocolloid dressing, which will be left in place for 7 days(Experimental) or the standard dressing (Control) that will be covered with petrolatum jelly and bandaging during this time period, which has to be re-applied daily. Patients and dermatologic surgeons will then complete surveys 7 days, 30 days, and 90 days after surgery to evaluate the cosmetic appearance of these scars.