Proton Therapy With Chemotherapy for Stage III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (LU02)
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, proton radiation at a higher tumor dose (and lower normal surrounding lung dose) combined with standard chemotherapy has on lung cancer. The dose you receive to the tumor will be higher than the standard dose. This may be able to increase the control of the tumor. Due to the accuracy of radiation given with protons, the dose to the normal lung tissue that surrounds the tumor will be lower than standard. This may be able to reduce the frequency and severity of the usual radiation side effects.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: PET positive nodal disease measuring 15 mm or greater|RADIATION: PET positive nodal disease measuring less than 15 mm|RADIATION: Patients considered resectable
Grade 3 or Higher Rate of Non-hematologic, Acute Treatment-related Toxicities, Six months after end of radiation therapy
Percentage of Patients With Disease Control, Disease control rate is defined as Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) + Stable Disease (SD). As per RECIST version 1.1, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study."), as accurate., Following treatment every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 4 years.|Percentage of Patients Alive at 5 Years, Five years following radiation treatment|Feasibility, Safety and Efficacy of Delivering Proton Radiotherapy With Concomitant Chemotherapy, Weekly during treatment, then every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, then annually|Correlation of Functional CT-PET Imaging With Treatment Outcomes, Prestudy, before surgery (if applicable) between days 18-22 if needed, then during follow-up every 6 months for 2 years, then annually for 4 years
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, proton radiation at a higher tumor dose (and lower normal surrounding lung dose) combined with standard chemotherapy has on lung cancer. The dose you receive to the tumor will be higher than the standard dose. This may be able to increase the control of the tumor. Due to the accuracy of radiation given with protons, the dose to the normal lung tissue that surrounds the tumor will be lower than standard. This may be able to reduce the frequency and severity of the usual radiation side effects.