Improving Patient Education for Lymphoma and Leukemia Inpatients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of a structured, DVD educational intervention about what to expect during inpatient treatment of a newly diagnosed cancer. The focus of the study will be newly diagnosed lymphoma and acute leukemia patients and their family members. Outcome variables will be the patient and family member's satisfaction with inpatient teaching and anxiety about inpatient treatment.
Leukemia|Lymphoma
OTHER: Structured Education DVD + Verbal Teaching|OTHER: Verbal Teaching
Quality of Discharge Teaching Scale (QDTS) Score, Overall satisfaction will be measured with the Quality of Discharge Teaching Scale (QDTS).The QDTS is a 24 item survey to evaluate all of the teaching received by patients during their hospitalization prior to discharge. Each item on the survey is rated on a 0 to 10 numeric scale, with 0 representing an item was not addressed and 10 representing an item addressed a great deal. For each aspect of education or information being evaluated, participant are asked to rate the content of the education, as well as the delivery of the content., Post Educational Teaching (Up to 30 minutes)
Visual analog scale (VAS) Score, Participants are instructed to place a horizontal mark across the 100 mm vertical line anchored at one end with the words "No Anxiety" and at the other end "Worst Anxiety Imaginable" at the level of their anxiety about inpatient cancer treatment. Rating of anxiety for the study will be done by having the participant mark their anxiety level on a new, unmarked VAS. Scoring of the VAS is done by measuring in millimeters from the end of the vertical line with the anchor phrases of "no anxiety" to the intersection of the participant's mark on the vertical line. Possible scores on the VAS range from 0 to 100 millimeters with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety., Post Educational Teaching (Up to 30 minutes)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the impact of a structured, DVD educational intervention about what to expect during inpatient treatment of a newly diagnosed cancer. The focus of the study will be newly diagnosed lymphoma and acute leukemia patients and their family members. Outcome variables will be the patient and family member's satisfaction with inpatient teaching and anxiety about inpatient treatment.

The experimental group will watch a DVD educational presentation of information about unit routines and activities; leukemia/lymphoma; treatment modalities and procedures; treatment of side effects; and patient and family members activities of importance to prevent infection and promote well-being during cancer treatment.

Participants in the control group will receive usual educational teaching by their assigned nursing staff.