Predictive Biomarkers of Biological Activity and Efficacy of Nilotinib on ZAK Target in Non-metastatic Colon Cancer
This is a monocentric prospective non randomized phase 0 clinical trial targeting patients with colon cancer for whom an upfront surgery has been advised by the pluridisciplinary team.
Colon Cancer
DRUG: Nilotinib
ZAK expression level by immunohistochemistry on frozen material (surgical specimen) by Western blot and on paraffinembedded tissues section using an immunohistochemistry approach, Day 0|ZAK expression level by immunohistochemistry on frozen material (surgical specimen) by Western blot and on paraffinembedded tissues section using an immunohistochemistry approach, Day 7
Efficacy of the 7day nilotinib treatment based on histological response as measured with tumour regression grade, Day 7|Efficacy of the 7day nilotinib treatment based on histological response as measured with the proportion of tumour necrosis, Day 7|Efficacy of the 7day nilotinib treatment based on histological response as measured with the type of tumour necrosis, Day 7|Incidence of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0 as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, through study completion, an average of 2 years|Postoperative complications as assessed by Dindo and Clavien classification, through study completion, an average of 2 years|Maximum Plasma Concentration [Cmax] of nilotinib ., Day 7, day 8|Half-life of nilotinib, Day 7
This is a monocentric prospective non randomized phase 0 clinical trial targeting patients with colon cancer for whom an upfront surgery has been advised by the pluridisciplinary team. The surgical management should not be changed or delayed. The patient is seen in consultation by one of the two surgeons. The patient receives information and consents to participate to the study. A specific colonoscopy is performed in order to take biopsy for biological studies. According to the expression level of ZAK-0, the patient is included in the corresponding arm: ZAK-0 expressor or ZAK-0 non-expressor. Then the patient receives nilotinib orally at the dose of 800 mg/day (400 mg twice a day) for 7 days. The patient is scheduled for surgery the morning after the last take of the nilotinib (12 hours). When the colectomy is performed, the surgeon collects different tumoral samples which are immediately delivered to the laboratory. There are no additional changes in the clinical follow up.