Study of Mucosal Sparing Adjuvant Radiotherapy After Surgical Exploration in HPV+ Head and Neck Cancer of Unknown Primaries
This clinical trial evaluates the clinical outcome of mucosal sparing adjuvant radiotherapy after surgical exploration in HPV+ head and neck cancer of unknown primaries. The purpose of this research is to assess if radiation treatment to the neck only for tumors with unclear original locations after careful surgical evaluation will lead to historical rates of disease control while reducing side effects and toxicity from treatment.
Clinical Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Head and Neck Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Pathologic Stage I HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8
OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Patient Observation|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Primary local recurrence, Will be estimated by counting up the number of patients with an occult primary tumor within the pharyngeal axis or nodal recurrence in untreated neck and dividing by the total number of eligible patients., At 2 years
Incidence of acute grade 3 or higher functional mucosal adverse events, Will characterize the acute grade 3 or higher functional mucosal adverse events (up to 1 month post-XRT) associated with mucosal sparing., Up to 1 month post radiation therapy (XRT)|Overall survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The distribution of RFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the first of either disease recurrence, delayed lymph node metastasis in an untreated neck (contralateral), development of distant metastatic disease, or death, assessed up to 5 years|Distant metastasis rates, Up to 2 years|Change in swallowing function, To describe swallowing function changes (assessed via swallowing study) associated with transoral surgery and adjuvant mucosal sparing radiotherapy. Swallowing will be scored (yes, no) for aspiration, penetration, velopharyngeal incompetence, epiglottic eversion, tongue base retraction, and pharyngeal swallow response using the metric outlined by Eisbruch et al. Swallowing assessments will be completed at baseline, along with 3 and 12 months after the completion of protocol XRT. The swallowing questions will be explored descriptively to detect patterns and substantial changes over time. In addition, McNemar's tests (or Wilcoxon signed-rank tests) for paired samples will be used to see if the swallowing questions significantly change over time for each post-baseline time point. MBSImp scoring and the Penetration/aspiration scale scores will be assessed as well., Up to 5 years|Incidence of acute adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of acute adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns, especially focusing on grade 3+ adverse events, regardless of attribution to the study treatment., Up to 1 month post-XRT|Incidence of late adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient for up to 2 years post-treatment, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns, especially focusing on grade 3+ non-hematologic adverse events, regardless of attribution to the study treatment. Hematologic adverse events will not be followed closely long-term given that adjuvant treatment is only given for 1 month., Up to 2 years post-XRT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the rate of manifestation of an occult primary tumor in the pharyngeal axis or delayed nodal recurrence in a un-dissected and/or non-irradiated neck at 2 years after study registration in patients treated with mucosal sparing (and unilateral neck, if applicable) radiotherapy after resection using transoral surgery for head and neck cancer of unknown primaries (HNCUP).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the rates and severity of acute and late toxicities and PEG dependence attributable to mucosal sparing radiotherapy after resection using transoral surgery by assessment of grade 3 or higher adverse events National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 5.0 criteria.

II. To describe the overall survival, recurrence-free survival (manifestation of an occult primary in the pharyngeal axis, nodal recurrence in a treated (surgery/radiation therapy \[RT\]) neck, delayed lymph node metastasis in an untreated neck (surgery/RT), and distant failure associated with mucosal sparing radiotherapy.

III. To describe swallowing function changes (assessed via swallowing study) associated with transoral surgery and adjuvant mucosal sparing radiotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients who have recurrence or progression during treatment or observation have medical charts reviewed every 6 months for 5 years. Patients who complete adjuvant treatment are followed for observation 3 days after radiation therapy, 1 month after radiation therapy, every 3 months after radiation therapy for 2 years, every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually for 2 years.