Window of Opportunity Study of IPI-549 in Patients With Locally Advanced HPV+ and HPV- Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to investigate how effective the study drug IPI-549 is against types of cancers. IPI-549 is considered experimental because it is not approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of cancer.

Patients will be treated with 2 weeks of IPI-549, a specific PI3Kγ inhibitor. Tumor tissue for research purposes through core biopsies will be obtained prior to initiation of IPI-549 and at surgery.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Head and Neck Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer Stage IV|Head and Neck Cancer Stage III|HPV-Related Carcinoma|HPV-Related Malignancy|HPV-Related Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: IPI-549
PI3K-y changes, To detect IPI-549-induced changes in PI3Kγ-regulated signatures of immune suppression., 2 years
Changes of Myeloid composition, Compare pre- vs. post-treatment tumor tissue, 2 years|changes in T cell composition, T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing at baseline, surgery, end of treatment or at time of disease progression., 2 years|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, To determine safety and tolerability of IPI-549 and change in tumor size in patients with locally advanced HNSCC, 2 years
This is a phase 2 window of opportunity trial in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer. A key objective is to provide the first proof that macrophage phenotype switching can be accomplished in humans and lay the groundwork for future trials of this novel approach to immune therapy. Patients who are candidates for surgical resection will be enrolled and treated with 2 weeks of IPI-549, a specific PI3Kγ inhibitor. Tumor tissue for research purposes through core biopsies will be obtained prior to initiation of IPI-549 and at surgery.

The study team hypothesizes that mRNA signatures of immune response will be increased in IPI-549-treated patients. For the efficacy endpoints, RECISTv1.1 will be used.