Testing Low Dose Tamoxifen for Invasive Breast Cancer, the (LoTam) Trial
This phase III trial compares the effect of low dose tamoxifen to usual hormonal therapy, including aromatase inhibitors, in treating post-menopausal women with hormone positive, HER2 negative early stage breast cancer. Tamoxifen is in a class of medications known as antiestrogens. It blocks the activity of estrogen (a female hormone) in the breast. This may stop the growth of some breast tumors that need estrogen to grow. Aromatase inhibitors, such as anastrozole, letrozole, and exemestane, prevent the formation of estradiol, a female hormone, by interfering with an aromatase enzyme. Aromatase inhibitors are used as a type of hormone therapy to treat postmenopausal women with hormone-dependent breast cancer. Giving low dose tamoxifen may be more effective compared to usual hormone therapy in treating post-menopausal women with hormone-positive, HER2 negative early stage breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage 1 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Estrogen Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma|HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Tamoxifen|PROCEDURE: Mammogram|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Dual X-ray Absorptiometry|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Recurrence-free interval (RFI), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of RFI times and a stratified log-rank test for non-inferiority will be used to assess whether RFI with low-dose tamoxifen is non-inferior to standard-of-care endocrine therapy in this patient population. Stratified Cox modeling will be used to estimate the hazard ratio and corresponding one-sided 95% confidence interval (CI)., From randomization to the first of the following breast cancer events: invasive ipsilateral breast or chest wall recurrence, regional recurrence, distant recurrence, and death from breast cancer up to 5 years
Endocrine therapy extent of nonadherence, The proportion of patients who stopped treatment early will be compared between the two treatment arms with a chi-square test. Additional analyses will be performed with respect to nonadherence. The proportion of patients who report any nonadherence will be compared between the two treatment arms using generalized estimating equations for logistic regression, Up to 5 years|Physician reported incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be evaluated and graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 with special focus on the incidence of fracture, osteoporosis, stroke and thromboembolic events., Up to 10 years|Patient reported toxicities, Patient reported symptoms assessed using Patient-Reported Outcomes Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE). The proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than 0 will be compared between arms using Fisher's exact test. The proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than or equal to 3 will be compared between arms using Fisher's exact test. The same procedure will be applied to patients' maximum baseline-adjusted scores. Patients' maximum baseline-adjusted scores will be calculated using the method described by Dueck et al. The proportion of patients who report a grade 3 or higher AEs using PRO-CTCAE will be compared between the two treatment arms with a chi-square test. The proportion of patients with reported grade 3 or higher endocrine-related adverse event (any one of fracture, stroke, or deep vein thrombosis) will be compared with a chi-square test or Fisher's exact test, whichever is more appropriate., At baseline and up to 10 years|Invasive disease-free survival (iDFS), IDFS will be defined as local, regional or distant recurrences, or contralateral invasive breast cancer, second non-breast primary cancer, and death from any cause. IDFS will be compared between the treatment arms with a stratified log rank test and a stratified Cox model will be used to generate the hazard ratio estimates (both a point estimate and a 95% CI)., Up to 10 years|Locoregional recurrence free-survival (LRFS), LRFS will be defined as the time from randomization until invasive tumor recurs in the ipsilateral breast or chest wall, axillary, supraclavicular, or internal mammary nodes (if before or synchronous with a systemic recurrence), whichever comes first. LRFS will be compared between the treatment arms with a stratified log rank test and a stratified Cox model will be used to generate the hazard ratio estimates (both a point estimate and a 95% CI)., From randomization until invasive tumor recurs in the ipsilateral breast or chest wall, axillary, supraclavicular, or internal mammary nodes up to 10 years|Distant disease-free survival (DDFS), DDFS will be defined as the time from randomization until the tumor recurs distantly, or the patient dies, whichever comes first. DDFS will be compared between the treatment arms with a stratified log rank test and a stratified Cox model will be used to generate the hazard ratio estimates (both a point estimate and a 95% CI)., From randomization until the tumor recurs distantly or death up to 10 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause. OS will be compared between the treatment arms with a stratified log rank test and a stratified Cox model will be used to generate the hazard ratio estimates (both a point estimate and a 95% CI)., From randomization until death up to 10 years|Cumulative incidence rate of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), Cumulative incidence rate of DCIS will be measured as the time from randomization until the occurrence of an ipsilateral or contralateral DCIS diagnosis. The cumulative incidence of DCIS will be analyzed with Kaplan-Meier estimates (curve starting at 0 rather than 1) and compared with a log rank test., From randomization until the occurrence of an ipsilateral or contralateral DCIS diagnosis up to 10 years
The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether the recurrence-free interval (RFI) with low-dose tamoxifen is non-inferior to standard-of-care endocrine therapy among post-menopausal women with early-stage, low molecular risk breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare endocrine therapy nonadherence rates between treatment arms. II. To compare the incidence of adverse events between treatment arms, including osteoporosis, fracture, endometrial carcinoma, stroke, and deep vein thrombosis.

III. To compare endocrine therapy-related patient reported symptoms between treatment arms.

IV. To compare the invasive disease-free survival between treatment arms. V. To compare the locoregional breast cancer recurrence between treatment arms. VI. To compare distant recurrence free survival between treatment arms. VII. To compare overall survival between treatment arms. VIII. To compare ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) incidence (ipsilateral and contralateral) between treatment arms.

IX. To evaluate the association between radiotherapy modality (no radiation, partial breast radiation, and whole breast radiation) and RFI in each arm.

X. To explore important measures of quality of life that would reasonably be expected to vary by study arm, including global quality of life and reasons for nonadherence.

XI. To compare change in mammographic density at two years between treatment arms.

XII. To conduct a within patient comparison of automated versus (vs) semi-automated mammographic density determination.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard of care endocrine therapy per physician choice with either anastrozole orally (PO), letrozole PO, exemestane PO or standard dose tamoxifen PO once daily (QD) for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also undergo mammogram or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), dual X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), and blood sample collection on study.

ARM II: Patients receive low-dose tamoxifen PO every other day (QOD) for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also undergo mammogram or MRI, DEXA, and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 10 years after registration.