Symptom Management Implementation of Patient Reported Outcomes in Oncology
Deficits in the management of common symptoms cause substantial morbidity for cancer patients.Because the health care delivery system is structured to be reactive and not proactive, there are missed opportunities to optimize symptom control. Growth in Internet access and proliferation of smartphones has created an opportunity to re-engineer cancer care delivery. Electronic symptom tracking and feedback is a promising strategy to improve symptom control. Electronic patient reported outcome (ePRO) monitoring of cancer symptoms has been shown to decrease symptom burden, improve quality of life, reduce acute care and even extend survival. SIMPRO will use functioning ePRO prototypes to create and refine the electronic symptom management system eSyM
Other Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Thoracic Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer
OTHER: eSyM App Usage|OTHER: SASS Questionnaire|OTHER: Qualitative Interview
'Emergency Department - Treat and Release' (EDTR) Rate at 30-days, The primary study outcome of the stepped wedge cluster RCT (randomized controlled trial) is the EDTR rate. This outcome will be defined in relation to the date of discharge from hospital (surgical oncology) or the initiation date of a new intravenous chemo regimen (medical oncology). The investigators will evaluate the # of EDTR visits for patients using the eSyM app.

30-day EDTR rates are estimated to vary between 8% to 15% for the control group. The investigators hypothesize that EDTR rates will be 3-4% lower in the eSyM+ group. Control group rates were estimated based on EDTR rates derived from HCUP (Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project) data, institutional data and early phase analyses from CMMI's Oncology Care Model for Baptist Memorial, the only Oncology Care Model participant among our 6 sites., 30 days
Patients' outcomes, indicated by levels of self-efficacy and symptom burden, at day 30 of eSyM usage, Patients (both Surg Onc and Med Onc) from each of the 6 sites will be surveyed in the period before and after rollout according to the stepped wedge design schema. Assuming a 75% response rate, the investigators expect to survey 400 patients per site (2400 total) to obtain 300 (1800 total) responses split evenly between eSyM+ and eSyM- subjects. Additional survey participants can readily be identified if the 75% response rate is not achieved. Yost and Cella have reported minimally important difference (MID) ranges for five PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) domains including fatigue, pain, depression, anxiety, and physical functioning217, 130 Cella recommends using 0.5 SD (Standard Deviation) as the MID for PROMIS scales218,219., One time survey (30-60 days after surgery or first dose of chemo)|Patients' satisfaction with their cancer care at 30-days post-chemo start or post-surgery: AHRQ's (Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality) CAHPS (Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers & Systems) Analysis Program, The investigators will use the AHRQ's CAHPS Analysis Program to compare scores for eSyM+ and eSyM-, adjusting for case mix. Table Aim 2d (in the protocol) shows differences in satisfaction scores the investigators can detect with 80% power. For example, with 360 patients (e.g., those who have GI surgery) the investigators have \>80% power to detect effect size \>0.44, a meaningful difference in CAHPS scores. Patients will complete a subset of the CAHPS Cancer Care Survey. Items assessed will include: cancer care delivery, patient experience, and patient satisfaction. Responses will be assessed through the following options: a) (Never, Sometimes, Usually, Always) b) (Yes, definitely, Yes, somewhat, No) c) 0-10., One time survey (30-60 days after surgery or first dose of chemo)|eSyM sustainability at the patient, clinic and health system level, The investigators will be evaluating patient adoption rates and clinician usage rates by analyzing EHR data based on eSyM utilization patterns. Appropriateness and acceptability will be ascertained using Weiner's IAM (Intervention Appropriateness Measure) and AIM (Acceptability of Intervention Measure) surveys (8-items total, less than 3 minutes to complete) which will be administered along with CAHPS surveys. Appropriateness and acceptability ratings will be defined based on the % of respondents who "agree" or "completely agree" with the survey items compared to the % who are neutral, disagree, or completely disagree and characterized using descriptive statistics.81, 1-year medical record abstraction|Impact on initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy and chemotherapy duration assessed at 1 year, The investigators will be using the EHR to evaluate the timing of first dose to the last dose of a specific chemotherapy regimen. The investigators expect that patients exposed to eSyM may be able to: 1) initiate adjuvant therapy sooner; 2) remain on their chemotherapy regimens for longer duration. These time intervals are straightforward to measure from EHR encounter and date fields.

For medical oncology patients, the outcome is time from the first dose to the last dose of a specific regimen. The investigators will censor follow-up at 1 year. The investigators will use generalized linear mixed-effect models to compare treatment duration for eSyM+ vs. eSyM- patients. For surgical oncology patients, the denominator population consists of patients who receive any adjuvant chemotherapy within 6 postoperative months. Tumor registry stage distribution at our 6 sites indicates that this will be 202 patients per site or 1212 in total., 1-year medical record abstraction|Sustainability of ePRO symptom management within a health system, The investigators will evaluate sustainability at the patient, clinic and health system level using simple rates and proportions. To evaluate sustainability, the investigators will examine the consequences of withdrawing grant-funded nursing support for symptom management in the post-implementation period. The investigators will compare outcomes from Period 6 (study month 45-50, all sites eSyM+) and the post-Implementation (Post-I; study months 51-56). Sites are trained and empowered to manage eSyM autonomously without research study staff. Then, during post-implementation, dedicated nursing support to monitor eSyM is tapered in half the sites (see Figure C2). To examine whether backing off on the study support attenuates the effect, the investigators will perform difference in difference analysis., 1-year medical record abstraction
A multi-disciplinary team of investigators from 6 health systems have formed the Symptom Management IMplementation of Patient Reported Outcomes in Oncology (SIMPRO) Research Center. SIMPRO will use functioning ePRO prototypes to create and refine the electronic symptom management system eSyM. eSyM is the name of the platform the team will refine, integrate, implement and evaluate. eSyM addresses each of the 4 evidence gaps by:

* Implementing eSyM in cancer centers in small, rural or community-based systems.
* Integrating eSyM into the EHR (electronic health record) of the predominant vendor used nationwide.
* Leveraging evidence-based tools, patient engagement, and population management.
* Executing this work using the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research across all phases to maximize the chances that eSyM and similar systems achieve their intended goals and decrease the morbidity of cancer treatment at a population level.

This project contains 5 activities:

1. Obtain stakeholder feedback
2. Build and deploy eSyM
3. Pilot test eSyM
4. Pragmatic stepped-wedge cluster randomized trial
5. Integration of eSyM data to develop algorithms to estimate the risk of experiencing an outcome, including, but not limited to, ED usage and hospitalization among cancer patients