A Study of Fully Human BCMA CAR-T (CT103A) in Patients With Newly Diagnosed High-risk Multiple Myeloma (FUMANBA-2)
This study is a multi-center, single-arm clinical study to evaluate the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamic characteristics of CT103A as the first-line treatment in newly diagnosed high-risk multiple myeloma subjects with induction chemotherapy as bridging therapy.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Fully human BCMA chimeric antigen receptor autologous T cell injection (CT103A)
Proportion of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD)-negative subjects, The proportion of subjects who achieve MRD-negativity after CT103A infusion., Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Median progression-free survival (mPFS), The median time from the date of CT103A infusion to the date of first disease progression or death from any cause., Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion
Best overall response (BOR), The proportion of subjects who achieve stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR) after CT103A infusion., Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Median survival (mOS), The median time from the date of CT103A infusion to the date of death from any reason., Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Event-free survival (EFS), The time from date of CT103A infusion to the date of death from any reason, relapse, treatment failure, disease progression or initiation of other anti-tumor treatment, whichever comes first;, Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Duration of response (DOR), The time from the first assessment of sCR or CR or VGPR or PR to the first assessment of disease progression or death from any cause;, Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Safety endpoint, Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE) and Treatment-related adverse events (TRAE)., Up to 2 years after CT103A infusion|Pharmacokinetic(PK) endpoint, The maximum CT103A concentration and the copy number of the lentiviral vector (vector copy number, VCN) in peripheral blood (Cmax), Up to 90 days after CT103A infusion|PK endpoint - Tmax, The time to reach the maximum concentration (Tmax), Up to 90 days after CT103A infusion|PK endpoint - AUC 0 to 28d and AUC 0 to 90d, The area under the concentration time curve from time zero to day 28 (AUC0-28d) and from time zero to day 90 (AUC0-90d), Up to 90 days after CT103A infusion|Levels of Soluable BCMA, The levels of soluble BCMA in peripheral blood at each time point., Up to 90 days after CT103A infusion|PD endpoint, The levels of cytokines (IL-6, serum ferritin, etc.) in peripheral blood at each time point, Up to 90 days after CT103A infusion
Before enrollment, subjects will receive chemotherapy regimen of either Bortezomib-Lenalidomide-Dexamethasone (VRD), Bortezomib-Cyclophosphamide-Dexamethasone (PCD) or Bortezomib-Adriamycin-Dexamethasone (PAD) as induction therapy for 3 cycles. Evaluation will be made after 2 cycles of chemotherapy. If the subject is not intended to have stem cell transplantation or unsuitable for autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ASCT) as judged by the investigator, he/she will receive the 3rd cycle of chemotherapy. If the subject meets the inclusion criteria, he/she will be enrolled in the study.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) will be collected to manufacture CT103A. After PBMC collection, the subject will receive another cycle of chemotherapy and evaluated. Lymphodepletion with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide will be performed for three consecutive days. After 1-day rest, subjects will receive a single infusion of CT103A at 1.0 ×10\^6 /kg. Subjects will be followed in the study for a minimum of 2 years after CT103A infusion. Long-term follow-up for lentiviral vector safety will be followed for up to 15 years after CT103A infusion.