PrOVE QUERI Project #1
The overall goal of this project is to test two strategies for implementing a shared decision making tool to be used by providers while talking to patients about lung cancer screening. Eight participating sites will be randomized to compare standard implementation with intensive implementation. Additionally, the investigators will determine the factors that were most important for successful implementation of the shared decision making tool. Finally, the investigators will survey patients to evaluate the effects of Decision Precision on patient's knowledge of the risks and benefits of lung cancer screening, the quality of their decision making, and their satisfaction with care.
Prevention and Control
OTHER: Webinar, Promotion, and Tool Access|OTHER: LEAP|OTHER: Audit and Feedback|OTHER: Academic Detailing
Odds Ratio of the Interaction Between Lung Cancer Risk and Implementation Arm, First, we estimated screening's net benefit for an individual based on their baseline lung cancer risk, as estimated using the Bach et. al. annual lung cancer incidence model. Patients are considered "high benefit" if their annual lung cancer risk is between 0.3%-1.3%. Patients outside this range are considered "preference sensitive". We fit a multilevel logistic regression model where receipt of screening is the outcome. Precision decision making is reflected in the association between baseline lung cancer risk and screening utilization: an increase in screening utilization for those at higher lung cancer risk indicates some degree of precision decision making. The primary outcome for the cluster-randomized design assesses the difference in precision decision making in the standard vs. intensive implementation arms. This is estimated as the effect on screening receipt of the interaction between risk and implementation arm., post implementation, an average of 15 months|Patient Satisfaction With Decision and Process, Obtained from patient surveys (for the subset of the overall participants who returned surveys). The unit of measurement is one unit on the scale \[scale of 0 (very poor) to 10 (very good)\]., Survey mailed to Veteran several weeks after identified as having an initial discussion about lung cancer screening using VA administrative data
Number of Tool Assessments Where Patient Decision Aid Was Printed, Number of times during study duration where patient decision aid was printed from the Lung Decision Precision web-site., post implementation, up to 25 months|Number of Times Dynamic Pictograph Depicting Personalized Benefit and Harm Was Opened for Display, Number of times dynamic pictograph depicting personalized benefit and harm was opened for display in the Lung Decision Precision web-site during the study period, collected as para data from Decision Precision web-site, post implementation, up to 25 months|Formative Evaluation to Determine the Factors Most Important for Successful Implementation of Decision Precision Tool, Qualitative analysts will conduct telephone interviews with providers at each site who identify themselves as participating in shared decision making process with patients regarding lung cancer screening. Reporting for this report is number of interviews completed of number interviews requested., At least one year post-implementation of Lung Decision Precision web-site
The overall goal of this quality improvement project is to test two strategies for implementing shared decision making, which incorporates the Decision Precision lung cancer screening tool. The investigators will use multi-site, cluster-based randomization to compare standard implementation with intensive implementation. Additionally, the investigators will determine the factors that were most important for successful implementation of the shared decision making tool. Finally, the investigators will have a human subjects research component to evaluate the effects of Decision Precision on patient's knowledge of the risks and benefits of lung cancer screening, the quality of their decision making, and their satisfaction with care.