Smartphone App-Based Mindfulness Intervention for French and English Speaker Cancer Survivors
There is a need to develop, evaluate, and disseminate self-directed, easily accessible, safe, affordable, and effective psychosocial interventions to people living with cancer (PLWC) post-treatment. Smartphone app-based health interventions are an innovative way to deliver psychosocial cancer-care. The Mindfulness-Based Cancer Survivorship (MBCS) Journey app is a mobile app format of the Mindfulness-based Cancer Recovery program. In the SEAMLESS Study, the investigators aim to evaluate the MBCS Journey app (a 4 week mind-body intervention) in cancer survivors post-treatment. This is a randomized wait-list controlled trial. Participants will either be assigned into the immediate group (will receive intervention immediately after enrollment) or the waitlist group (wait for 3 months before receiving the intervention).
Cancer|Psychological
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness
Calgary Symptoms of Stress Inventory (C-SOSI), This is a 56 item scale. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale (1-5). A higher score indicates higher levels of stress., 3 months
Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Anxiety, Short form (4 items). A higher score indicates higher levels of anxiety., 3 months|Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Depression, Short form (4 items). A higher score indicates higher levels of depression., 3 months|Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Fatigue, Short form (4 items). A higher score indicates higher levels of fatigue., 3 months|Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Physical Function, PROMIS - Cancer Bank v1.1 - Physical Function. This questionnaire has 45 items, each rated on a 5-point Likert scale. A higher score indicates better physical functioning., 3 months|Quality of Life - European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life - EORTC QLQ C-30. The two items measuring quality of life were used. Each item is rated on a 7-point Likert scale (1-7)., 3 months|App-based User Data - Perceived Stress, Perceived stress will be measured using a stress slider within the app., 3 months|App-based User Data - Mood, Mood will be measured using a mood board., 3 months|App-based User Data - Objective Stress, Biometric imaging will be used to measure heart rate and blood flow which combined will predict the participant's "objective stress"., 3 months
BACKGROUND: Cancer patients who are transitioning into the survivorship phase after completing their final treatments often have unmet needs that are different than those faced during the diagnosing phase or treatment phase of their journey. PLWC tend to experience late and long-term effects such as pain, fatigue, and distress. They can also experience psychosocial stressors such as anxiety, depression, uncertainty about the future, and the fear of cancer reoccurrence, which can negatively impact their mental health.

Cancer survivors are often unable to receive the face-to-face care they need due to barriers such as compromised immunity, treatment-related side effects, scheduling conflicts, and geography. Having a smartphone app-based mind-body intervention can help patients overcome several of these barriers since they are able to participate in at their own convenience in the comfort of their own home without the burden of travelling to and scheduling these classes.

INTERVENTION DESIGN: The AM smartphone app (where MBCS Journey can be found) supports personalized mindfulness practices through lessons and personalized guided-meditation playlists. The AM app is able to interpret its users' emotional state e.g. angry, elated. from a user-inputted digital emotion-mapping board; and heart-rate data through algorithms that analyze facial bio-signals. The SEAMLESS study aims to evaluate AM's effectiveness for reducing stress (primary outcome), anxiety, depression, fatigue, and overall physical functioning and quality of life (secondary outcome) as well as determining the mechanisms of action. In addition, there are two exploratory objectives: 1) to explore the sex, and gender-based differences in significant outcomes as well as subgroup effects by cancer stage, type, ethnicity, and age and 2) explore the correlation between self-reported stress reduction and app usage and the correlation between stress ratings and psycho-biometric data collected within the app. Outcomes will be assessed using validated Calgary Symptoms of Stress Inventory (for stress), the PROMIS measure (for anxiety, depression, fatigue, and overall physical functioning), and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (for quality of life). Assessments will occur at 1) baseline, 2) post-intervention, 3) 3 month after baseline follow-up, and 4) 6 month post-intervention follow-up.

SIGNIFICANCE: In today's digital world, there are many app-based interventions for patients but cancer-care providers are uncertain about their efficacy. Our study will provide rigorously evaluated efficacy data for a smartphone app-based mind-body intervention for cancer survivors, which if helpful, could be made easily available for psychosocial care at cancer centers worldwide.