Trametinib in Treating Patients With Advanced Melanoma With BRAF Non-V600 Mutations
This phase II trial studies trametinib in treating patients with melanoma with v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) non-V600 mutations that has spread to other places in the body. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: trametinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Overall Response Rate in "High Affinity" Group, Per RECIST criteria version (v.) 1.1: measurable lesions: complete response (CR) disappearance of target lesions, partial response (PR) \> 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) \> 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions or appearance of new lesions, stable disease (SD) neither sufficient decrease nor increase of the sum of smallest sum of the LD of target lesions., Up to 12 months
Progression-Free Survival All Patients, Progression of disease as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria will be reported. Time from on treatment to progression or death (whichever comes first). For those did not progress or die, they were censored at the last follow up or off study date(if they do not have a last date of follow up)., On-study date to lesser of date of progression or date of death from any cause (assessed up to 3 years)|Duration of Response in "High Affinity" Group, Estimated probable duration from date of objective response to date of disease progression, using the Kaplan-Meier method with censoring (see analysis population description for additional details). Disease progression is defined under RECIST v1.1 as \>= 20% increase in sum of longest diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or appearance of new lesions., Date of first partial or complete response as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria to date of progression up to 3 years|Clinical Benefit (Complete Response [CR] + Partial Response [PR] + Stable Disease [SD]) Per RECIST v. 1.1 in "High Affinity" Group, Per RECIST criteria v. 1.1: measurable lesions: complete response (CR) disappearance of target lesions, partial response (PR) \> 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) \> 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions or appearance of new lesions, stable disease (SD) neither sufficient decrease nor increase of the sum of smallest sum of the LD of target lesions., Up to 12 months|Overall Survival, Estimated probable duration of life from on-study date to date of death from any cause, using the Kaplan-Meier method with censoring., On-study date to date of death from any cause (assessed up to 3 years)|Number of Patients With Each Worst-Grade Toxicity, Safety profile shown by count of patients according to the worst-grade toxicity experienced by each, where worst-grade toxicity is per National Cancer Institute (NCI) common toxicity criteria: grade 1, mild; grade 2, moderate; grade 3, severe; grade 4, life-threatening; grade 5, death., On-study date to 30 days following final dose of study drug, up to 3 years|Overall Response Rate in "Low Affinity" Group, Per RECIST criteria v. 1.1: measurable lesions: complete response (CR) disappearance of target lesions, partial response (PR) \> 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) \> 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions or appearance of new lesions, stable disease (SD) neither sufficient decrease nor increase of the sum of smallest sum of the LD of target lesions., Up to 12 months
Duration of Response in "Low Affinity" Group, Estimated probable duration from date of first partial or complete response as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria to date of disease progression, using the Kaplan-Meier method with censoring (see analysis population description for additional details). Disease progression is defined under RECIST v1.1 as \>= 20% increase in sum of longest diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or appearance of new lesions., Up to 3 years|Clinical Benefit (CR + PR + SD) Per RECIST v. 1.1 in "Low Affinity" Group, Per RECIST criteria v. 1.1: measurable lesions: complete response (CR) disappearance of target lesions, partial response (PR) \> 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, progressive disease (PD) \> 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions or appearance of new lesions, stable disease (SD) neither sufficient decrease nor increase of the sum of smallest sum of the LD of target lesions., Up to 12 months|Molecular Characteristics of Patient Samples, Including Archival Samples, Molecular characterization of tumor tissue will be performed to identify markers that correlate with clinical responsiveness to treatment with trametinib. Optional on-treatment biopsies will be used to evaluate pharmacodynamic and other molecular effects of treatment, which will be compared to clinical outcomes. Optional post-progression samples will be analyzed to identify mechanisms of resistance., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical efficacy of trametinib in advanced BRAF nonV600mutation (MUT) melanoma ("high activity" group).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the safety of trametinib. II. To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of trametinib in advanced BRAF nonV600MUT melanoma.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical efficacy of trametinib in advanced BRAF nonV600MUT melanoma ("low activity/unknown" group).

II. Identify mechanisms of resistance to trametinib in this patient population.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.