Matched Unrelated Donor Transplant for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects (good and bad) a stem cell transplant from an unrelated donor will have for patients with kidney cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastasized).
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: NST using MUD for metastatic renal cell carcinoma
Determine the best rate of tumor response of complete response (CR) + complete unconfirmed response (CRU) + partial response (PR) within 6 months after matched unrelated donor (MUD) nonmyeloablative stem cell transplantation (NST), 6 months
Overall survival after MUD NST, Two years|Rate of complete donor myeloid and lymphoid chimerism after MUD NST, One year|Incidence and severity of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) after MUD NST, Two years|Incidence of treatment-related mortality (TRM), 100 Days|Assess cytotoxic T-lymphocyte reactivity, One year|Assess antibody activity against potential tumor antigenic peptides in graft-versus-renal cell carcinoma (RCC) effect, Six months
Standard treatment for kidney cancer that has spread to other parts of the body may include immunotherapy (a therapy that uses the body's natural immune system to fight cancer) and cytokines (proteins found in the body). If these treatments are not successful at controlling the cancer then chemotherapy or thalidomide are used. Chemotherapy and thalidomide will not cure kidney cancer but they may control the disease in some patients.

In some patients, transplants are now proposed for study. Stem cells (from bone marrow or the bloodstream) are normally used to treat cancers of the blood, not kidney cancer. Since researchers are still learning about using stem cell transplants for kidney cancer, the study is considered a research study. Patients participating in this study will receive smaller doses of chemotherapy drugs to prepare them for the transplant than patients who have a standard transplant. This type of transplant is called a "reduced intensity" transplant. A reduced intensity transplant uses the cell-killing activity of the transplanted donor stem cells to attack the recipient's cancer cells. This is called graft-versus-tumor-effect (GVT). Previous studies have shown that GVT may be greater if the donor is not related to the recipient.