Efficacy and Safety of Endoscopic Papillectomy in the Treatment of Ampullary Neoplasms.
The aim of our study is to provide data on the efficacy and safety of endoscopic papillectomy, by including consecutive patients treated after 2015, when first guidelines on endoscopic management of ampullary neoplasms were available.
Ampullary Adenoma|Ampulla of Vater Adenoma|Ampullary Cancer|Ampulla of Vater Cancer
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Papillectomy
Clinical Success, Complete endoscopic management of the neoplasm and any eventual recurrence found in the follow-up period., 2016-2021
Adverse Events, Incidence of Endoscopic Papillectomy-related adverse events., 2016-2021|Recurrences, Incidence of neoplastic recurrences in the follow-up period, after Endoscopic Papillectomy., 2016-2021|Concordance between pre- and post-Endoscopic Papillectomy pathologic findings, Concordance between pre- and post-Endoscopic Papillectomy pathologic findings, 2016-2021
Ampullary neoplasm (AN) is a rare disease, but its incidence is increasing. In the last 20 years, endoscopic papillectomy (EP) has become the gold standard treatment for ampullary adenomas and early stage adenocarcinomas, thereby replacing surgical resection, which is burdened by higher rates of morbidity and mortality. However, the data supporting safety and efficacy of EP derive from multiple retrospective studies, that included procedures mostly performed before 2015, when first guidelines on endoscopic management of AN were available. This had an impact on large variability in patient selection criteria and endoscopic techniques, resulting in heterogenous outcomes. Therefore, the aim of our study is to provide data on the efficacy and safety of this technique, by including consecutive patients treated after the standardization of this technique.

All patients who underwent EP at 19 Italian centers between January 2016 and December 2021 were included. Clinical success was defined by the complete endoscopic management of the neoplasm and any eventual recurrence found in the follow-up period. EP-related adverse events and recurrences were recorded.