Using Reiki Therapy to Improve Symptoms Associated With Brachytherapy in Patients With Gynecological Malignancies
The goal of this open label, randomized, controlled clinical trial is to assess the benefits of providing Reiki therapy to subjects receiving their first brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies.

Participants will either receive a session of Reiki therapy or usual care during the standard wait time between the placement of the brachytherapy device and brachytherapy treatment. Questionnaires will be administered at various time points on the day of the participant's first brachytherapy treatment as well as at the three month follow-up time point.

Researchers will compare the intervention (Reiki therapy) and control (usual care) groups to assess the impact of the Reiki therapy on anxiety, pain, state anxiety, depression, and physiological measurements.
Gynecologic Neoplasm|Brachytherapy|Therapeutic Touch|Endometrial Cancer|Cervical Cancer|Vaginal Cancer|Vulvar Cancer
OTHER: Reiki therapy
Comparison between the treatment groups of the change in anxiety from Assessment 1 to Assessment 3 as measured by the 6-item Spielberger State Anxiety Scale., To assess the impact of Reiki therapy on anxiety in subjects undergoing brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies compared to the usual care control arm.

The 6-item Spielberger State Anxiety Scale is a validated shortened version of the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) used to measure state anxiety. The scale utilizes a Likert scale with four response categories assigned numerical values from 1-4 ("not at all,""somewhat,""moderately," and "very much")., 4 months
Comparison between the treatment groups of the change in pain from Assessment 1 to Assessment 3 as measured by the Visual Analog Scale - Pain., To assess the impact of Reiki therapy on pain in subjects undergoing brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies compared to the usual care control arm.

The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) uses an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (no symptom) to 10 (worst possible symptom). Using the pain-VAS scoring system, 0 is considered no pain, 1 - 3 is considered mild, 4 - 6 is moderate to severe, 7 - 9 is very severe and 10 is categorized as worst possible pain., 4 months|Comparison between the treatment groups of the change in anxiety from Assessment 2 to Assessment 3 as measured by the 6-item Spielberger State Anxiety Scale., To assess the impact of Reiki therapy on pain in subjects undergoing brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies compared to the usual care control arm.

The 6-item Spielberger State Anxiety Scale is a validated shortened version of the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) used to measure state anxiety. The scale utilizes a Likert scale with four response categories assigned numerical values from 1-4 ("not at all,""somewhat,""moderately," and "very much")., 4 months|Comparison between the treatment groups of the change in anxiety from Assessment 1 to Assessment 3 as measured by the Visual Analog Scale - Pain., To assess the impact of Reiki therapy on pain in subjects undergoing brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies compared to the usual care control arm.

The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) uses an 11-point scale ranging from 0 (no symptom) to 10 (worst possible symptom). Using the pain-VAS scoring system, 0 is considered no pain, 1 - 3 is considered mild, 4 - 6 is moderate to severe, 7 - 9 is very severe and 10 is categorized as worst possible pain., 4 months|Comparison between the treatment groups of the change in state anxiety and depression from Assessment 1 to three month post-radiation as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale., To assess the impact of Reiki therapy on state anxiety and depression in subjects undergoing brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies compared to the usual care control arm.

The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a validated, self-assessment instrument used to identify caseness of anxiety disorders and depression in medical patients. It is comprised of 14 total questions, each of which are rated on a 4-point severity scale between zero (no impairment) and three (severe impairment). Total score range is 0 (normal/no impairment) to 21 (abnormal/severe impairment.), 4 months
The goal of this open label, randomized, controlled clinical trial is to assess the benefits of providing Reiki therapy to subjects receiving their first brachytherapy treatment for gynecological malignancies.

Participants will either receive a session of Reiki therapy or usual care during the standard wait time between the placement of the brachytherapy device and brachytherapy treatment. Questionnaires will be administered at various time points on the day of the participant's first brachytherapy treatment as well as at the three month follow-up time point.

Researchers will compare the intervention (Reiki therapy) and control (usual care) groups to assess the impact of the Reiki therapy on anxiety, pain, state anxiety, depression, and physiological measurements.