Bortezomib and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Mantle Cell Lymphoma Who Have Previously Undergone Stem Cell Transplantation
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving bortezomib together with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bortezomib and rituximab together works in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma who have previously undergone stem cell transplantation
Contiguous Stage II Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage I Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage III Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: bortezomib|BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|GENETIC: RNA analysis|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: DNA analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Two-year Disease-free Survival, Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formula., Participants were followed up to 5 years after initial treatment and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to generate the two-year disease-free survival estimate presented.
Two-year Overall Survival, Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formula., Participants were followed up to 5 years after initial treatment and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used to generate the two-year overall survival estimate presented.|Grade 3 or 4 Toxicities of Bortezomib and Rituximab Treatment, Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type, severity (graded by NCI CTCAE version 4.0) and attribution., Participants were followed up to 5 years after initial treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the two year disease free survival in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients treated with bortezomib + rituximab after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity profile, safety, overall survival, time to treatment failure, remission duration, and biological markers of mantle cell lymphoma patients treated with bortezomib + rituximab after autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

OUTLINE: Patients receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) over 3-5 seconds and rituximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment with bortezomib repeats every 3 months for up to 8 courses and treatment with rituximab repeats every 6 months for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years.