Circulating Tumour DNA as a Marker of Residual Disease & Response to Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Stage I-IV Ovarian Cancer
To demonstrate that detectable ctDNA in peripheral blood following debulking of the primary tumour or following completion of adjuvant treatment for is associated with subsequent disease recurrence in stage I-IV epithelial, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer (Ovarian Cancer)
Ovarian Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Circulating tumour DNA testing
Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells,can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Baseline., polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, After surgery (primary debulking group) or pre cycle 1 of therapy (neoadjuvant) confirmed with conventional radiological imaging and CA125 (cycles of chemotherapy are 21 days in length).
Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Change from baseline and previous result., polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, At the completion of pre cycle 3 of chemotherapy (primary debulking group) confirmed with Convential Radiological imaging and CA125. (each cycle 21 days in length)|Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Change from baseline and previous result., polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) during chemotherapy pre cycle 5 confirmed (primary debluking group) with conventional Radiological imaging and CA125 (each cycle 21 days in length).|Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Change from baseline and previous result, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) during chemotherapy pre cycle 3 or 4 (neoadjuvant group) confirmed with conventional Radiological imaging and CA125 (each cycle 21 days in length)|Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Change from baseline and previous result., polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, At the completion of 6 of chemotherapy (primary debulking group) confirmed with conventional Radiological imaging and CA125 (each cycle 21 days in length)|Circulating DNA in the plasma of cancer patients has been shown to exhibit tumour-related alteration. These mutations in tumour cells can be used as highly specific biomarkers of disease burden. Change from baseline and previous result., polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to quantify ctDNA, At the completion of 6 cycles of chemotherapy (neoadjuvant group) confirmed with conventional radiology and CA125 (at the end of 18 weeks).
This is a prospective,multi-centre study involving serial blood collections from 100 stage I-IV debulked (or to be debulked in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy) high grade serous, endometrioid and clear cell ovarian, fallopian tube and primary peritoneal cancer patients (EOC) or ovarian carcinosarcoma planned to receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Tumour samples will be made available following patient enrollment for the primary debulking group, and following surgery for the neoadjuvant group for mutation analysis. Ascites will not be accepted. Up to four blood samples in the primary debulking group and up to five blood samples in the neoadjuvant group will be collected from each patient over a 6-8 month period for ctDNA and Ca125 analysis Choice of chemotherapy will be platinum based treatment at the treating clinician's discretion as per standard of care.