A Phase II Study of Perifosine in Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia
This is a phase II study in relapsed/refractory WM patients treated with perifosine. It is designed to assess the proportion of overall confirmed responses (CR + PR + MR) using a two-stage phase II study design to permit early stopping of the trial if there is strong evidence that the study regimen is inactive. In addition, it will assess toxicity of this drug in patients with WM. Patients will receive perifosine 150 mg qhs daily. Patients will be assessed by serum immunoelectrophoresis and IgM level at least every 4 weeks.
Waldenström's Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Perifosine
Response rate, Response will include complete remission, partial remission (PR), and minimal response (MR) using serum protein electrophoresis. Response will also be assessed by IgM using nephelometry., Every 4 weeks
Safety, Adverse events will be assessed at each visit and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (version 3.0) from the first dose until 30 d after the last dose of perifosine., Every 4 weeks|Time to progression, This will be calculated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Every 4 weeks|Progression free survival, This will be calculated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Every 4 weeks|Duration of response, This will be reported among responding patients., Every 4 weeks
This is a phase II study in relapsed/refractory WM patients treated with perifosine. It is designed to assess the proportion of overall confirmed responses (CR + PR + MR) using a two-stage phase II study design to permit early stopping of the trial if there is strong evidence that the study regimen is inactive. In addition, it will assess toxicity of this drug in patients with WM. Patients will receive perifosine 150 mg qhs daily. Patients will be assessed by serum immunoelectrophoresis and IgM level at least every 4 weeks.

Patients will take three 50 mg tablets of perifosine qhs daily (for 28 days cycles) with food. Patients may need anti-emetics and/or anti-diarrheas. All patients should continue therapy unless disease progression is documented on two occasions at least 1 week apart. Patients with progressive disease or who refuse further therapy will be discontinued from the protocol. Dose modifications for toxicity will be performed.

Standard criteria for evaluation of response in WM recommended by the Second International WM Workshop will be used in this study.