A Study Comparing a Disposable Flexible Cystoscope With Reusable Scopes in Adult Patients.
This study will compare the time required for a cystoscopy procedure in adult participants using the Redpine® Rflex endo(trademark) High-Definition Cystoscope or the site's standard of care reusable flexible cystoscope in participants requiring urethral stent removal.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Stone|Bladder Outlet Obstruction|Renal Stone|Renal Disease
DEVICE: Cystoscopy with RedPine flexible disposable cystoscope|DEVICE: Cystoscopy with standard of care flexible reusable scope
Cumulative Procedure Time, To compare the Cumulative Procedure Time between cystoscopy performed with the Redpine® Rflex endo(trademark) High Definition (endoTMHD) Cysto scope and the site's Standard of Care reusable flexible cystoscope as measured by:

* Scope preparation for procedure
* Actual procedure time (insertion of cystoscope to complete bladder examination) and
* Time to dispose of or prepare for reprocessing of cystoscopy equipment., 30 minutes
User experience and product performance during cystoscopic procedures, Physician satisfaction, rated on a five-point scale.

Scale Name Very Difficult Very Easy Outcome

Ease of insertion 1 5 5 = Better

Ability to visualize anatomical landmarks and/or urothelium changes 1 5 5 = Better

Perception of image quality 1 5 5 = Better

Maneuverability in the bladder 1 5 5 = Better

Overall Acceptability Yes/No, within 24 hours|Participant comfort during the procedure, Participants will be interviewed using a questionnaire. Pain Intensity Please respond to the question by marking one box.

How would you rate your pain on average? 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 No pain Worst imaginable pain, 30 minutes|RedPine Cystoscope Conversion Rate, Rate of conversion to a reusable cystoscope for those subjects randomized to the REDPINE cystoscope., 30 minutes|Device Failure Rate, Device failure leading to a serious adverse event (SAE), termination of the procedure, or conversion to a reusable cystoscope., 30 minutes
Safety Endpoints, Safety will be assessed based on the incidence rates of adverse events based on the seriousness and relatedness to the device and/or procedure.

1) All urologic adverse events, both device and procedure related, during the cystoscopy procedure through 7 (+/- 3) days post-procedure.

The subject will be asked if they have had:

1. any signs or symptoms of a UTI
2. any untoward effects post-procedure, including by not limited to

   1. gross hematuria last longer than 3 days post-procedure
   2. pain with urination lasting longer than 3 days post-procedure
   3. cloudy urine noted greater than one day post-procedure
   4. fever/chills or a diagnosis of UTI or other illness within the time since the cystoscopic procedure.

      2) All reported device and/or procedural related adverse events through 7 (+/- 3) days post- procedure 3) All Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) through 7 (+/- 3) days post-procedure, 4 to 10 days
This randomized study will compare the cumulative procedure time between cystoscopy performed with the Redpine® Rflex endo(trademark) High-Definition Cystoscope and the site's standard of care reusable flexible cystoscope in adult study participants requiring cystoscopy for visualization of and/or intervention on the urinary bladder. The study will evaluate the user experience and product performance during cystoscopic procedures. Participant experience, tolerance to the procedure, and any differences in adverse events between disposable and reusable scope will be evaluated. The hypothesis is that the RedPine cystoscope will perform as well as reusable scopes and will have a shorter cumulative procedure time.