ONC-392 Versus Docetaxel in Metastatic NSCLC That Progressed on PD-1/PD-L1 Inhibitors
The goal of this Phase 3 clinical trial is study the safety and efficacy of the nextgen anti-CTLA-4 antibody, gotistobart (ONC-392/BNT316), in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who have disease progressed on anti-PD-1/PD-L1 antibody based therapy. The study will test whether gotistobart, in comparison with chemotherapy agent docetaxel, could prolong the life for NSCLC patients. Patients will be randomized to be treated with either gotistobart or docetaxel, IV infusion, once every 21 days, for up to 17 cycles in approximately one year.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Gotistobart|DRUG: Docetaxel
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to the date of death by any cause. Kaplan-Meier estimates of median OS time will be presented by treatment arm with two sided 95% CIs., 36 months
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) per RECIST 1.1, 36 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by Investigator per RECIST 1.1, 36 months|Treatment emergent adverse events, treatment related adverse events and immune related adverse events., Incidence of TEAEs, TRAEs, irAEs will be calcuated. The AEs leading to treatment discontinuation will be recorded., 36 months
This is a seamless 2-stage, randomized, open-label, active-controlled, Phase 3 study. The study population consists of patients with NSCLC who progressed on PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor. Approximately 600 patients will be enrolled.

Two gotistobart dosing regimens will be tested in Stage I, and one will be selected for Stage II.

Stage I, the dose-confirmation stage, will assess the efficacy and safety of two gotistobart dosing regimens (3 mg/kg Q3W and 6 mg/kg Q3W with 2 loading doses of 10 mg/kg Q3W) in comparison to docetaxel 75 mg/m2 Q3W.

Stage II will assess the safety and efficacy of gotistobart at the selected dosing regimen versus docetaxel. Patients will be randomized 1:1 to receive either gotistobart at the selected dosing regimen or docetaxel.