Administration of Antibiotic Prophylaxis for Transperineal Prostate Biopsy in Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital
This randomized controlled trial aims to compare the rate of perioperative infection complications in transperineal prostate biopsy between the group that receives prophylactic antibiotic and the group that receives placebo. The types of infection studied included bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI), UTI with fever (febrile UTI), and sepsis. This study hypothesized that the administration of prophylactic antibiotics during transperineal prostate biopsy would result in lower rates of perioperative infection complications.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Biopsy|Perioperative Complication|Bacteriuria|Urinary Tract Infections|Sepsis
DRUG: Cotrimoxazole|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of infection complications, The rate of infection complications, including bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI), UTI with fever (febrile UTI), and sepsis, will be measured in both treatment and placebo groups in 24 hours postoperatively., 24 hours|Incidence of infection complications, The rate of infection complications, including bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI), UTI with fever (febrile UTI), and sepsis, will be measured in both treatment and placebo groups in 7 days postoperatively., 7 days|Incidence of infection complications, The rate of infection complications, including bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI), UTI with fever (febrile UTI), and sepsis, will be measured in both treatment and placebo groups in 14 days postoperatively., 14 days
Rate of readmission, The rate of readmission will also be assessed in 7 days postoperatively., 7 days|Rate of readmission, The rate of readmission will also be assessed in 14 days postoperatively., 14 days
Prostate cancer screenings will be conducted in all patients aged \>45 years with lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) through PSA test and digital rectal examination (DRE). Those with PSA levels of 4.0 ng/mL or higher or other abnormal findings on DRE will be recommended to undergo transperineal prostate biopsy. In addition, participants will be offered to participate in this clinical trial, in which participants will be randomly assigned into two groups: one group will receive prophylactic antibiotic, while the other group will receive placebo.

The randomization process will be conducted before the biopsy procedure. Computers will generate random numbers, which will put the participants into two groups. These numbers can only be accessed by the research monitor (Clinical Research Supporting Unit of IMERI FMUI), while the investigators, surgeons, residents, and nurses involved will be blinded to this information. To ensure patient blinding, the placebo and cotrimoxazole forte 960 mg will be reformed as identical as possible in capsule preparation.

The primary outcomes of this clinical trial are the rate of perioperative infection complications, including bacteriuria, urinary tract infection (UTI), UTI with fever (febrile UTI), and sepsis, in 24 hours, 7 days, and 14 days postoperatively. The secondary outcomes of this clinical trial are the rate of readmission.