Exploratory Study of Precise Therapy for Advanced Tumor Patients With Malignant Hydrothorax or Ascites by Using PTC Drug Sensitivity Testing
To explore the consistency between result of PTC drug screening tests and actual clinical outcome for patients with advanced malignancy.
Lung Cancer|Breast Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Patient-derived tumor-like cell clusters (PTC) drug sensitivity testing.
Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Length is measured in millimeters, refers to RECIST 1.1., up to 12 months|Partial Response (PR), At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Length is measured in millimeters, refers to RECIST.1.1., up to 12 months|Progressive Disease (PD), At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of taraet lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm (the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Length is measured in millimeters, refers to RECIST 1.1., up to 12 months|Stable Disease (SD), Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. Length is measured in millimeters, refers to RECIST 1.1., up to 12 months
This study is anticipated to enroll 55 patients with advanced malignancy, and fresh malignant effusion samples collected from patients would be detected by PTC drug screening. In addition, patients would receive 2 cycles of personal therapy based on results of screening tests. By combining PTC drug sensitivity results with patient's treatment process and clinical feedback, researchers may evaluate the sensitiveness and specificity of PTC drug screening technique in predicting clinical outcome for advanced malignancy patients.