Feasibility of Combined Focused Ultrasound and Radiotherapy Treatment in Patients With Painful Bone Metastasis
The PRE-FURTHER study aims to evaluate the feasibility of the combined treatment with radiotherapy and focussed ultrasound for pain palliation in patients with painful bone metastases, and to optimize the combined treatment logistics. Six to ten patients will be included according to in- and exclusion criteria.
Bone Metastases|Bone Neoplasm|Bone Lesion|Bone Cancer|Pain|Cancer Induced Bone Pain|Radiation Toxicity|Quality of Life|Tumor|Neoplasm Metastasis
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: combined radiotherapy and MR-HIFU
Feasibility of combined treatment with EBRT and MR-HIFU - Patient tolerance: questionnaire, The main outcome of this study is the feasibility of the combined procedure in terms of patient tolerance and hospital logistics. Patient tolerance will be assessed using a Patient Reported Experience Measure questionnaire., 4 weeks|Feasibility of combined treatment with EBRT and MR-HIFU - hospital logistics, The main outcome of this study is the feasibility of the combined procedure in terms of patient tolerance and hospital logistics. Hospital logistics will be assessed by analysing comments of the treating physicians and research staff on the problems that occurred during treatment planning, and whether extra hospital visits that were needed., 4 weeks
Patient reported pain scores., Patient reported pain scores will be based on a Numeric Rating Scale (from 0 to 10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worst pain imaginable) from the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire \[Cleeland 1994\]., at 3 days, and at 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks|(Serious) adverse events, Toxicity/safety of the combined treatment will be assessed according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, at 3 days, and at 1, 2, 3 and 4 weeks
Rationale: Metastatic bone pain strongly interferes with quality of life and daily functioning of patients with advanced cancer. Pain palliation may be improved by including magnetic resonance image guided high intensity focused ultrasound (MR-HIFU) in addition to External Beam Radiotherapy (EBRT). For this purpose, feasibility and optimal logistics of the combined treatment need to be evaluated.

Objective: The PRE-FURTHER project aims to evaluate the feasibility of the combined EBRT and MR-HIFU treatment for relief of metastatic bone pain, and to optimize the combined treatment logistics.

Study design: The PRE-FURTHER study is a prospective case series, stage I and IIA study according to the Innovation, Development, Evaluation, Assessment and Long term evaluation (IDEAL) recommendations. 6-10 patients will receive MR-HIFU treatment following standard EBRT.

Endpoints: The main outcome of this study is the feasibility of the procedure, in terms of planability as well as patient-tolerability of the combined treatment within a short time frame (3 hours - 4 days interval). In addition, pain relief and safety of the combined procedure will be monitored.