Pembrolizumab in Untreated B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoproliferative Diseases
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoproliferative diseases that have not been treated. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Follicular Lymphoma|Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] + Partial Response [PR] for Follicular Lymphoma and Marginal Zone Lymphoma), Measured by Lugano Criteria evaluated by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or CT or white blood cell count for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). The corresponding 95% two-sided confidence interval will be derived., Up to 8 months.
Duration of Response, Kaplan Meier methodology will be used to estimate event-free curves., From the time by which the measurement criteria are met for CR or PR, whichever is recorded first, until death or the first date by which recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Data for subjects without disease progression or death will be censored at the date of the last tumor assessment. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the event-free curves., From the first study drug administration to the first occurrence of lymphoma progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Next Therapy, From the time of first study drug administration until the date of the first subsequent therapy given to treat the indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoproliferative diseases, assessed up to 5 years|Count of Participants Who Experience Adverse Events (AEs), Safety summaries will include tabulations in the form of tables. The frequency of treatment-emergent AE's will be summarized. Additional AE summaries will include AE frequency by AE severity and relationship to the study drug., Up to 90 days after last dose, up to 1 year.
OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then up to 5 years.