MDSC Clinical Assay in Finding and Monitoring Cancer Cells in Blood and Urine Samples From Patients With or Without Localized or Metastatic Bladder Cancer
This pilot research trial studies how well myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) clinical assay works in finding and monitoring cancer cells in blood and urine samples from patients with or without localized or metastatic bladder cancer. Studying samples of blood and urine from patients with or without bladder cancer in the laboratory may help doctors identify and learn more about biomarkers related to cancer and may help doctors improve ways to diagnose and treat patients.
No Evidence of Disease|Stage II Bladder Cancer|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage IVA Bladder Cancer|Stage IVB Bladder Cancer
OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Change in MDSC level in patients with known localized, muscle-invasive bladder cancer who undergo surgical treatment, Baseline to up to 4 months|Change in MDSC level in patients with known metastatic bladder cancer who undergo systemic treatment, The direction and magnitude of the changes in Group 3 will be compared to the changes in tumor burden assessed radiographically - to explore the associations., Baseline to up to 6 months|Change in MDSC level in patients with no history of cancer, Baseline to 4 months|Change in tumor burden evaluated by radiographic imaging, Baseline to up to 1 year
Change in urine cytology analysis, The MDSC levels at baseline will be compared (plots and correlations) to the urine cytology levels (Groups 2 and 3) to describe any associations; for Group 3, the changes (baseline to post treatment) in the MDSC levels will be compared to the changes in urine cytology., Baseline to up to 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate a novel clinical assay (MDSC clinical assay) to detect cancer associated immune cells in the peripheral blood of patients as a means to better detect and monitor malignant bladder cancer in patients.

II. Estimate mean MDSC level, intra-patient variability, and inter-patient variability, for 3 groups of subjects with variable bladder cancer disease status at baseline.

III. In patients with known localized, muscle-invasive bladder cancer who undergo surgical treatment: to determine the change in MDSC level from baseline to after treatment including surgery.

IV. In patients with known metastatic bladder cancer who undergo systemic treatment: to determine the change in MDSC level from baseline to after 4 cycles of treatment compared to the change in tumor burden as evaluated by radiographic imaging.

V. In patients with no history of cancer: to determine the changes in MDSC levels from baseline to after 4 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare MDSC level measurements to urine cytology analysis at baseline and after treatment to determine whether the two tests correlate in any of the 3 groups of patients defined in this study.

OUTLINE:

GROUP I: Patients without cancer undergo collection of blood and urine samples for analysis via MDSC clinical assay at baseline, 1 week, and 4 months.

GROUP II: Patients with localized bladder cancer undergo collection of blood and urine samples for analysis via MDSC clinical assay at baseline, 1 week, and within 4 weeks after cystectomy.

GROUP III: Patients with metastatic cancer undergo collection of blood and urine samples for analysis via MDSC clinical assay at baseline, 1 week, and within 4 weeks after completion of 4 courses of systemic chemotherapy.