Low Dose Chest Computed Tomography (CT) Screening
This research study is being done because patients with a history of chest radiation treatment for Hodgkin's disease have been shown to be at increased risk for developing lung cancer a number of years out from treatment. The risk appears to be further increased among patients with a smoking history. In this study, the CT scans will be read and interpreted by the study radiologist, and the results recorded in a consistent manner. Depending on the findings of the initial CT scan, we will then either repeat the scan in 1 year, or if indicated, send you for further scans or a biopsy. The information collected in this study will help researchers and clinicians in providing more concrete recommendations and screening guidelines for future survivors of Hodgkin's disease who have had similar exposures to radiation and/or chemotherapy and smoking.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Low Dose CT
Lung cancer detection rate using chest CT screening in patients at increased risk of lung cancer after Hodgkin's disease therapy., 5 years|False-positive rates of using chest CT for lung cancer screening in this population., 5 years
The stage distribution, clinical characteristics and pathologic features of the detected lung cancer, 5 years|The treatment and treatment outcome of lung cancer after Hodgkin's disease in a cohort of patients undergoing routine chest CT screening, 5 years
This research study is being done because patients with a history of chest radiation treatment for Hodgkin's disease have been shown to be at increased risk for developing lung cancer a number of years out from treatment. The risk appears to be further increased among patients with a smoking history. In this study, the CT scans will be read and interpreted by the study radiologist, and the results recorded in a consistent manner. Depending on the findings of the initial CT scan, we will then either repeat the scan in 1 year, or if indicated, send you for further scans or a biopsy. The information collected in this study will help researchers and clinicians in providing more concrete recommendations and screening guidelines for future survivors of Hodgkin's disease who have had similar exposures to radiation and/or chemotherapy and smoking.