PBI-MST-01 (NCT04541108) Substudy MSD-03: Intratumoral Microdosing of Pembrolizumab Alone and With MK-0482 or MK-4830 in HNSCC or STS
This is a multi-center, open-label, Phase 0 substudy designed to evaluate the ability of pembrolizumab, alone and in combination with MK-0482 or MK-4830, to elicit pharmacodynamic changes suggestive of antitumor immune activation within the native tumor microenvironment (TME) following intratumoral microdosing via the CIVO device in patients with surface accessible Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC) or Soft Tissue Sarcoma (STS) lesion(s) who are scheduled for tumor and/or regional node dissection as part of their standard treatment.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Soft Tissue Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: MK-0482 + Pembrolizumab|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: MK-4830 + Pembrolizumab
Quantification of Immune Cell Biomarkers by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), In Situ Hybridization (ISH), and/or Spatial Biology Platforms, Quantification of biomarker-positive and biomarker-negative cells will be performed within the tumor microenvironment around injection sites in resected patient samples by IHC, ISH, or spatial biology platforms. An aggregate analysis of this quantification may be done across patient samples in each substudy to evaluate trends in tumor response. The biomarkers evaluated may include, but are not limited to, markers associated with macrophage polarization states (e.g., CD163), markers of infiltrating T cells (e.g., CD8/Granzyme B), and proinflammatory cytokines (e.g., interferon gamma)., 2 to 4 days after microdose injection
Incidence of reported Adverse Events and/or Adverse Device Effects [Safety and Tolerability], Safety of the microdose injection procedure and injected content will be assessed by quantification of the frequency, intensity, and relatedness of all reported Adverse Events and/or Adverse Device Effects., Up to 28 days after microdose injection
The CIVO Microdose Injection Device (MID) simultaneously delivers multiple drugs and drug combinations (up to 8), each in microdose amounts, into a single patient tumor and enables comparisons of the resulting biomarker responses that occurred while that tumor was still in the native microenvironment. The microdose injection procedure is conducted ahead of the patient's scheduled surgical intervention and localized biomarker responses are then evaluated in the injected tumor tissue following surgery. This enables assessments of drug-induced changes to the tumor, stroma, and local immune cells within the unique landscape of each individual patient and their respective tumor genomic profile and immune system functional status. CIVO is a research tool used only to assess the responses of tumor cells and other cell populations with the TME following intratumoral administration of drug microdoses; it is not a therapeutic device.

MK-0482, MK-4830, and pembrolizumab have distinct mechanisms of action (MOAs) that affect the TME, including relief of immune suppression and enhanced T-cell activation. Surgery is the standard primary treatment for most patients with STS, and surgical intervention of the primary tumor and cervical lymph node dissection may be recommended for patients with HNSCC. Dysfunction of the immune system (e.g., immune evasion, expression of suppressive immune checkpoint receptors, etc.) plays a major role in the development and progression of HNSCC and STS. Therefore, in this Phase 0 study, the ability of pembrolizumab, alone and in combination with MK-0482 or MK-4830, to elicit pharmacodynamic changes suggestive of antitumor immune activation within the native TME in patients with HNSCC or STS will be assessed. Pembrolizumab, alone and in combination with MK-0482 or MK-4830, will be injected in microdose quantities at tumor sites in HNSCC or STS patients with a surface accessible lesion who are scheduled for tumor and/or regional node dissection as part of their standard treatment. Injected tumors will be resected as per surgical standard of care following 2 to 4 days in situ exposure. Thereafter, the CIVO-injected portion of the tissue will be analyzed for localized response at sites of drug exposure in the TME.