AK104 and Low-dose Radiation in Recurrent/Metastatic HNSCC After Failure of First-line Systemic Therapy
Currently, there is a lack of high-quality clinical evidence for subsequent treatment options for recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) after first-line treatment, especially for subsequent treatment after first-line therapy combined with PD-1 inhibitors. Increasing evidence suggests that low-dose radiation (LDRT) can reshape the tumor microenvironment.Cadonilimab is a bispecific antibody that specifically binds to CTLA-4 and PD-1 proteins in the human body.

Considering that low-dose radiotherapy and cadonilimab both have immunomodulatory effects, this study intends to select recurrent metastatic HNSCC patients who have failed first-line and above treatment to explore the safety and efficacy of cadonilimab combined with low-dose radiotherapy.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cadonilimab|RADIATION: Low-dose radiotherapy|RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: Capecitabine
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR), as assessed by investigators according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. For patients who have received radiotherapy for all lesions, the ORR assessment should be based on the lesions that received SBRT and low-dose radiotherapy. For patients with lesions that did not receive radiotherapy, the ORR assessment should be based on the lesions that received SBRT, low-dose radiotherapy, and those that did not receive radiotherapy, Up to two years
Adverse effect, Adverse effects (AE) as evaluated by CTCAE 5.0, Up to two years|Disease Control Rate, Disease Control Rate (DCR), as assessed by investigators according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, Up to two years|Duration of Response, Duration of Response (DoR), as assessed by investigators according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, Up to two years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS): from the start of enrollment to the first recorded date of objective tumor progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to two years|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS): the time from enrollment to death due to any cause., Up to two years
Currently, there is a lack of high-quality clinical evidence for subsequent treatment options for recurrent/metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) after first-line treatment, especially for subsequent treatment after first-line therapy combined with PD-1 inhibitors. Increasing evidence suggests that low-dose radiation (LDRT) can reshape the tumor microenvironment, polarize macrophages towards M1, and M1 macrophages secrete chemokines to promote the recruitment of effector T cells while inducing vascular normalization.

Cadonilimab is a bispecific antibody that specifically binds to CTLA-4 and PD-1 proteins in the human body. It is the first approved PD-1/CTLA-4 bispecific antibody. In June 2022, cadonilimab was approved by the NMPA for the treatment of recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer patients after platinum-based chemotherapy failure. The drug is currently undergoing clinical trials for other types of cancers, including non-small cell lung cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, and nasopharyngeal cancer.

In view of the subsequent treatment strategies for recurrent metastatic HNSCC after first-line treatment progress, there is still a lack of high-level evidence-based medical evidence to confirm the best recommendation for subsequent treatment. Considering that low-dose radiotherapy and cadonilimab both have immunomodulatory effects, this study intends to select recurrent metastatic HNSCC patients who have failed first-line and above treatment to explore the safety and efficacy of cadonilimab combined with low-dose radiotherapy.