The Clinical Application of Chimeric Antigen Receptor T Cells in the Treatment of CD19 Positive Recurrent Refractory B Cell-derived Hematological Malignancies
CD19 is expressed in most B malignant tumors, especially in the former B cells ALL. This makes CD19 a natural target of immunotherapy. In terms of safety, the lack of B cells caused by CD19 targeted therapy will not cause life-threatening side effects (of course, Ig supplementation is necessary in the long-term B cell inhibition therapy). Moreover, the number of B cells can be restored after removing anti-CD19 treatment measures (such as anti-CD19 CART cells). In addition, CD19 has been chosen as the target of B-ALL therapy for the following reasons: ① as the BCR signal "amplifier", CD19 plays a role in PAX-5-mediated tumor formation; ② by activating MYC (as the oncogene controlled by PAX-5, C-MYC plays a key role in promoting the malignant proliferation of B cells), CD19 can cause B-ALL formation. Based on the above reasons, CD19 has become an ideal target in the treatment of B-cell cancer.
B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: CD19-CART
CR, Complete response rate (CR), 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug
PR, Partial remission rate, 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug|2-year disease-free survival rate 2-year disease-free survival rate, 2-year disease-free survival rate, 12 weeks after infusion of the study drug
CD19 is expressed in most B malignant tumors, especially in the former B cells ALL. This makes CD19 a natural target of immunotherapy. In terms of safety, the lack of B cells caused by CD19 targeted therapy will not cause life-threatening side effects (of course, Ig supplementation is necessary in the long-term B cell inhibition therapy). Moreover, the number of B cells can be restored after removing anti-CD19 treatment measures (such as anti-CD19 CART cells). In addition, CD19 has been chosen as the target of B-ALL therapy for the following reasons: ① as the BCR signal "amplifier", CD19 plays a role in PAX-5-mediated tumor formation; ② by activating MYC (as the oncogene controlled by PAX-5, C-MYC plays a key role in promoting the malignant proliferation of B cells), CD19 can cause B-ALL formation. Based on the above reasons, CD19 has become an ideal target in the treatment of B-cell cancer.