Pirtobrutinib and Venetoclax in Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
This study is being done to examine the safety and effectiveness of pirtobrutinib combined with venetoclax as a possible treatment for participants with Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (WM).

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Pirtobrutinib (a Noncovalent Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor)
* Venetoclax (a BCL2 inhibitor)
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Pirtobrutinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Very Good Partial Response (VGPR) or Better Response Rate, VGPR or better response rate is defined as proportion of participants experienced VGPR or complete response (CR) based on modified 6th International Workshop on WM \[IWWM\] criteria (NCCN 2014)., up to 2 years
Best Response, Best response on treatment including complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), minimal response (MR), stable disease (SD) and progressive disease (PD) per Modified 6th IWWM (NCCN 2014) response criteria., up to 2 years|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., up to 4 years|Median Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), TTNT estimated using the Kaplan Meier method is defined as the duration of time from the first dose of pirtobrutinib until the time of initiation of new therapy, or censored at the date of last contact if no further new therapy initiated., Up to 6 years|Median Duration of Response (DOR), DOR estimated using the Kaplan Meier method, is defined as the duration of time from the day the criteria are met for response (at least a minor response) to the date that Progressive Disease (PD) or death are objectively documented. Response and PD defined protocol section 11.1.2 - Modified 6th IWWM (NCCN 2014) criteria. If a participant is still responding, then the participant's data will be censored at the last study visit at which a tumor assessment was performed., up to 4 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Up to 6 years|Number of Participants Present MYD88 Mutation Status, MYD88 mutation status determined based on allele-specific polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay., Baseline to 4 years post-treatment|Number of Participants Present CXCR4 Mutation Status, CXCR4 mutation status determined based on Sanger sequencing., Baseline to 4 years post-treatment|Number of Participants Present BTK Mutation Status, BTK mutation status determined based on allele-specific polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay., Baseline to 4 years post-treatment|Number of Participants Present BCL2 Mutation Status, BCL2 mutation status determined based on allele-specific polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) assay., Baseline to 4 years post-treatment|Quality of Life (QOL), Changes in QOL score will be assessed using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ) C30. The QLQ-C30 summary score is calculated as the mean of the combined 13 QLQ-C30 scale and Item scores, with a higher score indicating a better QOL., Baseline to up to 6 years from treatment initiation|Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAE v5 as reported on case report forms will be counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3-5 AE of any type during the time of observation., up to 25 months
This is a single-arm, open-label, Phase II study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of venetoclax combined with pirtobrutinib (VEN-P) in participants with symptomatic Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (WM) with previously treated disease. Pirtobrutinib blocks a type of protein called Bruton Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) that helps cells live and grow. Venetoclax blocks BCL-2, a protein essential for WM cells' survival.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved pirtobrutinib for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (WM), but it has been approved for other uses.

The FDA has not approved venetoclax for Waldenström Macroglobulinemia (WM), but it has been approved for other uses.

The FDA has not approved the combination of pirtobrutinib and venetoclax as a treatment for any disease.

Study procedures include screening for eligibility, treatment visits, CT scans, blood tests, and bone marrow aspirates and biopsies.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 2 years and will be followed for up to 4 years or until they start a new therapy.

It is expected that about 42 people will take part in this research study.

Eli Lilly supports this research study by providing study drug pirtobrutinib and funding.