Detection and Risk Stratification in Veterans Presenting With Microscopic Hematuria
It is of current debate whether the use of invasive (referring to a process that requires insertion into the body) standard of care procedures such as a cystoscopy which is a procedure to look inside the bladder using a thin camera called a cystoscope, is appropriate for use in patients with microscopic hematuria or blood in urine invisible to the naked eye. This is because the risk of disease (bladder cancer - urothelial carcinoma) is relatively low in this population group, approximately 3%. Invasive procedures such as a cystoscopy comes with anxiety and pain, in addition to other potential side effects. This has resulted in low admittance in urology clinics for cystoscopy with hematuria (blood in urine) patients. Therefore, there is a need for a more simple, non-invasive test that can accurately detect the presence or absence of disease (urothelial carcinoma) in patients with microscopic hematuria. There is a potential role Cxbladder, a non-invasive, urine based test, can fill this role.
Urothelial Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Cxbladder urine test
The alignment of Cxbladder Triage-Plus results with the standard of care diagnostic result for the presence or absence of UC, to validate Cxbladder Triage-Plus performance in subjects with microscopic hematuria., Cxbladder Triage-Plus performance will be measured using performance characteristics such as sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value., Baseline, pre-intervention / procedure (cystoscopy): Each subject is scheduled for cystoscopy and provides one urine sample for the Cxbladder test pre-procedure
To determine the performance characteristics of Cxbladder Triage for subjects with a recent history of microscopic hematuria who are referred to urology and scheduled for cystoscopy for evaluation of microscopic hematuria., Cxbladder Triage test performance will be measured using performance characteristics such as sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value., Baseline, pre-intervention / procedure (cystoscopy): Each subject is scheduled for cystoscopy and provides one urine sample for the Cxbladder test pre-procedure
This is a multicenter, observational study prospectively enrolling up to 1000 subjects with microscopic hematuria from US sites. This study will be conducted with subjects with a previous history of microscopic hematuria (three or more red blood cells per high powered field in one urinalysis) undergoing clinical assessment including cystoscopy. Consented, eligible subjects will undergo all standard of care tests as clinically indicated. In addition, one additional urine sample, using remote (at-home) or at-clinic sampling, will be collected to validate the performance characteristics for the Cxbladder Triage-Plus test. The urine sample collected from each subject will be a voided urine sample at one time point prior to the scheduled cystoscopy or within 10 weeks post-cystoscopy.

The primary aim of this study is to validate the use of Cxbladder Triage-Plus as an effective diagnostic tool to:

1. Enable patients with microscopic hematuria who have a low probability of having disease (urothelial carcinoma) to be ruled out from further investigation. This will avoid expensive, invasive work-up, without compromising detection of disease.
2. Allow physicians to identify subjects at high risk of disease (urothelial carcinoma)
3. Replace less sensitive urine-based tests (such as urine cytology or other urine genomic tests currently available)

Cxbladder results will not be reported to the subjects or the physicians. Each subject will be required to fill in the date of sample collection in the test-request form and Cxbladder tubes. The site will fill in case-report forms in a professional manner in accordance with good clinical practice (GCP).