IGF Inhibition With Xentuzumab Prior to Radical Prostatectomy
The WINGMEN trial aims to understand how a hormone-like protein called insulin-like growth factor (IGF) helps prostate cancers grow and become aggressive. IGF is required for normal development, and also helps cancers grow and spread. Men with high blood IGF are at increased risk of developing prostate cancer, and tall men are more likely to get aggressive prostate cancer. The WINGMEN trial will recruit 30 men with prostate cancer who have been offered an operation to remove the prostate. Most men have to wait 4-5 weeks between a decision to have prostate removal surgery, and actually having the operation. In this 4-5 week window we will offer treatment with a new IGF-blocker drug called xentuzumab. The drug is provided by Boehringer Ingelheim and the trial is funded by Prostate Cancer UK.

Xentuzumab will be given as an outpatient by once weekly intravenous infusion (drip) in the Early Phase Clinical Trials Unit, Oxford Cancer Centre, Churchill Hospital. In other trials, xentuzumab is being tested in patients with advanced cancer, and is proving to be well-tolerated. After the 4-week treatment, WINGMEN trial patients will have routine prostate removal surgery. Samples of blood and prostate cancer that are surplus to diagnostic need will be taken from the diagnostic prostate biopsy (pre-xentuzumab) and the cancer removed at surgery (after xentuzumab) for research tests. These samples will be compared to measure how effectively xentuzumab reduces signs of tumour growth, and identify which genes and proteins are switched on or off by xentuzumab, and which may therefore be important in helping IGF promote prostate cancer growth. The information we get from the WINGMEN trial may help us to improve treatment of men with prostate cancer, with the long-term aim of reducing the risk of aggressive prostate cancer
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Xentuzumab
Percentage Change of Phospho-IGF-1R Positive Tumour Cells Following Treatment With Xentuzumab, Diagnostic biopsies (pre-treatment) and in-theatre cores (post-treatment) were stained with phospho-IGF-1R. Percentage of positively stained tumour cells in each sample were compared and the percentage change between timepoints was quantified. A negative percentage change indicates a reduction in phospho-IGF-1R in post-treatment samples. This endpoint was designed to assess the amount of IGF pathway inhibition induced by xentuzumab., From first xentuzumab infusion at week 1 (pre-treatment) to surgery at week 4-13 (post-treatment). Up to 13 weeks total.|Percentage Change of Phospho-S6 Positive Tumour Cells Following Treatment With Xentuzumab, Diagnostic biopsies (pre-treatment) and in-theatre cores (post-treatment) were stained by phospho-S6. Percentage of positively stained tumour cells in each sample were compared and the percentage change between timepoints was quantified. A negative percentage change indicates a reduction in phospho-S6 in post-treatment samples. This endpoint was designed to assess the amount of IGF pathway inhibition induced by xentuzumab., From first xentuzumab infusion at week 1 (pre-treatment) to surgery at week 4-13 (post-treatment). Up to 13 weeks total.
Number of Participants Who Had at Least 4 Doses of Xentuzumab and Proceeded to Have Surgery Per the Protocol Schedule, This endpoint was a measure of feasibility of the treatment schedule in the pre-operative setting., From first xentuzumab infusion at week 1 (pre-treatment) to surgery at week 4-13 (post-treatment). Up to 13 weeks total.|Median Delay in Surgery in Participants Who Had More Than 4 Doses of Xentuzumab (and Whose Surgery Was Delayed by Factors Other Than Trial Treatment), All participants who had more than 4 doses of xentuzumab were considered to have had their surgery delayed by factors other than trial treatment. Per protocol, all participants who had delayed surgery received additional weekly doses of xentuzumab. Reason for delay was not recorded as part of the study dataset. This endpoint was a measure of feasibility of the treatment schedule in the pre-operative setting., From first xentuzumab infusion at week 1 (pre-treatment) to surgery at week 4-13 (post-treatment). Up to 13 weeks total.|Number of Patients Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE) or Serious Adverse Event (SAE) While On-trial, This endpoint was designed to assess safety and tolerability of xentuzumab administered in the pre-prostatectomy setting. AEs \& SAEs were graded using CTCAE v5.0, with higher grades considered to be worse outcomes., From consent at week -1 to the end of study visit at up to 19 weeks|Number of Patients With Any Adverse Event Assessed as Treatment-Related (TRAE) While On-trial, Number of patients with any TRAE from the time of consent to the end of study visit. TRAEs are AEs that are investigator-determined to be definitely, probably or possibly related to treatment with xentuzumab and graded using CTCAE v5.0, with higher grades considered to be worse outcomes.

This endpoint was designed to assess safety and tolerability of xentuzumab administered in the pre-prostatectomy setting., From consent at week -1 to the end of study visit at up to 19 weeks
The WINGMEN trial aims to understand how a hormone-like protein called insulin-like growth factor (IGF) helps prostate cancers grow and become aggressive. IGF is required for normal development, and also helps cancers grow and spread. Men with high blood IGF are at increased risk of developing prostate cancer, and tall men are more likely to get aggressive prostate cancer. The WINGMEN trial will recruit 30 men with prostate cancer who have been offered an operation to remove the prostate. Most men have to wait 4-5 weeks between a decision to have prostate removal surgery, and actually having the operation. In this 4-5 week window we will offer treatment with a new IGF-blocker drug called xentuzumab. The drug is provided by Boehringer Ingelheim and the trial is funded by Prostate Cancer UK.

Xentuzumab will be given as an outpatient by once weekly intravenous infusion (drip) in the Early Phase Clinical Trials Unit, Oxford Cancer Centre, Churchill Hospital. In other trials, xentuzumab is being tested in patients with advanced cancer, and is proving to be well-tolerated. After the 4-week treatment, WINGMEN trial patients will have routine prostate removal surgery. Samples of blood and prostate cancer that are surplus to diagnostic need will be taken from the diagnostic prostate biopsy (pre-xentuzumab) and the cancer removed at surgery (after xentuzumab) for research tests. These samples will be compared to measure how effectively xentuzumab reduces signs of tumour growth, and identify which genes and proteins are switched on or off by xentuzumab, and which may therefore be important in helping IGF promote prostate cancer growth. The information we get from the WINGMEN trial may help us to improve treatment of men with prostate cancer, with the long-term aim of reducing the risk of aggressive prostate cancer