FLT PET Imaging for Cervical Cancer
Our primary hypothesis is that \[18F\]FLT PET can identify active bone marrow in addition to metabolically active tumor.

This trial will use FLT-PET imaging to define areas of active bone marrow in the pelvis. The radiation plan is then designed to spare that area, in hopes of keeping the bone marrow active during therapy. Bone marrow and tumor activity will be monitored using a sequence of FLT PET scans during the course of chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
DRUG: [F18]Fluorothymidine
Percent Difference From Baseline IMRT Plan (%), The difference in volume of bone marrow receiving radiation using a bone-marrow-sparing radiation plan compared to a standard radiation plan (IMRT), expressed as a percentage. Both plans are patient-specific. Bone-marrow is identified using the baseline FLT PET/CT obtained pre-imaging. Active bone marrow is considered to have an uptake value (SUV) of 2, 3, or 4. The standard IMRT plan was created using the criteria of the National Cancer Institute's Radiation Therapy Oncology Group study RTOG-0418. Radiation dose bins evaluated are 5 Gray, 10 Gray, 20 Gray, and 30 Gray. The change in dose to tumor is also provided. A negative value indicates that more bone marrow or tissue was spared using the bone-marrow sparing plan., Baseline (pre-treatment)
Chemotherapy Compliance, The number of participants who missed at least one prescribed chemotherapy administration due to low blood counts., post-treatment|Number of Participants With Standardized Toxicity Severity Grades for White Blood Cell Counts, White blood cell counts measurements expressed in standardized toxicity severity grades (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, v4.03) measured weekly during combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy treatment and then once at 30 day follow-up and at 1 year follow-up, baseline, weekly during radiation treatment for up to 5 weeks, and 30 days post treatment|Number of Participants With Standardized Toxicity Severity Grades for Decreased Platelet Counts., Platelet cell counts measurements expressed in standardized toxicity severity grades (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, v4.03) measured once weekly during combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy, then once at 30 day follow-up, and once at 1 year follow-up, baseline, weekly during radiation treatment for up to 5 weeks, and 30 days post treatment|Number of Participants With Standardized Toxicity Severity Grades for Decreased Absolute Neutrophil Counts (ANCs), Absolute neutrophil counts (ANCs) measurements expressed in standardized toxicity severity grades (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, v4.03) measured once weekly during combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy, then once at 30 day follow-up, and once at 1 year follow-up., baseline, weekly during radiation treatment for up to 5 weeks, and 30 days post treatment|Number of Participants With Standardized Toxicity Severity Grades for Decreased Lymphocyte Counts., Lymphocyte counts measurements expressed in standardized toxicity severity grades (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, v4.03) measured once weekly during combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy, then once at 30 day follow-up, and once at 1 year follow-up, baseline, weekly during radiation treatment for up to 5 weeks, and 30 days post treatment
Subjects will undergo a total of up to 5 FLT PET scans.

Subjects are randomized between two groups to reduce radiation exposure from the FLT PET scans. If bone marrow activity is not identified in one scan, further scans are cancelled until the 1-month follow up scan. This is not a randomization to compare therapeutic efficacy between two study arms. Data will be pooled for analysis as pre-specified in the study's statistical plan.

Group 1 has FLT PET scans pretreatment, after 5 radiation treatments, after 10 radiation treatments, after 15 radiation treatments, and then 1 month after completing radiation therapy.

Group 2 has FLT PET scans pretreatment, after 5 radiation treatments, after 10 radiation treatments, after 20 radiation treatments, and then 1 month after completing radiation therapy.