Revlimid in Transfusion Dependent Patients
This is a prospective trial of Revlimid for subjects who have a blood cell cancer called myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Cells in their marrow make proteins through messages that are carried from the genes. The amount of the message tells researchers if the protein it is going to make is high or low. This is known as expression of genes. The purpose of this study is to conduct a prospective trial testing the idea that expression of specific genes can help to predict which patients will respond to study drug administration with Revlimid (lenalidomide).
Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Revlimid (Lenalidomide)
Response Signature in Transfusion Dependent MDS Patients, The trial will be testing the Revlimid® (lenalidomide) response signature in patients who have transfusion dependent, non-del(5q), low and intermediate-1 risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) in order to confirm the predictive value of the signature and to establish the boundaries of the z-score which can be used to pre-select patients in future clinical studies. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 12 weeks from baseline
The first Revlimid® study reported by List et al included all transfusion dependent MDS patients, but given the early experience which showed a better response in del(5q) patients and those with lower risk disease, more patients belonging to this category were entered on the trial. The subsequent multi-center studies were focused entirely on the low/Int-1 patients who were transfusion dependent. In the present study, we would like to recapitulate the initial study by only treating the transfusion dependent, low and intermediate-1 risk MDS patients without deletion (5q). Since the predictive assay is most applicable for the non-del(5q) patients, and to avoid confusion resulting from an admixture of patients with del(5q) for whom the drug is already FDA approved, we have elected to restrict this clinical trial to only the non-del(5q) patients.

In the present study, only the non-del(5q) transfusion dependent, low and intermediate-1 risk MDS patients will be treated with single agent Revlimid®. All patients will have their pre-therapy bone marrows studied by gene expression microarray, Luminex bead assay, and real-time PCR.