A Study Evaluating Ultratrace Iobenguane I131 in Patients With Malignant Relapsed/Refractory Pheochromocytoma/Paraganglioma
This clinical trial is designed to evaluate the effectiveness and collect additional safety information on AZEDRA® (iobenguane I 131) for the treatment of metastatic or relapsed/refractory (to other treatment) or unresectable pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma.

The purpose of this trial is to test the use of AZEDRA® as a treatment for pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma, a rare disease. This Phase II study will help determine primarily if using the drug reduces the amount of blood pressure medication being taken as a result of the cancer and secondarily to determine such things as the effectiveness of the study drug in treating the cancer, additional safety measures, and to assess if the drug helps the quality of life and use of pain medication. All subjects will receive an imaging dose with scans followed by two therapeutic doses given approximately 3 months apart.
Pheochromocytoma|Paraganglioma
RADIATION: Ultratrace® Iobenguane I131
Percentage of Patients Who Experienced a 50% or Greater Reduction (Including Discontinuation) of All Antihypertensive Medication(s) Lasting for at Least Six Months., 12 months
Best Confirmed Overall Tumor Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) by RECIST 1.0., Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0 was assessed by two independent central reviewers and one adjudicator, and overall response (PR or CR) was confirmed by follow-up imaging at the subsequent timepoint. Complete response was defined as confirmed disappearance of all target lesions and Partial Response was defined as confirmed decreased of \>= 30% in baseline sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 12 months|Changes From Baseline in Overall Quality of Life (QoL) - Best Response Within 12 Months After First Therapeutic Dose of AZEDRA®., The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 v.3 was used to evaluate QoL. This questionnaire was comprised of 30 questions, two of which pertain to a patient's Global Health Status and QoL. The two questions used a 7-point Likert scale of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent), in which the scores were averaged and linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale with higher scores indicating better health status and QoL. The questionnaire was administered at baseline and through 12 months after the first therapeutic dose of AZEDRA®. The results of QoL and changes from baseline were summarized by visit and the best response within 12 months after first therapeutic dose of AZEDRA® was reported. The outcome represents the mean change from baseline in overall QoL based on the best response reported within 12 months after first therapeutic dose of AZEDRA®., 12 Months|Overall Survival, Duration of overall survival was calculated from the date of first therapeutic dose of AZEDRA® to death, or at the last date the patient was known to be alive. Results are presented per December 2017 data-cut. Survival was censored at the end of the 5-year long-term follow-up period, thus the upper limit of the confidence interval reported below for two therapeutic doses is actually \>60 months., Up to 5 Years (60 months)
AZEDRA® (Iobenguane I 131) is a very high-specific-activity iobenguane I 131, produced using proprietary Ultratrace® platform. Based on the well-characterized cellular active transport mechanism, the high specific activity of allows for effective cellular uptake of radioactivity and hence greater tumor uptake.

During this study the subjects will receive two (2) Therapy Doses that are given approximately three (3) months apart. Prior to administration of the first Therapy Dose, subjects will be given an Imaging Dose of AZEDRA® and will undergo iobenguane I 131 scans to evaluate tumor uptake and to measure normal organ distribution and allow for the calculation of radiation dose to normal organs.

Screening procedures for eligibility will need to be done before imaging or therapeutic doses of AZEDRA® are administered.

Hospitalization is required for approximately one (1) week after each of the two (2) Therapeutic Doses. Frequent follow up is necessary for the first year and some of the follow up visits may be done by a visiting health care professional in the subjects' homes. Subjects will be followed in the treatment study for one (1) year and for an additional four (4) years in long-term follow up.