Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib in Clear Cell Ovarian Cancer
This research study is being done to test the efficacy and safety of combining the study drugs pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in patients with clear cell ovarian cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Lenvatinib
* Pembrolizumab
Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma|Gynecologic Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment., ORR expected to be observed up to 3 years|6 Month Progression-free survival (PFS) Rate, 6-month PFS rate is the proportion of participants who are alive and progression-free at 6 months. Progression-free survival (PFS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death., Disease will be evaluated at baseline and every 3 cycles on treatment, where each cycle is 3 weeks. Relevant to this endpoint is the 6 month timepoint.
Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, All grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 as reported on case report forms are counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3 or higher AE of any type during the time of observation., AEs expected to be observed up to 3 years|Median Progression-free survival (PFS), Median PFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the median duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death., Disease is evaluated at baseline, every 3 cycles on treatment (each cycle is 3 weeks), and in follow-up every 6 months (off due to PD) or every 3 months (off not due to PD), up to 3 years.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the proportion of participants with Partial Response (PR) + Complete Response (CR) + Stable Disease (SD) ≥6 months per RECIST 1.1. SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD., Disease will be evaluated every 3 cycles on treatment (each cycle is 3 weeks); Treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration is expected to be up to 3 years.|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Survival is evaluated in follow-up every 6 months (off due to PD) or every 3 months (off not due to PD), up to 3 years.|ORR by PD-L1 expression status, PD-L1 expression at baseline is dichotomized as positive or negative per established scoring methods. ORR within PD-L1 expression status groups is the proportion of participants achieving CR + PR per RECIST 1.1 on treatment., ORR is expected to be observed up to 3 years|[immune RECIST] Objective Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (iCR) or partial response (iPR) per immune-RECIST (iRECIST)., [immune RECIST] ORR is expected to be observed up to 3 years|[immune RECIST] 6 Month Progression-free survival (PFS) Rate, 6-month PFS rate is the proportion of participants who are alive and progression-free at 6 months. Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death, per immune-RECIST 1.1 (iRECIST) criteria., Disease will be evaluated at baseline and every 3 cycles on treatment, where each cycle is 3 weeks. Relevant to this endpoint is the 6 month timepoint.|[immune RECIST] Median Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) per immune-RECIST (iRECIST) or death., Disease is evaluated at baseline, every 3 cycles on treatment, and in follow-up every 6 months (off due to PD) or every 3 months (off not due to PD), up to 3 years|[immune RECIST] Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive per immune-RECIST (iRECIST)., Survival is evaluated in follow-up every 6 months (off due to PD) or every 3 months (off not due to PD), up to 3 years.|[immune RECIST] clinical benefit rate (CBR), CBR is defined as Partial Response (iPR) + Complete Response (iCR) + Stable Disease (iSD) ≥6 months per immune -ECIST (iRECIST)., Disease will be evaluated every 3 cycles on treatment; Treatment is continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration is expected to be up to 3 years.
This is an open label, non-randomized, single cohort phase II trial. Participants with recurrent or persistent clear cell ovarian carcinoma (CCOC) will be treated with the investigational combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Lenvatinib
* Pembrolizumab

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

Participants will receive study treatment until progression of disease or unacceptable toxicity. Participants will be followed for 36 months thereafter. It is expected that about 31 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drugs work in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved lenvatinib or pembrolizumab for your specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.