Pinometostat and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Relapsed, Refractory, or Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 Rearrangement
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of pinometostat when given together with azacitidine and to see how well it works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed), does not respond to treatment (refractory), or is newly diagnosed, with an 11q23 rearrangement. Pinometostat and azacitidine may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(9;11)(p21.3;q23.3); MLLT3-MLL|Leukemia Cutis|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Pinometostat
Incidence of Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs) (Phase Ib), Safety and tolerability will be assessed by evaluating the number of patients out of 6 who experience a DLT defined as a significant suspected adverse reaction or clinically significant abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease progression, intercurrent illness, or concomitant medications., Up to day 42|Response Rate (Phase II), Will be defined by the 2017 European Leukemia Network guidelines and as the number of patients who achieve a complete response (CR), complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery (CRi), partial response (PR), or morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS), with or without minimal residual disease (MRD), at any time point., Up to the time of count recovery after 6 cycles of combination therapy
Number of Patients Who Experience a DLT (Phase Ib), Up to day 42|Change in H3K79 Methylation (Phase Ib), Will compare quantitative methylation and methylation valence (e.g. if H3K27 has been methylated once, twice, or three times) from baseline and subsequent bone marrow samples using descriptive statistics and graphical displays. A Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess post-treatment differences as compared to baseline., Baseline up to day 28|Change in Expression Levels of HOXA9 and Meis1 (Phase Ib), Will compare expression level by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) of HOXA9 and Meis1 levels from baseline and subsequent bone marrow samples using descriptive statistics and graphical displays. A Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess post-treatment differences as compared to baseline., Baseline up to day 28|Fraction of Cells With 11q23 Rearrangements (Phase Ib), Samples will be banked, and cytogenetic and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of these cells will be performed to evaluate for the presence of MLL-rearrangement in patients who respond to therapy., Up to day 28|Change in Absolute Neutrophil/Absolute Monocyte Count (Phase Ib), Will evaluate differentiation by performing a differential on the bone marrow biopsy and peripheral blood samples at baseline and from subsequent time points and assessing percentage of monocytes / neutrophils, bands, and myeloid forms present., Baseline up to day 28|Number of Patients Who Experience a DLT (Phase II), Up to 1 month post-treatment|Response Rate Based on Relapsed / Refractory or Previously Untreated Status (Phase II), Patients will be stratified based on treatment for relapsed / refractory or previously untreated disease. The response of each stratum to combination therapy, defined as CR, CRi, MLFS, or PR, with or without MRD, on bone marrow biopsy as defined by the 2017 European Leukemia Network guidelines, will be described. Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated and compared for each stratum. A report will be generated to look at all patients, all eligible patients who were enrolled, and all evaluable patients., Up to 1 month post-treatment|Change in H3K79 Methylation (Phase II), Will compare quantitative methylation and methylation valence (e.g. if H3K27 has been methylated once, twice, or three times) from baseline and subsequent bone marrow samples using descriptive statistics and graphical displays. A Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess post-treatment differences as compared to baseline., Baseline up to 1 month post-treatment|Change in Expression Levels of HOXA9 and Meis1 (Phase II), Will compare expression level by qPCR of HOXA9 and Meis1 levels from baseline and subsequent bone marrow samples using descriptive statistics and graphical displays. A Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to assess post-treatment differences as compared to baseline., Baseline up to 1 month post-treatment|Fraction of Cells With 11q23 Rearrangements (Phase II), Samples will be banked, and cytogenetic and FISH analysis of these cells will be performed to evaluate for the presence of MLL-rearrangement in patients who respond to therapy., Up to 1 month post-treatment|Change in Absolute Neutrophil / Absolute Monocyte Count (Phase II), Will evaluate differentiation by performing a differential on the bone marrow biopsy and peripheral blood samples at baseline and from subsequent time points and assessing percentage of monocytes / neutrophils, bands, and myeloid forms present., Baseline up to the end of course 1
Incorporation of 5-aza-2'-Deoxycytidine Into Genomic Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) and the Extent of Global DNA Methylation (Phase Ib and II), Will correlate with systemic azacitidine exposure and pharmacodynamics effects., Up to 1 month post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the combination of pinometostat, at a dose of 54 or 90 mg/m\^2/day, and azacitidine, at a dose of 75 mg/m\^2 daily for 7 days, is safe and tolerable in patients with MLL-rearranged acute myeloid leukemia, either in the relapsed/ refractory setting or in those who choose not to undergo standard induction therapy in the previously untreated setting. (Phase Ib) II. To determine the preliminary efficacy, as determined by overall response rate (complete response \[CR\], complete response with incomplete bone marrow recovery \[CRi\], partial response \[PR\], and morphologic leukemia-free state \[MLFS\]), of pinometostat administered at the maximum tolerated dose from the phase 1b, combined with azacitidine administered at 75 mg/m\^2 daily for 7 days, in patients with MLL-rearranged acute myeloid leukemia, either in the relapsed/refractory setting or in those who choose not to undergo standard induction therapy in the previously untreated setting. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Perform correlative studies to evaluate for on-target effects, cellular differentiation, and decreased leukemia cell proliferation in these patients. (Phase Ib and II) II. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase Ib)

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of pinometostat followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive pinometostat intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-28 and azacitidine IV over 10-40 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) for 7 of the first 10 days of the cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 month.