Testing the Addition of an Anti-Cancer Drug, Cabozantinib to the Immunotherapy Drug Cemiplimab (REGN2810), in Adolescents and Adults With Advanced Adrenocortical Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effect of giving cabozantinib with or without cemiplimab in patients with adrenocortical cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), and that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or that has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Cabozantinib is in a class of medications called tyrosine kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals cancer cells to multiply, which may help keep cancer cells from growing. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cemiplimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving cabozantinib with cemiplimab may kill more tumor cells in patients with locally advanced unresectable or recurrent/metastatic adrenocortical cancer.
Locally Advanced Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma|Metastatic Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma|Recurrent Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma|Stage III Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Adrenal Cortical Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Cabozantinib|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Progression free survival (PFS), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v 1.1). Will be analyzed using an intention-to-treat (ITT) approach. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions for the treatment arms. The hazard ratio, median PFS, and estimated PFS rates at 5, 10 and 15 months will be estimated along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. A one-sided log rank-test will be used to compare the PFS distributions between the two treatment arms., From registration to either progression or death, assessed up to 4 years post-registration
Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events will be recorded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 for each patient. Frequency tables and summary statistics will be used and with the appropriate methods of evaluating categorical and continuous data., Up to 4 years post-registration|Objective response rate, Will be assessed based on RECIST 1.1 criteria and will be summarized by treatment arm. will be calculated as the number of patients who achieve a response (partial response, complete response) divided by the total number of patients randomized to the corresponding treatment arm. A contingency table comparing treatment arms and responders to non-responders will be generated and a Fisher's exact test with a p-value cutoff of 0.05 will be used for determining whether evidence of a significant association between treatment and response is found., Up to 4 years post-registration|Duration of response, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions of duration of response and a log-rank test between treatment arm will be calculated with corresponding p-value., From first date of the patient achieving either a complete or partial response and progression (via RECIST v 1.1), assessed up to 4 years post-registration|Time to progression, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions of time to progression., From registration date and progression date, assessed up to 4 years post-registration|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions of overall survival., From registration to death, assessed up to 4 years post-registration
Median PFS for patients who cross over, Calculated with corresponding 95% confidence interval., From re-registration to progression or death, assessed up to 4 years post-registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether the combination of cabozantinib plus cemiplimab (REGN2810) (Cabo-Cemiplimab \[REGN2810\]) improves progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v.) 1.1 relative to cabozantinib alone in patients with locally advanced unresectable or recurrent/metastatic advanced adrenocortical cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess tolerability and adverse events of Cabo-Cemiplimab (REGN2810) in advanced adrenocortical cancer (ACC) patients.

II. To assess objective response rate as per RECIST v 1.1. III. To assess duration of objective response, time to progression (TTP), and overall survival (OS) in ACC patients receiving Cabo-Cemiplimab (REGN2810).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess PFS from re-registration (per RECIST 1.1) and OS for patients who crossover to receive Cabo-Cemiplimab after progressing on cabozantinib alone.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection throughout the study. Upon disease progression, patients may elect to crossover to receive combination therapy on Arm B.

ARM B: Patients receive cemiplimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib PO QD on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT scan or MRI and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks until disease progression and then every 6 months for 4 years post-registration.