Triple Immune Checkpoint Inhibition for Advanced or Metastatic PD-(L)1 Refractory Merkel Cell Carcinoma
This phase II trial tests how well a combination of three immunotherapy drugs work for patients with Merkel cell carcinoma that has spread to lymph nodes and/or distant parts of the body and cannot be treated with surgery (advanced or metastatic MCC) and grew despite prior PD-(L)1 therapy. The three drugs INCMGA00012 (retifanlimab, anti-PD-1), INCAGN02385 (tuparstobart, anti-LAG-3), and INCAGN02390 (verzistobart, anti-TIM-3) are monoclonal antibodies given periodically via IV to reactivate the body's immune system to attack the cancer. This combination may stop tumor growth if tumors have grown despite anti-PD-(L)1 therapy alone.
Unresectable Clinical Stage III Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Merkel Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Merkel Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Retifanlimab|DRUG: Tuparstobart|DRUG: Verzistobart
Objective response rate, Defined as the proportion of participants having a best objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by investigator assessment per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1., Up to 5 years following completion of study treatment
Duration of response, The Kaplan-Meier technique will be used to obtain estimates., From the earliest date of disease response (CR or PR) until the earliest date of disease progression, per RECIST v1.1, or the date of death from any cause, if occurring sooner than progression, assessed up to 5 years following completion of treatment|Disease control rate, Defined as the proportion of participants having CR, PR, or stable disease as their best objective response to the study treatment, per RECIST v1.1., Up to 5 years following completion of treatment|Progression free survival, The Kaplan-Meier technique will be used to obtain estimates., From date of first dose of study treatment until the earliest date of disease progression, per RECIST v1.1, or the date of death from any cause, if occurring sooner than progression, assessed up to 5 years following completion of treatment|Overall survival, The Kaplan-Meier technique will be used to obtain estimates., From date of first dose of study treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years following the completion of treatment|Disease specific survival, Cumulative incidence estimates will be used to summarize the probabilities., From date of first dose of study treatment until the date of death from Merkle cell carcinoma, assessed up to 5 years following completion of treatment|Incidence and severity of adverse events, Including the frequency and duration of immune-related adverse events, rates of treatment interruption and treatment discontinuation, and the use of immunosuppressive medications for toxicities. Measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 90 days following completion of study treatment
OUTLINE:

All patients receive the same investigational drug combination.

SCREENING: Patients undergo history and physical examination, adverse event assessment, safety and eligibility labs, radiologic evaluation with computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and complete informed consent.

INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive anti-LAG-3 and anti-TIM-3 intravenously (IV) every 2 weeks along with retifanlimab (anti-PD-1) IV every 4 weeks, along with clinical visit, physical examination, and labs for safety. Treatment continues for up to day 169 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT/MRI every 8 weeks. Research tumor biopsies will be obtained on day 1 and day 15 unless unsafe and unfeasible. Research blood draws will occur at day 1, day 15, and periodically throughout Induction Phase.

MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive all three drugs IV every 6 weeks along with clinical visit, physical examination, and labs for safety. Treatment continues for up to day 715 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo CT/MRI every 12 weeks. Research blood sample collection will continue periodically.

Patients with progressive disease per investigator evaluation will stop receiving therapy. Research blood and tumor biopsies will be obtained at time of progression if safe and feasible.

Upon completion of study treatment (day 715 or sooner for disease progression), safety visits occur at 30 and 90 days. Follow up for long term outcomes continues every 6 months for up to 5 years.