Trametinib in Increasing Tumoral Iodine Incorporation in Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well trametinib works in increasing tumoral iodine incorporation in patients with thyroid cancer that has come back or spread to another place in the body. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and may help make treatment with iodine I-131 more effective.
Metastatic Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Poorly Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Recurrent Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma AJCC v7
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Iodine I 124|RADIATION: Iodine I-131|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacodynamic Study|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Trametinib
Percentage of Patients Progression Free at 6 Months Following Treatment With Trametinib and I-124 (Cohort A), Cohort A only. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, At 6 months|Progression Free Survival (Cohort A), An exact binomial stage design will be used to discriminate between true 6-month progression/death rates of 20% vs 50%, and between true ORR rates at 6 months of 5% and 25%. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, At 6 months|Percentage With Objective Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) (Cohort A), Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. An exact binomial stage design will be used to discriminate between true 6-month ORR rates at 6 months of 5% and 25%. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., At 6 months|Iodine Incorporation in Thyroid Cancer Metastases to a Predicted Lesional Absorbed Radiation Dose Equal to or Exceeding 2,000 cGy With the Administration of =< 300 mCi Radioiodine (RAI) (Cohort B), "Adequate increase" is defined as increasing iodine incorporation in thyroid cancer metastases to a predicted lesional absorbed radiation dose equal to or exceeding 2,000 cGy with the administration of \< 300 mCi RAI. Iodine incorporation is quantified with PET/CT lesional dosimetry., Up to 6 months
Adequate Increase in Iodine Corporation (Cohort A), Will be determined by treatment with trametinib in thyroid cancer metastases to a predicted lesional absorbed radiation dose equal to or exceeding 2,000 cGy with the administration of =\< 300 mCi radioiodine (RAI). Proportion of patients with an adequate increase will be reported, along with the corresponding exact 95% confidence interval., Up to 6 months|Changes in Thyroglobulin, Wilcoxon signed rank test will be performed for paired samples to compare the thyroglobulin level before and after RAI treatment in the subset of patients treated with RAI., Baseline to up to 6 months|Number of Participants With Toxicity (Cohort A), Will be assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Toxicities will be individually reported and summarized., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment|Percentage With an Objective Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) (Cohort B), Will be assessed by RECIST v1 1.1 criteria. An exact binomial stage design will be used to discriminate between true 6-month ORR rates at 6 months of 5% and 25%., At 6 months|Percentage of Patients Alive Without Disease Progression (Cohort B), Assessed per RECIST v1.1. Will be estimated using 95% confidence intervals., At 6 months|Change in Thyroglobulin (Cohort B), Will determine whether treatment with trametinib and RAI results in decreasing thyroglobulin. Will perform a Wilcoxon signed rank test for paired samples to compare the thyroglobulin level before and after RAI treatment in the subset of patients treated with RAI., Baseline up to 6 months|Number of Participants With Toxicity (Cohort B), Will be assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.0. Toxicities will be individually reported and summarized. Beginning April 1, 2018, CTCAE v5.0 will be utilized for adverse event (AE) reporting., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment
Expression and Phosphorylation of MAPK Signaling Pathway Proteins, Analyses will be descriptive., Up to 6 months|Expression and Phosphorylation of Negative Feedback Loops Connected to the MAPK Pathway (Such as Human Epidermal Growth Factor 3), Analyses will be descriptive., Up to 6 months|Quantitative Levels of Messenger Ribonucleic Acid Transcripts for MAPK Regulated and Thyroid-specific Gene Products, Analyses will be descriptive., Up to 6 months|Presence of Other Genetic Alterations, Analyses will be descriptive., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing radioiodine (RAI) activity by determining the proportion of patients alive at 6 months without disease progression by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST version \[v\]1.1) criteria following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort A) II. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining the objective response rate (ORR) at 6 months following treatment with radioiodine (RAI) in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort A) III. To determine the proportion of patients following trametinib therapy with increased tumoral iodine incorporation as quantified by iodine iodine-124 (I-124) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) lesional dosimetry. (Cohort B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients following trametinib therapy with increased tumoral iodine incorporation as quantified with I-124 PET/CT lesional dosimetry. (Cohort A) II. To evaluate the safety/tolerability of trametinib with or without RAI. (Cohort A) III. To evaluate changes in thyroglobulin levels in patients treated with RAI. (Cohort A) IV. To explore potential correlations between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or tumoral pharmacodynamic changes induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory) (Cohort A) V. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining the ORR at 6 months following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort B) VI. To evaluate the effect of trametinib on enhancing RAI activity by determining the proportion of patients alive at 6 months without disease progression by RECIST v 1.1 criteria following treatment with RAI in co-administration with trametinib. (Cohort B) VII. To evaluate the safety/tolerability of trametinib with or without RAI. (Cohort B) VIII. To evaluate changes in thyroglobulin levels in patients treated with RAI. (Cohort B) IX. To explore potential correlations between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or tumoral pharmacodynamic changes induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory) (Cohort B) X. Preliminary evaluation of best objective response (BOR) rate for patients treated with trametinib alone. (Exploratory) (Cohort C) XI. Preliminary evaluation of the proportion of patients following treatment with trametinib alive at 6 months without disease progression by RECIST v 1.1 criteria. (exploratory) (Cohort C) XII. To evaluate the safety/tolerability of trametinib. (Cohort C) XIII. To evaluate changes in thyroglobulin levels in patients treated with trametinib. (Cohort C) XIV. To explore potential correlations between genomic alterations present in the tumor and/or tumoral pharmacodynamic changes induced by trametinib to clinical outcomes. (Exploratory) (Cohort C) XV. To explore the impact of continued trametinib upon RAI avidity and efficacy. (Exploratory) (Cohort C)

OUTLINE: Patients with RAS gene mutations are assigned to Cohort A, while patients without BRAF/RAS gene mutations are assigned to Cohort B.

COHORT A: Patients undergo iodine I-124 PET/CT on day 5 of week 1. Beginning day 6, patients receive trametinib orally (PO) daily for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo second iodine I-124 PET/CT on week 5. If I-124 PET/CT shows enough iodine absorption, patients may receive iodine I-131 PO and continue receiving trametinib for another 2 days. If I-124 shows that the thyroid is not absorbing iodine, patients have the option to be assigned to Cohort C.

COHORT B: Patients undergo iodine I-124 PET/CT on day 5 of week 1. Beginning day 6, patients receive trametinib PO daily for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo second iodine I-124 PET/CT on week 5. If I-124 PET/CT shows enough iodine absorption, patients may receive iodine I-131 PO and continue receiving trametinib for another 2 days. If I-124 shows that the thyroid is not absorbing iodine, patients have the option to be assigned to Cohort C.

COHORT C: Patients may continue trametinib at the doctor's discretion and do not receive iodine I-131.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.