Establishing a Tumor Registry for Patients With Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Cervix
This study collects information and data on patients with neuroendocrine cervical cancer. Information from this study may be used to better understand the correlation between clinical data, such as patient characteristics, treatment, and disease outcomes, and overall patient outcomes.
Cervical Large Cell Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Cervical Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Cervical Small Cell Carcinoma|Cervical Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Stage I Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB1 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA1 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Cervical Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Follow-Up|OTHER: Medical Chart Review
Disease characterization data, Information collected from retrospective and prospective review of medical records., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient treatment data, Information collected from retrospective and prospective review of medical records., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient outcome data, Information collected from retrospective and prospective review of medical records., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect, both prospectively and retrospectively, data on disease characterization, treatment, and outcomes for patients with neuroendocrine carcinoma of the uterine cervix.

II. To organize clinical information in order to support multifaceted queries of patient characteristics, treatment, and disease outcome data and to facilitate correlation of these characteristics with patient outcome.

III. To have a single data repository kept on a secure platform that will integrate clinical information and research findings and serve as an archive for future research.

OUTLINE:

Patients' medical records are reviewed retrospectively and prospectively. On a case by case basis for up to 10 years to check status of disease and any further treatment received.