Testing the Anti-cancer Drug, Glofitamab, in Patients With Mantle Cell Lymphoma (A Type of Blood Cancer) Whose Disease Returned After CAR-T Cell Therapy
This phase II trial tests the safety and side effects of glofitamab and obinutuzumab and how well they work in treating patients with mantle cell lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory) after receiving CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. CAR T-cell therapy is a form of immunotherapy where the immune system cell, T-cell, is changed to attack cancer cells. Glofitamab is a bispecific antibody that can bind to two different antigens at the same time. Glofitamab binds to CD3, a protein found on T cells (a type of white blood cell), and CD20 a protein found on B cells (another type of white blood cell) and some lymphoma cells. This may help the immune system kill cancer cells. Obinutuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that can bind to certain targets in the body, such as molecules that cause the body to make an immune response (antigens). Giving glofitamab and obinutuzumab may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating patients with relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma after receiving CD19-directed CAR T-cell therapy.
Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Glofitamab|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Objective response rate, A Simon 2-stage optimal design will be used with a favorable response of 60% and unfavorable response of 30%., Up to 2 years
Complete response rate, Proportions will be estimated with Agresti-Coull 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Proportions will be estimated with Agresti-Coull 95% binomial confidence intervals. Will be estimated using the Kaplan Meier method. Estimates of PFS will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Proportions will be estimated with Agresti-Coull 95% binomial confidence intervals. Will be estimated using the Kaplan Meier method. Estimates of OS will be reported with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 24 months|Incidence of grade 3-4 cytokine release syndrome, Proportions will be estimated with Agresti-Coull 95% binomial confidence intervals. Incidence will be described., Up to 2 years|Incidence of grade 3-4 neurologic toxicity, Proportions will be estimated with Agresti-Coull 95% binomial confidence intervals. Incidence will be described., Up to 2 years|Changes in glofitamab clearance, Pharmacokinetics (PK) of glofitamab will also be determined to assess exposure-response and clearance-response relationships. When appropriate, Bayesian logistic regression analysis will be performed to assess exposure-response and clearance-response relationships. Basic non-compartmental analyses will be performed with the concentration versus time data to summarize several pharmacokinetic parameters including observed maximum concentration (Cmax) and area under the observed concentration versus time curves (AUC). Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize these results. Nonlinear mixed-effects modeling will also be performed to develop a population PK model of glofitamab to describe PK properties, including absorption, distribution, and overall elimination., At baseline and up to 2 years
Relationship in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in plasma, treatment response, and duration of response, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the ctDNA results., On day 1 of cycles 1, 3, and 5 (cycle length = 21 days)|Relationship between chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell levels in plasma, immunophenotype, treatment response, and duration of response, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the CAR-T and T-cell immunophenotype results., On day 1 of cycles 1, 3 and 5 (cycle length = 21 days)|Glofitamab PK, Before and 5-60 minutes after glofitamab infusions on day 8 of cycle 1 and day 1 of cycles 2-4, 6, 9, and 12 (cycle length = 21 days)|Relationship between fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/ computed tomography interlesional treatment response heterogeneity and survival outcomes, Responses will be assessed using 2014 revised response criteria as outlined by Cheson et al., 2014., At baseline and after cycles 2, 5, 8, and 12 (cycle length = 21 days)|Relationship between organ-specific changes in standardized uptake value (SUV) metrics and immune-related adverse events (AEs), Images will be analyzed for changes in SUV metrics using the TRAQinform tool. Changes in SUV metrics (including max, mean, total) will be obtained in each lesion with metrics reported numerically, as well as graphically to understand treatment response heterogeneity (percent lesions for each response classification based on each SUV metric and change in lesion based on established limits of agreement). The automated organ segmentations will be used to quantify organ uptake, which will be correlated with occurrence of AEs in those organs. A TRAQinform profile based on an artificial intelligence model (random survival forest model generated in lymphoma) of survival will be used to explore predictive accuracy in patients treated with glofitamab., At baseline and after cycles 2, 5, 8, and 12 (cycle length = 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the proportion of relapsed/refractory (R/R) mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients with an objective response (OR) to glofitamab after prior treatment with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR)-T.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR). II. To describe the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) at 24 months.

III. To describe the incidence of grade 3-4 cytokine release syndrome (CRS). IV. To describe the incidence of grade 3-4 neurologic toxicity. V. To describe the relationship between glofitamab clearance at baseline, changes in clearance over time, treatment response, and duration of response.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the relationship between circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) detection in plasma, treatment response, and duration of response.

II. To evaluate the relationship between CAR T-cell levels in plasma, immunophenotype, treatment response, and duration of response.

III. To evaluate the relationship between fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/ computed tomography (FDG PET/CT) interlesional treatment response heterogeneity and survival outcomes.

IV. To evaluate the relationship between organ-specific changes in standardized uptake value (SUV) metrics and immune-related adverse events (AEs).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 or on days 1 and 2 of cycle 1 and glofitamab IV over 8 hours on days 8 and 15 of cycle 1 then over 2-8 hours on day 1 of cycles 2-12. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection and PET/CT throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.