Precision Medicine Randomized Clinical Trial Comparing Molecular Tumor Board Assisted Care to Usual Care
This trial will compare Molecular Tumor Board (MTB) assisted care to usual care for patients who have newly diagnosed histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IIb-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) and are planning to undergo treatment for their cancer.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Molecular tumor board assisted care
Overall survival, Overall survival 1 year survival between individuals with stage IIb-IV NSCLC who receive MTB assisted care to those who receive usual care., 1 year|Change in quality of life (QOL), Quality of life will be assessed via the FACT-L (The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung). FACT-L has 5 areas of measurement: physical wellbeing, social/family wellbeing, emotional wellbeing, functional wellbeing, and an additional concerns list of problems specific to lung cancer. Areas are measured on a 5-point Likert-type scale of 0-4. The FACT-L subscales can be scored to yield a total score, subscale scores, as well as the Trial Outcome Index (TOI), which reflects the physical wellbeing, functional wellbeing, and lung cancer symptom subscales. TOI scores range from 0-84, with a higher score reflecting better QOL. Total FACT-G scores (physical, social, emotional, and functional wellbeing subscales) range from 0-108, with higher scores reflecting better QOL. The lung cancer subscale (i.e., additional concerns subscale) can range from 0-28 (only 7 items are scored), with higher scores reflecting better QOL., At enrollment, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks.
Overall survival, Comparison of overall survival between individuals with stage IIb-IV NSCLC who receive MTB assisted care to those who receive usual care, 1 year|Change in guideline concordant care, Comparison of guideline concordant care (specifically receiving next generation sequencing (NGS) testing and treatments based on identified mutations) between individuals with stage IIb-IV NSCLC who receive MTB assisted care to those who receive usual care., 8 weeks, 12 weeks, and 1 year|Change in satisfaction with treatment, To compare satisfaction with treatment between individuals with stage IIb-IV NSCLC who receive MTB assisted care to those who receive usual care, including financial, psychosocial, and physical measures of satisfaction using the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Treatment Satisfaction - General (TSG) (version 4). The FACIT-TSG is an 8-item questionnaire, with each item score ranging from 0 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much"). Total scores range from 0 to 32 with higher scores indicating greater satisfaction with treatment., At enrollment, 8 weeks, and 12 weeks.
Association of ctDNA variant allele frequency, To determine the association of ctDNA variant allele frequency with 1 year overall survival, 1 year
This trial will compare Molecular Tumor Board (MTB) assisted care to usual care for patients who have newly diagnosed histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IIb-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) and are planning to undergo treatment for their cancer.