Randomised Prospective Comparison of the NMA Allograft and the Traditional Allograft in Acute Myeloid Leukaemia
The allograft of marrow in its technique of reference (myélo-ablative (MA) condition by cyclophosphamide and total body irradiation (TBI) with strong amounts) therapeutic is recognized acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) of the adult for the patients of less than 55 years, because it offers chances of cure higher than chemotherapy or the auto-graft. However, mortality related to the traditional graft is approximately 30% to 1 year. The recent use of the non-myélo-ablative graft (NMA), in which the anti-leukaemia effect rests exclusively on the allogenic effect "graft-versus-leukaemia" makes it possible to obtain among patients of more than 55 years in complete reemission (CR), survivals without relapses comparable with the traditional allograft among patients of more than 35 years. The major interest of NMA graft is to reduce early mortality related to the graft. This reduction should be all the more significant as the patient is younger, and thus bring to a better survival. There is not, at the present hour, of prospective comparative study of the two procedures of graft. Taking into account the results observed after NMA graft among patients of more than 55 years, and taking into account the toxicity of the standard graft between 35 and 55 years, it is essential to now compare the 2 approaches among patients who do not have a counter-indication for one or the other, in the age bracket where the toxicity of the traditional graft is highest.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
PROCEDURE: Allogenic transplantation
To show that NMA graft reduces mortality related to the procedure to 10%, compared to 30% waited in the arm of reference (α : 5%; p: 80%; bilateral formulation), 50 patients will be included in each arm
1- global survival, without relapse, and the various complications of the graft at 2 years 2- quality of life 3- the cost. 4- kinetics of the chimerism donor/receiver and his predictive value of the relapse and the reaction of the graft against the host.
Will not be included in CR1 nor the patients with good forecast under chemotherapy, (Inv 16; t(8;21)), nor patients at the very high risk of relapse (anomalies complex cytogenetics). The conditioning of MA graft will be Cyclophosphamide and ICT with strong amounts. NMA graft will be made according to the protocol Seattle (fludarabine 30 mg/m2/j X 3 and ICT of 2 Gy). The study will be undertaken in 12 French centers of allograft taking part in the protocols ESPARTO or EORTC.