Temozolomide, Cixutumumab, and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Rhabdomyosarcoma
This randomized pilot clinical trial is studying the side effects and how well giving temozolomide and cixutumumab together with combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cixutumumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving temozolomide and cixutumumab together with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Rhabdomyosarcoma|Childhood Alveolar Rhabdomyosarcoma|Childhood Embryonal Rhabdomyosarcoma|Metastatic Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Untreated Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Cixutumumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Dactinomycin|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate Liposome
Feasibility of the Addition of Cixutumumab to Chemotherapy Determined by Patient Enrollment, Proportion of no Grade 3+ cardiac toxicity., From start to week 26 of therapy|Feasibility of the Addition of Temozolomide to Chemotherapy Determined by Patient Enrollment, Proportion of no Grade 4+ non-hematologic toxicity., From start to week 26 of therapy|Incidence of Adverse Events Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Number of patients with grade 3+ adverse events (AE) during therapy. (Grade 3+) = (Grade 3 + Grade 4 + Grade 5) . Grade 3: Severe and undesirable AE; Grade 4: Life threatening or disabling AE; Grade 5: Death related to AE., Up to 54 weeks|Event-Free Survival, Probability of no relapse, secondary malignancy, or death after 3 years in the study., 3 years
Response Rate (CR + PR), Proportion of patients with complete or partial response. Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of the tumor confirmed at \> 4 weeks. Partial Response (PR): At least 64% decrease in volume compared to the measurement obtained at study enrollment; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., From the start of treatment until a maximum of 2 cycles (21 days per cycle) of treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicities
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of administering IMC-A12 (cixutumumab) in combination with a multi-agent intensive chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of high-risk rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS).

II. To determine the feasibility of adding temozolomide to vincristine (vincristine sulfate)/irinotecan (irinotecan hydrochloride) cycles in patients with high-risk RMS.

III. To assess immediate and short-term side effects of delivery of concurrent temozolomide-vincristine-irinotecan with irradiation in patients with high-risk RMS.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To gain a preliminary estimate of the response rate to IMC-A12 or temozolomide plus vincristine/irinotecan in previously untreated high-risk RMS.

II. To obtain preliminary efficacy data for IMC-A12 or temozolomide in combination with a multi-agent interval compressed chemotherapy regimen in previously untreated high-risk RMS.

III. To determine the effectiveness of detecting metastatic disease with fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography (FDG PET) and to compare assessment of response using standard imaging techniques with response assessed by FDG PET.

IV. To assess changes in serum levels of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I, IGF-II, IGF-BP3 as biomarkers of IGF-IR inhibition.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cixutumumab. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups according to the timing of their enrollment onto the study.

GROUP 1: Patients receive vincristine sulfate intravenously (IV) over 1 minute on day 1 of weeks 1-5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 20-24, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 38, 41-44, 47, 48, 50, and 51; irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on days 1-5 of weeks 1, 4, 20, 23, 47, and 50; ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5 of weeks 9, 13, 17, 26, and 30; doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1 and 2 of weeks 7, 11, 15, 28, and 32; cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 7, 11, 15, 28, 32, 35, 38, 41, and 44; dactinomycin IV over 1-5 minutes on day 1 of weeks 35, 38, 41, and 44; and cixutumumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 of weeks 1-51. Patients also undergo radiation therapy\* on days 1-5 of weeks 20-24.

GROUP 2: Patients receive vincristine sulfate, irinotecan hydrochloride, ifosfamide, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin and undergo radiation therapy\* as in group 1. Patients also receive temozolomide orally (PO) on days 1-5 of weeks 1, 4, 20, 23, 47, and 50.

GROUP 3: Patients receive vincristine sulfate, irinotecan hydrochloride, ifosfamide, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, dactinomycin, and cixutumumab and undergo radiation therapy\* as in group 1. Patients also receive temozolomide as in group 2. (Discontinued as of January 2013)

NOTE: \*Patients with parameningeal tumors and evidence of intracranial extension or those requiring emergency radiotherapy may receive radiation therapy starting in week 1; cixutumumab should be withheld during radiation therapy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 3 weeks and then periodically for up to 5 years.