The Effects of Treating Insomnia on Behavioral Weight Loss Outcomes in Survivors of Breast Cancer
The investigators propose a randomized controlled clinical trial in 250 women with a history of early stage breast cancer who are overweight or obese with insomnia to test whether a brief, cognitive-behavioral intervention for insomnia (CBT-I) prior to behavioral weight loss (CBT-I+BWL) is superior to a sleep education control (EDU) condition followed by behavioral weight loss (EDU+BWL). The investigators will measure outcomes at baseline, 8 weeks (after completing CBT-I or EDU and prior to BWL), and at 3, 6, and 12 months.
Breast Cancer|Insomnia|Weight Gain
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive-Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I)|BEHAVIORAL: Sleep Education Control (EDU)
Change in Weight (pounds), Our primary endpoint is % total weight loss (TWL) at 12 months. We will measure weight in light clothes without shoes, using a digital scale (in pounds) and height to the nearest 0.1 cm using a calibrated stadiometer, according to standardized procedures., Baseline (randomization); 8 weeks post-sleep intervention (prior to BWL); and at 3, 6, and 12 months post-BWL.
Diet quality as assessed by Automated Self-Administered 24-hour (ASA24) Dietary Assessment Tool, Will be measured using the Automated Self-Administered 24-hour (ASA24) Dietary Assessment Tool, which follows an automated multiple-pass methodology., Baseline (randomization); 8 weeks post-sleep intervention (prior to BWL); and at 3, 6, and 12 months post-BWL.|Physical activity assessed by wearing and accelerometer to track movement., Accelerometers (ActiGraph, LLC, Fort Walton Beach, FL) will be used to assess both sedentary time and moderate to vigorous physical activity., Baseline (randomization); 8 weeks post-sleep intervention (prior to BWL); and at 3, 6, and 12 months post-BWL.|Body composition measured through DEXA scan, Body composition will be assessed by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA), which measures total and regional fat, lean tissue and bone mass, Baseline and week 61
The entire study will span a 14-month period and involves one video screening visit (V1) and 4 in-person assessment visits (V2-V5) and 27 video sessions (6 for sleep intervention or sleep control and 19 for BWL). After passing an initial phone screen, participants will be scheduled for in-depth screening (V1). The investigators will complete urine samples for pregnancy and substances, administer study measures, obtain weight, height, anthropometrics and randomize at in-person visit (V2). The overall framework of the BWL intervention is social cognitive theory (increasing self-efficacy and social support) with motivational interviewing (MI) as an approach to helping participants engage in established behavior change strategies (e.g. self-monitoring, stimulus control, goal setting, feedback, etc.) aimed at reducing dietary intake and increasing physical activity (PA). Body composition will be assessed by Dual Energy X-Ray Absorptiometry (DEXA), which measures total and regional fat, lean tissue and bone mass. The investigators will conduct DEXA scans at two time points (V1 \& V5).The investigators' primary endpoint is % total weight loss (TWL) at 12 months. The investigators will measure weight in light clothes without shoes, using a digital scale and height to the nearest 0.1 cm using a calibrated stadiometer, according to standardized procedures.