FG001 in Subjects with Meningiomas or Presumed Low-Grade Gliomas Scheduled for Neurosurgery
In neurosurgery both the diffusely infiltrated gliomas of the brain as well as the border towards healthy tissue in the meninges is a challenge. For the high-grade contrast enhanced gliomas fluorescent drugs like Gliolan have been used in several years and proved its clinical value. For non-contrast enhanced gliomas, like low-grade glioma, no such drug exist. The transition zone towards healthy non-tumor cell infiltrated brain in such low-grade gliomas is extremely difficult but for these patients their prognosis depends on the amount of non-healthy tissue left behind. Also, in benign tumors as meningioma the complete resection including infiltrated meninges is of importance for the cure of the disease. None of the existing fluorescent drug is useful or approved for these tumors.. Hence a medicinal product that will fulfil the criteria for a safe and reliable fluorescent drug to guide the surgery to the boundaries of the infiltration with tumor cells is highly warranted.
Low-grade Glioma|Meningioma|Glioma
DRUG: FG001 prior to surgery
Primary objective, The primary objective is to evaluate the sensitivity of FG001 for detection of tumor tissue from meningioma and pLGG. The sensitivity will be evaluated as the proportion of subjects with fluorescent tumors given the tumor has been histologically verified., 24 months
Secondary outcome, The efficacy of FG001 as a tumor imaging agent and safety will be monitored. The efficacy is examined by the sensitivity and specificity. Sensitivity is defined as the probability that a test result is positive when the subject has the disease, while specificity is the probability that a test result is negative when the patient does not have the disease. Safety is determined by physical examinations, laboratory samples and the incidence and severity of the Adverse events (AEs), which are evaluated by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Technology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., 24 months
The drug FG001 (ICG-Glu-Glu-AE105), a uPAR-targeting fluorescent drug, has been tested in patients with high-grade glioma as part of a First-in-human clinical trial and demonstrated an excellent safety profile and efficacy results. Animal studies have indicated uptake of FG001 in low-grade glioma while uptake has been shown in one clinical case of meningioma providing the basis for this trial.

Consequently, the investigators intend to test the ability of FG001 to reliably fluoresce in patients with presumed low-grade glioma or meningioma.