Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Ovarian Cancer, or Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects of erlotinib and to see how well it works in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable non-small cell lung cancer, ovarian cancer, or squamous cell carcinoma (cancer) of the head and neck. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IIIC Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Rate of diarrhea and skin rash across the short, medium, and long genotype frequencies of the CA polymorphism, Compared using Armitage's test for a trend in proportions. In the event that the relationship between toxicity and length of the polymorphism is not monotone, a two degree-of-freedom chisquare test will be used in place of the trend test. The number of CA repeats treated as a continuous variable by averaging the number of repeats on each chromosome. Logistic regression analysis will then be performed to model the probability of toxicity as a function of the average length., Baseline|Rate of diarrhea and skin rash across the short, medium, and long genotype frequencies of the CA polymorphism, Compared using Armitage's test for a trend in proportions. In the event that the relationship between toxicity and length of the polymorphism is not monotone, a two degree-of-freedom chisquare test will be used in place of the trend test. The number of CA repeats treated as a continuous variable by averaging the number of repeats on each chromosome. Logistic regression analysis will then be performed to model the probability of toxicity as a function of the average length., Week 6
Pharmacodynamic effects of erlotinib hydrochloride on EGFR activity and MAP kinase signaling, Week 1|Observed anti-tumor responses, Number of patients with complete or partial tumor responses and will be tabulated; 95% confidence intervals will be generated., Up to 4 years|All observed toxicities, The frequency of adverse events will be tabulated; 95% confidence intervals will be generated., Up to 4 years|Erlotinib hydrochloride AUC, Compared with incidence of toxicity in patients with at least one 3A5\*1 allele to those with no 3A5\*1 allele using two-sample t and chi square tests, respectively. The relationship between toxicity and AUC evaluated by fitting ordinal (proportional odds) logistic regression models in which the grade of toxicity is the dependent variable and AUC is the independent or predictor variable. If the proportional odds model does not provide a good fit to the data then the toxicity grade will be dichotomized and analyzed using and analyzed using ordinary logistic regression., Baseline, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, and 6 h after initiation, and pre-treatment days 15 and 29
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if a significant correlation exists between the length of the CA dinucleotide repeat polymorphism in the EGFR gene and observed toxicity in patients treated with OSI-774.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study the pharmacodynamic effects of OSI-774 on EGFR activity and MAP kinase signaling using skin as a surrogate tissue.

II. To determine if interindividual variation of OSI-774 pharmacokinetics is related to a previously described CYP3A5 genetic polymorphism.

III. To evaluate whether toxicity or inhibition of EGFR phosphorylation correlates with OSI-774 AUC in patients treated with OSI-774.

IV. To describe the observed anti-tumor response and toxicities in patients with advanced solid tumors treated with single agent fixed dose of OSI-774.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to length of CA dinucleotide repeat polymorphism (short vs medium vs long).

Patients receive oral erlotinib on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.