Phase 3 Study of Pelabresib (CPI-0610) in Myelofibrosis (MF) (MANIFEST-2)
A Phase 3, randomized, blinded study comparing pelabresib (CPI-0610) and ruxolitinib with placebo and ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis (MF) patients that have not been previously treated with Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi). Pelabresib is a small molecule inhibitor of bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) proteins.
Myelofibrosis|Primary Myelofibrosis|Post-polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis|Post-essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Pelabresib|DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants With Splenic Response by Central Reads at Week 24, The primary endpoint of the study is splenic response, defined as a ≥35% reduction from baseline in spleen volume as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computerized tomography (CT), and assessed by blinded central radiology read at Week 24., 24 weeks of treatment
Total Symptom Score Absolute Change From Baseline to Week 24, A key secondary endpoint of the study is the absolute change in Total Symptom Score (TSS) at Week 24 compared to baseline as measured by the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form v4.0, which equals the sum of the 7 individual item responses on the 0-10 scale, with a possible total daily score that may range from 0 to 70. A higher TSS indicates a higher disease burden and thus a worse outcome.

Baseline TSS is calculated as the average of non-missing daily total symptom scores over the 7- day period prior to day of randomization. The TSS for a treatment week is the average of non-missing daily total symptom scores over that week. However, the weekly TSS will be considered missing if there are less than 4 daily total symptom scores available for that week., 24 weeks of treatment|Number of Participants With TSS50 Response at Week 24, A key secondary endpoint of the study is Total Symptom Score (TSS) response, defined as a ≥50% decrease from baseline in TSS as measured by the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form v4.0, which equals the sum of the 7 individual item responses on the 0-10 scale, with a possible total daily score that may range from 0 to 70, at Week 24. A higher Total Symptom Score indicates a higher disease burden and thus a worse outcome.

Baseline TSS is calculated as the average of non-missing daily total symptom scores over the 7- day period prior to day of randomization. The TSS for a treatment week is the average of non-missing daily total symptom scores over that week. However, the weekly TSS will be considered missing if there are less than 4 daily total symptom scores available for that week., 24 weeks of treatment
A Phase 3, randomized, blinded study comparing pelabresib (CPI-0610) and ruxolitinib with placebo and ruxolitinib in myelofibrosis (MF) patients that have not been previously treated with Janus kinase inhibitors (JAKi). Pelabresib is a small molecule inhibitor of bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET) proteins.