The Use of a Novel Vaginal Speculum for Cervical Cancer Screening in Sunrise Community Health Patients
The specific aim of this research is to determine if the Bouquet Speculum TM , compared to the existing 2-bladed vaginal speculum, provides better visualization of the cervix, is easier for the provider to use and is more comfortable for the patient.

Additionally, the clinician's experience with vaginal speculum exams and the patient's last vaginal speculum exam, parity and self-reported weight classification will be surveyed to see what effect, if any, it has on visualization of the cervix, ease-of use, and comfort level for the patient.

The objective of this project is to investigate the use of a novel, FDA-cleared, 5-petaled vaginal speculum in cervical cancer screening (Pap test and/or HPV probe) on 200 patients from Sunrise Community Health Clinics in the Denver-Metro area.
Cervical Cancer Screening
DEVICE: Vaginal Speculum Exam
Evaluating the use of the Bouquet Speculum for cervical visibility, ease-of-use, and comfort level, 200 women will be selected from the Sunrise Clinics in the Denver-Metro area. The clinician will then be assigned a letter and complete three questions on a survey for each patient regarding 1. visualization of the cervix 2. ease-of-use 3. experience with speculum exams. The patient will be consented and de-identified and assigned a number to their survey of four questions: 1. comfort level 2. last vaginal speculum exam 3. self-reported description of weight (underweight, normal, overweight, obese) 4. parity (number of births).

The Bouquet Speculum has been FDA-cleared and is a Class II medical device and poses a non-significant risk for use in humans. Regulation Number: 884.4520, 3 months
The Bouquet Speculum TM will be used by a variety of clinicians at Sunrise Clinics including physicians, PAs, and NPs for routine cervical cancer screening including Pap tests and/or HPV probes. 200 women will be selected from the Sunrise Clinics in the Denver-Metro area. Women who do not have a cervix or have never had a vaginal speculum exam will be excluded. The inclusion criteria is women ages 18-65.

The clinician will be provided with a one-page Instructions for Use document and a 2-minute instructional video on how to use the Bouquet Speculum TM. The clinician will then be assigned a letter and complete three questions on a survey for each patient regarding 1. visualization of the cervix 2. ease-of-use 3. experience with speculum exams. The patient will be consented and de-identified and assigned a number to their survey of four questions: 1. comfort level 2. last vaginal speculum exam 3. self-reported description of weight (underweight, normal, overweight, obese) 4. parity (number of births).

The length of the study is anticipated to be three months. The surveys will be collected and tabulated and then evaluated by Dr. Mark Payton who has experience with the Pakistan study.

The Bouquet Speculum has been FDA-cleared and is a Class II medical device and poses a non-significant risk for use in humans.

Proprietary Name: Bouquet Vaginal Speculum Classification Name: RETRACTOR, VAGINAL Product Code: HDL Device Class:2 Regulation Number: 884.4520 Medical Specialty: Obstetrics/Gynecology Registered Establishment Name: Viospex Registered Establishment Number:3012447313 Owner/Operator: Viospex Owner/Operator Number:10051911 Establishment Operations: Manufacture