Pioglitazone and Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor in Treating Patients With Relapsed Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well pioglitazone hydrochloride and tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy works in treating patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) after a first TKI discontinuation. TKI may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking certain enzymes need for cell growth. Although TKI therapies are effective against CML, there are residual cancer cells called leukemia stem cells that are able to hide from TKIs. Pioglitazone is a drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat diabetes and has been shown in laboratory studies to increase CML stem cell death when given together with TKI therapy. Giving pioglitazone with TKI therapy may be effective in treating patients with CML.
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Recurrent Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive
DRUG: Pioglitazone|DRUG: Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI)
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), Graded According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.03, The AE incidence will be described. An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject or clinical investigation subject administered a pharmaceutical product which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. AEs will be assessed through scheduled assessments and subject reported diaries., Up to 30 days after the end of treatment|Proportion of Subjects Who Achieve and Maintain Major Molecular Response (MMR) Following a Second Discontinuation of TKI Using Blood Quantitative Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (qRT-PCR) for Breakpoint Cluster Region-Abelson1 (BCR-ABL1), The proportion of subjects that has reappearance of BCR-ABL1 will be described. Descriptive statistics that will summarize the changes in BCR-ABL1 testing over time will be presented. Subgroup analyses will be performed by baseline potential prognostic factors. Subgroups will include: age, gender, race, underlying diagnosis, and other disease-related prognostic factors (disease status)., Up to 6 months
Proportion of Subjects Who Lose MMR Following Discontinuation of Pioglitazone and TKI Using Blood qRT-PCR for BCR-ABL1, The proportion of subjects that has reappearance of BCR-ABL1 will be described. Descriptive statistics that will summarize the changes in BCR-ABL1 testing over time will be presented. Loss of MMR is defined as a BCR-ABL1 \> 0.1% by qRT-PCR confirmed within a week and associated with a rise in the titer on a confirmatory test obtained 4 weeks later (European Leukemia Net definition). Subgroup analyses will be performed by baseline potential prognostic factors. Subgroups will include: age, gender, race, underlying diagnosis, and other disease-related prognostic factors (disease status)., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety of the combination of pioglitazone (PIO) and TKI in CML subjects who experience a loss of major molecular response (MMR) following a first TKI discontinuation.

II. To assess survival without loss of MMR following a second TKI discontinuation in subjects who achieve or maintain \< molecular response (MR)\^4.5 with the combination PIO and TKI administered for at least 6 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pioglitazone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Patients also start or continue the same TKI therapy at the pre-discontinuation doses. Courses repeat every 28 days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every month for 3 months, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 4 years.