Androcur® (Cyproterone Acetate) and Meningioma Development: a Genotype-environment Association Study
The primary objective of the study is to create a biobank of oral smears permitting to identify the genetic locus/loci associated with an increased risk to develop meningiomas after cyproterone acetate (CPA) (Androcur®) treatment, using a GWAS approach.

As the secondary objectives, the study aims:

* to evaluate the importance of the genetic susceptibility.
* to record the frequence of homonodependant cancers occuring in female patients with Androcur® associated meningioma and in their first-degree relatives.
* to describe clinical, radiological, histological characteristics of the patients who have developed meningioma after cyproterone acetate exposure.
Meningioma
PROCEDURE: oral smears
Number of enrolled patients for smear samples, Number of enrolled patients in the study with good quality of smear samples., at the end of study, an average of 2 years
Number of family cases of meningioma, Number of family cases of meningioma occurrence will be noted in each group., at the end of study, an average of 2 years|Occurrence of meningioma in first-degree relatives, Number of occurrence of meningioma will be collected for:

* in first-degree relatives of index case in each group.
* in first-degree relatives exposed to cyproterone acetate in each group., at the end of study, an average of 2 years|Occurrence of hormonodependant cancer, Number of hormonodependant cancer occurrence the index case and in first-degree relatives in each group., at the end of study, an average of 2 years|Characteristic of the meningioma : Size, Localization, treatment, evolution of meningioma, In goups 1 and 3.

Size and Localization of meningioma will be determined by RMI examination., at baseline
The increased risk to develop a meningioma has recently been established for patients received the cyproterone acetate.

The investigators observed several familial cases of CPA related meningiomas which suggest a strong genetic factor modulating the risk to develop meningiomas in patients who exposed to CPA. The aim of this study is to generate a biobank permitting, in future studies, to identify the genetic locus/loci associated with an increased risk to develop meningiomas after CPA (Androcur®) treatment, using a GWAS approach.

Enrollment of patients will occur at hospitals where the patients will be treated and also via social networking sites such as Facebook. There will be 4 groups of subjects. Five hundred patients will be enrolled in each group targeting 2000 patients in total, among which 1000 patients (Groupe 1 and Groupe 2) will participate in the biobank.

Six centers in 5 university hospitals of APHP (Pitié-Salpêtrière, Ambroise Paré, Cochin, Lariboisière, Saint-Antoine) will be involved in the study.

La duration of enrollment will be 24 months. The participation duration for each subject will be 1 hour. Statistics analysis method: SAS 9.1.3.