Cisplatin, Nab-Paclitaxel, and Cetuximab (CACTUX) in Patients With Incurable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this research study is to look at the effect of a treatment regimen called CACTUX on head and neck cancer. The CACTUX regimen is a combination of three drugs called cisplatin, nab-paclitaxel, and cetuximab (although carboplatin may be given in place of cisplatin if participants have previously had problems receiving cisplatin). The use of nab-paclitaxel in this combination is different from routine care, in which a drug called 5FU is often given instead, but the investigators group has conducted previous research where the investigators incorporated nab-paclitaxel into routine treatment with cisplatin, 5FU, and cetuximab. The investigators are looking at the incidence of side effects with the CACTUX regimen as well as response of the disease and health status.
Head and Neck Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Cancer of the Head and Neck
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab
Progression-free survival (PFS) - with first line therapy, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to first radiologic confirmation of disease progression, or death from any cause., 8 months (estimated median length of treatment)
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death., Until death (estimated 24 months)|Overall response rate, Overall response rate = complete response + partial response

Evaluated using RECIST 1.1., 8 months (estimated median length of treatment)|Grade 3 and 4 adverse events, Adverse events will be recorded from the date of first dose of study drug (nab-paclitaxel) until 28 days after the last dose of study drug.

The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., 9 months (28 days from last dose of study drug with estimated median length of treatment of 8 months)|Quality of life, Using the EORTC QLQ-C30, MDADI, FACT-H\&N, and FACT/GOG-NTX-4.

* The EORTC-QLQ-C30 has a total score, one general QOL and one "within the last week" subscale, as well as a single "overall general health" item and a single "overall QOL" item. Scale is from 1-4 with 1 = not at all and 4 = very much on 28 questions. The scale is from 1-7 on 2 questions with 1 = very poor and 7 = excellent.
* The MDADI has 1 global dysphagia item, physical, function and emotional subscales and one summary scale, which is the sum of the 3 subscales rescaled to 0-100.
* The FACT instruments have four subscales (physical, social, emotional and functional), as well as 11-12 head and neck cancer-specific questions. The scale goes from 1-4 with 1 = not at all and 4 = very much., Baseline, End of cycle 2, End of cycle 6, and End of treatment (estimated median length of treatment is 8 months)|Progression-free survival (PFS) - with maintenance therapy, PFS on maintenance therapy is defined as time from first dose of maintenance therapy to first radiologic confirmation of disease progression, or death from any cause., 8 months (estimated median length of treatment)|Disease control, Disease control = complete response + partial response + stable disease

Evaluated using RECIST 1.1, 8 months (estimated median length of treatment)
The purpose of this research study is to look at the effect of a treatment regimen called CACTUX on head and neck cancer. The CACTUX regimen is a combination of three drugs called cisplatin, nab-paclitaxel, and cetuximab (although carboplatin may be given in place of cisplatin if participants have previously had problems receiving cisplatin). The use of nab-paclitaxel in this combination is different from routine care, in which a drug called 5FU is often given instead, but the investigators group has conducted previous research where the investigators incorporated nab-paclitaxel into routine treatment with cisplatin, 5FU, and cetuximab. The investigators are looking at the incidence of side effects with the CACTUX regimen as well as response of the disease and health status.