Zanubrutinib in Combination With R-PolaCHP (ZaR-PolaCHP) for Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase Ib trial seeks to find out the best dose and possible side effects and/or benefits of zanubrutinib in combination with the R-PolaCHP in treating patients with newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). Zanubrutinib is designed to block a protein called Bruton Tyrosine Kinase in order to stop cancer growth. R-CHOP is the acronym for the combination of five drugs: rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone. It is the most widely used chemoimmunotherapy regimen for DLBCL and is considered the standard-of-care treatment for patients with DLBCL. Three of the drugs in R-CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine) are chemotherapy drugs. Rituximab is a type of immunotherapy and prednisone is a type of steroids.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Transformed Follicular Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Transformed Marginal Zone Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate|DRUG: Zanubrutinib
Incidence of adverse events, Measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 24 months
Objective response rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete or partial response. ORR will be reported with a 95% binomial confidence interval., Up to 24 months|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, where the estimates at time points of interest will be reported with 95% confidence intervals., From the start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, where the estimates at time points of interest will be reported with 95% confidence intervals., From start of treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Zanubrutinib duration of treatment, Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|Zanubrutinib average daily dose, Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|Zanubrutinib discontinuation rate, Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|Zanubrutinib relative dose intensity, Defined as the ratio of the amount of a drug actually administered to the amount planned for a fixed time period., Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|Number of rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, and prednisone (R-CHOP) cycles received, Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|R-CHOP discontinuation rates, Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)|R-CHOP relative dose intensity, Defined as the ratio of the amount of a drug actually administered to the amount planned for a fixed time period., Up to 6 cycles (each cycle is 21 days in length)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the safety, toxicity profile and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of zanubrutinib in combination with ZaR-PolaCHP (ZaR-PolaCHP) for patients with previously untreated diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate (ORR) (complete and partial responses), progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of ZaR-CHOP in patients treated at the RP2D.

II. Provide descriptive data on treatment exposure to zanubrutinib and R-CHOP including treatment discontinuation rate and relative dose intensity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose de-escalation study of zanubrutinib and fixed-dose R-CHOP regimen followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive zanubrutinib orally (PO) once or twice daily on days 1-21, rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1, cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1, vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years.