A Study of Adjuvant Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab (MK-7684A) Versus Pembrolizumab for Resected High-Risk Melanoma in Participants With High-Risk Stage II-IV Melanoma (MK-7684A-010/KEYVIBE-010)
The primary purpose of this study is to compare pembrolizumab/vibostolimab to pembrolizumab with respect to recurrence-free survival (RFS). The primary hypothesis is that pembrolizumab/vibostolimab is superior to pembrolizumab with respect to RFS as assessed by the investigator in participants with high-risk resected Stage IIB, IIC, III and IV melanoma.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Vibostolimab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS), RFS is defined as the time from randomization to any recurrence (local, locoregional, regional, or distant) as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. The RFS as assessed by the investigator is presented for all randomized participants. Protocol pre-specified final analysis for this outcome measure was conducted with the primary completion data cut-off., Up to approximately 13 months
Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS), DMFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first diagnosis of a distant metastasis, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Distant metastasis refers to cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor and beyond local tissues and lymph nodes to distant organs or distant lymph nodes., Up to approximately 98 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 98 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Adverse Event (AE), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who experienced an AE is presented., Up to approximately 98 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 98 months|Change From Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome. Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 98 months|Change From Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function. Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5 will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 98 months|Change From Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning (Items 6 and 7) Combined Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to 2 questions about their role functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of function. Change from baseline in the score of EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6-7 will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 98 months
With Amendment 4, participants will discontinue treatment with pembrolizumab/vibostolimab.

The protocol-specified futility analysis of the primary outcome measure was completed with a data cut-off of 06-Mar-2024 (Primary Completion Date) and served as the final analysis of the primary outcome measure. Per protocol, 192 participants enrolled after the primary completion date and will be analyzed in the End of Trial analysis.