Feasibility Study of Multidimensional Rehabilitation in the Metaverse
The investigators evaluated and optimized the Metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform based on the use of the Metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform by colorectal cancer survivors and their families, and finally launched the Metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DEVICE: Multidimensional Rehabilitation in the Metaverse
Post-Study System Usability Questionnaire (PSSUQ) Third Edition, The questionnaire includes three dimensions: usefulness, information quality, interface quality, and one overall evaluation item, totaling 20 items. Each item is rated on a scale from 'strongly disagree' to 'strongly agree' with scores ranging from 1 to 5. A higher score indicates higher user satisfaction., 4th week|System Usability Scale (SUS), Used to evaluate user experience, employing the Likert 5-point scale method, consisting of 10 questions. Questions 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 are positively worded, while questions 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 are negatively worded. The validity of the scale is 0.85. The SUS is scored on a percentage scale. When the questionnaire score is above 70, the product is considered 'good,' and above 50 is considered 'okay., 4th week
Semi-structured interview, Through interviews, conducting interviews with colorectal cancer patients on the theme of 'platform implementation effectiveness' to understand the evaluation of colorectal cancer patients on this mobile healthcare platform., 4th week
The investigatorse intend to invite colorectal cancer survivors and their families to use the metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform. Interviews with users, user experience optimization of the metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform, and then evaluation of the platform through system usability evaluation. Gain insight into the experience of colorectal cancer survivors using the metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform, and understand their opinions and suggestions to explore the usability of the metaverse multi-dimensional rehabilitation platform.