Use of Imatinib to Convert Triple Negative Breast Cancer Into ER-positive Breast Cancer (I-CONIC)
This is a single centre Window-of-Opportunity trial investigating the efficacy and feasibility of short term imatinib in patients with newly diagnosed triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) planned for surgery, with tumours ≥ 15 mm, any status in the axilla when neoadjuvant treatment not is considered as an option.

The primary aim is to determine the proportion of patients that converts to estrogen receptor (ER) positive breast cancer in the removed breast cancer tissue at surgery.
Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Imatinib 400 MG Oral Tablet
To determine the proportion of patients that convert to ER expressing breast cancer, ER expression is determined by immunohistochemistry, From surgery of the first patient to up to 100 weeks thereafter.
Adverse events, AEs are registered according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 5.0., From time of the first included patient to up to 100 weeks thereafter.
Exploratory analyses - gene expression profiles, Gene expression profiles in tissue - biopsy and surgical specimen., From surgery of the first patient to up to 100 weeks thereafter.|Exploratory analyses - gene expression profiles, Gene expression profiles determined in circulating tumour-DNA, From time of the first included patient to up to 100 weeks thereafter.
This is a single centre Window-of-Opportunity trial that will investigate the efficacy and feasibility of short term (10 days) imatinib in patients with newly diagnosed TNBC planned for surgery, with tumours ≥ 15 mm, any status in the axilla and when neoadjuvant treatment not is considered as an option. Imatinib is given at a dose of 400 mg daily.

The primary aim is to determine the proportion of patients that converts to ER positive breast cancer in the removed breast cancer tissue at surgery.

The secondary aim is to evaluate the safety and adverse events (AE) will be collected throughout the study, from informed consent until 30 days after the last dose of the IMP imatinib.

AEs will be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.