A Study of E7090 as Monotherapy and in Combination With Other Anticancer Agents in Participants With Estrogen Receptor Positive (ER+) and Human Epidermal Growth Receptor 2 Negative (HER2-) Recurrent/Metastatic Breast Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability and safety of E7090 as monotherapy and in combination with other anticancer agents in participants with ER+, HER2- recurrent/metastatic breast cancer and to determine the recommended dose (RD) of E7090 in combination with other anticancer agents for subsequent phase studies.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: E7090|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Exemestane
Part 1: Recommended Dose (RD) of E7090 in Combination With Other Anticancer Agents, Up to Cycle 1 (each cycle length = 28 days)|Part 1: Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs will be assessed based on combination regimen-related adverse events (AEs) occurred during Cycle 1 of Part 1 and the severity of AEs will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0., Up to Cycle 1 (each cycle length = 28 days)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Safety assessments will consist of monitoring and recording all AEs and SAEs; regular measurement of vital signs and ECG; and regular monitoring of clinical laboratory parameters, body weight and bone density., Up to 30 days after last administration of study drug (approximately up to 66 months)
Cmax: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration of E7090, its Metabolite (M2) and Exemestane, For E7090 and its metabolite (M2)- Parts 1 and 2 Cycle 1 Day 1: 0-24 hours post-dose; For exemestane- Part 1 Cycle 1 Day 1: 0-24 hours post-dose (each cycle length = 28 days)|AUC: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve of E7090, its Metabolite (M2) and Exemestane, For E7090 and its metabolite (M2)- Parts 1 and 2 Cycle 1 Day 1: 0-24 hours post-dose; For exemestane- Part 1 Cycle 1 Day 1: 0-24 hours post-dose (each cycle length = 28 days)|Part 1: Plasma Concentration of Fulvestrant, Cycles 2 and 3 Day 1: pre-dose (each cycle length = 28 days)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. ORR is defined as a percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: greater than or equal to (\>=) 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-progressive disease (non-PD) response for non-target (NT) lesions., Baseline up to 66 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR will be assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. DCR is defined as a percentage of participants with BOR of CR, PR or stable disease (SD). The BOR of SD has to be observed \>=7 weeks from the date of first study dose. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., Baseline up to 66 months|Clinical Benefit Response (CBR), CBR will be assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. CBR is defined as a percentage of participants with BOR of CR, PR or durable SD (dSD) (duration of SD \>=23 weeks). CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., Baseline up to 66 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS will be assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. PFS is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Baseline up to 66 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause., Baseline up to 66 months|Time to Response (TTR), TTR will be assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. TTR is defined as the time from the date of first study dose to the date of first documentation of CR or PR. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., Baseline up to 66 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR will be assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. DOR is defined as the time from the date of first documentation of CR or PR to the date of first documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurs first. CR: disappearance of all lesions. PR: For PR, longest diameter will be used for non-lymph target lesions but short axis is measured for lymph lesions. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline, associated to non-PD response for NT lesions., Baseline up to 66 months
The primary purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability and safety of E7090 as monotherapy and in combination with other anticancer agents in participants with ER+, HER2- recurrent/metastatic breast cancer and to determine the recommended dose (RD) of E7090 in combination with other anticancer agents for subsequent phase studies.