Sexual Health Empowerment for Women's Health
The purpose of this study is to expand the reach of an existing cervical cancer literacy and prevention intervention- the Sexual Health Empowerment (SHE) Project . As a logical extension of the investigators earlier work, the objective of this renewal is to expand reach of SHE to address women's health disparities more broadly to create a sustainable model for dissemination of health promotion interventions for vulnerable populations.
Cervical Cancer|Breast Cancer|Contraceptive Usage|Sexually Transmitted Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: SHE-WOMEN
Cervical Cancer Literacy, Cervical Cancer Literacy Assessment Tool (C-CLAT) (PMID: 19299678) Adopted 16-items C-CLAT, the sum of scores on all 16 items reflects participants cervical cancer literacy with a possible total score ranges from 0 (minimum) to 16 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of cervical cancer literacy (i.e., better outcome)., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment|Breast Cancer Literacy, Breast Cancer Literacy Assessment Tool (B-CLAT) (PMID:23905580) Revised 22-items from B-CLAT (with an added item ask "At what age are most women supposed to start having mammograms?") The sum of scores on all 22 items reflects participants breast cancer literacy with a possible total score ranges from 0 (minimum) to 22 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of cervical cancer literacy (i.e., better outcome).

...items from revised Breast Cancer Literacy Assessment Tool (B-CLAT) (PMID:23905580) disagree or agree options: higher mean score = higher perception of risk, Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment|Knowledge of Contraception, -Contraceptive knowledge assessment (PMID:27621043) Adopted 8-items Contraceptive knowledge assessment, the sum of scores on all 8 items reflects participants cervical cancer literacy with a possible total score ranges from 0 (minimum) to 8 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of knowledge of contraception., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment|Beliefs About Acquisition and Use of Contraception, -Beliefs about acquisition and use of contraceptive items from self-efficacy scale (PMID:18926726) Each item was on 5-point Likert scale range from 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree) A mean score of 10 items represent participants' beliefs of contraceptive barriers, ranges from 1 (minimum) to 5 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of perceived barriers (i.e., worse outcome)., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment.|Confidence in Use of Contraception, -Beliefs about acquisition and use of contraceptive items from self-efficacy scale (PMID:18926726) Each item was on 5-point Likert scale range from 1 (Very confident) to 5 (Not at all confident).

A mean score of reverse-coded 6 items represent participants' beliefs of contraceptive self-efficacy, ranges from 1 (minimum) to 5 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of contraceptive self-efficacy (i.e., better outcome)., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment.|Knowledge of Sexually Transmitted Diseases, -STD knowledge questionnaire (PMID: 17016760) Adopted 8-items STD knowledge questionnaire , the sum of scores on all 8 items reflects participants STD knowledge level with a possible total score ranges from 0 (minimum) to 8 (maximum).

A higher score represents a higher level of knowledge of STD., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment.|Confidence Using Condoms, -Condom self-efficacy scale (PMID: 1783705) A mean score of 15 items were calculated with a possible range of 1 (minimum) to 7 (maximum).

Higher scores represent a higher level of condom self-efficacy., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment.|Attitudes Related to Condom Use, -Multidimensional condom attitudes scale (PMID: 8055858) A mean score of 20-items was calculated with possible values range from 1 (minimum) to 7 (maximum).

Items were rated on a 7-point scale ranging from strongly disagree to strongly agree.

Higher mean score indicate more positive attitudes toward condoms., Pre-Intervention assessment measured at baseline, Immediately post behavioral intervention assessment measured at 5 days after baseline, 12-month, 24-month, and 36-month follow-up assessments are measured accordingly after the baseline assessment.
HPV Vaccination Receipt, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine question: have you ever had an HPV vaccination? A dichotomized score reflects participants' HPV vaccination receipt with 0 (no) and 1 (yes)., Only at baseline|Up to Date Pap Screening, Health Information National Trends Survey-cervical cancer screening question: "When was your last pap screen?" A categorical items with four levels: 1) never; 2) within the past 3 years; 3) between 3 to 5 years; 4) 5 or more years ago., Only at baseline|Up to Date Mammography, Health Information National Trends Survey-breast cancer screening question: "When did you have your most recent mammogram to check for breast cancer? The items is only asked for participants over 50 years old. A categorical outcome with five levels: 1) never had a mammogram; 2) a year ago or less; 3) more than 1, up to 2 years ago; 4) more than 2 but no more than 5 years ago; 5) more than 5 years ago, Only at baseline
Over the last 35 years, there has been a 700% increase in the number of women in prisons and jails. These women, mostly women of color, have pervasive trauma histories, mental health problems, and drug use, all of which compromise their ability to engage in preventive health behaviors. For the last eight years, the research team has studied women leaving jail and why they are 4-5 times more likely to develop cervical cancer, a disparity that has remained unchanged for over 50 years. The original objective of the Sexual Health Empowerment (SHE) for Cervical Health Literacy and Prevention program (R01 CA181047) was to assess the effectiveness of a jail-based intervention to increase cervical health literacy and screening. SHE increased jailed women's cervical health literacy and rates of cancer screening after the women left jail.

While delivering SHE, researchers observed: 1) the cross-cutting nature of women's health risk factors, i.e. the risks that jailed women faced for cervical cancer also could lead to other women's health problems; and 2) opportunity for taking an evidence-based intervention, with a rich theoretical framing, to expand to other women's health issues faced by this group, around, not only cervical cancer prevention, but also breast cancer, unintended pregnancy, and STI prevention. While following women after release from jail (85% follow-up rate after 3 years), investigators also identified strategies for reaching this high-risk population through electronic communication. SHE participants were high users of mobile phones (88%), text (76%), Web (79%), and Facebook (70%). This renewal application presents an opportunity to holistically address health disparities experienced by women leaving jail and test new modalities for intervention delivery given use of electronic communication and social media.

The first aim uses an RCT to test the effectiveness of SHE-Women with women leaving jail on increasing women's health literacy, screening, and risk reduction practices (for cervical, breast cancer, unintended pregnancy, and STIs) against a standard of care. The second aim will be to understand the role and impact of human interaction in electronic interventions by tracking participants and interviewing key stakeholders.

Knowledge gained from this study will lead to an understanding of: 1) how a comprehensive women's health literacy intervention can narrow health disparities among justice-involved women and 2) the role of human interaction in successful electronic interventions, thereby creating a sustainable model for dissemination of health promotion interventions.