Obinutuzumab, High Dose Methylprednisolone (HDMP), and Lenalidomide for the Treatment of Patients With Richter's Syndrome
The purpose of the study is to investigate whether combination of obinutuzumab, lenalidomide, and high dose methylprednisolone in the treatment of Richter's Syndrome. The study will evaluate whether this regimen can reduce the amount of cancerous cells in your body. All of these agents are approved by the FDA Obinutuzumab is a protein molecule manufactured from a single cell population, has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of CLL of SLL. Lenalidomide is for the treatment of patients with other blood cancers. Methylprednisolone is a type of steroid, and it is used in a wide variety of medical conditions. These agents and the combination of these agents are not approved for the treatment of Richter's Syndrome and are considered experimental.
Richter's Syndrome|CLL
DRUG: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: HDMP
Safety and tolerability of the combination of obinutuzumab, lenalidomide, and high dose methylprednisolone in treatments with Richter's Syndrome (RS) measured Via Adverse Events, Measured Via Adverse Events, 2 years
Overall response rate of RS and CLL, Measure via the Cheson Criteria for response in lymphoma., 12 months and 24 months|Progression-free survival rate, Measure via the Cheson Criteria for response in lymphoma. PFS is defined as the time from entry onto a study until lymphoma progression or death as a result of any cause., 12 months and 24 months|Overall survival rate, Measure via the Cheson Criteria for response in lymphoma. Defined as the time from entry onto the clinical trial until death as a result of any cause., 12 months and 24 months|Patients able to receive a subsequent stem cell transplant (percentage), Measure by percentage of patients able to receive subsequent tell cell transplant, 12 months and 24 months
This is a phase I trial to determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of obinutuzumab, lenalidomide, and HDMP for patients with RS. There is not a standard of care for patients with Richter's Syndrome (RS). Ten patients will be enrolled with RS diagnosed by histology or flow cytometry and CLL, regardless of prior treatment for either condition.