OPTIMUS PRIME: Safety and Feasibility of OPTune GIO® Integrated With MRI-gUided Laser Ablation Surgery and Pembrolizumab for Recurrent GlIoblastoMa, A randomizEd Trial
In this study we are evaluating the safety and feasibility of the triple combination (TTFields, MLA, pembrolizumab) in adult patients diagnosed with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma (GBM) WHO Grade IV, IDH wild type or recurrent or progressive astrocytoma WHO grade IV.
Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DEVICE: Optune GIO®|DEVICE: NeuroBlate®
Number of participants experiencing a DLT after receiving the triple combination (TTFields, MLA, pembrolizumab) in adult patients diagnosed with recurrent glioblastoma from both arms, Patients who receive the combinatorial regimen will get the ongoing safety assessment with DLT \</= 33% treated subjects, baseline up to 3 months|Percentage of participants treated with the triple combination (TTFields, MLA, pembrolizumab) in adult patients diagnosed with recurrent glioblastoma from both arms, Feasibility is defined as the ability to successfully deliver the combinatorial treatment of MLA, optune GIO® and pembrolizumab to at least 67% of enrolled subjects who undergo MLA., baseline up to 3 months
Twenty patients diagnosed with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma will be enrolled in this pilot study of safety and feasibility and receive the triple combination of Optune GIO®, MLA and pembrolizumab.

Patients will be identified and enrolled prior to initiation of treatment for recurrence and be randomized (1:1) to (each arm has 10 patients):

Arm 1: Optune GIO® pre-MLA; MLA; followed by Optune GIO® + Pembrolizumab post MLA

Arm 2: Optune GIO®+Pembrolizumab pre-MLA; MLA; followed by Optune GIO® + Pembrolizumab post MLA

Surgical resection/debulking is per standard of care and optional for the purpose of this study. The performing neurosurgeon will determine whether each patient will undergo surgery. For patients who undergo debulking surgery, MLA is expected to occur between 3-6 weeks post-surgery, when the performing surgeon assesses the procedure is safe.

Patients randomized to treatment arm 1 will start treatment with Optune GIO® for 3-7 days and undergo MLA and biopsy for tumor diagnosis and immune monitoring. Treatment with Optune GIO® will be paused prior to the MLA procedure until at least 10 days post MLA. Patients will then resume treatment with Optune GIO® and receive pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks (+/- 4 days) starting no sooner than 1 week after the start of Optune GIO®.

Patients randomized to treatment arm 2, will start treatment with Optune GIO® for 3-10 days and receive one infusion of pembrolizumab before undergoing MLA/biopsy. Patients will resume Optune GIO® no earlier than 10 days post-surgery and receive pembrolizumab 200 mg IV every 3 weeks (+/- 4 days) starting no sooner than 1 week after the start of Optune GIO®, Post MLA, patients may continue treatment with Optune GIO® and pembrolizumab for up to 2 years, or until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, whichever comes first.