Psychoeducational Program for Cancer Patients.
The main objective of the study are:

1. To explore the effectiveness of psychoeducation program for cancer patients who refuse treatment because of irrational fears and anxieties.
2. To explore the effectiveness of psychoeducation program for cancer patients who have negative attitudes, and low motivation toward treatment which causes depression and affects the quality of life.
Psychoeducation
BEHAVIORAL: Psychoeducational Inervention
Treatment Refusal, Initially, we will enroll the patients for eligibility assessment and the eligible patients who are refusing medical (Chemotherapy, Radiation and Surgery) and psychological treatment (Counseling, psychotherapy) will be referred for psychological evaluations, 3-5 weeks|Depression and Anxiety, Depression will be assessed by using Patient Health Questionnaire-9. A Score of 5, 10, 15, and 20 correspond to categorizations of mild, moderate, moderately severe, and severe depression respectively. Hospital Anxiety and Depression will be assessed by using Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale. A score of 0-7 is considered normal, 8-10 as borderline and 11-21 as either anxious or depressed, after allocation (1 week)|Illness denial, Illness denial will be assessed by using Illness Denial Questionnaire. Higher score indicate high Illness denial whereas low score indicate low illness denial., after allocation (1 week)|Motivation and Help-Seeking attitude, Motivation will be assessed by using Motivation and attitude towards changing health Scale. Higher score indicate higher motivation whereas low score indicate low motivation.

Mental Help seeking attitude will be assessed by using Mental Help Seeking Attitude Scale. Higher score indicate high mental help seeking attitude whereas low score indicate low mental help seeking attitude., after allocation (1 week)|Quality of Life Scale, Quality of Life will be measured by World Health Organization Quality of Life BREF. Higher score indicate high quality of life whereas low score indicate low quality of life, after allocation (1 week)
Duration of illness, They will be assessed through interview information, at the time of pre assessment (1 week)|stage of cancer, They will be assessed through history taking information, after allocation at pre-assessment (1 week)
Participants:

In this Randomized control trial, N=200 participants would be enrolled for eligibility assessment from different cancer hospitals in Faisalabad and Lahore. 60 participants after the eligibility assessment and screening would be allocated to experimental and waitlist treatment conditions. Participants would be allocated through matchable group characteristics. In experimental group, the diagnosed patients of cancer who refuse psychotherapy would be included and 08 to 10 sessions of psychoeducation program would be provided. In waitlist treatment condition, diagnosed cancer patients would be taken. Each of the group will be comprised of n= 30.

Elegibility Criteria:

The participants that would be taken in the study would be diagnosed patients of cancer with stage I, II and III who refused psychological treatment as recommended by the practitioner. Second eligibility criteria of the participants would be at least mild score on PHD-9 to cross check the mental health problems. The patients would be taken from lower, middle and upper socioeconomic status and their age range would be from 20-70 years. The patients diagnosed with 4th stage would be excluded.

Interventions:

Psychoeducational Program would be used as an intervention stratégie for cancer patients to provide understanding and insight to the patients about the problems. Further, this program would address treatment refusal and illness denial, depressive symptoms, and treatment related irrational fears and anxiety. Moreover, this program will improve patients' motivation and attitude toward changing health, and quality of life.

Expected Outcomes This study would provide valuable information to the mental health practitioners to treat and develop the guidelines and protocol for patients with cancer. Psychoeducational Program played substantial role as supportive intervention to develop insight, motivation and positive attitude toward treatment as well as to enhance adherence to treatment among patients with cancer. And there would be substantial decrease in depression, treatment related fear and anxiety. Moreover, this program will improve patients' motivation and attitude toward changing health, and quality of life.