Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation Study
Breast cancer patients at Sentara RMH Hahn Cancer Center who are treated with accelerated partial breast irradiation will be monitored over a period of 10 years. From this group of patients, local and regional recurrence rates will be determined. Patients in the registry will also take part in assessments of cosmesis and quality of life.
Breast Cancer Female
DEVICE: Balloon Brachytherapy|RADIATION: 3D Conformal External Beam Irradiation
Number of Participants with Local and Regional Recurrence after Partial Breast Irradiation as assessed by change in Physical Exam, Mammography, MRI, Scintimammography, Biopsy, and/or Surgical Pathology., At the time of analysis, recurrence rates in the study group will be compared to recurrence rates in stage 1 breast cancer patients with similar risk factors from the national studies of APBI and whole breast radiation therapy, to determine if SRMH recurrence rates are significantly different., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years Post RT
Number of Participants with Certain Characteristics or Risk Factors in SRMH Population that are Associated with a Higher Risk for Recurrence when Using Partial Breast Irradiation as Assessed by History and Physical, Mammography, Pathology., At the time of analysis, it will also be determined whether these characteristics or risk factors in SRMH population are associated with a higher risk for recurrence when using this technique., prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/0 years post RT
Number of Participants will have Cosmetic Results Assessed by Utilizing the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale (BCTOS) using Patient Self Reports and a Cosmetic Evaluation Will Be Made by the Radiation Oncologist (or Surgeon)., The patients will be monitored for cosmesis. Physician-generated versus patient-generated ratings will be compared to characterize the evaluation of cosmetic outcome from multiple perspectives. The Radiation Oncologist (or Surgeon) will utilize criteria established in previous RTOG trials., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years post RT|Number of Participants will have Quality of Life Results Assessed by Utilizing the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale (BCTOS) using Patient Self Reports for Global Quality of Life., The Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale ( BCTOS) will be used as a primary measure to assess breast-related symptoms and treatment effects. Questionnaires will be used from the current RTOG trial of PBI vs. WBI to assess these measures using Patient Self Reports for Global Quality of Life. In evaluating the difference between the treated and untreated breast and area, the patient will select from none (assigned a value of 1, slight (assigned a value of 2), moderate (assigned a value of 3), and large (assigned a value of 4). Higher value indicates a larger difference between treated and untreated breast and area, which would be considered a worse outcome., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years|Number of Participants will have Fatigue Results Assessed by Utilizing the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Score (BCTOS) using Patient Self Reports., The Medical Outcomes Study Short Form-36 ( MOS SF-36 Vitality Scale), a widely used measure with high reliability and validity, will assess fatigue. The patient will select how much of the time during the past four weeks did she feel full of life, have a lot of energy, feel worn out, and feel tired. There are five values that include all the time (assigned a value of 1), most of the time (assigned a value of 2), some of the time (assigned a value of 3), a little of the time (assigned a value of 4), and none of the time (assigned a value of 5). Full of life and have a lot of energy,a low number would be the better outcome and feel worn out and feel tired, higher number would be the better outcome., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years.|Number of Participants will have Treatment Related Symptoms Assessed by Utilizing the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale (BCTOS) using Patient Self Reports., The Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Score ( BCTOS) has been augumented with a brief set of additional items that focus specifically on radiotherapy-relevant symptoms (e.g., reports of skin problems, tenderness in the breast, hardness in the breast due to enhanced fibrosis, and pain). These questions relate to how much the patient has been bothered by these radiotherapy-relevant symptoms in the past four weeks. The patient will select from not bothered at all (assigned a score of 0), a little bit bothered (assigned a score of 1), somewhat bothered (assigned a score of 2), bothered quite a bit (assigned a score of 3), and bothered very much (assigned a score of 4.) The total value range is 0-92. Higher value indicates worse outcome., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years|Number of Participants will have Convenience of Care Assessed by Utilizing the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcome Scale (BCTOS) using Patient Self Reports, The Convenience of Care scale includes several items designed to assess how disruptive the treatment is on the patients' daily activities and life styles, as well as how satisfied the patients are with the duration of their treatment. By circling one number on a scale from 0 (not at all bothered) up to 10 (bothered quite a lot. Total value range is 0-80. The higher the value, the worse the outcome. The patient will evaluate her satisfaction about the treatment and results by selecting the phrase that best describes her satisfaction from totally satisfied (assigned a value of 1, somewhat satisfied (assigned a value of 2), neither satisfied or dissatisfied (assigned a value of 3), somewhat dissatisfied (assigned a value of 4), and totally dissatisfied (assigned a value of 5). The higher the value, the worse the outcome., Prior to radiation, 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, then yearly up to 10 1/2 years
Studies have shown that giving radiation therapy to the breast after lumpectomy helps keep cancer from coming back in the breast. The purpose of this study is to see if partial breast irradiation (PBI) at SRMH Hahn Cancer Center is as good as partial breast irradiation performed in other centers in the United States in keeping cancer from coming back in the breast. Whole breast irradiation (WBI) is a standard treatment after a lumpectomy. WBI is radiation therapy given 5 days a week for 5 to 7 weeks to the whole breast. PBI is a new method of delivering radiation only to the area of the breast where the cancer was removed. PBI is given 2 times a day for 5 days. PBI may be given over a period of 5 to 10 days. This newer treatment is currently being compared with WBI in a randomized trial. Thus far, patients at low risk for cancer recurrence who have been treated with PBI have had excellent outcomes at 5 years post-treatment, but we will not know for sure if PBI is as good as WBI until the results of the randomized trial are available. However, PBI is commonly being offered outside of clinical trials in many community hospitals throughout the country. As radiation oncologists at Sentara RMH Hahn Cancer Center, we wanted to offer patients in our community the same opportunity to have this treatment, but also wanted to ensure close follow-up of all patients treated with this method, to be sure our results are similar to those of patients reported in our professional literature. There are two different methods of PBI that are being used at SRMH Hahn Cancer Center: Balloon brachytherapy and 3-D conformal external beam irradiation. This study will learn about the good and bad effects of radiation therapy. The study also will learn about the feelings women have about how their breast looks after surgery and radiation therapy.