Safety and Efficacy of Melflufen and Dexamethasone in Relapsed and/or Relapsed-Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients
The study will explore escalating doses of melflufen in combination with dexamethasone in small groups of patients to find the maximum tolerated dose of melflufen. That dose will then be used to determine the efficacy and safety profile of melflufen in combination with dexamethasone in a larger group of patients.
Relapsed and/or Relapsed-refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Melflufen|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Percentage of Patients Who Achieved Best Overall Disease Response, The best overall disease response on treatment including stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), minimal response (MR), stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD) were evaluated. Starting on completion of Cycle 2, response was assessed according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria based on Investigator's assessment for all patients at every cycle during treatment period. PD was defined as increase of ≥25% from lowest response value in any 1 of the following: serum M-component (absolute increase must be ≥0.5 gram/deciliter) and/or urine M-component (absolute increase must be ≥200 mg/24 hr); development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas or increase in size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas or development of hypercalcemia that could be attributed solely to plasma cell proliferative disorder. SD was defined as not meeting criteria for CR, VGPR, PR or PD., Baseline (Cycle 1 Day 1) and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as percentage of patients with an overall response (OR), defined as first occurrence of confirmed disease response including PR or better (i.e, PR, VGPR, CR or sCR). Starting on completion of Cycle 2, response was assessed according to IMWG criteria based on Investigator's assessment for all patients at every cycle during treatment period. VGPR was defined as serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum plus urine M-protein level \<100 mg/24hr and \>90% decrease in difference between involved and uninvolved free light chain (FLC) levels (only in FLC diseased patients). CR was defined as negative immunofixation on serum and urine, loss of any soft tissue plasmacytomas, \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow and normal FLC ratio of 0.26 to 1.65 (only in FLC diseased patients). sCR was defined as CR plus normal FLC ratio and absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or 2 to 4 color flow cytometry., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Clinical Benefit Response Rate (CBRR), The CBRR was defined as the percentage of patients with a clinical benefit response (CBR), defined as the first occurrence of confirmed disease response including MR or better (i.e, MR, PR, VGPR, CR, or sCR). Starting on completion of Cycle 2, response was assessed according to the IMWG criteria based on the Investigator's assessment for all patients at every cycle during the treatment period. MR was defined as ≥25% but \<49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24 hour urine M-protein by 50 to 89%, which still exceeds 200 mg/24 hours. In addition to above; if present at baseline, 25 to 49% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas is also required. No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions (development of compression fractures does not exclude response). PR was defined as 50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24 hour urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg/24 hour., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.
Duration of Disease Response (DOR), The DOR to treatment was defined as time from first response (PR or better) to disease progression or death, or date of last evaluable disease response assessment for those who had not progressed or died. DOR was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Time to Disease Response in Patients Who Achieved OR and CBR, Time to first OR was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug (overall reference start date) to the date of the first occurrence of PR or better (first of 2 consecutive assessments-confirmed response). Time to first CBR was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug (overall reference start date) to the date of the first occurrence of MR or better (first of 2 consecutive assessments-confirmed response). Time to disease response was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study drug (overall reference start date) to the date of the first occurrence of evaluable PD. Time to disease progression was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The PFS was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of melflufen (overall reference start date) to the date of the first occurrence of any disease response assessment available for PD or death. The PFS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., Baseline and every cycle from Cycle 2 onwards until confirmed disease progression. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Median Overall Survival (OS), The OS was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of melflufen (overall reference start date) to death. The OS was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., From baseline until death. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Time to First Subsequent Treatment, Time to first subsequent treatment start was defined as the time from the date of the actual end of treatment to the date of the first subsequent treatment. Time to first subsequent treatment was estimated using Kaplan-Meier statistics., From baseline until start of first subsequent treatment. Assessed until EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.|Number of Patients With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a study patient administered an investigational product and that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A serious adverse event (SAE) was defined as any AE, occurring at any dose, that met any one or more of the following criteria: is fatal or immediately life-threatening; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; constitutes a congenital anomaly/birth defect; is medically significant; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; or other important medical event. TEAEs were defined as AEs that started or worsened on or after the first dose of study drug (overall reference start date) up to and including the actual EOT date. TESAEs = Treatment emergent serious adverse events., From the first dose of study drug up to and including the actual EOT date of 29 October 2019; up to a maximum of approximately 76 months.
The study will explore escalating doses of melflufen in combination with dexamethasone in small groups of patients to find the maximum tolerated dose of melflufen. That dose will then be used to determine the efficacy and safety profile of melflufen in combination with dexamethasone in a larger group of patients.