Efficacy and Safety Study of Trastuzumab and Paclitaxel Based Regimens to Treat HER2-positive Breast Cancer
The purpose of the investigators study is to compare the efficacy and safety of combining trastuzumab and paclitaxel based regimen plus carboplatin or epirubicin as neoadjuvant therapy in Chinese HER2-positive breast cancer patients. 100 patients from multicenter would be randomly assigned into two treatment arms and receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by operation and adjuvant treatment. The main end point of this study would be the efficacy and safety of the two treatment arms, and the trend of the two curves is anticipated.
HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Carboplatin
pathologic complete response rate, Percentage of complete pathological response, e.g. no microscopic evidence of residual invasive tumor cells in any resected specimens of the breast and/or axillary nodes., 3 years
Disease free survival, Percentage of recurrence-free survival using Kaplan-Meier method, including subgroup analysis of DFS who complete 1-year trastuzumab treatment, 3 years at most|Overall response rate, Percentage of clinical objective response using the RECIST scale, 3 years|Percentage of conserving breast surgery, Percentage of conserving breast surgery, 3 years|Safety, Incidence and severity of adverse events using the NCI-CTC scale 4.0, 3 years
With the increased awareness and development of the diagnosis of breast cancer, more and more breast cancer is diagnosed at early. Amplification or overexpression, or both, of human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER2, also known as ERBB2), a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase, is present in around 22% of early breast cancers, 35% of locally advanced and metastatic tumors, and 40% of inflammatory breast cancers, and is associated with aggressive disease and poor prognosis. The significant efficacy and good safety profile of Trastuzumab targeting HER 2 combination with chemotherapy as adjuvant treatment on EBC are accepted. Currently Trastuzumab has moved to Neoadjuvant treatment combined with chemotherapy based on many publications, among them pCR is accepted as primary endpoint to evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy.

In the investigators study, Trastuzumab was concomitantly administered with different chemotherapies after randomization to determine the effect of this approach on the pathologic CR rates. 100 patients from multicenter would be randomly assigned into two treatment arms and receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by operation and adjuvant treatment. Pathological complete response rate (pCR), disease free survival (DFS), response rates (RR), percentage of conserving breast surgery and adverse events including Serious AEs and non-serious AEs would be compared. The follow up time for each patients would be 3 years at most.