A Trial to Study the Safety and Efficacy of SM-020 Gel 1.0% in Subjects With Seborrheic Keratoses and Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers
Open-Label study evaluating safety and efficacy of SM-020 Gel 1.0% in subjects with Seborrheic Keratoses and Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers (i.e. Basal Cell Carcinoma and Squamous Cell Carcinoma In Situ). Subjects will be enrolled into 1 of 5 cohorts. Each cohort will enroll approximately 5-10 subjects with at least 1 eligible lesion to be treated. A maximum of 5 lesions may be enrolled per subject. Treatment for all subjects and all lesions will be twice daily for approximately 28 days. Post treatment, residual lesions may be excised per standard of care for histological evaluation. The duration of the study is estimated to be approximately up to 12 weeks from the beginning of the Screening period until the last subject's last visit.
Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers
DRUG: SM-020 1% Gel
Percentage of lesions that achieve a 50% reduction in greatest diameter of cohort-assigned TL(s) at week 6 compared to baseline, At week 6|Safety and Tolerability will be evaluated through assessment of the severity of the signs and symptoms of Application Site Reactions (ASRs), Application Site Reactions will be evaluated based on the severity of the signs and symptoms of pain, burning, stinging, pruritus, erythema, edema, exudation, erosion/ulceration, hyperpigmentation,and hypopigmentation., Screening, Baseline, Week 1, Week 2, Week 3, Week 4, Week 6, and Week 8|Safety and Tolerability as evaluated by review of adverse events, Grade 1 = Mild asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated Grade 2 = Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental ADL Grade 3 = Severe or medically significant but not immediately life threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self-care ADL Grade 4 = Life-threatening consequences: urgent intervention indicated Grade 5 = Death related to AE with Grade 1 being the minimum value and Grade 5 being the maximum value, with a higher value indicating higher severity., Screening, Baseline, Week 1, Week 2, Week 3, Week 4, Week 6, and Week 8
Open-Label study evaluating safety and efficacy of SM-020 Gel 1.0% in subjects with Seborrheic Keratoses and Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers (i.e. Basal Cell Carcinoma and Squamous Cell Carcinoma In Situ). Subjects will be enrolled into 1 of 5 cohorts. Each cohort will enroll approximately 5-10 subjects with at least 1 eligible lesion to be treated. A maximum of 5 lesions may be enrolled per subject. Treatment for all subjects and all lesions will be twice daily for approximately 28 days. Post treatment, residual lesions may be excised per standard of care for histological evaluation. The duration of the study is estimated to be approximately up to 12 weeks from the beginning of the Screening period until the last subject's last visit.