Phase II Study Alimta and Gemzar + Avastin as First Line Chemotherapy for Elderly Patients With Stage IIIB/IV NSCLC
The primary objective is to determine the progression free survival with pemetrexed, and gemcitabine plus bevacizumab as first-line chemotherapy in elderly patients with Stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

The secondary objectives are to determine the overall response rate; overall survival; chemotherapy induced toxicity profile of this combination; time to progression; and patient reported symptom burden.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed and Gemcitabine plus Bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes first. Progression is defined per RECIST criteria v1.0 as a measurable increase in the smallest diameter of any target lesion, progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. The median progression free survival is the parameter used to describe PFS., PFS was measured from day 1 of treatment until time of progression (assessed every 8 weeks) or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 15 months.
Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression is defined as the time from treatment start until objective tumor progression. Progression is defined per RECIST criteria v1.0 as a measurable increase in the smallest diameter of any target lesion, progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. The median time to progression is the parameter used to describe TTP., TTP was measured from day 1 of treatment until time of progression (assessed every 8 weeks), assessed up to 15 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment start until death from any cause. The median overall survival time is used to measure OS., OS was measured from day 1 of treatment until time of death, assessed up to 20 months.|Overall Response, Response was evaluated via changes from baseline in radiological tumor measurements performed after every 4th treatment cycle and at the end of treatment or time of progression. Response was evaluated using RECIST version 1.0 guidelines, where complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR) is \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage in sum of LD of target lesions to be PR nor increase of \>=20%; Progressive Disease (PD) is the increase in existing lesions or new lesions., Response to treatment was assessed after every 8 weeks of treatment, up to 50 weeks.
Progression Free Survival (PFS) by Baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever comes first. The median progression free survival is the parameter used to describe PFS. ECOG performance status describes how daily living activities of the patient are affected by disease. ECOG of 0 means the patient is fully active without restriction. ECOG of 1 means the patient is restricted in physically strenuous activity but is able to carry out light work. The investigator assigned the ECOG score at baseline (i.e., before the patient started study treatment)., PFS was measured from day 1 of treatment until time of progression (assessed every 8 weeks) or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 15 months.|Overall Survival (OS) by Baseline Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, Overall survival is defined as the time from treatment start until death from any cause. The median overall survival time is used to measure OS. ECOG performance status describes how daily living activities of the patient are affected by disease. ECOG of 0 means the patient is fully active without restriction. ECOG of 1 means the patient is restricted in physically strenuous activity but is able to carry out light work. The investigator assigned the ECOG score at baseline (i.e., before the patient started study treatment)., OS was measured from day 1 of treatment until time of death, assessed up to 20 months.
The primary objective is to determine the progression free survival with pemetrexed, and gemcitabine plus bevacizumab as first-line chemotherapy in elderly patients with Stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

The secondary objectives are to determine the overall response rate; overall survival; chemotherapy induced toxicity profile of this combination; time to progression; and patient reported symptom burden.