Phase II Randomized Trial of Bethesda Protocol Compared to Cambridge Method for Detection of Early Stage Gastric Cancer in CDH1 Mutation Carriers
Background:

Some people have a mutation in the cadherin-1 gene (CDH1) gene that is known to lead to stomach cancer. They are advised to get regular endoscopies with biopsies even if their stomach appears normal. The endoscopy method currently used is called the 'Cambridge Method.' Researchers want to test a new method called the 'Bethesda Protocol.'

Objective:

To compare the Cambridge Method and Bethesda Protocol and find out which is more efficient in catching early signs of cancer.

Eligibility:

Adults age 18 and older who have a mutation in the CDH1 gene.

Design:

Participants will be screened with a review of their medical history, medical records, and physical status.

Participants will be put into group 1 (Bethesda Protocol) or group 2 (Cambridge Method).

Participants will have a physical exam. They will have endoscopy. For this, they will be put under general anesthesia. They will wear compression cuffs around their legs to prevent blood clots. A lighted tube will be inserted into their mouth and go down to their stomach.

For group 1 participants, 88 pieces of tissue will be taken from 22 areas of their stomach.

For group 2 participants, 30 pieces of tissue will be taken from 6 areas of their stomach. Then group 2 will be injected with a contrast dye. A microscope will be inserted, and more samples will be taken.

About 14 days later, participants will have a follow-up visit or phone call. They may give stool samples every 3 to 6 months for 12 months for research purposes.

Participants may have another endoscopy 6-18 months later.
Gastric Cancer|Gastric Neoplasms|Gastric Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Cellvizio (Registered trademark) Real-Time In Vivo Cellular Imaging Platform with Confocal Miniprobes|DEVICE: Olympus Graphics Interchange Format (GIF) 190 endoscope|PROCEDURE: Gastric mucosal biopsy
Proportion of Participants With Improved Sensitivity for Detection of Early-stage Gastric Cancer in CDH1 Germline Mutation Carriers Compared to the Cambridge Method, Among participants who undergo gastrectomy, in each of the two arms, the fraction of participants who had signet ring cell carcinoma (SRCCs) previously identified by endoscopic biopsy out of those who had SRCCs detected on final pathologic analysis of gastrectomy explants will be used to determine the difference between 30% sensitivity in the Cambridge method and 60% sensitivity in the Bethesda protocol of each arm on a Fisher's exact test with a 0.05 two-sided significance level and reported with a 95% confidence interval., 14 days
Proportion of Participants Who Had Signet Ring Cell Carcinoma (SRCC) Identified on Final Pathology But Were Negative for SRCC on Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), False negative rate of SRCC detection in participants who undergo risk-reducing total gastrectomy using the Bethesda protocol and Cambridge method. The differences in fractions will be compared using a two-tailed Fisher's exact test and reported with a 95% confidence interval., 14 days|Difference in Fractions of Participants Crude Cancer Detection Rates Between Endoscopy Using the Bethesda Protocol and the Cambridge Method, The difference in fractions of participants with signet ring cell carcinoma (SRCCs) crude cancer detection rates found on endoscopy by the Bethesda protocol and the Cambridge method determined by the power to detect a difference with a two-sided 0.05 significance level between 15% and 30% crude cancer detection rates and reported with a 95% confidence interval., 14 days
Number of Participants With Non-serious Adverse Events Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0), Here is the number of participants with non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence., From the start of endoscopy through 14 days following study interventions, an average of 2 weeks
Background:

Hereditary Diffuse Gastric Cancer (HDGC) is most often attributed to inactivating germline mutations in the E-cadherin (CDH1) tumor suppressor gene. Mutation carriers have a 24-70% lifetime risk of developing gastric adenocarcinoma.

International consensus guidelines recommend endoscopic screening and surveillance of CDH1 mutation carriers who decline risk-reducing total gastrectomy (TG). However, this approach lacks sufficient sensitivity for detection of occult, intramucosal foci of signet ring cancer cells (SRCC), which are pathognomonic of HDGC. Our team has established a systematic endoscopic screening protocol (Bethesda protocol) that demonstrates a higher rate of SRCC detection compared to historic controls using the currently recommended Cambridge method.

Objective:

Determine if Bethesda protocol provides improved sensitivity for detection of early-stage gastric cancer in CDH1 germline mutation carriers compared to the Cambridge method.

Eligibility:

Subjects with pathogenic or likely pathogenic CDH1 germline mutation.

Age \>=18 years.

Physiologically able to undergo upper endoscopy

Design:

Phase II randomized study to compare Bethesda protocol and Cambridge method for detection of intramucosal SRCC in asymptomatic CDH1 mutation carriers undergoing endoscopic screening or surveillance.