Weekly Oxaliplatin and Gemcitabine for Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
The combination of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine is highly active in a wide variety of tumors including pancreatic, germ cell, breast, biliary, mesothelioma (Mitchell et al, 2002), and lung. In the last study which utilized days 1 and 8 gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 and days 1 and 8 oxaliplatin 65 mg/m2 in poor prognosis lung cancer patients (PS 1-3) the response rate was 16% with no incidence of febrile neutropenia.

Toxicity is a crucial consideration when designing regimens intended for palliation. Toxicities associated with cisplatin can make it difficult to use in patients with Head and Neck Cancer (HNC), many of whom are elderly and have comorbidities. In addition, many patients with metastatic HNC have previously received cisplatin during neoadjuvant/adjuvant therapy, or as part of their primary chemoradiation treatment. When these patients recur, it is possible their tumors have innate or acquired cisplatin resistance. Oxaliplatin is likely to be better tolerated than cisplatin containing regimens, especially with regards to neurotoxicity. Gemcitabine has shown promising activity as a single agent and in combination chemotherapy in the first line treatment of patients with HNC. A combination chemotherapy regimen using oxaliplatin and gemcitabine administered once every week is logical and worth exploring in patients with metastatic and recurrent head and neck cancer to improve the toxicity profile and patient monitoring while maintaining efficacy of the chemotherapy regimen.
Cancer of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Overall Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable disease. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Normalization of markers and other abnormal lab values. All disease must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline.

Partial Response (PR): Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of longest diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., 5 years
Frequency and Severity of Toxicities, 5 years|Overall Survival and Time to Treatment Failure, 5 years
The combination of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine is highly active in a wide variety of tumors including pancreatic, germ cell, breast, biliary, mesothelioma (Mitchell et al, 2002), and lung. In the last study which utilized days 1 and 8 gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 and days 1 and 8 oxaliplatin 65 mg/m2 in poor prognosis lung cancer patients (PS 1-3) the response rate was 16% with no incidence of febrile neutropenia.

Toxicity is a crucial consideration when designing regimens intended for palliation. Toxicities associated with cisplatin can make it difficult to use in patients with Head and Neck Cancer (HNC), many of whom are elderly and have comorbidities. In addition, many patients with metastatic HNC have previously received cisplatin during neoadjuvant/adjuvant therapy, or as part of their primary chemoradiation treatment. When these patients recur, it is possible their tumors have innate or acquired cisplatin resistance. Oxaliplatin is likely to be better tolerated than cisplatin containing regimens, especially with regards to neurotoxicity. Gemcitabine has shown promising activity as a single agent and in combination chemotherapy in the first line treatment of patients with HNC. A combination chemotherapy regimen using oxaliplatin and gemcitabine administered once every week is logical and worth exploring in patients with metastatic and recurrent head and neck cancer to improve the toxicity profile and patient monitoring while maintaining efficacy of the chemotherapy regimen.