Endobronchial Ultrasound Guided Interstitial Photodynamic Therapy in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Lung Cancer
This Phase I/Il studies the side effects of endobronchial ultrasound guided interstitial photodynamic therapy work in treating patients with lung cancer that has spread to nearby tissues or lymph nodes. Photodynamic therapy consists of injecting a light sensitive drug called a photosensitizer, such as porfimer sodium, into the vein, waiting for it to accumulate in the tumor, and then activating it with a red laser light. Giving photodynamic therapy with Porfimer sodium may reduce the tumor size in patients with lung cancer.
Locally Advanced Lung Carcinoma|Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Solid Tumor
DRUG: Porfimer Sodium|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound-Guided Transbronchial Needle-Delivered Interstitial Photodynamic Therapy
Number of Participants With Adverse Events That Are >= Grade 4 According to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version (v) 4.0, Number of Participants with Adverse Events That Are \>= Grade 4 According to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version (v) 4.0, Up to 4 weeks|Number of Participants With Tumor Response, Will be reported using frequencies, up to 24 weeks
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Assessed Using Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 Criteria, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, with median progression-free survival (PFS) estimated with 95% confidence intervals.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, From initiation of treatment to time of first observed diseased progression or death assessed up to 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES PHASE 1:

I. To evaluate the safety and potential efficacy of endobronchial ultrasound with transbronchial needle (EBUS-TBN) guided interstitial photodynamic therapy (EBUS-TBN I-PDT) and/or I-PDT and/or photodynamic therapy (PDT) in patients with malignant airway obstructions using porfimer sodium as a photosensitizer.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE Phase II

* I. To assess the tumor response to treatment.
* II To observe changes in well being

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

* I. To evaluate local progression-free survival (PFS).
* II.To compare the treatment planning in DOSIE™ with the plan generated in COMSOL™ - COHORT A ONLY
* III. To measure changes in tumor pO2, optical properties, and irradiance and fluence in relationship to response

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine porfimer sodium retention in the target tumor tissue. II. Examine the relationship between immune biomarkers and response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Porfimer sodium intravenously (IV) over 20 minutes delivery of I-PDT. 20 minutes 48 hours +/- 4 hours before receiving I-PDT. I-PDT is then received over 1-2 hours.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4, 8, 12, and 24 weeks.