Fertility Limiting Diseases of Pelvic Organs and Their Influence on Receptivity of Endometrial Cavity: Prospective Clinical Trial
In this project, we will characterize the effects of fertility limiting diseases of pelvic organs on the receptivity of the endometrium. The primary aim of the project is the characterization of endometrium in patients with infertility suffering from AD, UF and DE, and compare it with infertile patients with minimal or mild endometriosis but no AD or UF (ETRS group), and with healthy women with only male factor of infertility (CTRL group, controls). The proper infertility treatment of patients with AD,UF and endometriosis is controversial and lacking clear evidence based algorithms. Despite their topical character, especially AD and DE (and UFs as well if present as multiple lesions) can be classified as systemic diseases in relation to women´s fertility. The presumed impact of these pathologies to endometrial receptivity (no matter they do not occur in the uterine cavity itself) can beseen as a fascinating hypothesis. Eradication of these diseases could have a potential to increase the prognosis of these women fundamentally.
Adenomyosis|Fibroid Uterus|Endometriosis
PROCEDURE: cytoreductive resection of adenomyosis, myomectomy, resection of endometriosis|PROCEDURE: hysteroscopy
loss of endometrial receptivity, frequency of patients with loss of receptivity, 12 weeks
pregnancy rate, the percentage of all attempts that leads to pregnancy, 2 years
The project will be studied in two parts - laboratory and clinical. In the laboratory part, the parameters of endometrial receptivity will be specified in women with UF, AD, DE, minimal and mild endometriosis and in healthy controls. These parameters will be also compared in surgically treated patients before and after the procedures. This data will also be compared with patients from both control groups (ETRS, CTRL). First, we will perform bulk RNA Sequencing (RNA-Seq), to characterize the main differences in RNA expression of the endometrium between women with successful and unsuccessful conceptions. The candidate genes will be used for choosing the RTqPCR controlled set of samples for single-nucleus RNA-Seq (snRNA-Seq) profiling of the endometrial tissue. The results will be validated using RT-qPCR. In the clinical part, we will analyse the reproductive results of surgical and conservative management of infertility associated with AD and UF. Collectively, our data will provide information for the development of new diagnostic tools for better investigation and choice of treatment for patients with infertility. This project is not a clinical trial.