Cladribine, Idarubicin, Cytarabine, and Venetoclax in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia, High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome, or Blastic Phase Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well cladribine, idarubicin, cytarabine, and venetoclax work in patients with acute myeloid leukemia, high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome, or blastic phase chronic myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cladribine, idarubicin, cytarabine, and venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acute Biphenotypic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Blast Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Blasts 10 Percent or More of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|Blasts 10 Percent or More of Peripheral Blood White Cells|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Gilteritinib|DRUG: Idarubicin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Midostaurin|DRUG: Venetoclax
Complete response (CR) rate, CR rate will be determined., Up to 12 months
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be determined., Up to 12 months|Overall survival (OS), OS will be assessed., Up to 12 months|Event-free survival (EFS), EFS will be assessed., Up to 12 months|Duration of response, Duration of response will be assessed., Up to 12 months|Incidence of toxicities, Safety and tolerability of cladribine in combination with idarubicin and cytarabine will be determined., Up to 12 months
Use of intrathecal prophylaxis, The relationship between patient/disease characteristics and use of intrathecal prophylaxis will be studied and described., Up to 12 months|Incidence of leptomeningeal disease, The relationship between patient/disease characteristics and incidence of leptomeningeal disease will be studied and described., Up to 12 months
Primary Objectives:

I. To determine the complete response rate (CR) of cladribine in combination with idarubicin and cytarabine (araC) in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML), high risk (HR) myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), or myeloid blast phase of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).

Secondary Objectives:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of cladribine in combination with idarubicin and araC in patients with AML, HR MDS, or myeloid blast phase of CML.

II. To assess overall survival (OS) and event free survival (EFS) of patients treated with cladribine, idarubicin, and araC (cytarabine).

III. To assess the duration of response to the combination in patients with AML, HR MDS, or myeloid blast phase of CML.

IV. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination in patients with AML, HR MDS, or myeloid blast phase of CML.

Exploratory Objectives:

I. To study and describe the relationship between pretreatment patient/disease characteristics (including AML-associated molecular abnormalities) and outcome.

II. To identify molecular biomarkers predictive of response to therapy.

III. To study and describe the relationship between patient/disease characteristics, use of intrathecal prophylaxis, and incidence of leptomeningeal disease.

IV. To study the trajectories of leukemia mutations and molecular minimal residual disease (MRD) during the therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive cladribine intravenously (IV) and cytarabine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-5 and idarubicin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-3. Patients with untreated AML and MDS also receive venetoclax orally (PO) on days 2-8. AML patients with known FLT3-ITD or FLT3 kinase domain mutations may receive midostaurin PO twice daily (BID) on days 6-19 or gilteritinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive cladribine IV and cytarabine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3 and idarubicin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-2. Patients with untreated AML and MDS also receive venetoclax PO on days 2-8. AML patients with known FLT3-ITD or FLT3 kinase domain mutations may receive midostaurin PO BID on days 6-19 or gilteritinib PO QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months.