The Effect of Relaxation Program on Coping With Stress and Anxiety Levels of Caregivers of Children With Cancer.
This research will be carried out to determine the effect of the relaxation program applied to the caregivers of children followed by the diagnosis of cancer on the levels of caregivers' anxiety and coping with stress. The research will be conducted in a single-blind parallel-group randomized controlled trial design. A relaxation program including progressive muscle relaxation exercises will be applied to caregivers. The application will be carried out by sending muscle relaxation videos and videos for relaxation to mothers. The relaxation program is planned to last approximately 6 weeks
Caregivers With a Child Followed up With a Cancer Diagnosis
OTHER: Relaxation Program
coping with stress, The scale is a 23-item self-report measure of anxiety using a 5-point Likert-type scale. The scale does not have a cut-off point. The higher the score obtained from the scale, the better the coping is determined., Change from Baseline level of Coping with stress to 8 weeks (change is being assessed)|Anxiety, The scale is a 20-item self-report measure of anxiety using a 4-point Likert-type scale (from 0 to 3 points) for each item. The total score obtained from the scale varies between 20 and 80. A large score indicates a high level of anxiety, and a small score indicates a low level of anxiety., Change from Baseline level of Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety to 8 weeks (change is being assessed)
In this study, a relaxation program will be applied to mothers who have a child followed up with a cancer diagnosis. The relaxation program will include progressive muscle relaxation exercises and videos for relaxation. Initial applications will be implemented with caregivers. The relaxation program is planned to last 6 weeks. The program is planned to last 8 weeks in total, with pre-test and post-test applications. Caregivers will then be asked to perform the treatments each week. Coping with Stress and State-Trait Anxiety Scale will be used at the beginning and end of the program.