The Gut Microbiome in FLT3- AL Undergoing Allo-HSCT With Or Without Sorafenib Maintenance
This prospective trial investigates the effect of sorafenib maintenance therapy in FLT3 negative acute leukemia patients after allo-HSCT in terms of gut microbiome.
Acute Leukemia|Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
DRUG: Sorafenib
Variation of Gut Microbiota Composition and Diversity, Variation of gut microbiota composition and diversity, as determined by 16sV3V4 rRNA sequencing of serial stool samples, during Sorafenib maintenance therapy and the period without Sorafenib maintenance., 3 months
Variation of gut barrier integrity, As determined by serum levels of zonulin, I-FABP, and citrulline or other potential candidates., 3 months|NRM, Non-relapse mortality, 1 year|Acute GVHD, The cumulative incidence of overall grades II-IV and grades III-IV acute GVHD will be assessed through six months after transplantation. Acute GVHD will be assessed using the Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium (MAGIC) criteria., 100 days|Chronic GVHD, The cumulative incidence of overall grades of chronic GVHD will be assessed through 1 year after transplantation according to the 2014 NIH Consensus., 1 year|AEs, Adverse Events, 1 year|OS, Overall Survival, 1 year|LFS, Leukemia-Free Survival, 1 year|Relapse, Cumulative incidence of relapse, 1 year
Acute leukemia is a heterogeneous group of clonal diseases. Leukemia relapse remains the main cause of treatment failure, including the patients undergoing allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT). Sorafenib, an inhibitor of multiple kinases including FLT3, has shown promising activity in FLT3-ITD-positive AML. The investigator's previous studies demonstrated that sorafenib maintenance post-transplantation could improve the outcomes of FLT3-ITD positive AML patients, which was associated with sorafenib enhancing the graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect. Recent studies have shown that sorafenib is also effective in patients with FLT3-negative acute leukemia. The investigator's previous exploratory study found that salvage therapy such as sorafenib combined with chemotherapy and donor lymphocyte infusion could significantly improve the CR rate and survival in patients with recurrent FLT3-negative acute leukemia after allo-HSC. More and more studies have shown that sorafenib and allo-HSCT have synergistic GVL effect. Some studies have demonstrated that gut microbiome is associated with graft-versus-host-disease (GVHD) and GVL. However, the exact mechanism of sorafenib enhancing the GVL effect and the influence of gut microbiome on sorafenib maintenance after allo-HSCT in FLT3 negative acute leukemia patients remain unknown.