Randomized, Phase II Clinical Trial of Sulforaphane in Bladder Cancer Chemoprevention
The main purpose of this study is to see if Prostaphane is effective and can help reduce the progression of bladder cancer. Researchers also want to find out if Prostaphane is safe and tolerable, and to evaluate how Prostaphane works to reduce the progression of bladder cancer. This study will compare Prostaphane with a placebo to see if taking Prostaphane is better than taking a placebo. A placebo is a pill that looks like Prostaphane but has no drug or other active ingredients in it.

The study will be presented to eligible patients by the patient's surgeon at the time when an appointment is made for cystoscopy for suspicion of bladder cancer (BC) or to confirm BC diagnosis.
Bladder Cancer|Bladder Tumor|Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Sulforaphane Administration|OTHER: Placebo Administration|PROCEDURE: Standard of Care Surgery
Magnitude of Change, Magnitude of change in Intermediate Endpoint Biomarkers (IEBs) of proliferation (Ki-67 expressing cells- an independent marker of poor prognosis in bladder cancer (BC)) from baseline to end of treatment with 20 mgs Prostaphane® \[Nutinov Labs, France\] containing 200 μmol of Sulforaphane (SFN) a day at 3-4 weeks (maximum 30 days) in BC cells and benign/adjacent cells., Up to 30 days
Effectiveness of Sulforaphane vs. Placebo, Effectiveness of SFN at this dose (vs. placebo) as indicated by modulation of other IEBs of proliferation, apoptosis and phase II enzymes, as well as the potential molecular mechanism of SFN, we will measure changes in: (i) BC histology grade; (ii) labeling index of a sensitive biomarker that is a member of DNA replication origin licensing complex, Mcm2; (iii) apoptosis (Caspase-3); (iv) Phase II enzymes (glutathione transferases, epoxide hydrolase, Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NAD(P)H): quinone reductase, and glucuronosyltransferases); (v) Nrf2 and Transcription factor (NF-kB) signaling, from baseline to end of treatment in BC cells and benign/adjacent cells., End of study, approximately 30 days|Occurrence of Adverse Events per Study Arm, Safety of SFN at this dose (vs. Placebo) as indicated by incidence of adverse events and toxicities, monitored using Common Toxicity Criteria version 5.0, complete blood count (CBC), and complete metabolic panel (CMP) from baseline at mid-point and at end of trial., End of study, approximately 30 days|Mid-study Bioavailability of Sulforaphane, Bioavailability, of SFN at this dose vs. Placebo. Investigators will measure change in SFN in plasma and bladder tissue from baseline, at mid-point and at end of study., Mid-study, approximately 15 days|End of Study Bioavailability of Sulforaphane, Bioavailability, of SFN at this dose vs. Placebo. Investigators will measure change in SFN in plasma and bladder tissue from baseline, at mid-point and at end of study., End of study, approximately 30 days|Adherence of Sulforaphane vs. Placebo, Adherence based on pill counts and diet and pill logs from baseline., End of study, approximately 30 days|Acceptability of Sulforaphane vs. Placebo, Acceptability based on pill counts and diet and pill logs from baseline., End of study, approximately 30 days
The study will be presented to eligible patients by the patient's surgeon at the time when an appointment is made for cystoscopy for suspicion of bladder cancer (BC) or to confirm BC diagnosis.

Participants will be asked to spend 21 to 30 days in this study. The study will be conducted during the time from when the participant is diagnosed with bladder cancer to when they undergo a surgical procedure for the treatment or removal of their bladder cancer. The surgical procedure is done as a part of their regular medical care. Participants will be asked to come for 1 additional visit as part of this research study at the midpoint between their biopsy and surgery.