Differential Risks for Melanoma: p16 and DNA Repair
The goal of this study is to find out if some people are more likely to get melanoma, a form of skin cancer, than others. People respond to the environment in different ways. Some may be born with genes that make them more likely to get this type of skin cancer. Genes are made up of DNA. DNA damage is one of the first steps in developing cancer. Each person has many ways to repair normal damage to their genes. Some people may have a lower level of this repair and that may make them more likely to get cancer. Some genes are important for DNA repair. The genes we want to test are thought to affect the rate at which DNA can be repaired. We also want to find out if sun habits are related to these levels of DNA repair or genetic mutations.
Melanoma|Skin Melanoma
OTHER: self-administered questionnaire and blood draw|OTHER: self-administered questionnaire and blood draw|OTHER: health questionnaire, blood draw and skin exam
evaluate the relative risks of develop melanoma for those individuals with deficient DNA repair in a case-control study of multiple primary melanoma, where the controls are cases of first primary melanoma & healthy subjects from the general population., conclusion of study
is to investigate associations of specific polymorphisms of the melanocortin receptor gene with clinical cutaneous phenotype (hair color, eye color, skin color, and freckling tendency)., conclusion of study
The goal of this study is to find out if some people are more likely to get melanoma, a form of skin cancer, than others. People respond to the environment in different ways. Some may be born with genes that make them more likely to get this type of skin cancer. Genes are made up of DNA. DNA damage is one of the first steps in developing cancer. Each person has many ways to repair normal damage to their genes. Some people may have a lower level of this repair and that may make them more likely to get cancer. Some genes are important for DNA repair. The genes we want to test are thought to affect the rate at which DNA can be repaired. We also want to find out if sun habits are related to these levels of DNA repair or genetic mutations.