Non-fucosylated Anti-CTLA-4 (BMS-986218) + Degarelix Acetate vs. Degarelix Acetate Alone in Men With High-risk Localized Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see whether immunotherapy with BMS-986218 added to degarelix (which suppresses testosterone) given prior to surgery can decrease the chance that cancer will come back compared to degarelix alone. People who usually have this type of prostate cancer usually do not receive any additional therapy prior to surgery. Approximately 24 individuals will be asked to participate in this study.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: BMS-986218 and Degarelix|DRUG: Degarelix
The proportion of patients with an adverse event will be reported with an exact binomial 95% confidence interval, Characterizing the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of degarelix with or without BMS-986218 in the neoadjuvant setting. All subjects receiving at least one dose of the study drug(s) will be evaluable for toxicity., 42 months
Mean Treg cell staining percentage in harvested prostate tissues will be reported and compared post-treatment between the treatment groups using paired sample test., The standard deviation, 95% confidence interval, median, and range of values will also be reported where appropriate, 42 months|Pathological complete responses (pCR)- an absence of tumor identification on standard histological analysis of the resected prostate specimens., The estimate and 95% confidence intervals will be obtained., 42 months|Undetectable PSA at 12 months- the proportion of patients who achieve an undetectable PSA (<0.1 ng/mL) by 12 months after prostatectomy, The estimate and 95% confidence intervals will be obtained., 42 months|PSA response rates- a 50% change in pre-treatment and post-treatment PSA., These endpoints will be expressed as the proportion of men achieving a PSA response. The estimate and 95% confidence intervals will be obtained., 42 months|Time to PSA recurrence- the interval from the time of prostatectomy to the time when the first of at least two serial rises in PSA (≥2 weeks apart) with a PSA ≥0.2 ng/mL., PSA will be measured every 3 (±1) months during the first post-operative year and every 6 (±2) months during the second and third post-operative years. For subjects who have not yet demonstrated PSA relapse after 3 years followup patients will be censored at the date of the last assessment that shows a lack of PSA recurrence. This outcome will be expressed as a median (95% CI) and will be determined using the Kaplan-Meier method., 42 months
This is a single-center, randomized, two-arm, study evaluating the safety, feasibility and immunogenicity of neoadjuvant degarelix(Arm A) or BMS-986218 plus degarelix (Arm B) prior to radical prostatectomy in men with high-risk localized prostate cancer (neo-RED-P). Our primary objective is to characterize safety, tolerability, and feasibility of degarelix with or without BMS-986218 in the neoadjuvant setting. The trial will monitor toxicity and safety, as well as surgery related adverse events. The secondary objectives will be to evaluate an immune response consistent with the proposed mechanism of action of BMS-986218, depletion of Tregs, and to assess the pathologic complete response rate, PSA response rate and time-to-PSA recurrence following treatment.