Effects of Chemotherapy on Cognitive Function in Breast Cancer Patients & Non-Cancer Control Subjects With Optional Sub-Study Research Brain MRI
Study is enrolling newly diagnosed breast cancer patients about to start chemotherapy and age-matched control participants. The investigator is trying to better understand the prevalence of cognitive difficulties in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy compared to the general population as well as what biological mechanisms may play a role in the development of these difficulties. Patients will be asked to complete six assessments over the course of approximately 5 months. Assessments 1,3, 4.5 and 5 include computerized and paper and pencil cognitive testing as well as blood draws. Assessments 2 and 4 only involve the collection of a blood sample. An optional sub study is offered after Assessment 1. It involves a research brain MRI at Assessment 4.5 and cognitive testing and another research brain MRI at Assessment 6.
Cancer Related Cognitive Difficulties|Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Cognitive testing|OTHER: Research Brain MRI
Cognitive function (memory, concentration, attentiveness) will be assessed by computerized cognitive assessments and associated with inflammation and neurotoxicity markers, Change scores from baseline will be computed for each cognitive measure as well as each mechanistic marker, During chemotherapy and 1 month post-chemotherapy; Approximately 3 - 5 months
Research Brain MRI, MRI brain imaging to obtain structural and connectivity data via fMRI (brain function), T1MRI (brain structure) and DTI (white matter related microstructure in brain) to determine if there are changes within the brain related to cognitive performance, symptoms, immune and other biologic factors, After 4 cycles Adriamycin/Cytoxan (each cycle of AC is 14 days) and within 1 month post additional chemotherapy treatment
Study is enrolling newly diagnosed breast cancer patients about to start chemotherapy and age-matched control participants. The investigator is trying to better understand the prevalence of cognitive difficulties in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy compared to the general population as well as what biological mechanisms may play a role in the development of these difficulties. Patients will be asked to complete six assessments over the course of approximately 5 months. Assessments 1,3, 4.5 and 5 include computerized and paper and pencil cognitive testing as well as blood draws. Assessments 2 and 4 only involve the collection of a blood sample. An optional sub study is offered after Assessment 1. It involves a research brain MRI at Assessment 4.5 and cognitive testing and another research brain MRI at Assessment 6.