Psychopharmacology of Psilocybin in Cancer Patients
This research is being done to study the psychological effects of psilocybin in cancer patients. Psilocybin is a naturally occurring substance found in some mushrooms that some cultures have used for centuries in religious practices.
Depressive Symptoms|Anxiety|Cancer
DRUG: psilocybin
GRID-HAM-D-17 -- Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Depression Scale., The GRID-Hamilton Depression Rating Scale is a 17-item clinician-administered rating scale designed to assess severity of depressive symptoms. The score range for the GRID-HAMD is 0 to 52, with higher score indicating more severe depression. For this clinician-rated measure, a clinically significant response was defined as ⩾50% decrease in measure relative to Baseline; symptom remission was defined as ⩾50% decrease in measure relative to Baseline and a score of ⩽7 on the GRID-HAMD, Baseline, 5 weeks post session 1 and 2, 6-month follow-up|HAM-A Assessed With the SIGH-A -- a Structured Interview Guide for the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (SIGH-A)., The Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale is a 14-item clinician-administered rating scale designed to assess severity of anxiety symptoms. The score range for the HAM-A is 0 to 56, with higher score indicating more severe anxiety.

For this clinician-rated measure, a clinically significant response was defined as ⩾50% decrease in measure relative to Baseline; symptom remission was defined as ⩾50% decrease in measure relative to Baseline and a score of ⩽7 on the GRID-HAM-A, Baseline, 5 weeks post session 1 and 2, 6-month follow-up
This research is being done to study the psychological effects of psilocybin in cancer patients. Psilocybin is a naturally occurring substance found in some mushrooms that some cultures have used for centuries in religious practices. Psilocybin has not been approved for general medical use by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Its use in this study is investigational. Psilocybin is a mood-altering drug with effects similar to other hallucinogens like LSD and mescaline. Mescaline is the main psychoactive component of the peyote cactus used in Native American religious practices. Such substances have been used for centuries in some cultures as a way of inducing non-ordinary states of consciousness for religious and spiritual purposes.

An earlier study that was done in our lab with healthy participants found that psilocybin, given in a comfortable and supportive setting, can provide an experience that is personally and spiritually meaningful for the participant. This study is being done to find out if psilocybin can also produce personally and spiritually meaningful experiences in cancer patients. This could be important because spirituality has been associated with increased psychological coping and decreased depression in serious illness. People with a diagnosis of cancer between the ages of 21 and 80 years old and who meet the medical requirements may join. About 44 people are expected to take part in this study.