A Study Comparing the Efficacy and Safety of Vanucizumab and FOLFOX With Bevacizumab and FOLFOX in Participants With Untreated Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a Phase 2 multicenter, randomized, parallel arms, double-blind study of vanucizumab to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vanucizumab in combination with oxaliplatin, folinic acid, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (mFOLFOX-6) versus bevacizumab (Avastin) + mFOLFOX-6 in participants with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). The study consists of 2 parts: a safety run-in open-label, single-arm part (Part 1) and a randomized, parallel-arms, double-blind part (Part 2). During Part 1 at least 6 eligible participants will receive 2000 milligrams (mg) vanucizumab every 2 weeks + mFOLFOX-6 in order to confirm the dose and schedule that will be used in Part 2. In Part 2, all eligible participants will be randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to receive either mFOLFOX-6 + vanucizumab or mFOLFOX-6 + bevacizumab. Study treatment (induction and maintenance) will be given on Day 1 of each 14-day cycle. Induction therapy will consist of up to 8 cycles of mFOLFOX-6 plus either bevacizumab or vanucizumab. Maintenance therapy will consist of 5-fluorouracil and folinic acid plus either vanucizumab or bevacizumab for up to 24 months or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, Investigator decision or consent withdrawal, whichever occurs first.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: 5-FU|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Folinic acid|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Vanucizumab
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time to Event, Efficacy of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of PFS as Investigator-Assessed Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). PFS was defined as the time between randomization and the date of first documented disease progression or death from any cause on study, whichever occurred first. Death on study was defined as death from any cause within 30 days of the last study treatment., Baseline, every 8 weeks, up to approximately 29 months
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (ORR) as Assessed Using RECIST v. 1.1, Efficacy of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Percentage of Participants With ORR as Investigator-Assessed Using RECIST v. 1.1. Best Overall Confirmed Response., Baseline (within 28 days prior to Day 1), then every 8 weeks until progressive disease (PD), start of other anticancer therapy, withdrawal of consent, or death (up to approximately 29 months)|Duration of Objective Response, as Assessed Using RECIST v. 1.1, Efficacy of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of duration of objective response as assessed using RECIST v. 1.1. This was computed using the PFS definition with death on study (deaths that occurred outside the 30 days window from the last study treatment are excluded)., Baseline (within 28 days prior to Day 1), then every 8 weeks until PD, start of other anticancer therapy, withdrawal of consent, or death (up to approximately 29 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Efficacy of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of OS as the time from randomization until death from any cause. 99999 = data not estimable due to the low number of deaths., Baseline until death from any cause (maximum up to approximately 3.5 years)|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Safety is evaluated in terms of percentage of participants with at least one serious adverse event and percentage of participants with at least one adverse event., Up to approximately 29 months|Number of Participants With Human Anti-human Antibodies (HAHAs) Against Vanucizumab, Safety is evaluated in terms of number of participants with Human Anti-human Antibodies (HAHAs) Against Vanucizumab., End of study (EoS, within 28 to 42 days after last dose, latest at 29 months)|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve (AUC) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of AUC, Cycles 1 and 8 of parts 1 and 2|Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Cmax, Cycles 1 and 8 of parts 1 and 2|Minimum Observed Plasma Concentration (Clast) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Clast, Cycles 1 and 8 of parts 1 and 2|Time to Reach Cmax (Tmax) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Tmax, Cycles 1 and 8 of parts 1 and 2|Plasma Terminal Half-Life (t1/2) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of t1/2, values are reported for cycle 8 of both part 1 (safety run-in) and part 2 of the study., Cycle 8|Plasma Clearance at Steady State (CLss) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of CLss, values are reported for cycle 8 of both part 1 (safety run-in) and part 2 of the study., Cycle 8|Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Vss, values are reported for cycle 8 of both part 1 (safety run-in) and part 2 of the study., Cycle 8|Cmax Accumulation Ratio (AR) of Vanucizumab, PK profile of vanucizumab was evaluated in terms of Cmax Ratio, values are reported for cycle 8 of both part 1 (safety run-in) and part 2 of the study., Cycle 8
This is a Phase 2 multicenter, randomized, parallel arms, double-blind study of vanucizumab to evaluate the efficacy and safety of vanucizumab in combination with oxaliplatin, folinic acid, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (mFOLFOX-6) versus bevacizumab (Avastin) + mFOLFOX-6 in participants with previously untreated metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). The study consists of 2 parts: a safety run-in open-label, single-arm part (Part 1) and a randomized, parallel-arms, double-blind part (Part 2). During Part 1 at least 6 eligible participants will receive 2000 milligrams (mg) vanucizumab every 2 weeks + mFOLFOX-6 in order to confirm the dose and schedule that will be used in Part 2. In Part 2, all eligible participants will be randomized in a ratio of 1:1 to receive either mFOLFOX-6 + vanucizumab or mFOLFOX-6 + bevacizumab. Study treatment (induction and maintenance) will be given on Day 1 of each 14-day cycle. Induction therapy will consist of up to 8 cycles of mFOLFOX-6 plus either bevacizumab or vanucizumab. Maintenance therapy will consist of 5-fluorouracil and folinic acid plus either vanucizumab or bevacizumab for up to 24 months or until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, Investigator decision or consent withdrawal, whichever occurs first.