A Phase 2 Evaluation of TRC105 In Combination With Bevacizumab in Patients With Glioblastoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TRC105 in patients with recurrent or progressive glioblastoma after prior antiangiogenic therapy (including anti-VEGF therapy)
Glioblastoma|Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: TRC105|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival assessed by determination from time of informed consent on trial to the date of death of each patient enrolled in the trial, 6 Months
Median Duration That Patients Remained Progression Free on Study, The median number of months that patients remained progression free was calculated using modified RANO criteria to determine progression. Modified RANO criteria is defined as follows: The largest cross-sectional area on the T1-weighted contrast-enhanced images was selected and measured in 2 dimensions with linear measures on the baseline MRI axial sequence. In addition, the largest cross-sectional area of a contiguous hyperintense lesion on FLAIR sequences was measured on the baseline MRI axial sequence. All subsequent scans were compared against these baseline measures (for both CE and FLAIR). New foci of FLAIR signal abnormality were recorded on each subsequent evaluation. Response was scored., Patients are scanned every 8 weeks for approximately 6 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse event frequency per patient according to CTCAE version 4.0., Patients were followed for at least 28 days after the last dose of TRC105 study drug for adverse events, an average of 4 months|Number of Patients Who Respond to Study Treatment According to Modified RANO Criteria (Objective Response Rate (ORR))., Number of patients who respond to study treatment according to modified RANO criteria was calculated (Objective Response Rate (ORR)). Modified RANO criteria is defined as follows: The largest cross-sectional area on the T1-weighted contrast-enhanced images was selected and measured in 2 dimensions with linear measures on the baseline MRI axial sequence. In addition, the largest cross-sectional area of a contiguous hyperintense lesion on FLAIR sequences was measured on the baseline MRI axial sequence. All subsequent scans were compared against these baseline measures (for both CE and FLAIR). New foci of FLAIR signal abnormality were recorded on each subsequent evaluation. Response was scored., Patients are scanned every 8 weeks
Angiogenesis plays a central role in the progression of solid cancer. TRC105 is an antibody to CD105, an important non-VEGF angiogenic target on proliferating endothelial cells. TRC105 inhibits angiogenesis, tumor growth and metastases in preclinical models. TRC105 has been well tolerated in patients with glioblastoma (GBM) as a single agent. The combination of TRC105 in combination with bevacizumab has demonstrated activity in bevacizumab refractory cancer patients. We hypothesize that TRC105 when administered with bevacizumab will have activity in GBM patients who progress on bevacizumab. By targeting a non-VEGF pathway, TRC105 has the potential to complement VEGF inhibition by bevacizumab, which could represent a major advance in GBM therapy.