Fluorescence Laparoscopic Navigation for Rectal Cancer and Sigmoid Colon Cancer
To explore the short-term and long-term outcomes of fluorescence laparoscopic navigation D2 lymph node dissection for colorectal cancer surgery by comparing it with D3 lymph node dissection.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Fluorescence|Lymph Node Excision
PROCEDURE: lymph node dissection
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the time from the surgery to disease recurrence or last follow-up, which was measured in months., The endpoint of the disease-free survival assessment is the last follow-up or disease recurrence. Follow-up time is up to 36 months.|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the surgery to death or last follow-up, regardless of disease recurrence, which was measured in months., The endpoint of the overall survival assessment is the last follow-up or patient death. Follow-up time is up to 36 months.
The number of lymph node resection, The number of lymph nodes removed during surgery, which is obtained by postoperative pathological results, Until the pathological result is available , an average of 14 days.|Blood loss, Blood loss is defined as intraoperative blood loss and measured in milliliters(ml)., Until the end of the operation, an average of 8 hours.|Complications, Complications are defined as all surgery-related adverse events postoperatively, such as anastomotic leak, infection, which are measured in frequency., Until the patient recovered and was discharged from the hospital, an average of 10 days.|Hospital stay after surgery, Hospital stay after surgery is defined as the length of time from the end of surgery, Until the patient recovered and was discharged from the hospital, an average of 10 days.|Function score, Function score includes International Prostate Symptom Score, low anterior resection syndrome score and International Index of Erectile Function-5 score, which are used for assess the physical function., Until one year after the patient's surgery
Lymph node metastasis is the most common metastatic mechanisms for colorectal cancer. Therefore, regional lymph node dissection is the key part in radical surgery for colorectal cancer. In patients who have developed lymph node metastases, inadequate lymph node dissection will promote tumor recurrence. In patients who do not develop lymph node metastases, excessive lymph node dissection not only does not improve the patient's prognosis, but also increases surgical trauma and destroys the antitumor effect of the lymphoid immune system. There is still some controversy over whether to choose D3 lymph node dissection or D2 lymph node dissection for rectal and sigmoid cancer. Fluorescence laparoscopic navigation techniques can guide lymph node dissection by visualizing lymph nodes more clearly during surgery.

This study will compare the short-term and long-term oncological outcomes between fluorescence laparoscopic navigation D2 and D3 lymph node dissection by conducting a randomized controlled trial.