Personalized Antibody-Drug Conjugate Therapy Based on RNA and Protein Testing for the Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors (The ADC MATCH Screening and Treatment Trial)
This phase II ADC MATCH screening and multi-sub-study treatment trial is evaluating whether biomarker-directed treatment with one of three antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) (sacituzumab govitecan, enfortumab vedotin, and trastuzumab deruxtecan) works in treating patients with solid tumor cancers that have high expression of the Trop-2, nectin-4, or HER2 proteins and that may have spread from where they first started (primary site) to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or to other places in the body (metastatic). Precision medicine is a form of medicine that uses information about a person's genes, proteins, and environment to prevent, diagnose, or treat disease in a way that is tailored to the patient. ADCs such as sacituzumab govitecan, enfortumab vedotin, and trastuzumab deruxtecan are monoclonal antibodies attached to biologically active drugs and are a form of targeted therapy. Sacituzumab govitecan is a monoclonal antibody, called sacituzumab, linked to a drug called govitecan. Sacituzumab attaches to a protein called Trop-2 on the surface of tumor cells and delivers govitecan to kill them. Enfortumab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, enfortumab, linked to an anticancer drug called vedotin. It works by helping the immune system to slow or stop the growth of tumor cells. Enfortumab attaches to a protein called nectin-4 on tumor cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. Trastuzumab deruxtecan is composed of a monoclonal antibody, called trastuzumab, linked to a chemotherapy drug, called deruxtecan. Trastuzumab attaches to HER2 positive tumor cells in a targeted way and delivers deruxtecan to kill them. Personalized treatment with sacituzumab govitecan, enfortumab vedotin, or trastuzumab deruxtecan may be an effective treatment option for patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors that screen positive for high expression of Trop-2, nectin-4, or HER2, respectively.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|DRUG: Enfortumab Vedotin|OTHER: Immunohistochemistry Staining Method|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab Govitecan|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Deruxtecan
Frequency of high protein expression in patients with high ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression of each antibody-drug conjugate target (screening protocol), Up to completion of screening period|Objective response rate (treatment cohorts), Will be defined as the proportion of patients who achieve complete response or partial response per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. For each treatment cohort, 90% two-sided confidence intervals will be calculated for objective response rate., Up to 3 years
Frequency that patients with high RNA and immunohistochemistry target expression receive cohort treatment on study (screening protocol), Up to 3 years|Progression free survival (treatment cohorts), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. For each treatment cohort, 90% two-sided confidence intervals will be calculated for the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months from start of cohort treatment., From start of cohort treatment to time of progression or death, assessed at 6 months|Overall survival (treatment cohorts), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of cohort treatment to time of death, assessed up to 3 years|Time to progression (treatment cohorts), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (treatment cohorts), Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|RNA expression of targets of interest (TOIs) (treatment cohorts), Pearson and Spearman correlation will be calculated to assess the correlation of RNA and protein expression of TOIs., Up to 3 years|Temporal tumor heterogeneity (treatment cohorts), Paired t-test will be used to determine temporal tumor heterogeneity by comparing RNA/protein expression of TOIs on archival samples versus fresh biopsies. Graphic methods will be used to depict the temporal changes in RNA/protein expression of TOIs over time., Up to 3 years|Potential predictive biomarkers and other molecular features (treatment cohorts), Logistic regression (or chi-squared test) or proportional hazard model (or log-rank test) will be used to identify potential predictive biomarkers, including target expression and other molecular features, for predicting response endpoints or survival endpoints., Up to 3 years|Pharmacodynamic changes in the tumor and microenvironment (treatment cohorts), Up to 3 years
Mechanisms of acquired resistance (treatment cohorts), Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with expression of targets of interest (TOIs) by ribonucleic acid (RNA) testing who have expression of the TOI protein by immunohistochemistry (IHC). (ADC MATCH screening protocol) II. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of patients with advanced/metastatic solid tumors and high TOI protein expression to matched ADCs. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients with high validated TOI protein expression who receive treatment on ADC MATCH. (ADC MATCH screening protocol) II. To evaluate the proportion of patients with advanced/metastatic solid tumors who are alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted ADC. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) III. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) IV. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) compared to prior line of therapy (PFS2/PFS1). (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) V. To determine the correlation of RNA and protein expression of TOIs. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) VI. To determine temporal tumor heterogeneity by comparing RNA/protein expression of TOIs on archival samples versus fresh biopsies. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) VII. To identify potential predictive biomarkers, including target expression (RNA and protein) and other molecular features (deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\], RNA, protein, immune markers). (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts) VIII. To determine pharmacodynamic changes in the tumor and microenvironment. (ADC MATCH treatment cohorts)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine mechanisms of acquired resistance. (ADC MATCH treatment cohort)

OUTLINE:

SCREENING STEP 1: Patients who have previously undergone standard of care (SOC) RNA testing have the results of their SOC RNA testing reviewed. Patients whose tumor expresses an appropriate TOI by RNA testing proceed to screening step 2.

SCREENING STEP 2: Patients have TOI expression testing at the protein level by IHC assay performed on previously collected tissue. Patients with high Trop-2 protein expression are assigned to Cohort A. Patients with high nectin-4 protein expression are assigned to Cohort B. Patients with high HER2 protein expression are assigned to cohort C.

COHORT A: Patients receive sacituzumab govitecan intravenously (IV) over 1-3 hours on days 1 and 8 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial, undergo biopsy after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment and again on study, and undergo collection of blood samples after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment. Patients may optionally undergo biopsy at the time of progression and may optionally undergo collection of blood samples on study and at the time of progression.

COHORT B: Patients receive enfortumab vedotin IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI throughout the trial, undergo biopsy after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment and again on study, and undergo collection of blood samples after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment. Patients may optionally undergo biopsy at the time of progression and may optionally undergo collection of blood samples on study and at the time of progression.

COHORT C: Patients receive trastuzumab deruxtecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT and/or MRI throughout the trial, undergo biopsy after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment and again on study, and undergo collection of blood samples after enrollment to cohort but prior to treatment. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening and on study. Patients may optionally undergo biopsy at the time of progression and may optionally undergo collection of blood samples on study and at the time of progression.

At the time that a confirmed objective response is observed for a specific tumor type in any cohort, that tumor type may be expanded into a separate tumor-specific expansion cohort, with up to 2 expansion cohorts allowed per treatment cohort. At the time of disease progression, patients with expression of additional TOIs may be re-screened and assigned to receive treatment in up to 2 of the other treatment cohorts.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days then every 3 months in years 1-2 and every 6 months in year 3.