Enfortumab Vedotin and Pembrolizumab With Cystectomy and/or Ureterectomy for Locally Advanced or Metastatic Bladder and Upper Urothelial Tract Cancer, CAST-AI Trial
This phase IV trial tests the impact of standard of care enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab followed by removal of all or part of the bladder (cytoreductive cystectomy) and/or removal of all or part of the tube that carriers urine from the kidneys to the bladder (ureterectomy) on outcomes in patients with bladder and upper urothelial tract that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Enfortumab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, enfortumab, linked to an anticancer drug called vedotin. It works by helping the immune system to slow or stop the growth of tumor cells. Enfortumab attaches to a protein called nectin-4 on tumor cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. It is a type of antibody-drug conjugate. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving standard of care enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab followed by cytoreductive cystectomy and/or ureterectomy (CC/U) may improve outcomes in patients with locally advanced or metastatic bladder or upper urothelial tract cancer.
Locally Advanced Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Renal Pelvis and Ureter Urothelial Carcinoma|Metastatic Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Metastatic Renal Pelvis and Ureter Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage III Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Renal Pelvis and Ureter Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Cystectomy|DRUG: Enfortumab Vedotin|PROCEDURE: Local Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Ureterectomy
Progression-free survival (PFS) at 12 months, Will be calculated as the number of patients who are alive and progression-free at 12 months after study enrollment. Progression will be determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1 criteria., At 12 months
PFS overall, PFS will be defined as the time from study registration to the date of death due to any cause or progressing disease, whichever occurs first. Progression will be determined by RECIST v1.1 criteria., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as time from the date of registration to the date of death from any cause, Up to 5 years|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST v 1.1 criteria, assessed at the time of cytoreductive cystectomy and/or ureterectomy (CC/U) or at time of best response during treatment., Up to 5 years|Surgical candidacy rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients in the Modified Intent-to-Treat (mITT) population who undergo CC/U \[cytoreductive cystectomy (CC) and/or ureterectomy (U)\]., Up to 5 years|Pathologic complete response (pCR) rate, Will be defined defined as the absence of viable tumor cells in the cystectomy. The pCR rate will be estimated as the number of patients experiencing a pCR., Up to 5 years|Downstaging, Assessed as the number of patients achieving downstaging (ypT0, ypTis/Ta) at the time of CC/U., Baseline (at time of CC/U)|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The maximum grade for each type of AEs will be recorded for each patient. Frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. The rate of patients experiencing at least one grade 3+, 4+, or 5 adverse event (regardless of attribution) will be reported., Up to 18 months after cycle 1 day 1 (C1D1); cycle length = 3 weeks|Patient-reported quality of life, Patient-reported quality of life will be assessed according to the Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN20). The mean CIPN20 total score will be reported at each of the protocol-defined timepoints, and mean patient-level changes from baseline total score will also be reported at each of the post-baseline protocol-defined timepoints., Up to 18 months after cycle 1 day 1 (C1D1); cycle length = 3 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate progression-free survival at 12 months in patients undergoing treatment with enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab (EV/Pembro) and CC/U with or without MDT.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR). II. To evaluate surgical candidacy rate (defined as the proportion of patients in the study who undergo cystectomy and/or ureterectomy) and pathologic complete response and downstaging (ypT0, ypTis/Ta) at time of CC/U.

III. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS). IV. To evaluate overall survival (OS). V. To evaluate the toxicity profile as assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the prognostic value of exosomes and circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) minimal residual disease (MRD) markers.

II. Determine the prognostic value of exosomes and cfDNA as early indicators of disease relapse.

III. Characterize duration of response. IV. Evaluate treatment tolerability as assessed per Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO) (CIPN20).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive standard of care enfortumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and day 8 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for at least 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are surgical candidates may then undergo cytoreductive cystectomy and/or ureterectomy. Patients may also undergo MDT at any time per standard of care. After surgery, patients may then continue to receive maintenance enfortumab vedotin and pembrolizumab. Additionally, patients undergo urine and blood sample collection, computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.