Hyperthermia Treatment Added to Chemotherapy Standard of Care for Pancreatic Tumors
In this study, tumors of the pancreas are treated with a device placed around the abdomen that creates an electromagnetic field that generates heat in the tumor. Heating the tumor improves blood flow and the delivery of chemotherapy to the tumor as has been shown in numerous studies for various cancers with potential clinical benefits. Subjects will receive the thermal treatment on the same day and prior to receiving standard of care chemotherapy for a total of 4 treatments. This study is an early feasibility study that aims to demonstrate the safety and the performance of the device.
Pancreatic Cancer
DEVICE: VectRx Thermal Therapy
Performance of the VectRx device in its ability to increase temperature in the pancreas, Temperature change in patient internal and surface temperature probes measured in degree Celsius during each heat therapy (HT), 3 months|Safety of the VectRx treatment evaluated by incidence of Adverse events (AEs) such as first and second-degree burns, edema and abdominal pain, will be assessed [safety and tolerability]., AEs including serious adverse events (SAEs), including 1st degree and 2nd degree burns, edema, and abdominal pain will be assessed and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5 November 2017) during each heat therapy (HT) and chemotherapy (CT) treatment., 3 months
NeoTherma Oncology (NTO) is evaluating the initial safety and device functionality of VectRx, a medical device that produces a locoregional thermal effect through a Radiofrequency (RF)- generated Electromagnetic Field (EMF). VectRx therapy is intended for use as added to standard of care chemotherapy treatment of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This treatment is intended to improve perfusion and re-oxygenate in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of deep solid tumors. This study will enroll up to 5 subjects who will receive treatment with the VectRx device in conjunction with standard of care Chemotherapy. Safety will be evaluated by the type and severity of AEs while functionality (ability to heat) will be assessed using precisely placed temperature probes. Together these results will provide an initial assessment of safety and functionality.

Up to 5 adult subjects with pancreatic adenocarcinoma (primary and metastatic) recommended for chemotherapy based on multi-disciplinary tumor board evaluation including borderline resectable (BR) or unresectable (UR) Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer (LAPC), high risk resectable patients felt to benefit from chemotherapy.