Liquid Biopsy for Early Non-small Lung Cancer Detection
This clinical trial will assess the performance of a liquid biopsy assay to identify cancer in indeterminant pulmonary nodules identified by CT screening of high-risk individuals and evaluate the capability of the liquid biopsy assay to monitor response to surgical resection.
Non Small-cell Lung Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liquid biopsy for aberrant DNA methylation analysis - Indeterminate pulmonary nodule|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liquid biopsy for aberrant DNA methylation analysis - Known lung cancer for surgical resection|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liquid biopsy for aberrant DNA methylation analysis - Healthy volunteer|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liquid biopsy for aberrant DNA methylation analysis - Benign lung disease
Indeterminate pulmonary nodule study cohort: Sensitivity and specificity of liquid biopsy test for malignancy, The patients with indeterminate nodules will be used to separately estimate the sensitivity (in those with lung cancer) and specificity (in those without lung cancer). At least 35 patients with lung cancer will provide an estimate of the standard error of the sensitivity \< 0.09. Specificity will also be assessed in the normal controls (healthy volunteer cohort) using exact binomial confidence intervals., 9 months|Known lung cancer for surgical resection study cohort, To determine the correlation between the longitudinal marker levels and time to progression, to allow adjustment for relevant clinical characteristics.

Correlations between change in the methylation results and response to therapy using radiographic findings (response, stable disease, progression) at 6 months post-baseline time point will be analyzed using a multinomial regression model., 9 months|Healthy volunteers study cohort, Specificity will be assessed in the normal controls (healthy volunteer cohort) using exact binomial confidence intervals., 9 months|Benign lung disease cohort, Thirty-five patients with benign lung disease will provide an estimate of the standard error of the specificity \<0.09. Assuming a specificity value of 0.91 (32 negative/35 total), the exact 95% confidence interval is (0.77, 0.98). The specificity will be estimated separately, with an exact 95% confidence interval, for each of the benign lung disease subtypes as an exploratory analysis., 9 months
This clinical study examines the feasibility of a liquid biopsy methylation assay to detect non-small lung cancer. First, the investigators will apply their liquid biopsy assay to screen for lung cancer in indeterminate pulmonary nodules suspicious for cancer. Second, the investigators will assess the utility of liquid biopsy to assess tumor dynamics after surgical resection with curative intent. Third, the investigators will assess the presence or absence of this methylation assay in healthy normal persons without a history of lung cancer.