Trebananib in Treating Younger Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors, Including Central Nervous System Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of trebananib in treating patients with solid tumors that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment, including central nervous system tumors. Trebananib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|BIOLOGICAL: Trebananib
Incidence of adverse events as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE v 4.0, A descriptive summary of all toxicities will be reported., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|MTD at which fewer than one-third of patients experience dose limiting toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4.0, 28 days|Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of trebananib, A descriptive analysis of PK parameters of trebananib will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, and other pharmacokinetic parameters. The PK parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., At baseline, at days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1
Changes in vascular permeability relative to baseline as evaluated by MRI in patients with CNS tumors, Baseline to up to 1 year|Disease response assessed according to RECIST version 1.1, Reported descriptively., Up to 1 year
Circulating antiangiogenic protein and Tie2 expressing monocyte levels, Reported descriptively and will utilize intra-patient variability estimated from two baseline blood samples., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of trebananib (AMG 386) administered as a weekly intravenous infusion to children with recurrent or refractory solid tumors.

II. To determine the tolerability of the solid tumor MTD and/or RP2D of AMG 386 in children with central nervous system (CNS) tumors.

III. To define and describe the toxicities of AMG 386 administered on this schedule.

IV. To characterize the pharmacokinetics and immunogenicity of AMG 386 in children with refractory cancer.

V. To measure changes in vascular permeability relative to baseline, evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) perfusion, following AMG 386 administration in pediatric patients with CNS tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of AMG 386 within the confines of a Phase 1 study.

II. To measure biologic markers of angiogenesis with potential for correlation with disease response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study (part 1) followed by a safety and imaging study (part 2).

Patients receive trebananib intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 to 6 months for up to 1 year.