Perceptions, Experiences, and Activity in CancEr Survivors During COVID-19
To examine perceptions and determinants of physical activity during the COVID-19 pandemic among cancer survivors.
Neoplasms Malignant
Physical Activity, Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire, 14 days|Psychosocial Function during COVID-19, COVID-19 Pandemic Psychosocial Functioning Measure, 14 days
Self-Efficacy, The Exercise Self-efficacy Scale will be used to measure confidence in ability to exercise. A higher score indicated a higher confidence., 14 days|Sleep Quality, The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index will be used to measure sleep quality and disturbances. A higher score indicates a higher sleep disturbance., 14 days|Fatigue, The Functional Assessment in Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F) will be used to measure fatigue as well. Higher scores indicate less fatigue., 14 days|Anxiety, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used to produce an anxiety score. Higher scores indicate higher symptoms of anxiety., 14 days|Depression, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used to produce an anxiety score. Higher scores indicate higher symptoms of depression., 14 days|Loneliness, The UCLA Loneliness Scale will be used to measure feelings of loneliness and isolation. Higher scores indicate higher degrees of loneliness., 14 days|Global Self-Esteem, The Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale (RSE) will be used to measure global self-esteem. Items are used to calculate an esteem score, higher scores are indicative of higher esteem., 14 days|Subjective Cognitive Impairment, The Functional Assessment in Cancer Therapy- Cognition (FACT-Cog) measures levels of cognitive impairment, quality of life and perceived cognitive ability. Items are summed up to calculate scores from each subsection., 14 days|Social Support, The Social Support of Exercise scale is aimed to assess the degree in which family and friends demonstrate support for exercise behavior. Higher scores indicate a higher level of support., 14 days|Satisfaction of Life, The Satisfaction of Life Scale (SWLS) is developed to assess global satisfaction is various age groups., 14 days|Stress, The Perceived Stress Scale is a 10-item scale developed to measure the perceptions of a person's stress., 14 days|Perceptions of Exercise, A qualitative interview will be performed to measure the perceptions and barriers of exercise during the COVID-19 pandemic. This interview is comprised of items designed by the research team., up to one month after enrollment
This purpose of this study is to examine perceptions and determinants of physical activity during the COVID-19 pandemic in cancer survivors. To test our aim, we will recruit up to 1000 adults diagnosed with cancer within the last five years and ask them to complete an online questionnaire battery assessing their self-reported physical activity habits, psychosocial outcomes (e.g., depression, anxiety, self-efficacy, social support), and perceptions of physical activity engagement during the pandemic. A subsample of participants (n=50) will also be invited to participate in an interview to gain further insights into cancer survivors' physical activity experiences during COVID-19. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to analyze the quantitative survey data, and thematic analysis will be used to analyze the qualitative interview data.