Sperm Banking Among Adolescents Newly Diagnosed With Cancer: Development of a Profiling and Referral Tool
Despite the known adverse effects of specific cancer treatments on fertility, only 18-26% of at-risk adolescents and young men cryopreserve sperm prior to cancer treatment in the US: These already less than optimal rates of sperm banking are even lower among adolescents who have increased anxiety at cancer diagnosis, are lower in age and socioeconomic status, of Evangelical religious orientation, or are diagnosed with leukemia/lymphoma: It is not clear why sperm banking is underutilized, particularly in light of the high priority that survivors of childhood cancer place on fertility and the high psychological distress associated with fertility loss. Studies addressing sperm banking among adults with cancer suggest that factors such as poor physician communication and the resulting lack of fertility-risk knowledge by patients contributes to the low frequency of sperm cryopreservation. No well-designed studies have examined risk factors associated with failure to bank sperm among adolescents with cancer, a developmentally distinct population ripe for intervention.

This study plans to enroll 206 adolescent males and 412 parents/guardians.
Cancer
Investigation of factors predictive of sperm banking outcome, Investigate factors predictive of banking sperm/not banking sperm among at-risk adolescents newly diagnosed with cancer. Psychological, health belief, demographic, developmental, parental/guardian, provider, and medical factors will be tested in models of sperm banking outcome., 3 years
Develop and evaluate a Profiling and Referral Tool designed to increase clinical referrals and decrease barriers to sperm banking., To utilize factors most predictive of sperm banking outcome to develop a brief Profiling and Referral Tool designed to increase sperm banking among teens newly diagnosed with cancer. Implementation of the developed Profiling and Referral Tool will be feasible based on provider and family report., 3 years
This study will identify factors predictive of sperm banking/not sperm banking in order to design interventions for increasing fertility preservation among adolescent males newly diagnosed with cancer. Specifically, this study aims to investigate psychological, demographic, developmental, parent/guardian, provider, and medical factors predictive of sperm banking outcomes among at-risk adolescents with cancer. Once these factors have been identified, the study will develop a novel Profiling and Referral Tool. This instrument will ultimately serve as an intervention for both healthcare providers and families through the facilitation of appropriate referrals, and tailored interventions for decreasing barriers to sperm banking. Finally, the feasibility of the Profiling and Referral tool will be evaluated based on provider and family report.