Cisplatin With or Without WEE1 Inhibitor MK-1775 in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well cisplatin with or without WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 works in treating patients with head and neck cancer that has come back or has spread to other parts of the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, may prevent tumor cells from multiplying by damaging their deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which in turn stops the tumor from growing. WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether cisplatin is more effective with or without WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 in treating patients with head and neck cancer.
Recurrent Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma|Recurrent Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma in the Neck With Occult Primary|Recurrent Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Verrucous Carcinoma|Recurrent Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma Metastatic in the Neck With Occult Primary|Stage IV Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVA Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVB Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Laryngeal Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVC Lip and Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oral Cavity Verrucous Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Tongue Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Placebo|DRUG: WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775
Overall Response Rate (Complete Plus Partial Response) Using RECIST Criteria v1.1, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in solid Tumors (RECIST1.1) Target lesions are assessed as Complete Response(CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR),30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD), At least a 20% increase (minimum 5 mm) from smallest sum (nadir); Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. Nontarget lesions are assessed as Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all non-target lesions; Non-CR/Non-PD, Persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits; Progressive Disease (PD),Appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions; Overall Response(OR); PR=CR+non-CR/non-PD,SD=SD+non-PD; PD=PD+presence of any non-target lesions, Up to 1 year
Incidence of Adverse Events Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Gr 3, Gr 4 and Gr 5 AEs at least possibly related to study drug, Up to 1 year|Levels of Pharmacodynamic Biomarkers, Predictors of clinical outcomes will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will be used to better understand potential relationships., Pre-dose, at 4-8 hours on day 3 or 20-24 hours on day 4|Levels of Predictive Biomarkers, Predictors of clinical outcomes will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will be used to better understand potential relationships., Up to day 4 of course 1|Overall Survival, Estimated in each group by the Kaplan Meier method and differences between groups will be calculated by the log rank test. Hazard ratios for each group will be estimated using the Cox Regression model., 12 months|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression (20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions) or death, whichever occurs first., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 6 months|Progression Free Survival, Estimated in each group by the Kaplan Meier method and differences between groups will be calculated by the log rank test. Hazard ratios for each group will be estimated using the Cox Regression model., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the overall response rate assess the efficacy of MK-1775 (WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775) in combination with cisplatin to cisplatin alone in patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) as per overall response rate (using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] criteria version \[v\]1.1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess secondary measures of efficacy (progression free survival at 6 months and 12 months, overall survival rate at 12 months).

II. Assess measures of efficacy by tumor protein (p)53 status. III. Evaluate safety and tolerability. IV. Explore predictive and pharmacodynamic biomarkers.

OUTLINE:

SAFETY RUN-IN: Patients receive WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 5 doses beginning on day 1 and cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive WEE1 inhibitor MK-1775 PO BID for 5 doses beginning on day 1 and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 5 doses beginning on day 1 and cisplatin IV over 2 hour on day 1.

In both arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for up to 1 year.