Eniluracil and Surgery in Treating Patients With Primary or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Eniluracil may increase the effectiveness of chemotherapy by blocking tumor enzymes that break down chemotherapy drugs.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase II trial to determine the effectiveness of eniluracil followed by surgery in treating patients who have primary or metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: eniluracil|PROCEDURE: conventional colon surgery
Primary Goal to demonstrate that eniluracil at current clinical doses, To see if at standard clinical doses are capable of inhibiting DPD in Primary and metastatic colorectal cancer in vivo. Since one of the mechanisms of 5-FU(Fluorouracil) tumor resistance is overexpression of DPD,effective inactivation DPD in tumors by eniluracil in this study will be supportive of the use of eniluracil to overcome this type of 5-FU(Fluorouracil) resistance, Pre-operative and up to 30 days after first dose
Evaluate DPD recovery and uracil levels, To evaluate the recovery of DPD and uracil levels at 4 more times in the range of postoperative days 5-7,12-16,20-24,and 26-30., pre-operative and up to 30 post first dose
Specific Aims, 1. Determine the enzymatic activity of DPD in PBMC's normal mucosa or normal liver and in primary and secondary colorectal cancers
2. Confirm the ability of eniluracil to inactivate DPD in tumors as well as PBMC's and normal tissue
3. Assess DPD recovery and uracil levels in PBMC's at 5-7,12-16,20-24,and 26-30 days postoperatively, Duriation of trial up to 30 days after first dose
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the enzymatic activity of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), normal mucosa, or normal liver in patients with primary or metastatic colorectal cancer. II. Evaluate the ability of eniluracil to inactivate DPD in the tumor, PBMCs, and normal tissue in this patient population. III. Assess DPD recovery and uracil levels in PBMCs following surgical resection in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, placebo controlled study. Patients are stratified according to colorectal tumor (primary vs metastatic). Patients are randomized into one of two treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive oral eniluracil twice daily on days -2 and -1 followed by surgical resection and tissue harvest on day 0. Arm II: Patients receive an oral placebo as in arm I followed by surgical resection and tissue harvest on day 0. Patients are followed weekly for 1 month.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20 patients (10 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study.