Allogeneic GM-CSF Vaccine and Lenalidomide in Treating Myeloma Patients With Near Complete Remission
This research is being done to find out if the investigators can improve outcomes for multiple myeloma patients by giving a myeloma vaccine to patients who are already on lenalidomide (Revlimid) and in a near complete remission.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic Myeloma Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Prevnar-13
Response Conversion Rate, Number of participants who converted from near complete remission (nCR) to complete remission (CR) as measured by the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Near complete remission is defined as negative serum and urine electrophoresis, \< 5% plasma cells in the bone marrow, and positive serum and/or urine immunofixation. Complete response is defined as negative serum and urine immunofixation and a bone marrow aspirate with \< 5% plasma cells., Up to 1 year
Time to Response, Median time for conversion of response from near complete remission (nCR) to complete remission (CR) as measured by the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Near complete remission is defined as negative serum and urine electrophoresis, \< 5% plasma cells in the bone marrow, and positive serum and/or urine immunofixation. Complete response is defined as negative serum and urine immunofixation and a bone marrow aspirate with \< 5% plasma cells.

as measured by immunofixation converting from positive to negative., Up to 4 years|Effect on Clonogenic Myeloma Precursors, Measures of stem cell population and plasma cell population., Baseline, Cycle 3 Day 14, Cycle 6 Day 14, and 1 year|Grade 3-4 Toxicity, Number of participants who experienced grade 3-4 toxicity as per CTCAE 4.0., Up to 1 year|Tumor-specific Immunity as Assessed by Percentage of CD3+/CSFSE-low/IFN-gamma+ Cells, Immunity is measured by the percentage of CD3+/CSFSE-low/IFN-gamma+ cells. A positive result for a given participant is defined as greater than two standard deviations above that participant's baseline. The data are presented as three groups because the responses were analyzed separately, but all participants were part of the single study arm as represented by the remainder of the record. GVAX-specific immune response and Prevnar-specific immune response was assessed in the same patient by using GVAX and Prevnar-specific co-markers., Baseline, Cycle 3 Day 14, end of study (up to 1 year)
This is a single institution, single arm, Phase II study examining the clinical efficacy of an allogeneic GM-CSF secreting myeloma vaccine in combination with lenalidomide. Fifteen (15) patients enrolled in the study must have two disease measurements (including the last one) consistent with a near complete remission (M-spike negative with persistence of immunofixation) per criteria for response in a 6 month period. Patients will continue on the dose of lenalidomide they were on prior to being enrolled but will need to discontinue steroids for at least 4 weeks. Patients will receive 4 vaccinations on day 14(+/-3 days) of cycles 1, 2, 3 and 6 from enrollment that will include both the myeloma vaccine as well as Prevnar.