Combination of Temsirolimus and Bevacizumab in Patient With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
The TORAVA trial is designed to evaluate the progression-free rate at 48 weeks of a combination of Torisel® and Avastin® given at first-line treatment in patients with metastatic renal cancer.

Eligible patients will be randomly assigned, in a 2:1:1 ratio, to either Avastin® + Torisel®, or Sutent® or IFN+Avastin®.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Temsirolimus|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Interferon alpha-2a
progression-free rate, at 48 weeks post-treatment
Objective response rate:efficacity, Every 12 weeks during 48 weeks|Duration of response|Toxicity, at week 2, week 5-6 and after every 5-6 weeks during 48 weeks|Quality of life, at inclusion, month 6 and at 1 year|progression-free survival and overall survival
This is a phase II, open label, randomized, parallel group, multicenter study evaluating first-line treatment of patients with metastatic renal cancer using a combination of Torisel® administered intravenously as 25 mg every week and Avastin® administered intravenously as 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks.

Two standard arms with either Sutent® (given orally as 50 mg once daily during 4 weeks, followed by 2 weeks off) or a combination of Avastin® (administered intravenously as 10 mg/kg every 2 weeks) and Interferon (IFN, administered subcutaneously as 9 MU three times a week) will be used to validate the results obtained in the experimental arm (randomization eliminates selection biases), and to assess Sutent® efficacy rate on a more representative population than in Motzer's trial (Motzer NEJM 2007).

The study is not designed to provide head-to-head comparisons between the experimental arm (Avastin® + Torisel®) and the two standard arms (Sutent® and IFN + Avastin®). Randomization will be used as a tool for allocating patients evenly into the 3 treatment arms to ensure proper balance of prognostic factors. If the progression-free rates observed in randomly assigned control patients are inconsistent with historical data, it may be a warning that the results observed for the experimental arm should be viewed with caution. Patients will be randomly assigned to either option in a 2:1:1 ratio (half less patients in the standard arms used only as historical comparators), and stratified according to inclusion center and performance status (ECOG PS 0 vs. 1 vs. 2).

In the absence of severe toxicity, treatment will be continued until documented progression of the disease (RECIST criteria). Toxicity will be evaluated throughout the treatment period and until disappearance or stabilization of the side effect(s). In case of progression, each investigator makes his/her own treatment decisions, provided that all anti-cancer treatments given to the patients within the frame of the study are reported, as well as their results.

Response rates will be assessed between weeks 11-12, 23-24, 35-36, 47-48 in the first year (corresponding to 2 cycles of Sutent®) and every 3 months afterwards until treatment stop, or until patient death or end of clinical data collection.