Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy in Treating Long-Term Gastrointestinal Adverse Effects Caused by Radiation Therapy in Patients With Pelvic Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy can cause long-term adverse effects. Hyperbaric oxygen therapy may be effective in lessening gastrointestinal symptoms caused by radiation therapy given for pelvic cancer. It is not yet known whether high-pressure oxygen is effective in treating adverse effects caused by radiation therapy.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying hyperbaric oxygen therapy to see how well it works in treating long-term gastrointestinal adverse effects caused by radiation therapy in patients with pelvic cancer.
Bladder Cancer|Cervical Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Endometrial Cancer|Gastrointestinal Complications|Long-term Effects Secondary to Cancer Therapy in Adults|Ovarian Cancer|Prostate Cancer|Radiation Toxicity|Sarcoma|Testicular Germ Cell Tumor|Vaginal Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: gastrointestinal complications management/prevention|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Gastrointestinal symptoms score using the IBDQ quality-of-life questionnaire
Physician assessment of adverse effects using LENT SOMA scales of radiation injury|Patient self-assessments using EORTC QLQ-C30 and Defecation Problem Subscale of QLQ-CR38|Photographic images of rectal mucosa|Physician assessment of rectal dysfunction based on the modified CTCAE grading system|Health economics data
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the clinical benefits of hyperbaric oxygen therapy in reducing dysfunction in patients with pelvic cancer developing iatrogenic gastrointestinal symptoms as a result of previous radical pelvic radiotherapy completed at least one year ago.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to center and severity of symptoms (low vs high). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I (treatment group): Patients undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy over 90 minutes, 5 days a week, for 8 weeks for a total of 40 treatments. Oxygen at 100% is breathed for 30 minutes, followed by a 5-minute "air break" and a further 30 minutes of breathing oxygen. A further 5-minute "air break" is followed by a further 30 minutes of breathing oxygen. During the final 10 minutes of oxygen breathing, the chamber is depressurized to ambient atmospheric pressure at a linear rate (14.2 kPa/min).
* Arm II (control group): Patients undergo hyperbaric oxygen therapy over 90 minutes, 5 days a week, for 8 weeks for a total of 40 treatments. Oxygen at 21% is breathed for 30 minutes, followed by a 5-minute "air break" and a further 30 minutes of breathing oxygen. A further 5-minute "air break" is followed by a further 30 minutes of breathing oxygen. During the final 10 minutes of oxygen breathing, the chamber is depressurized to ambient atmospheric pressure at a linear rate (3 kPa/min).

Tissue samples from rectal biopsies may be collected and analyzed.

Patients complete questionnaires (Health Economics, Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire \[IBDQ\], EORTC Quality of Life \[QLQ\]-C30, and QLQ-CR38) at baseline and then at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after the start of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 14 days and at 10 months.