Lanreotide Autogel in the Treatment of Symptomatic Polycystic Liver Disease
An open-label, Phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lanreotide autogel 90mg every 4 weeks in the treatment of symptomatic polycystic liver disease, including a dose escalation at month 6 to lanreotide autogel 120mg for non responders.
Polycystic Liver Disease
DRUG: Lanreotide Autogel 90 mg and 120 mg
Reduction of total liver volume after 6 months of treatment measured by means of CT-scan., Reduction of total liver volume after 6 months measured by means of CT-scan., 6 months|Reduction of total liver volume after 12 months of treatment by means of CT-scan, Reduction of total liver volume after 12 months of treatment by means of CT-scan, 12 months|Reduction of total liver volume after 18 months of treatment by means of CT-scan, Reduction of total liver volume after 18 months of treatment by means of CT-scan, 18 months
Measurement of total liver and kidney volumes and cyst volumes at baseline., Reduction of total liver volume Reduction of liver cyst volume Additonal reduction of total liver volume in the non responder group. Additonal reduction of liver cyst volume in the non responder group.

% of patients with liver reduction \> 100 ml in the non responder group. Reduction of total kidney volume (ADPKD patients only) after 6 months, 1 year and 18 months, Baseline|Measurement of total liver and kidney volumes and cyst volumes after 6 months of treatment by means of CT scan, Reduction of total liver volume Reduction of liver cyst volume Additonal reduction of total liver volume in the non responder group. Additonal reduction of liver cyst volume in the non responder group.

% of patients with liver reduction \> 100 ml in the non responder group. Reduction of total kidney volume (ADPKD patients only) after 6 months, 1 year and 18 months, 6 months|Measurement of total liver and kidney volume and cyst volume after 12 months of treatment by means of CT scan., Reduction of total liver volume Reduction of liver cyst volume Additonal reduction of total liver volume in the non responder group. Additonal reduction of liver cyst volume in the non responder group.

% of patients with liver reduction \> 100 ml in the non responder group. Reduction of total kidney volume (ADPKD patients only) after 6 months, 1 year and 18 months, 12 months|Measurement of total liver and kidney volumes and cyst volumes after 18 months of treatment by means of CT scan, Reduction of total liver volume Reduction of liver cyst volume Additonal reduction of total liver volume in the non responder group. Additonal reduction of liver cyst volume in the non responder group.

% of patients with liver reduction \> 100 ml in the non responder group. Reduction of total kidney volume (ADPKD patients only) after 6 months, 1 year and 18 months, 18 months|Assessment of quality of life at baseline, Assessment of quality of life at baseline, baseline|Assessment of quality of life after 6 months of treatment, Assessment of quality of life after 6 months of treatment, 6 months|Assessment of quality of life after 12 months of treatment, Assessment of quality of life after 12 months of treatment, 12 months|Assessment of quality of life after 18 months of treatment, Assessment of quality of life after 18 months of treatment, 18 months
An open-label, Phase II clinical study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of lanreotide autogel 90mg every 4 weeks in the treatment of symptomatic polycystic liver disease, including a dose escalation at month 6 to lanreotide autogel 120mg for non responders.