China CellSearch Study
The study is designed to confirm the current indication (below) of the CellSearch® Circulating Tumor Cell Kit in metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients for use of the kit in China.

The CellSearch® Circulating Tumor Cell Kit is intended for the enumeration of circulating tumor cells (CTC) of epithelial origin (CD45-, EpCAM+, and cytokeratins 8, 18+, and/or 19+) in whole blood.

The presence of CTC in the peripheral blood, as detected by the CellSearch® Circulating Tumor Cell Kit, is associated with decreased progression free survival and decreased overall survival in patients treated for metastatic breast cancer. This test is to be used as an aid in the monitoring of patients with metastatic breast cancer. Serial testing for CTC should be used in conjunction with other clinical methods for monitoring metastatic breast cancer. Evaluation of CTC at any time during the course of disease allows assessment of patient prognosis and is predictive of progression free survival and overall survival.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Benign Breast Disease
Ability of CTC levels to predict progression-free survival (PFS) in MBC patients., 12 months
Ability of CTC levels to predict overall survival (OS) in MBC patients., 3 years|Agreement between CTC counts (3-4 weeks and 6-8 weeks) after the initiation of a new line of systemic therapy and the patient's response as determined by imaging evaluation (6-8 weeks after the initiation of therapy) in MBC patients., 12 months
A longitudinal, multi-center, prospective study will be conducted in MBC patients to evaluate the ability of CTC to predict the patients' prognosis. A separate population of healthy and benign disease subjects will serve as controls to compare the CTC incidence in this control group versus the MBC group at baseline. Correlation between CTC and radiographic response to the systemic therapies in the MBC study group will also be assessed.

300 MBC patients, each of whom will provide a series of at least 3 blood draws (baseline, 3-4 weeks and 6-8 weeks after the initiation of the systemic therapy) for CTC analysis, will be enrolled. All MBC patients will be followed for a maximum of 36 months for disease progression and survival.

200 healthy and benign disease volunteers, each of whom will donate blood 1 time for CTC analysis, will be enrolled as controls.