Phase I Study of Autologous CAR T-Cells Targeting the B7-H3 Antigen in Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian
This is single center, open-label phase 1 dose escalation trial that uses modified 3+3 design to identify a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of CAR.B7-H3 T cell product. An expansion cohort will enroll additional subjects at the RP2D for a total enrollment of up to 21 subjects on the protocol.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: CAR.B7-H3|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) assessments will include toxicities that are at least possibly related to CAR.B7-H3 T cell product and that onset from day of initial cell product infusion through 4 weeks after the final cell product administration. DLTs are specified as ≥ Grade 3 cytokine release syndrome (CRS) event that does not decrease to Grade ≤ 2 within 7 days, Immune Effector Cell-Associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS), or any other ≥ Grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity, including allergic reactions to T cell infusions.Toxicity will be classified and graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (AEs) (CTCAE, version 5.0), with grading (severity) from grade 1 (mild) to grade 5 (death). ICANS will be graded according to the criteria outlined in the protocol on a scale from 1 (mild) to 4 (critical). CRS will be graded according to criteria outlined in the protocol on a scale from 1 (mild) to grade 5 (death)., 4 weeks after the last CAR-T cell infusion
Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate will be defined as the percentage of subjects with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and/or stable disease at 6 months per RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Radiographic response will be measured by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) Criteria, indicating if subject experienced a Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), no response or less response than Partial or Progressive; or Progressive Disease (PD), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 6 months after initial CAR-T cell infusion|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) will be measured from the time of lymphodepletion prior to infusion with CAR.B7-H3 to progression (as defined per RECIST 1.1) or death.

Radiographic response will be measured by RECIST, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria, indicating if subject experienced a Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), no response or less response than Partial or Progressive; or Progressive Disease (PD), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From the date of lymphodepletion to the date of progression or death up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be measured from the date of lymphodepletion prior to CAR.B7-H3 T cell product administration to the date of death., From the date of lymphodepletion to the date of death up to 5 years
This study is intended for the patients who have been diagnosed with Epithelial Ovarian Cancer that either came back or did not improve after previous treatments. The purpose of this study is to test the safety of using a new treatment called autologous T lymphocyte chimeric antigen receptor cells against the B7-H3 antigen (CAR.B7-H3 T cells) in patients with ovarian cancer. This treatment has not been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.

The study investigator's goal is to calculate the Maximum tolerated dose of the CAR.B7-H3 cells There are two parts to this study. In part 1, subject's blood sample will be used to manufacture the CAR.B7-H3 T cells.

Ovarian cancer cells carry a substance called B7-H3 which is not found in other healthy cells. the subject's T cells will be modified to make CAR.B7-H3 T cells so they may attack and destroy ovarian cancer cells that carry the B7-H3 substance. The CAR.B7-H3 T cells are given through a catheter in the abdomen, after completing three rounds of lymphodepletion chemotherapy. Lymphodepletion chemotherapy prepares the body to receive the CAR.B7-H3 T cells.

In part 2 of the study, the subjects will receive the CAR.B7-H3 T cells. Eligible patients will receive lymphodepletion chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine for three consecutive days. If they continue to meet the eligibility criteria, the modified CAR.B7-H3 T cells will be given to them 2-14 days after the last lymphodepletion chemotherapy session. Three infusions of the CAR.B7-H3 T cells may be given to the subject through a catheter in the abdomen. Infusions will be done once a week.

Lymphodepletion chemotherapy and infusion of the CAR.B7-H3 T cells will happen at UNC Cancer Hospital. On the days the subjects receive the CAR.B7-H3 T cells infusion- Blood, fluid, and tumor samples will be collected from the subject for research purposes. Tumor biopsies are a mandatory part of this research.

Post infusion visits are - 3, 4, and 6 weeks. Additional visits will happen every 3 months for one year after the last infusion. Similar follow-up clinic visits will be completed annually, for a total of 5 years.

This is a research study to obtain new information that may help people in the future.