Regorafenib Combined With Fulvestrant in Recurrent Low-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer
To see how effective the study medicine combined with hormone therapy is when given to participants with recurrent low-grade serous ovarian cancer.
Ovarian Cancer|Serous Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Complete Response Rate of the Drug Regimen, To assess the efficacy of this regimen in term of overall objective response rate (complete response rate) at 12 weeks as assessed by the Investigator, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).

The number of participants that reach a complete response (CR) defined as normalization of tumor markers, tumor nodes \<10 mm., 12 weeks from first cycle of treatment (each cycle is 28 days)|Partial Response Rate of the Drug Regimen, To assess the efficacy of this regimen in term of overall objective response rate (partial response rate) at 12 weeks as assessed by the Investigator, per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).

The number of participants that reach a partial response (PR)defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions., 12 weeks from first cycle of treatment (each cycle is 28 days)
Overall Survival in Months, To assess overall survival in months from enrollment to date of last follow up or death. The number of participants still alive at end of study., up to 3 years from start of study|Progression-free Survival in Months, To assess progression-free survival in months from enrollment to date of documented disease progression or death. The number of participants still alive at end of study., up to 3 years from start of study|Clinical Benefit Rate, To assess clinical benefit rate (objective response and stable disease)at 12 weeks., 12 weeks|Assess Toxicity of this Combined Regime, The number of participants that have grade 3 and 4 related toxicities. Adverse Events will be characterized by type, severity (as graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI CTCAE\] v.5.03), timing, seriousness, and relationship to study therapy., at 3 months after treatment
Identify genomic related markers, Translational research component to identify genomic related markers that can predict response and/or resistance to the combined therapy. Archival tumor tissue will be utilized as baseline. Peripheral blood will be obtained at time of start of treatment (baseline), C2D1 (4 weeks), C3D1 (8 weeks), and C4D1 (12 weeks) and at time of progression., up to 3 years from start of study
Regorafenib is an investigational drug that works by interrupting the rapid and uncontrolled growth of cancer cells by stopping the signals that tell the cancer cells to grow and the ability of the cancer cells to form new blood vessels which they need to be able to grow.

Treatment will continue until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities. For participants with a complete response to therapy, maintenance therapy with both drugs will be continued for 12 months.