Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Major Portal Vein Invasion
Recently, several studies reported promising outcomes of patients after external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with portal vein tumor thrombosis. However, conventional EBRT is composed of many fractions (20-35 fractions). On the other hand, stereotactic ablative radiotherapy is a newly emerging treatment method to deliver a high dose of radiation to the target using a few fractions with a high precision within body. SABR increases radiation biologic effect for tumor, makes patients more comfortable due to reduction of the number of hospital visit, and enables patients to receive another treatment more quickly. This study will evaluate SABR effect with 40 Gy in 4 fractions for HCC with major portal vein tumor thrombosis.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Portal Vein Tumor Thrombus
RADIATION: Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy
Tumor stabilization rate, Tumor stabilization rate was based on the combined number of patients with complete response(CR), partial response(PR), and stable disease(SD) by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) criteria., 2 months
Overall survival, From the date of SABR to the date of death or last follow-up, 6 months, 1 year and 2 year|Tumor progression free survival, From the date of SABR to the date of first failure or last follow-up, 6 months, 1 year and 2 year|Treatment related toxicity, Adverse events using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0; Classic radiation induced liver disease; Non-classic Classic radiation induced liver disease; Worsening of Child-Turcotte-Pugh score; Worsening of MELD score, 1 year
Recently, several studies reported promising outcomes of patients after external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with portal vein tumor thrombosis. However, conventional EBRT is composed of many fractions (20-35 fractions). On the other hand, stereotactic ablative radiotherapy is a newly emerging treatment method to deliver a high dose of radiation to the target using a few fractions with a high precision within body. SABR increases radiation biologic effect for tumor, makes patients more comfortable due to reduction of the number of hospital visit, and enables patients to receive another treatment more quickly. This study will evaluate SABR effect with 40 Gy in 4 fractions for HCC with major portal vein tumor thrombosis.