Study of 2 Ribociclib Doses in Combination With Aromatase Inhibitors in Women With HR+, HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer
QT interval prolongation and neutropenia are considered to be important identified risks for ribociclib. The approved dosing regimen of ribociclib is 600 mg daily (QD) on a 3 weeks on/1 week off schedule. The purpose of the study is to explore whether a reduced dosing regimen of 400 mg ribociclib orally QD 3 weeks on/1 week off may decrease the risk of QTc prolongation without compromising the efficacy of ribociclib in combination with a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor (NSAI) in pre- and postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive (HR-positive), HER2-negative advanced breast cancer (aBC) who have not received prior therapy for advanced disease.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Goserelin
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed by local investigators according to RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all lesions with lymph nodes measuring \< 10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to 23.8 months
Change From Baseline in QTc (With Fridericia's Correction) at Cycle 1 Day 15 (at 2 Hours Post-dose), Electrocardiogram (ECG) data was collected via 12-lead digital ECG machines. Change from baseline in the QT interval (a segment of the ECG that reflects the time it takes for the heart to repolarize after each heartbeat) was corrected for heart rate using Fridericia's formula (ΔQTcF)., Baseline and Cycle 1 Day 15 at 2 hours post-dose. Cycle = 28 days|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the period starting from the date of randomization to the date of the first documented progression or death caused by any reason. PFS will be assessed via a local radiology assessment as well as BIRC according to RECIST 1.1., Up to approximately 60 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR), or partial response (PR), or an overall response of stable disease (SD), lasting for at least 24 weeks. CR, PR, and SD are defined as per local review as well as BIRC according to RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all lesions with lymph nodes measuring \< 10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to approximately 60 months|Time to Response (TTR), TTR defined as defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first documented response of either CR or PR. CR and PR are based on tumor response data as per local review and according to RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all lesions with lymph nodes measuring \< 10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 60 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR defined as the time from the first documented response (CR or PR) to the first documented progression or death due to underlying cancer.

CR: Disappearance of all lesions with lymph nodes measuring \< 10 mm. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 60 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Ribociclib: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax), PK parameters were calculated by non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum observed plasma drug concentration after single dose administration., Cycle 1 Day 15 at pre-dose, and 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post-dose. Cycle = 28 days|PK of Ribociclib: Time to Reach Observed Maximum Concentration (Tmax), PK parameters were calculated by non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum observed plasma concentration. Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations., Cycle 1 Day 15 at pre-dose, and 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post-dose. Cycle = 28 days|PK of Ribociclib: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From 0 to 24 Hours (AUC0-24), PK parameters were calculated by non-compartmental analysis. AUC0-24 is the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from 0 to 24 hours, Cycle 1 Day 15 at pre-dose, and 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post-dose. Cycle = 28 days
This is a phase II, multicenter, randomized, open-label study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a reduced ribociclib dose of 400 mg in combination with an NSAI (letrozole or anastrozole) for the treatment of pre- and postmenopausal women with HR-positive, HER2-negative aBC who have received no prior therapy for advanced disease.

Patients will be randomly assigned to one of the below treatment arms in a 1:1 ratio:

* Experimental arm - Ribociclib 400 mg QD 3 weeks on/1 week off + NSAI (+ goserelin in premenopausal women)
* Control arm - Ribociclib 600 mg QD 3 weeks on/1 week off + NSAI (+ goserelin in premenopausal women).

Participants will receive study treatment until disease progression (radiologically documented according to RECIST 1.1 criteria), unacceptable toxicity, death, or discontinuation from the study treatment for any other reason. Continuation of study treatment beyond initial disease progression (RECIST 1.1) will not be allowed.

For participants who discontinue treatment for reasons other than documented disease progression, death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent, tumor assessments must continue to be performed until disease progression, death, lost to follow-up, or withdrawal of consent (post-treatment efficacy follow-up).