Phase II Trial of Pimasertib Versus Dacarbazine in N-Ras Mutated Cutaneous Melanoma
This is a Phase 2, multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label trial of pimasertib versus dacarbazine aimed to confirm the activity of pimasertib in previously untreated subjects with N-Ras mutated locally advanced or metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma by comparing the progression-free survival (PFS) of subjects treated with either pimasertib or dacarbazine and by getting a better understanding of the efficacy, safety, pharmacogenomics (PGx) and their relationship with pimasertib exposure.
N-Ras Mutated Locally Advanced or Metastasis Malignant Cutaneous Melanoma
DRUG: Pimasertib|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration (in weeks) from randomization until the first progressive disease (PD) observation as assessed by the Investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, or death due to any cause when death occurred within 12 weeks after the last tumor assessment (otherwise censored), whichever occurred first. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum since the treatment started (including baseline), or appearance of one or more new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of subjects with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST version 1.1 criteria. CR: defined as disappearance of all target and all non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeter (mm). PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters along with absence of new lesions and disease progression in non-target lesions., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of subjects with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for greater than (\>) 3 months assessed by investigator according to RECIST version 1.1. CR: defined as disappearance of all target and all non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than \<10 mm. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters along with absence of new lesions and disease progression in non-target lesions. SD: defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)|Percentage of Subjects With Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, PFS was defined as the duration (in weeks) from randomization until the first progressive disease (PD) observation as assessed by the Investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, or death due to any cause when death occurred within 12 weeks after the last tumor assessment, whichever occurred first. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of the target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum since the treatment started (including baseline), or appearance of one or more new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Percentage of Subjects with PFS at 6 Months were reported., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time (in months) from randomization to death due to any cause. Subjects without a death date were to be censored at the minimum of last known date alive, defined as the latest date available on the electronic case report form, and cut-off date., From date of randomization until date of death from any cause, assessed up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)|Percentage of Subjects With Overall Survival (OS) at 12 Months, OS was defined as the time (in months) from randomization to death due to any cause. Subjects without a death date were to be censored at the minimum of last known date alive, defined as the latest date available on the electronic case report form, and cut-off date. Percentage of Subjects with OS at 12 months were reported., 12 months|Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Quality of Life Assessed by Functional Assessment Cancer Therapy - Melanoma Total Score (FACT-M TS) at Day 1 of Pre-Specified Cycles and End of Treatment (EOT), QoL assessed using Function Assessment Cancer Therapy-melanoma (FACT-M) assessment tool. This includes 27-item FACT-General (FACT-G) questionnaire which consists of 24 questions;7 relating to physical well-being (PWB),7 relating to social/family well-being (SWB),6 relating to emotional well-being (EWB) and 7 relating to functional well-being (FWB). Also, it includes melanoma-specific subscale consists of 16 questions for Melanoma Subscale (MS) and 8 questions for Melanoma Surgery Scale (MSS).Each of these questions could have a response of Not at all, a little bit, somewhat, quite a bit and very much. The responses were given a value between 0 and 4 with 4 being best response. The FACT-M Total Score (FACT-M TS) ranges from 0 to 172 and is derived as follows: FACT-M TS= PWB Score + SWB Score + EWB Score + FWB Score + MS Score. Higher scores represent a better quality of life., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycle 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37 and EOT (up to cut-off date [04-Jul-2015])|Change From Baseline in Subject-reported Quality of Life Assessed by Functional Assessment Cancer Therapy - Melanoma Trial Outcome Index (FACT-M TOI) at Day 1 of Pre-Specified Cycles and End of Treatment (EOT), QoL assessed using FACT-M assessment tool. This includes 27-item FACT-G questionnaire which consists of 24 questions; 7 relating to PWB, 7 relating to SWB, 6 relating to EWB and 7 relating to FWB. Also, it includes melanoma-specific subscale consists of 16 questions for MS and 8 questions for the MSS. Each of these questions could have a response of Not at all, a little bit, somewhat, quite a bit and very much. The responses were given a value between 0 and 4 with 4 being best response. The FACT-M Trial Outcome Index (FACT-M TOI) ranges from 0 to a high of 120 and is derived as: FACT-M TOI = PWB Score + FWB Score +MS Score. Higher scores represent a better quality of life., Baseline, Day 1 of Cycle 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37 and EOT (up to cut-off date [04-Jul-2015])|Number of Subjects With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, TEAEs Leading to Discontinuation or TEAEs Leading to Death, AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this the study drug. An AE was defined as any unfavourable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug. A serious AE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 33 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state. TEAEs include both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. TEAEs were to be reported separately for dacarbazine, pimasertib and pimasertib (crossover) reporting arms., Baseline up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)|Number of Subjects With Adverse Events (AEs) of Special Interest, Adverse events of special interest included ocular retinal vein occlusion, serious retinal detachment or similar retinal abnormality characterized by accumulation of serous fluid in the retina, creatine phosphokinase (CPK) elevation and isoenzyme TEAE of Special Interest (Grade \>=2) and acute renal failure (Grade \>=2). Subjects were presented under 3 reporting groups: Dacarbazine group: for subjects who received at least 1 dose of dacarbazine; Pimasertib group: for subjects who received at least 1 dose of pimasertib; Pimasertib (Crossover) group: for subjects who were initially randomized and received dacarbazine, but crossed over to pimasertib treatment on progression of their disease., Baseline up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)|Number of Subjects With Clinically Significant Change From Baseline in Laboratory Parameter, Vital Signs, Electrocardiogram (ECG) and Ophthalmologic Findings, Subjects were presented under 3 reporting groups: Dacarbazine group: for subjects who received at least 1 dose of dacarbazine; Pimasertib group: for subjects who received at least 1 dose of pimasertib; Pimasertib (Crossover) group: for subjects who were initially randomized and received dacarbazine, but crossed over to pimasertib treatment on progression of their disease., Baseline up to cut-off date (04-Jul-2015)
This is a Phase 2, multicenter, randomized, controlled, open-label trial of pimasertib versus dacarbazine aimed to confirm the activity of pimasertib in previously untreated subjects with N-Ras mutated locally advanced or metastatic malignant cutaneous melanoma by comparing the progression-free survival (PFS) of subjects treated with either pimasertib or dacarbazine and by getting a better understanding of the efficacy, safety, pharmacogenomics (PGx) and their relationship with pimasertib exposure.