TRECA - TREatment of Colorectal Adenomas and Early Colorectal CAncer in Region Västra Götaland
All early colorectal cancers (T1-T2) treated in the Region Västra Götaland from 2007-2020 will be evaluated. To establish the extent to which early colorectal cancers have been treated with local excision? How have treatment strategies changed over time? The study will provide information on where these patients have been treated in the Region Västra Götaland. During the study period, ESD was introduced as a treatment modality, and it will investigated how this may have influenced treatment strategies for complex adenomas. Clinical outcome measures will include recurrence rates and re-intervention rates for the respective treatments. Possible areas of improvement will be identified and determine if evidence based and best practice guidelines are met with the current treatment strategies in Region Västra Götaland.
Rectal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Surgical resection
Pathological clear margins, Pathological examination of the specimen showing free margins, 1-2 months after surgery|Complications after surgery, Complications graded using the Clavien Dindo classification, 90 days after surgery
All early colorectal cancers (T1-T2) treated in the Region Västra Götaland from 2007-2020 will be evaluated. To establish the extent to which early colorectal cancers have been treated with local excision? How have treatment strategies changed over time? The study will provide information on where these patients have been treated in the Region Västra Götaland. During the study period, ESD was introduced as a treatment modality, and it will investigated how this may have influenced treatment strategies for complex adenomas. Clinical outcome measures will include recurrence rates and re-intervention rates for the respective treatments. Possible areas of improvement will be identified and determine if evidence based and best practice guidelines are met with the current treatment strategies in Region Västra Götaland.