Study on Integrated Nursing Strategy for Patients With Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors After Targeted Therapy
The goal of this clinical trial is to construct a symptom management strategy for patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor targeted therapy based on symptom management theory under the guidance of MRC framework. Embed the symptom management strategy into the information platform and conduct an empirical study on integrated care for GIST patients, and compare it with the traditional outpatient follow-up patients to explore the safety and effectiveness of the symptom management strategy and the application effect of the integrated care platform.
Nursing Caries|Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DEVICE: integrated care mode|DEVICE: conventional care mode
Scoring of quality of life using the cancer treatment function evaluation system, Evaluate the quality of life of patients. The scale consists of 27 items: 7 items of physiological status (coded GP1-GP7), 7 items of social/family status (GS1-GS7), 6 items of emotional status (GE1-GE6) and 7 items of functional status (GF1-GF7). Each item adopts a 5-level scoring method. From "not at all" to "very", the score is 0-4, respectively. Among them, GP1-GP7, GE1, and GE3-GE6 are reverse items., One month after intervention|Scoring of quality of life using the cancer treatment function evaluation system, Evaluate the quality of life of patients. The scale consists of 27 items: 7 items of physiological status (coded GP1-GP7), 7 items of social/family status (GS1-GS7), 6 items of emotional status (GE1-GE6) and 7 items of functional status (GF1-GF7). Each item adopts a 5-level scoring method. From "not at all" to "very", the score is 0-4, respectively. Among them, GP1-GP7, GE1, and GE3-GE6 are reverse items., Three month after intervention|Scoring of quality of life using the cancer treatment function evaluation system, Evaluate the quality of life of patients. The scale consists of 27 items: 7 items of physiological status (coded GP1-GP7), 7 items of social/family status (GS1-GS7), 6 items of emotional status (GE1-GE6) and 7 items of functional status (GF1-GF7). Each item adopts a 5-level scoring method. From "not at all" to "very", the score is 0-4, respectively. Among them, GP1-GP7, GE1, and GE3-GE6 are reverse items., Six month after intervention|Quality of life score of patients assessed by the specific module of gastric cancer of Anderson Symptom Assessment Scale, It is widely applicable to cancer patients of different types and treatments. The scale consists of two parts, which measure the severity of 13 core cancer symptoms and "symptom interference", that is, the interference of symptoms to patients and the specific module of gastrointestinal cancer. The severity of 13 core symptoms was evaluated for cancer symptoms, including pain, fatigue, nausea, restless sleep, distress, shortness of breath, amnesia, anorexia, drowsiness, dry mouth, sadness, vomiting and numbness, of which 2 items evaluated sleep problems; Symptom interference assessment The interference degree of the above 13 core symptoms to the six daily life items of general activities, work, emotion, walking, interpersonal relationship and fun of life. Each item is scored from 0 to 10 points, 0-4 points are mild, 5-6 points are moderate, and ≥ 7 points are severe., One month after intervention|Quality of life score of patients assessed by the specific module of gastric cancer of Anderson Symptom Assessment Scale, It is widely applicable to cancer patients of different types and treatments. The scale consists of two parts, which measure the severity of 13 core cancer symptoms and "symptom interference", that is, the interference of symptoms to patients and the specific module of gastrointestinal cancer. The severity of 13 core symptoms was evaluated for cancer symptoms, including pain, fatigue, nausea, restless sleep, distress, shortness of breath, amnesia, anorexia, drowsiness, dry mouth, sadness, vomiting and numbness, of which 2 items evaluated sleep problems; Symptom interference assessment The interference degree of the above 13 core symptoms to the six daily life items of general activities, work, emotion, walking, interpersonal relationship and fun of life. Each item is scored from 0 to 10 points, 0-4 points are mild, 5-6 points are moderate, and ≥ 7 points are severe., Three month after intervention|Quality of life score of patients assessed by the specific module of gastric cancer of Anderson Symptom Assessment Scale, It is widely applicable to cancer patients of different types and treatments. The scale consists of two parts, which measure the severity of 13 core cancer symptoms and "symptom interference", that is, the interference of symptoms to patients and the specific module of gastrointestinal cancer. The severity of 13 core symptoms was evaluated for cancer symptoms, including pain, fatigue, nausea, restless sleep, distress, shortness of breath, amnesia, anorexia, drowsiness, dry mouth, sadness, vomiting and numbness, of which 2 items evaluated sleep problems; Symptom interference assessment The interference degree of the above 13 core symptoms to the six daily life items of general activities, work, emotion, walking, interpersonal relationship and fun of life. Each item is scored from 0 to 10 points, 0-4 points are mild, 5-6 points are moderate, and ≥ 7 points are severe., Six month after intervention|Anxiety tendency of patients in the past week assessed by self rating anxiety scale, It can accurately evaluate the anxiety tendency of patients in the past week. The evaluation method is convenient and highly operable. The evaluation time is short and the content is easy to understand. Cronbach's of SAS α The coefficient is 0.824, including 20 items, with a total score of 100 points. In the entry, "1 minute" means no or very little time, "2 minutes" means a small part of time, and "3 minutes" means a considerable amount of time; "4 points" means most or all of the time, in which items 5, 9, 13, 17 and 19 are scored reversely. The integral part of the original score multiplied by 1.25 is the final standard score. The higher the total score, the more obvious the anxiety symptoms of the patient. The score of normal emotion is below 50, the score of mild anxiety is between 50-59, the score of moderate anxiety is between 60-69, and the score of more than 70 is severe anxiety., One month after intervention|Anxiety tendency of patients in the past week assessed by self rating anxiety scale, It can accurately evaluate the anxiety tendency of patients in the past week. The evaluation method is convenient and highly operable. The evaluation time is short and the content is easy to understand. Cronbach's of SAS α The coefficient is 0.824, including 20 items, with a total score of 100 points. In the entry, "1 minute" means no or very little time, "2 minutes" means a small part of time, and "3 minutes" means a considerable amount of time; "4 points" means most or all of the time, in which items 5, 9, 13, 17 and 19 are scored reversely. The integral part of the original score multiplied by 1.25 is the final standard score. The higher the total score, the more obvious the anxiety symptoms of the patient. The score of normal emotion is below 50, the score of mild anxiety is between 50-59, the score of moderate anxiety is between 60-69, and the score of more than 70 is severe anxiety., Three month after intervention|Anxiety tendency of patients in the past week assessed by self rating anxiety scale, It can accurately evaluate the anxiety tendency of patients in the past week. The evaluation method is convenient and highly operable. The evaluation time is short and the content is easy to understand. Cronbach's of SAS α The coefficient is 0.824, including 20 items, with a total score of 100 points. In the entry, "1 minute" means no or very little time, "2 minutes" means a small part of time, and "3 minutes" means a considerable amount of time; "4 points" means most or all of the time, in which items 5, 9, 13, 17 and 19 are scored reversely. The integral part of the original score multiplied by 1.25 is the final standard score. The higher the total score, the more obvious the anxiety symptoms of the patient. The score of normal emotion is below 50, the score of mild anxiety is between 50-59, the score of moderate anxiety is between 60-69, and the score of more than 70 is severe anxiety., Six month after intervention
The purpose of this clinical trial is to build an information platform for symptom management and integrated care strategy of gastrointestinal stromal tumor targeted treatment patients: the system is composed of big data platform and care strategy platform. The big data platform can automatically extract patient data from HIS, Medcare and other patient diagnosis and treatment systems according to the pre-set patient inclusion criteria, form a health file of gastrointestinal stromal tumor targeted treatment patients, and complete the enrollment. The system will intelligently promote the care strategies of the patients included in the big data platform, promote the two-way communication between doctors and patients, and realize the functions of timed symptom evaluation, symptom management, symptom management result feedback, etc. All patient health data can be customized output through the big data platform. The two platforms complement each other, promote patient self-management, improve the quality of medical follow-up service, reduce the workload of medical personnel, optimize the use of medical resources, and improve the quality of scientific research data. It is not necessary for patients to judge how to take intervention measures, but the system's management center decision-making module will evaluate the symptoms of patients, and then pop up corresponding measures, so that patients can more effectively cope with the discomfort of related symptoms caused by targeted treatment at home, and alleviate the impact on life.