Sirolimus and Gold Sodium Thiomalate in Treating Patients With Advanced Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of sirolimus and gold sodium thiomalate when given together in treating patients with advanced squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Sirolimus and gold sodium thiomalate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Squamous Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: sirolimus|DRUG: gold sodium thiomalate|OTHER: pharmacological study|GENETIC: RNA analysis|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction
Maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of ATM plus sirolimus, MTD is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients). A total of 6 patients treated at the MTD will be sufficient to identify common toxicities at the MTD., 28 days
To describe the adverse event profile associated with the treatment combination of ATM plus sirolimus., Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Confirmed response rate, Every 6 weeks|Overall survival time, Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Time-to-progression (TTP), Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) of ATM (gold sodium thiomalate) plus sirolimus. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To describe the adverse event profile associated with this treatment combination. II. To preliminarily evaluate the response rate, time to progression, progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with this treatment combination. TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate tumor biomarkers of protein kinase C (PKCι) and mammalian Target Of Rapamycin (mTOR) signaling activity as predictors of response to ATM/sirolimus therapy. II. To evaluate the use of surrogate biomarkers of PKCι and mTOR inhibition in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) to monitor response to ATM/sirolimus therapy. OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients receive sirolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and gold sodium thiomalate intramuscularly (IM) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 months.