Efficacy Study of Ipilimumab Versus Placebo to Prevent Recurrence After Complete Resection of High Risk Stage III Melanoma
The purpose of the study is to determine if ipilimumab is effective in preventing or delaying recurrence and prolongs survival after complete resection of high risk stage III melanoma
High Risk Stage III Melanoma
DRUG: ipilimumab|DRUG: Placebo
Recurrence Free Survival (RFS) Per Independent Review Committee (IRC) in the Intent to Treat (ITT) Population, Recurrence free survival (RFS) was programmatically determined based on the disease recurrence data provided by the IRC and was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first recurrence or death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. A participant who died without reported recurrence was considered to have recurrence on the date of death. For those participants who remained alive and recurrence-free, RFS was censored on the date of last evaluable post-randomization tumor assessment. For those who remained alive and had no recorded post-randomization tumor assessment, RFS was censored on the day of randomization. Participants with disease at baseline were considered to have an event on the day of randomization. Computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were mandatory to establish recurrence. The primary analysis was event-driven and planned when at least 512 RFS events assessed per IRC were collected., Date of randomization to first date of recurrence or death or last available disease assessment with RFS data up to 5 years. Median follow-up was 2.7 years.|Number of Participants With Recurrence or Death as Per Independent Review Committee (IRC) in the Intent to Treat (ITT) Population, Recurrence was defined as appearance of one or more new melanoma lesions: local, regional or distant metastasis. Computerized tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were mandatory to establish recurrence. A participant who died without reported recurrence was considered to have recurred on the date of death. Disease was assessed at randomization and every 12 weeks (±2 weeks) for 3 years, then every 24 weeks until documented distant progression., Date of randomization to first date of recurrence or death or last available disease assessment with RFS data upto 5 years. Median follow-up was 2.7 years.|Recurrence-Free Survival (RFS) Rates Per IRC at 1 Year, 2 Years, and 3 Years in the ITT Population, Yearly recurrence-free survival rates, eg. at 1 year, defined as the probability that a participant was recurrence-free at 1 year following randomization, were estimated for each treatment group using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit method, along with their corresponding log-log transformed 95% confidence intervals. RFS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first recurrence or death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. A participant who died without reported recurrence was considered to have recurrence on the date of death. For those who remained alive and recurrence-free, RFS was censored on the date of last evaluable post-randomization tumor assessment. For those who remained alive and had no recorded post-randomization tumor assessment, RFS was censored on the day of randomization. Participants with disease at baseline were considered to have an event on the day of randomization. CT and MRI were mandatory to establish recurrence., At years 1, 2, and 3
Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) Per Independent Review Committee (IRC) in the Intent to Treat (ITT) Population, Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) was programmatically determined based on the first date of distant metastasis provided by the IRC and was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first distant metastasis or death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. A participant who died without reported disease distant metastasis was considered to have distant metastasis on the date of death. For those who remained alive and metastasis-free, DMFS was censored on the date of last evaluable post-randomization tumor assessment. For those who remained alive and had no recorded post-randomization tumor assessment, DMFS was censored on the day of randomization. Participants with disease at baseline were considered to have an event on the day of randomization. Disease was assessed at baseline (randomization) and every 12 weeks (±2 weeks) for 3 years, then every 24 weeks until documented distant progression., From June 2008 to January 2016 (approximately 90 months)|Number of Participants With Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) Per Independent Review Committee (IRC) in the Intent to Treat (ITT) Population, DMFS was programmatically determined based on the first date of distant metastasis provided by the IRC and was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first distant metastasis or death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. A participant who died without reported disease distant metastasis was considered to have distant metastasis on the date of death. For those who remained alive and metastasis-free, DMFS was censored on the date of last evaluable post-randomization tumor assessment. For those who remained alive and had no recorded post-randomization tumor assessment, DMFS was censored on the day of randomization. Participants with disease at baseline were considered to have an event on the day of randomization. Disease was assessed at baseline (randomization) and every 12 weeks (2 weeks) for 3 years, then every 24 weeks until documented distant progression., From June 2008 to January 2016 (approximately 90 months)|Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) Rates Per IRC at 1 Year, 2 Years, 3 Years, 4 Years and 5 Years in the ITT Population, Yearly distant metastasis-free survival rates, e.g. at 1 year, defined as the probability that a participant was alive at 1 year following randomization, were estimated via the Kaplan-Meier method. Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS) was programmatically determined based on the first date of distant metastasis provided by the IRC and was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first distant metastasis or death (whatever the cause), whichever occurred first. A participant who died without reported disease distant metastasis was considered to have distant metastasis on the date of death. For those who remained alive and metastasis-free, DMFS was censored on the date of last evaluable post-randomization tumor assessment. For those who remained alive and had no recorded post-randomization tumor assessment. Participants with disease at baseline were considered to have an event on the day of randomization., At years 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5|Overall Survival in the Intent to Treat (ITT) Population, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. For those participants who had not died, OS was censored at the recorded last non-missing date of contact for which the participant was known to be alive., From June 2008 to January 2016 (approximately 90 months)|Rate of Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death. For those participants who had not died, OS was censored at the recorded last non-missing date of contact for which the participant was known to be alive.Yearly survival rates, e.g. at 3 years, defined as the probability that a participant was alive at 3 years following randomization, were estimated via the Kaplan-Meier method, From date of randomization to date of death, assessed up to 9 years|Number of Participants With On-Study Adverse Events (AEs) Leading to Discontinuation of Treatment, Serious AEs (SAEs), Drug-Related SAEs, Immune-related AEs (irAEs), Immune-mediated Adverse Reactions (imARs), Deaths in Treated Population, AEs: Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 16.1. irAEs=unknown etiology consistent with an immune phenomenon, considered as causally related to drug. imARs=based on investigator's assessment of immune-mediated etiology \[excluding novel maintenance events (ie, patients with imARs occurring for the first time during maintenance)\]. AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Drug-related (D-R)=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death., Day 1 up to 70 days after last dose; up to 5 years|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Non-serious AEs (NSAEs) and Number of Deaths: Overall Study, AEs: Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) version 16.1. AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization., SAEs and NSAEs: Day 1 up to 70 days after last dose(safety window). Deaths: All deaths regardless of 70 day safety window.Up to 10 years|Exposure Adjusted Incidence Rate of Adverse Events Including Multiple Occurrences of Unique Events, P-Y = person-years of exposure. Incidence rate per 100 person-years of exposure (IR/100 P-Y) was calculated as event count \* 100 /person-years of exposure. MedDRA Version: 19. Duplicate AEs have been eliminated and overlapping and contiguous occurrences of the same event have been collapsed., Day 1 up to 70 days after last dose; up to 5 years|Mean Change From Baseline in Global Health Status Scores at Each Assessment Timepoint, Global health status was measured using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C-30. This health related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaire was comprised of 15 questions on functional scales, 13 questions on symptom scales and 2 on global health status scale. Global Health Status used a 7 point Likert-type scale of 1 (Very poor) to 7 (Excellent). All scales linearly transformed to 0-100 scales. Higher scores for Global Health Status indicate better HRQoL. An increase from baseline indicates improvement in HRQoL compared to baseline. HRQoL was administered within 1 week prior to first dose (baseline) and on Days 22, 43, 64 (+/- 3 days), Week 24 and every 12 weeks up to 2 years, independent of disease progression., Baseline up to 2 years from randomization
The purpose of the study is to determine if ipilimumab is effective in preventing or delaying recurrence and prolongs survival after complete resection of high risk stage III melanoma