Adjuvant Therapy for Intermediate Risk HER2 Positive, Lymph Node Negative Early Breast Cancer With Chemotherapy Combined Target Therapy
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer is a molecular subtype with high malignancy and easy recurrence and metastasis. The emergence of HER2 targeted drugs has greatly improved the prognosis and survival of such patients. At present, for HER2 positive breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes, chemotherapy drugs combined with trastuzumab is the current standard treatment scheme, and in most cases, chemotherapy uses a combination of two drugs, while the main beneficiaries of the trastuzumab and pertuzumab are concentrated in the group of patients with positive lymph nodes. Can targeted therapy be used to reduce the progression of chemotherapy and further achieve efficient and low toxicity strategies. It is planned to explore the efficacy and safety of T1-T2, HER2 positive early breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes to achieve chemotherapy reduction based on risk stratification.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
disease free survival, The time from enrollment to the first occurrence of the following events defined as failure, including ipsilateral local recurrence, contralateral breast cancer, distant recurrence or death from any cause., 3 years
invasive disease free survival, The time from enrollment to the first occurrence of the following events defined as failure: local recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast cancer, contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence or death from any cause., 3 years|distant disease free survival, The time from enrollment in the study to the occurrence of distant recurrence and metastasis, 3 years|breast cancer specific survival, Time from enrollment to death due to breast cancer, 3 years|overall survival, The time from enrollment in the study to death caused by any reason, 3 years
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer is a molecular subtype with high malignancy and easy recurrence and metastasis. The emergence of HER2 targeted drugs has greatly improved the prognosis and survival of such patients. At present, for HER2 positive breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes, chemotherapy drugs combined with trastuzumab is the current standard treatment scheme, and in most cases, chemotherapy uses a combination of two drugs, while the main beneficiaries of the trastuzumab and pertuzumab are concentrated in the group of patients with positive lymph nodes. Can targeted therapy be used to reduce the progression of chemotherapy and further achieve efficient and low toxicity strategies. It is planned to explore the efficacy and safety of T1-T2, HER2 positive early breast cancer patients with negative lymph nodes to achieve chemotherapy reduction based on risk stratification.