A Study of LY2510924 in Participants With Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
The purpose of this trial is to compare the progression free survival of LY2510924 + carboplatin + etoposide therapy versus carboplatin + etoposide therapy in participants with extensive-stage disease small cell lung cancer (SCLC)
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: LY2510924|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. For participants who are still alive at the time of analysis and without evidence of tumor progression, PFS will be censored at the date of the most recent objective progression-free observation. For participants who receive subsequent anticancer therapy (except PCI) prior to objective disease progression or death, PFS will be censored at the date of the last objective progression-free observation prior to the date of subsequent therapy., Randomization to Measured Progressive Disease or Date of Death from Any Cause (Up To 59 Months)
Number of Participants Achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) (Overall Response Rate[ORR]), ORR is defined as the number of participants with a best response of CR and PR defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST, version 1.1) criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.Tumor marker results must have normalized. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD)is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Baseline to Date of Tumor Response or Measured Progressive Disease or Date of Death from any Cause (Up to 59 Months)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants who are still alive as of the data cutoff date, OS time will be censored on the date of the participant's last contact (last contact for participants in postdiscontinuation is last known alive date in mortality status)., Randomization to Date of Death from Any Cause (Up To 59 Months)|Duration of Overall Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause. Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST, version 1.1) criteria. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Tumor marker results must have normalized. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD)is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Date of Response to Date of Progressive Disease (Up To 59 Months)
The purpose of this trial is to compare the progression free survival of LY2510924 + carboplatin + etoposide therapy versus carboplatin + etoposide therapy in participants with extensive-stage disease small cell lung cancer (SCLC)