A Mind-Body Intervention for Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy
This pilot study will include up to 25 patients with cancer experiencing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. Patients enrolled in the study will participate in a 10-week QiGong for Chemotherapy-Induced Neuropathy program. Patients will be evaluated before and after their program participation. Within 2 weeks before the program start date, patients will be administered an objective neuropathy assessment by a physician or nurse, and will complete questionnaires assessing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, perceived cognitive functioning, quality of life, and cancer-related symptoms. Patients will repeat these assessments at the end of the last QiGong class and will be asked to provide feedback on the QiGong program as a whole. Self-report questionnaires will also be repeated one week after the last class.

Total duration of subject participation will be 11-13 weeks. Total duration of the study is expected to be approximately 9 months.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Cancer
OTHER: Qi Gong
Objective Modified Total Neuropathy Scale (mTNS) score, Change in the Modified Total Neuropathy Scale (mTNS) score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class), 10 weeks|Subjective Neurotoxicity Subscale score, Change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group - Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-NTX) Subscale Score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks
Attendance, Number of QiGong classes attended by those who enroll, 10 weeks|Retention, Completion of both pre- and post-assessments, 10 weeks|Patient Interest, Percentage of patients approached who sign consent, 1 week|Patient Evaluation of QiGong Program, Scores on the evaluation titled: QiGong Program Evaluation. Study participants will provide a score for 3 questions related to the QiGong intervention. The minimum value is 0 and maximum value is 4, and higher score means a better outcome.

Participants will also be asked 4 additional questions about the class. The minimum value is 0 and the maximum value is 10, and higher score means a better outcome.

A composite of all the scores for each participant will be calculated, with higher scores indicating a better outcome., 1 day|Perceived cognitive functioning, Change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Cognition (FACT-Cog) score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks|Physical Well-Being, Change in the FACT/GOG-NTX Physical Well-Being Subscale Score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks|Social/Family Well-Being, Change in the FACT/GOG-NTX Social/Family Well-Being Subscale Score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks|Emotional Well-Being, Change in the FACT/GOG-NTX Emotional Well-Being Subscale Score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks|Functional Well-Being, Change in the FACT/GOG-NTX Functional Well-Being Subscale Score from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks|Impact on symptom experience, Change in the ESAS scores from Baseline to T1 (last day of class) and T2 (1-week follow-up)., 11 weeks
This pilot study will include up to 25 patients with cancer experiencing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. Patients enrolled in the study will participate in a 10-week QiGong for Chemotherapy-Induced Neuropathy program. Patients will be evaluated before and after their program participation. Within 2 weeks before the program start date, patients will be administered an objective neuropathy assessment by a physician or nurse, and will complete questionnaires assessing chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, perceived cognitive functioning, quality of life, and cancer-related symptoms. Patients will repeat these assessments at the end of the last QiGong class and will be asked to provide feedback on the QiGong program as a whole. Self-report questionnaires will also be repeated one week after the last class.

Total duration of subject participation will be 11-13 weeks. Total duration of the study is expected to be approximately 9 months.