Efficacy of Dose Intensified Radiotherapy of Spinal Metastases by Hypofractionated Radiation and IGRT hfSRT Mediated Boost
Spinal metastases indicate for an incurable course of disease. Local tumor control after palliative radiotherapy of spinal metastases (10x3 Gy, 1x8Gy) is between 61 to 81%. In 30% of patients, therapy fails locally within two years associated with further symptoms that are difficult to treat, because a further radiation of already radiated vertebra leads to a higher rate of myelitis. This trial aims to improve local tumor control and control of pain by radiotherapy with increase in total and single dose. Dose elevation is realized by simultaneous, integrated boost mediated by image-guided stereotactic radiotherapy (IGRT \& hfSRT) and by elevation of elective dose in vertebral body with 12x3 Gy (standard: 10x3 Gy). Primary endpoint is local tumor control (time up to progression). Secondary endpoints are pain control associated with quality of live, severity of acute and chronic adverse effects and overall survival. It is planned to recruit a total number of 155 patients.
Spinal Metastases
RADIATION: hypofractionated 12x3 Gy + integrated boost 12x4 Gy|RADIATION: hypofractionated 10x3 Gy
tumor control (time up to progression), up to progression (MR-imaging), max. 5 years after therapy
severity of acute and chronic adverse effects, acute: assessment up to 6 weeks after therapy; chronic: assessment up to 60 months after therapy or up to progression|overall survival, assessment 60 months after therapy or up to death|pain control, by visual analog scala and questionnaires according pain, assessment 60 months after therapy
Spinal metastases indicate for an incurable course of disease. Local tumor control after palliative radiotherapy of spinal metastases (10x3 Gy, 1x8Gy) is between 61 to 81%. In 30% of patients, therapy fails locally within two years associated with further symptoms that are difficult to treat, because a further radiation of already radiated vertebra leads to a higher rate of myelitis. This trial aims to improve local tumor control and control of pain by radiotherapy with increase in total and single dose. Dose elevation is realized by simultaneous, integrated boost mediated by image-guided stereotactic radiotherapy (IGRT \& hfSRT) and by elevation of elective dose in vertebral body with 12x3 Gy (standard: 10x3 Gy). Primary endpoint is local tumor control (time up to progression). Secondary endpoints are pain control associated with quality of live, severity of acute and chronic adverse effects and overall survival. It is planned to recruit a total number of 155 patients.