Statins in Patients With Clonal Cytopenia of Undetermined Significance (CCUS) and Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)
Patients with clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) and lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) have a life expectancy of 5 to 10 years. Mortality in these patients results from progression of disease to higher-risk MDS or acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and cardiovascular events. Currently there are no FDA-approved treatments with the potential to improve survival of patients with CCUS and lower-risk MDS. Statins are an appealing class of drugs to consider in this situation as preclinical data support their potential to suppress progression of myeloid malignancy, and they have a well-established role in prevention of major cardiovascular events. This is a pilot study to explore the role of statins in treatment of patients with CCUS and lower-risk MDS. In this study, change in inflammatory biomarkers and variant allele frequency (VAF) of somatic mutations will be used as a surrogate marker of response to statin therapy. The hypothesis is that the use of statins at diagnosis of CCUS or lower-risk MDS will reduce inflammation and delay or prevent the expected increase in the VAF of somatic mutations over time.
Clonal Cytopenia of Undetermined Significance|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Atorvastatin|DRUG: Rosuvastatin
Change in hs-CTRP levels in peripheral blood during statin therapy, Pre-treatment, every 3 months while on treatment, end of treatment, 3 months after end of treatment and time of progression (estimated to be 15 months)
Change in allele burden (VAF) of somatic mutation, -Assessed by next generation sequencing (NGS) performed on peripheral blood/bone marrow., Pre-treatment, every 3 months while on treatment, end of treatment, 3 months after end of treatment and time of progression (estimated to be 15 months)
Patients with clonal cytopenia of undetermined significance (CCUS) and lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) have a life expectancy of 5 to 10 years. Mortality in these patients results from progression of disease to higher-risk MDS or acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and cardiovascular events. Currently there are no FDA-approved treatments with the potential to improve survival of patients with CCUS and lower-risk MDS. Statins are an appealing class of drugs to consider in this situation as preclinical data support their potential to suppress progression of myeloid malignancy, and they have a well-established role in prevention of major cardiovascular events. This is a pilot study to explore the role of statins in treatment of patients with CCUS and lower-risk MDS. In this study, change in inflammatory biomarkers and variant allele frequency (VAF) of somatic mutations will be used as a surrogate marker of response to statin therapy. The hypothesis is that the use of statins at diagnosis of CCUS or lower-risk MDS will reduce inflammation and delay or prevent the expected increase in the VAF of somatic mutations over time.