Perioperative Oxaliplatin With S-1 Combined H. Pylori Eradication in the Management of Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer
This study focuses on patients with H. pylori-positive resectable locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the gastric and oesophagogastric junction. It evaluates the perioperative oxaliplatin with S-1 (SOX) combined H. pylori eradication versus oxaliplatin with S-1 in the management of H. pylori-positive locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the gastric and oesophagogastric junction (cT3/4a Nx or T2 N2/3, M0) , assessing their values and advantages.
Chemotherapy Effect
DRUG: Oxaliplatin With S-1 (SOX) Combined H. Pylori Eradication (Amoxicillin + clarithromycin + omeprazole + colloidal bismuth subcitrate)|DRUG: Oxaliplatin With S-1 （SOX）
major pathological response (MPR), MPR defined as a tumor regression grade (TRG) score of 0-1; TRG 0 represents complete remission (no residual cancer cells), TRG 1 meant significant remission (residual lesions \< 10%), Through postoperative pathology, an average of 2 week
pathological complete response (pCR), pCR defined as tumor regression grade (TRG) score of 0；TRG 0 represents complete remission (no residual cancer cells), Through postoperative pathology, an average of 2 week|overall survival （OS）, Overall survival （OS） refers to the time from the beginning of randomization to death from any cause., From date of first administration until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months"|disease-free survival (DFS), Disease-free survival (DFS) refers to the time from the beginning of randomization to the recurrence of the disease or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)., From the date of first administration until the date of first disease recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|adverse events (AE), Adverse events (AE) means all adverse medical events that occur after the subject has received the experimental medication., From the beginning of the first neoadjuvant chemotherapy to 60 days after the last adjuvant chemotherapy|serious adverse events (SAE), Serious adverse events (SAE) means an adverse medical event resulting in death, life-threatening, permanent or severe disability or loss of function, the need for or prolongation of hospitalization of the subject, and congenital anomalies or birth defects after the subject has received the experimental medication., From the beginning of the first neoadjuvant chemotherapy to 60 days after the last adjuvant chemotherapy|R0 resection rate, No cancer cells could be found at the cut edge of the specimen under the microscope, and no cancer cells remained either visually or microscopically; the lesion was completely removed., Through postoperative pathology, an average of 2 week
Subjects randomized to the trial group will receive 3-4 cycles of oxaliplatin with S-1 (SOX)+ H. pylori eradication (a 14-day quadruple regimen: amoxicillin + clarithromycin + omeprazole + bismuth potassium citrate) before surgery. One of the SOX regimens will be every 3 weeks (Q3W), with a tumor response assessment at the end of the neoadjuvant therapy course. Patients will continue to receive 4-5 cycles of SOX adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery for a total of 8 cycles of SOX regimen treatment. Patients in the trial group will undergo H. pylori eradication at the time of the first cycle of the SOX regimen. H. pylori eradication will be determined by postoperative pathology, and those who are H. pylori-positive by postoperative pathology will be treated with remedial eradication therapy after recovery from surgery (except for patients with total gastric resection).

Subjects randomized to the control group will receive 3-4 cycles of neoadjuvant therapy with the SOX regimen before surgery. The SOX regimen will be administered every 3 weeks (Q3W). A tumor response assessment will be performed at the end of the treatment course. Control patients were treated with H. pylori eradication after recovery from surgery based on postoperative pathologic H. pylori results: if H. pylori-positive, they received H. pylori eradication plus 4-5 cycles of SOX adjuvant chemotherapy (except for patients who underwent total gastric resection); if H. pylori-negative, they received 4-5 cycles of SOX adjuvant chemotherapy only.