Q702 for the Treatment of Patients With Hematologic Malignancies
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of Q702 in treating patients with hematologic malignancies. Q702 is in a class of medications called immunomodulatory agents. It works by helping the immune system kill cancer cells and by helping the bone marrow to produce normal blood cells. Giving Q702 may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with hematologic malignancies.
Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Histiocytic Sarcoma|Malignant Histiocytosis|Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Recurrent Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Primary Myelofibrosis|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Recurrent Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Refractory Erdheim-Chester Disease|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Refractory Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Refractory Primary Myelofibrosis|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia|Rosai-Dorfman-Destombes Disease
DRUG: Axl/Mer/CSF1R Inhibitor Q702|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Survey Administration
Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Up to completion of the first cycle (cycle length= 28 days), Up to 3 years|Overall response rate, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true rate of overall response will be calculated., Up to 3 years
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as is defined as the time from registration to progression or death due to any cause, Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the highest dose of Q702 tested that has acceptable tolerability and safety. (Dose determination) II. Safety and overall response assessment in patients with hematologic malignancies who have been treated with Q702. (Dose expansion)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assessment of progression-free survival and overall survival. II. Safety and tolerability of Q702.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Improvement of quality of life (QOL) assessed by using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) tool compared to pretreatment values.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1), Colony stimulating factor 1 receptor (CSF1R) expression of tumor before and after treatment.

II. M2 macrophage population assessed through flow cytometry by using peripheral blood before and after treatment.

III. Serum cytokine interferon gamma, Interleukin (IL)-1b, IL-6, IL-4, IL-10, IL-13, C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) before and after each cycle of therapy.

IV. Assessment of inflammatory markers before and after treatment with Q702. V. Assessment of cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)/cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) infiltration in the tumor involvement before, during, and after treatment with Q702.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of Q702 followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive Q702 orally (PO) daily (QD) on days 1-7 and 15-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After 6 cycles, patients who have not progressed/relapsed may continue on therapy at their current dose at medical doctor (MD)/patient discretion for an additional 6 cycles. Patients undergo blood and urine sample collection and may undergo positron emission tomography (PET) scan/computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and bone marrow aspiration and biopsy throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months and at progressive disease for 2 years.