Roxadustat Combined With Luspatercept Versus Luspatercept Monotherapy in the Treatment of Refractory MDS-RS
In a randomized controlled phase II/III clinical trial, 58% of patients with lower-risk MDS had at least a 50% reduction in red blood cell (RBC) transfusion units every 8 weeks after roxadustat treatment. In a randomized controlled phase III clinical trial, luspatercept significantly improved transfusion dependence in erythropoietin-stimulating agents (ESA)-refractory MDS-RS and improved hemoglobin response and quality of life, compared to placebo. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of roxadustat combined with luspatercept versus luspatercept monotherapy in the treatment of refractory MDS-RS.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Roxadustat|DRUG: Luspatercept
overall response rate (ORR), Proportion of patients who achieved complete response, partial response and hematological response., 6 month
transfusion indenpendence (TI), Proportion of patients with transfusion dependence over 8 weeks, 6 month|adverse event rate, Proportion of patients with adverse events, 6 month
Myelodysplastic neoplasms (MDS) are heterogeneous clonal disorders of stem cells that result in peripheral blood cytopenia and ineffective hematopoiesis, with the potential risk of the development of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Most patients with myelodysplastic syndromes with ring sideroblasts (MDS-RS) are stratified into lower-risk groups by the revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS). At present, the main therapies for MDS-RS are red blood cell and platelet transfusion, erythropoietin (EPO), androgen, and iron chelation therapy. Roxadustat can up-regulate transferrin receptors to increase iron absorption, up-regulate transferrin to promote iron transport, and down-regulate ferritin levels to indirectly improve iron absorption and transport, promote plasma iron entry into the bone marrow to generate red blood cells and promote the production of EPO in the physiological range. Luspatercept generally promotes advanced erythrocyte maturation by inhibiting the TGF-β/smad2/3 signaling pathway. In a randomized controlled phase II/III clinical trial, 58% of patients with lower-risk MDS had at least a 50% reduction in red blood cell (RBC) transfusion units every 8 weeks after roxadustat treatment. In a randomized controlled phase III clinical trial, luspatercept significantly improved transfusion dependence in erythropoietin-stimulating agents (ESA)-refractory MDS-RS and improved hemoglobin response and quality of life, compared to placebo. The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of roxadustat combined with luspatercept versus luspatercept monotherapy in the treatment of refractory MDS-RS. If it is proved that the combination of the two drugs is better than luspatercept monotherapy, it can quickly improve the anemia of refractory MDS-RS and improve the quality of life.