Efficacy and Safety of Lenvatinib (E7080/MK-7902) Plus Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Chemotherapy in Participants With Advanced/Metastatic Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma (MK-7902-015/E7080-G000-321/LEAP-015)
The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib (E7080/MK-7902) plus pembrolizumab (MK-3475) plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone in participants with advanced/metastatic gastroesophageal cancer.

The primary study hypotheses are that lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy is superior to chemotherapy alone for both overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR), in participants with programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥1 and in all participants.
Advanced/Metastatic Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Leucovorin (or Levoleucovorin)|DRUG: 5-FU
Part 1: Number of Participants with Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Hematologic DLTs were defined as Grade 4 neutropenia lasting for ≥7 days, Grade 3 or Grade 4 febrile neutropenia, Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, or Grade 4 anemia. Other nonhematologic toxicities considered a DLT included any other Grade 4 or Grade 5 toxicity, Grade 3 toxicities lasting \>3 days (excluding nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea controlled by medical intervention within 72 hours, and Grade 3 rash in the absence of desquamation with no mucosal involvement), Grade 3 hypertension not able to be controlled by medication, ≥Grade 3 gastrointestinal perforation, ≥Grade 3 wound dehiscence requiring medical or surgical intervention, or any grade thromboembolic event. The number of participants in Part 1 with DLTs will be reported by treatment arm., Up to ~21 days|Part 1: Number of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants in Part 1 with AEs will be reported by treatment arm., Up to ~28 months|Part 1: Number of Participants who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants in Part 1 that discontinued study due to an AE will be reported by treatment arm., Up to ~25 months|Part 2: Overall Survival (OS) in Participants with Programmed Cell Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Combined Positive Score (CPS) ≥1, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS will be reported by treatment arm for PD-L1 CPS ≥1 participants in Part 2., Up to ~41 months|Part 2: OS in All Participants, OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. OS will be reported by treatment arm for all participants in Part 2., Up to ~41 months|Part 2: Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) in Participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥1, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS will be reported by treatment arm for PD-L1 CPS ≥1 participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months|Part 2: PFS Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in All Participants, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 by BICR or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS will be reported by treatment arm for all participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months
Part 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in Participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥1, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, and assessed by BICR. ORR will be reported by treatment arm for PD-L1 CPS ≥1 participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months|Part 2: ORR Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in All Participants, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or a PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, and assessed by BICR. ORR will be reported by treatment arm for all participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months|Part 2: Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in Participants with PD-L1 CPS ≥1, For participants who demonstrated confirmed CR or PR, DOR is defined as the time from the first CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) to subsequent PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR will be reported by treatment arm for PD-L1 CPS ≥1 participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months|Part 2: DOR Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in All Participants, For participants who demonstrated confirmed CR or PR, DOR is defined as the time from the first CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) to subsequent PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1 modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR will be reported by treatment arm for all participants in Part 2., Up to ~31 months|Part 2: Number of Participants with AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants in Part 2 with AEs will be reported by treatment arm., Up to ~28 months|Part 2: Number of Participants who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants in Part 2 that discontinued study due to an AE will be reported by treatment arm., Up to ~25 months
There will be 2 parts to the study: a Safety Run-in (Part 1) and the Main Study (Part 2). In Part 1 (Safety Run-in), approximately 12 participants will be treated with lenvatinib in combination with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy with either capecitabine and oxaliplatin (CAPOX), or 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), Leucovorin, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFOX6). Participants will be closely followed for dose-limiting toxicities for 21 days after the first dose of study intervention.

In Part 2, up to 878 eligible participants (not including those participating in Part 1) will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either lenvatinib plus pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy (CAPOX or mFOLFOX6) or Chemotherapy alone (CAPOX or mFOLFOX6).

Participants can receive up to 18 infusions (up to 2 years) of pembrolizumab in the first course. Participants may be eligible to receive a second course of pembrolizumab (approximately 1 year) at the investigator's discretion.