Hypofractionated Focal Lesion Ablative Microboost in prostatE Cancer
The hypo-FLAME study is a multicenter phase II study (n=100) to investigate whether a focal SBRT boost to the MRI-defined macroscopic tumor volume is feasible and associated with acceptable toxicity in addition to whole gland prostate SBRT.
Prostate Cancer Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: Hypo-FLAME study
Acute toxicity, The goal of the present study is to investigate whether a focal SBRT boost to the macroscopic tumor is feasible and associated with acceptable toxicity in addition to whole gland prostate SBRT. Toxicity will be assessed by the acute gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Acute toxicity is defined as toxicity occurring within 90 days after the first radiation treatment., 90 days after first radiation treatment
Late toxicity, Late toxicity, assessed by the late GI and GU Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Late toxicity is defined as toxicity occurring after at least 90 days after the first radiation treatment., 10 years after last radiation treatment|Quality of life - general, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 questionnaire, 5 years after last radiation treatment|Biochemical disease free survival (bDFS), Biochemical disease free survival, 10 years after last radiation treatment|Quality of life - prostate specific, EORTC QLQ- PR25 questionnaire, 5 years after last radiation treatment
MRI side study, Quantify intrafraction motion of the prostate (in mm), Within 5 weeks from start of radiotherapy|Blood sampling, Radiogenomic analyses, Within 5 weeks from start of radiotherapy
Rationale: Hypofractionation with a stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) technique for prostate cancer produces excellent treatment outcome in terms of survival and toxicity and is much more convenient than the current fractionation scheme. Local recurrence occurs most frequently at the site of the primary or dominant tumor location prior to treatment. Therefore dose escalation at the site of the primary tumor may improve disease control.

Objective: The main goal of this phase II study is to investigate whether a focal ablative SBRT boost to the macroscopic tumor is feasible and associated with acceptable toxicity in addition to whole gland prostate SBRT. The secondary objectives of this study are: late toxicity, quality of life (QoL) and biochemical disease free survival (bDFS). Furthermore, two side-studies are incorporated in this phase II study: 1) a weekly MRI will be performed to prepare for future MRI-guided (MR-linac) treatment without gold fiducial markers and 2) blood sampling for translational research (radiogenomics) and Biobank purposes.

Study design: Prospective multicenter interventional study on whole gland prostate SBRT using MRI for focal boost in 100 consecutive intermediate or high risk prostate cancer patients.

Study population: One hundred patients with histologically proven prostate adenocarcinoma with intermediate risk or high risk disease. Patients referred for external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) who fulfill the inclusion criteria and without any of the exclusion criteria will be included in the present trial after written informed consent.

Intervention: Patients will be treated by external beam radiotherapy with a SBRT technique with 35 Gy in 5 weekly fractions and an additional simultaneously integrated focal boost to the tumor nodule(s) visible on MRI up to 50 Gy. In addition, patients will be asked to undergo 5 additional MRI scans (\~15 min/scan) without contrast enhancement prior to each radiation session as well as blood sampling for translational research (radiogenomics) and Biobank purposes.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoints of this study are acute gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) toxicity using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0. Secondary endpoints are late GI and GU toxicity, QoL, and bDFS. Simultaneously, two side-studies will be performed, i.e. to prepare for MRI-guided radiotherapy and blood sampling for translational research (radiogenomics) and Biobank purposes.