Sensitivity of Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT) for Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Screening
Fecal immunochemical test (FIT) was introduced in France late 2015, FIT has better diagnostic accuracy for colorectal cancers (CRCs) than previous screening tests. Our primary objective was to evaluate the sensitivity of FIT and the proportion of interval cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms Malignant|Colonoscopy|Early Detection of Cancer|Female|Mass Screening|Middle Aged|Occult Blood
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Positive fecal immunochemical test (FIT)|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Negative fecal immunochemical test (FIT)|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Fecal immunochemical test (FIT) not performed
sensitivity of the fecal immunochemical test for the detection of colorectal cancers, Sensitivity = True positive / True positive + False negative = SD CRCs / SD CRCs + FIT IC, We evaluated CRCs screening campaign from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, and interval cancers within two years after a negative test, and five years for post-colonoscopy interval cancers.
Parameters affecting the sensitivity of FIT, risk factors of interval cancer, Age, sex, stages, localizations, comparison by Chi2 or Fisher's test for categorical data and Student's test for quantitative data. Multivariate analysis using logistic regression., We evaluated CRCs screening campaign from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, and interval cancers within two years after a negative test, and five years for post-colonoscopy interval cancers.|FIT value, FIT value, comprised between 10 and 200 µg haemoglobin/g faeces (analytical limits of quantification),, FIT data included its value, comprised between 10 and 200 µg haemoglobin/g faeces (analytical limits of quantification),|Survival, Analysis of survival according to diagnostic circumstances, We evaluated CRCs screening campaign from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, and interval cancers within two years after a negative test, and five years for post-colonoscopy interval cancers.|Treatment, Analysis of treatment according to diagnostic circumstances, We evaluated CRCs screening campaign from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017, and interval cancers within two years after a negative test, and five years for post-colonoscopy interval cancers.
Fecal immunochemical test (FIT) aims to detect pre-symptomatic lesions, i.e., early stage colorectal cancers (CRCs) or pre-cancerous lesions such as colonic adenomas in order to reduce CRC mortality. FIT was introduced in France late 2015, FIT has better diagnostic accuracy for CRCs than previous screening tests. Determining the incidence of post-test interval CRCs, diagnosed after a negative FIT and before the recommended date of the next test (2-year interval), allows assessment of the sensitivity of the test. The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the performance of FIT during the CRC screening campaign in the Finistère department (France) from January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2017. Its secondary objectives were the evaluation of diagnostic circumstances and their impact on treatment and survival, and risk factors for interval cancer (IC).