Radioembolization With Yittrium-90 for Intermediate and Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most-common cancer worldwide and the second most-common cause of cancer mortality. Liver resection is the first-line curative treatment for huge HCC. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rates after hepatic resection were range from 25% to 45%. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the major treatment option for the unresectable primary or secondary liver malignancies. Yittrium-90 (Y-90) is a pure beta-emitter, without any toxic effect or immune rejection. There are ample data that support the use of Y-90 microspheres for primary and metastatic liver tumors. The aim of our study was to compare the clinical outcome of radioembolization with Y-90 and TACE and provide a new strategy for the treatment of intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein thrombus by conduting a randomized trial.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Radioembolization
PROCEDURE: TACE|PROCEDURE: radioembolization with Y-90
Overall survival, 3 years|Time to progress, 3 years|Toxic and side effects caused by TACE or radioembolization with Y-90, 3 years|Postoperative complication, 3 years
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most-common cancer worldwide and the second most-common cause of cancer mortality. Liver resection is the first-line curative treatment for huge HCC. The 5-year overall survival (OS) rates after hepatic resection were range from 25% to 45%. Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is the major treatment option for the unresectable primary or secondary liver malignancies. Yittrium-90 (Y-90) is a pure beta-emitter, without any toxic effect or immune rejection. There are ample data that support the use of Y-90 microspheres for primary and metastatic liver tumors. The aim of our study was to compare the clinical outcome of radioembolization with Y-90 and TACE and provide a new strategy for the treatment of intermediate and advanced hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein thrombus by conduting a randomized trial.