The XENERA™ 1 Study Tests Xentuzumab in Combination With Everolimus and Exemestane in Women With Hormone Receptor Positive and HER2-negative Breast Cancer That Has Spread
The main objective of the trial is to assess the efficacy of xentuzumab in combination with everolimus and exemestane over everolimus and exemestane in patients with HR+/ HER2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer and non-visceral disease.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Xentuzumab|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Exemestane
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) defined as the time from randomisation until progressive disease (PD) according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST, version 1.1) in combination with modified MD Anderson Criteria (for bone lesion assessment), based on blinded independent assessment or death from any cause, whichever occurred earlier. As per RECIST, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the appearance of new lesions., From randomisation until the earliest of disease progression, death or the time point of primary PFS analysis, up to 892 days.
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) defined as the time from randomisation until death from any cause. For patients with 'event' as an outcome for OS:

OS\[days\] = date of outcome - date of randomisation + 1.

For patients with 'censored' as an outcome for OS:

OS (censored)\[days\] = date of outcome - date of randomisation + 1., From randomisation until death from any cause, up to 995 days.|Number of Patients With Disease Control (DC), Disease control (DC) was defined as a best overall response (BOR) of either complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or Non-CR/No-PD. SD and Non-CR/Non-PR must have been observed up until at least week 24 tumor assessment. BOR was defined according to RECIST v1.1 in combination with modified MD Anderson Criteria (for bone lesion assessment) based on all evaluable tumor assessments from randomisation until the earliest of PD, start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent or death. To be aligned with the primary endpoint derivation, tumor assessments after two or more consecutively misses assessments were not considered. DC was assessed by independent reviewers., From randomisation until the earliest of progressive disease or death from any cause, up to 892 days.|Duration of Disease Control (DC), Duration of disease control (DC), defined as the time from randomisation until the earliest of disease progression (according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST, version 1.1) in combination with modified MD Anderson Criteria (for bone lesion assessment) or death from any cause, among patients with DC. Duration of DC was assessed by independent reviewers.

The duration of DC was calculated as followed:

For patients with disease progression or death:

Duration of DC \[days\] = date of outcome - date of randomisation + 1

For patients without disease progression or death:

Duration of DC (censored) \[days\] = date of outcome - date of randomisation + 1, From randomisation until the earliest of progressive disease or death from any cause, up to 892 days.|Number of Participants With Objective Response (OR), Number of participants with objective response (OR) by independent assessment. OR is defined as a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Best overall response is defined according to RECIST v1.1 in combination with modified MD Anderson Criteria (for bone lesion assessment) and will consider all tumor assessments from randomisation until the earliest of PD, start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent or death. To be aligned with the primary endpoint derivation, tumor assessments after two or more consecutively misses assessments were not considered., From randomisation until end of treatment, up to 892 days.|Time to Pain Progression or Intensification of Pain Palliation, Time to pain progression or intensification of pain palliation was defined as the time from randomisation until the earliest of:

* 2 point increase from baseline in the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF), Item 3 (worst pain), without a decrease (of ≥1 point) from baseline analgesics use (via the 8-point Analgesic Quantification Algorithm \[AQA\]), or
* 2 point increase from baseline in the AQA, or Death., From randomisation until the earliest of pain progression, intensification of pain palliation, death or the time point of progression free survival analysis, up to 843 days.
The main objective of the trial is to assess the efficacy of xentuzumab in combination with everolimus and exemestane over everolimus and exemestane in patients with HR+/ HER2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer and non-visceral disease.