Proton and Heavy Ion Beam Radiation vs. Photon Beam Radiation for Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma.
This is a multi-center prospective phase 3 clinical trial to explore the efficacy and side effects of standard-dose photon radiation versus standard-dose proton radiation versus carbon ion boost plus standard proton radiation for newly diagnosed glioblastoma. The patients enrolled will be randomly allocated with 1:1:1 to three group: Control Group, standard-dose photon radiotherapy; Study Group A, standard-dose proton radiotherapy; Study Group B, standard-dose proton radiotherapy plus induction carbon-ion radiotherapy boost. The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS).
Glioblastoma
RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Overall Survival, The interval from randomization to death, From the pathological confirmation to death, a median of 3 years.
Progression-free Survival, The interval from randomization to progression or death, From randomization to tumor progression, with a median of 3 years.|Toxicities, The scores of toxicities are based on CTCAE criteria, which refers to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., From start to 12 months after completion of radiotherapy.|Recognitive Function, The assessment of recognitive function is based on MMSE criteria, which refers to Mini-Mental State Examination., From initiation of radiotherapy to 12 months after completion of radiotherapy.|Life Quality, The assessment of life quality is based on ADL criteria, which refers to Activities of Daily Living., From initiation of radiotherapy to 12 months after completion of radiotherapy.
This multi-center prospective phase 3 clinical trial will enroll 369 patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Patients will be randomly allocated with 1:1:1 to three groups: Control Group, standard-dose photon radiotherapy (60 Gy); Study Group A, standard-dose proton radiotherapy (60 GyE); Study Group B, standard-dose proton radiotherapy (60 GyE) plus induction carbon-ion radiotherapy boost (15GyE/3F). All patients will receive concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide according to the Stupp protocol. The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS). The secondary endpoint is progression-free survival, side effect and quality life.