Study of Relacorilant in Combination With Nab-Paclitaxel in Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
This is a Phase 3, open-label study to evaluate the objective response rate (ORR), in patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (mPDAC) treated with relacorilant in combination with nab-paclitaxel, according to blinded independent central review.
Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Relacorilant, 100 mg and 25 mg|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), Percentage of patients with measurable disease at baseline who achieved confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, as assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR). Tumor assessment consisted of computerized tomography (CT) scan or, with Sponsor approval, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters (SOD) of target lesions., Baseline and up to 32 weeks
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Investigator Assessment, Percentage of patients with measurable disease at baseline who achieved confirmed CR or PR per RECIST v1.1, as assessed by the Investigator. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions., Baseline and up to 48 weeks|Best Overall Response (BOR), To evaluate the best overall response of CR, PR, stable disease (SD), or PD per RECIST v1.1. as assessed by BICR. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the SOD of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Baseline and up to 32 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR), To evaluate the duration of response as the time of objective response (CR or PR) to the time of disease progression or death, per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by BICR and the Investigator. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions. PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the SOD of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Time of response up to 32 weeks|Disease Control Rate (DCR), To evaluate patients disease control rate of CR, PR, or SD at 18 weeks, per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by the Investigator. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD., Enrollment through 18 weeks|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate PFS as median time to disease progression per RECIST v1.1, or death, as assessed by BICR. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in the SOD of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Baseline and up to 31 weeks.|Overall Survival (OS), To evaluate OS as median time to death by any cause., Baseline and up to 70 weeks|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate PFS as the percentage of patients who are progression-free at 3, 6, and 12 months per RECIST v1.1, as assessed by BICR. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in the SOD of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Enrollment through 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), To evaluate OS as the percentage of patients surviving at 3, 6, and 12, months., Enrollment through 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months|Cancer Antigen (CA)19-9, To assess cancer antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) response at 8 and 16 weeks in patients who have elevated CA19-9 at baseline. Response was defined as ≥50% reduction in CA19-9., Enrollment through 8 weeks and 16 weeks|Tumor Response Per European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Criteria, To assess tumor response based on changes in fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan at 6 weeks per the EORTC criteria, as assessed by BICR., Enrollment through 6 weeks|Time to Progression (TTP), To evaluate TTP as median time to disease progression per RECIST v1.1, as assessed by the Investigator. Tumor assessment consisted of CT scan or, with Sponsor approval, MRI. Disease progression was defined as ≥20% increase in the SOD of target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Baseline and up to 32 weeks
Relacorilant is a small-molecule antagonist of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). The goals of this study are to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics (PK) of relacorilant in combination with nab-paclitaxel in the treatment of metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Eligible patients are those with mPDAC who have received at least 2 prior lines of therapy for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma in any setting, including at least 1 prior gemcitabine-based therapy and at least 1 prior fluoropyrimidine-based therapy.

Patients will receive treatment until progressive disease (PD) (per RECIST v1.1) as determined by the Investigator, experiencing unmanageable toxicity, or until other treatment discontinuation criteria are met. All patients will be followed for documentation of disease progression and survival information (i.e., date and cause of death) and subsequent treatment.