Yttrium-90 (Y90) Radioembolization for the Treatment of Early Stage Renal Cell Carcinoma, The RENEGADE Trial
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects and effectiveness of radioembolization with yttrium-90 (Y-90) in patients with early stage renal cell carcinoma. Y-90 is a radioactive chemical that is incorporated into millions of very tiny glass spheres. These spheres are injected into the artery that feeds the cancer. This process is called radioembolization. Y-90 radioembolization may be a safe and effective treatment for patients with early stage renal cell carcinoma.
Stage I Renal Cell Cancer|Stage II Renal Cell Cancer
PROCEDURE: Angiogram|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: Radioembolization|PROCEDURE: Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography|OTHER: Survey Administration|RADIATION: Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres
Number of treatment related adverse events, Up to 2 years|Number of serious adverse events, Up to 2 years
Overall response rate (ORR), According to Choi, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, and modified RECIST. Will be summarized as count and percentage. The corresponding 95% confidence interval (CI) for the ORR will be computed using the methodology of Clopper-Pearson., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, According to Choi, RECIST 1.1, and modified RECIST. Will be analyzed by Kaplan Meier methodology., From the first response and first observation of progressive disease, up to 2 years|Renal time to progression, According to Choi, RECIST 1.1, and modified RECIST. Kaplan Meier curves will be presented., Up to 2 years|Progression free-survival, According to Choi, RECIST 1.1, and modified RECIST. Kaplan Meier curves will be presented., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Kaplan Meier curves will be presented., Up to 2 years|Change in renal function, Measured by glomerular filtration rate (GFR), creatinine, and cystatin-C., Up to 2 years|Proportion of patients receiving subsequent treatment for RCC after study treatment, Will be summarized as counts and percentage. The corresponding 95% CIs will be computed using Clopper-Pearson., Up to 2 years|Type of subsequent RCC treatment received after study treatment, Will be summarized using descriptive summaries., Up to 2 years|Proportion of patients to undergo curative therapy, Will be summarized as counts and percentage. The corresponding 95% CIs will be computed using Clopper-Pearson., Up to 2 years|Time to subsequent RCC treatment (local or systemic therapy), Will be summarized using descriptive summaries., Up to 2 years|Correlation between tumoral absorbed dose, with efficacy and safety, Correlation between tumoral absorbed dose (measured in Gy based on SPECT-CT) and safety (measured by incidence of Grade 3/4 treatment-related adverse events) and efficacy (measured by partial and complete response using Choi/mRECIST/RECIST criteria on follow up cross sectional imaging), Up to 2 years|Correlation between normal tissue absorbed dose, with efficacy and safety, Correlation between normal tissue absorbed dose (measured in Gy based on SPECT-CT) and safety (measured by incidence of Grade 3/4 treatment-related adverse events) and efficacy (measured by partial and complete response using Choi/mRECIST/RECIST criteria on follow up cross sectional imaging), Up to 2 years|Change in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group score, The scale is Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG). Scale is 1 to 5, with 5 being the worst outcome., Up to 2 years|Change in quality of life as measured by the SF-36 (QualityMetrics) Quality of Life survey, Change in overall quality of life based on patient-reported outcomes, Up to 2 years|Percentage of subjects with absorbed Y90 dose within range (+/- 20%) of planned dose, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess safety and toxicity of Yttrium-90 radioembolization for renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess tumor response and duration of response, based on Choi, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), and modified RECIST criteria.

II. To assess time to disease progression. III. To assess progression free survival and overall survival. IV. To assess stability of renal function via glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and cystatin-C.

V. To describe the difference in quality of life before and after treatment using Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status and RCC-specific Quality of Life (QoL) questionnaire.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo radioembolization with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres (TheraSphere) given intra-arterially. Patients undergo angiogram during screening, single proton emission computed tomography (SPECT) scan on study and computed tomography (CT) scan and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 day, 1 week, and then monthly for 24 months.