Abnormal Food Timing and Circadian Dyssynchrony in Alcohol Induced Colon Carcinogenesis
The purpose of this study is to study the impact of Western lifestyle, including moderate alcohol consumption and delayed eating patterns on studying individuals' susceptibility to colorectal cancer. This study aims to increase our ability to identify individuals at risk for colorectal cancer in the future.

Each subject will experience four conditions (each for one week in duration with a week +/- 2 days wash-out in between): (1) "right-time eating" / no alcohol, (2) "right-time eating" / with alcohol, (3) "delayed-eating" / no alcohol, (4) "delayed-eating" / with alcohol. The order of experiments will be randomized \[concealed randomization\]. All subjects will undergo unprepped sigmoidoscopy after each week of intervention. In Aim 2, all subjects will have an option to undergo a 24h circadian assessment in the Biological Rhythms Research Lab after each week of intervention. The Investigator will assess (i) central circadian rhythms by collecting hourly salivary samples for melatonin assays and (ii) peripheral rhythm in the intestinal tract by buccal swabs once every 2h (12 time points) as well as by rectal sampling twice (every 12 hr). For Aim 3, sigmoidoscopy without sedation will be used to obtain colonic samples as the safe method compared to colonoscopy, which has some small but finite risks associated with the procedure (e.g, bleeding or perforation) as well as sedation.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Right time eating|OTHER: Delayed time eating|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy|PROCEDURE: Optional 24h circadian assessment in the Biological Rhythms lab|OTHER: Alcohol
Mucosal Outcome, Sigmoid mucosal biopsy specimens are collected at baseline and at the end of each intervention week. Using gene expression analysis (RNA seq), impact of our intervention on sigmoid mucosal samples, with regard to the mucosal immune response will be assessed. This will be assessed by % change in immune expression.

Tissue staining will be used to measure the effect of our interventions on markers of colonic neoplastic process including epithelial proliferation and apoptosis. The effect will be assessed by % changes in proliferation and apoptosis rate in the tissue., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)|Circadian Outcome, Impact of our treatments on circadian read outs will be assessed by using a wrist actigraphy in which activity data to calculate phase assessment (hr units) and sleep indexes including {sleep duration, wake after sleep onset (in minutes), total sleep time (in minutes), and sleep percentage} will be measured.

If the subject is interested, our in house circadian lab measurements (activity data and urine melatonin as described plus buccal circadian gene expression) will be available to complement the aforementioned circadian measures. To this end , subjects will enter the Biological Rhythms Research Lab after each week of the intervention period for 24h for assessments of central circadian rhythms (hourly salivary melatonin) and peripheral clock genes of the digestive tract from mucosal cells taken from buccal swaps once every 2h (12 time points). Percent change in expression level of the genes will be compared between groups., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)|Microbiota Outcome, Microbial DNA will be isolated from the stool and the biopsy material Effects of the interventions in this study on the gut microbial compositions will be identified by using 16s microbial analysis., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)
Food time and Sleep time Outcomes, Eating and sleeping time will be recorded by having participants complete the weekly Food Timing/Sleep Questionnaire where participants record their meal timings and sleep hours throughout the period of the study. Variation in meal and sleep time in weekdays and weekends (in hour unit) will be compared among conditions., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)|Gastrointestinal symptoms, Subjects may report their experience after each intervention. For this, we will provide participants a questionnaire about common gastrointestinal symptoms that they have experienced within the past 7 days. Participants will scale the severity of their symptoms from 0 - 10 (1 being very mild, 10 being very severe and 0 if no symptom experienced)., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)|A 24h food recall, 24h food recall will be completed by participants using Automated Self-Administered 24-Hour at baseline and once during each intervention., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)|Establish the link and interaction of delayed eating, and alcohol intake on risks associated with colon cancer., Effects of delayed eating with alcohol on circadian outcome, microbiota and mucosal markers of colon carcinogenesis will be assessed by analyzing neoplastic mucosal markers (via tissue staining) as well as gene expression., Through study completion and data analysis in 3 years (2022)
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the US. CRC's risk is closely linked to the modern lifestyle. Alcohol is commonly used in our society and is an established risk factor for both pre-cancerous (polyp) and cancerous lesions of the colon. However this knowledge has not been translated to our current risk stratifications for CRC as the process of alcohol-induced carcinogenesis is not predictable. Mucosal inflammation is a well-established mechanism that mediates the effect of alcohol induced tissue injury in the intestine. Inflammation also plays a crucial role in pathogenesis of CRC. Factors that promote a pro-tumorigenic inflammatory state in the setting of alcohol are unknown. Since CRC occurs only in a small subset of alcohol user, alcohol alone may not be sufficient to start the neoplastic process and additional cofactors are required. One such factor is circadian dysrhythmia that is another modern lifestyle habit, shown to be associated with an increased risk of CRC. Further, previous research has shown that disruption of circadian rhythm exacerbates alcohol-induced intestinal inflammation. The Investigator hypothesize that altered circadian rhythms due to "wrong-time" eating (abnormal eating) are an important determinant in alcohol induced mucosal inflammation and carcinogenesis. Our preliminary data supports our hypothesis and shows that abnormal eating patterns accelerate alcohol-induced polyposis in a mouse model of CRC. Each subject will experience four conditions (each for one week in duration with a week +/- 2 days wash-out in between): (1) "right-time eating" / no alcohol, (2) "right-time eating" / with alcohol, (3) "delayed-eating" / no alcohol, (4) "delayed-eating" / with alcohol. The order of experiments will be randomized \[concealed randomization\]. All subjects will undergo unprepped sigmoidoscopy after each week of intervention. In Aim 2, all subjects will have an option to undergo a 24h circadian assessment in the Biological Rhythms Research Lab after each week of intervention. The Investigator will assess (i) central circadian rhythms by collecting hourly salivary samples for melatonin assays and (ii) peripheral rhythm in the intestinal tract by buccal swabs once every 2h (12 time points) as well as by rectal sampling twice (every 12 hr). For Aim 3, sigmoidoscopy without sedation will be used to obtain colonic samples as the safe method compared to colonoscopy, which has some small but finite risks associated with the procedure (e.g, bleeding or perforation) as well as sedation.