Cabozantinib-S-Malate and Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well cabozantinib-s-malate and erlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with previously treated metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Cabozantinib-s-malate and erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cabozantinib-s-malate may also stop the growth of non-small cell lung cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving cabozantinib-s-malate together with erlotinib hydrochloride may be an effective treatment for non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Objective Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 2 years
Percentage of Patients With a Greater Than 30% Increase in Tumor Doubling Time, Tumor doubling time was estimated using an exponential growth model. Specifically, the pre-progression scan, and the baseline scan were used to estimate the doubling time prior to enrollment, td = log(2)∗1time/1log(tumor size) \[derivation, S(t) = S(to)∗2∧\[(t-to)/td\] for a parameterization of exponential growth with a doubling time of td. Taking the logarithm on both sides: log(S(t))-log(S(to)) = log(2)∗(t - to)/td or td = log(2)∗(t - to)/\[log(S(t))-log(S(to))\] = log(2)∗1time/1log(S)\], the baseline scan and first evaluation scan were used to determine the doubling time. Based on pre-planned protocol assessment, we estimated the percent of patients that experienced a slowing of tumor kinetics (a 30% increase in the length of time for tumor doubling) based on RECIST v1.1 measurements. Patients who did not get a scan on study, and patients whose pre-progression scans were missing or whose pre-progression tumor size was zero or whose tumor was decreasing prior to enrollment were excluded., Up to 2 years|Number of Adverse Events, Grade 3 \& 4 adverse events attributed to treatment agents. Events are graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 2 years|Best Response Patient Count, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD), ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions compared with the smallest-sum longest diameter recorded or the appearance of one or more new lesions; Stable Disease (SD), Neither CR, PR or PD., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Until disease progression or death from any cause, up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Until death from any cause, up to 2 years
Progression-free Survival by T790M Mutation Status, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. DNA was analyzed for the presence of the T790M point mutation., Until disease progression or death from any cause, up to 2 years|Overall Survival by T790M Mutation Status, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Until death from any cause, up to 2 years|Changes in VEGF Levels, Baseline up to 6 months after last study treatment|Changes in HGF Levels, Baseline up to 6 months after last study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate for efficacy by response rate (RR) when patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation who have progressed following EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy are treated with XL184 (cabozantinib \[cabozantinib-s-malate\]) and erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine progression free survival (PFS) for combination XL184 (cabozantinib) and erlotinib in EGFR mutation positive patients following progression on erlotinib.

II. Assess overall survival. III. Evaluate change in tumor growth rate on XL184 (cabozantinib) and erlotinib.

IV. Evaluate type, severity, duration and outcome of toxicities. V. Correlate outcome with tumor biomarkers such as met proto-oncogene (MET) amplification, T790M mutation, and serum markers of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and MET pathways in a preliminary manner.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cabozantinib-s-malate orally (PO) daily and erlotinib hydrochloride PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for 1 year and then annually thereafter.