Everolimus in Patients With Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors Metastatic to the Liver Previously Treated With Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well everolimus works in treating patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors metastatic to the liver previously treated with surgery. Everolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving everolimus after surgery may kill any tumors cells that remain.
Gastrinoma|Glucagonoma|Insulinoma|Liver Metastases|Pancreatic Polypeptide Tumor|Recurrent Islet Cell Carcinoma|Somatostatinoma
DRUG: everolimus|OTHER: placebo
Disease Free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as time from randomization to disease recurrence or death, whichever occurred first. Patients who are still alive are censored at the last date of known free of recurrence., assessed every 12 weeks while on treatment and then every 3 months if < 2 years from study entry; every 6 months up to 5 years from study entry or recurrence, whichever occurred first
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause. Patients who are still alive are censored at the last date of known alive., assessed every 3 months if < 2 years from study entry, and every 6 months up to 5 years from study entry or death, whichever occurred first
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if the addition of adjuvant everolimus to the R0 or R1 surgical resection of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor metastases to the liver will result in an improvement in disease free survival.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if the addition of adjuvant everolimus to the R0 or R1 surgical resection of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor metastases to the liver will result in an improvement in overall survival.

II. To evaluate the toxicity associated with adjuvant everolimus following resection in patients with metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors to the liver.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms in a 1:1 ratio.

ARM A: Patients receive everolimus orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 150 patients