Selumetinib in Treating Patients With Papillary Thyroid Cancer That Did Not Respond to Radioactive Iodine
This phase II trial is studying how well selumetinib works in treating patients with papillary thyroid cancer that did not respond to radioactive iodine. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Stage I Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Stage II Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Stage III Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Selumetinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR: Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. A conservative estimate of the response rate of the best-studied agent in this disease, doxorubicin, is approximately 5%. Therefore, investigators will assume that selumetinib (AZD6244, NSC 741078) would be worth further pursuit if the response rate (CR+PR) were at least 20%., Up to 2 years
Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death. Progression evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Progressive Disease (PD): 20% increase in the sum of appropriate diameters of target measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline, as well as an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm. Secondary end points include toxicity, progression free survival, and overall survival. Due to the small sample size and absence of high quality historic data for this disease, these analyses were planned to be mostly exploratory and descriptive in nature., Up to 2 years|Occurrence of Treatment Related Adverse Events, Number of participants with related adverse events, per category and Grade category. Toxicity assessed using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival using the Kaplan-Meier method with associated confidence intervals. OS analysis was intended to be mostly exploratory and descriptive in nature., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Ascertain the objective response rate (complete response and partial response) in patients with iodine I 131-refractory papillary thyroid cancer treated with selumetinib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this treatment in these patients. II. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of this treatment in these patients. III. Determine the progression-free and overall survival of these patients. IV. Assess proxy measures of treatment response (thyroglobulin and PET scan) in patients treated with selumetinib.

IV. Compare relevant laboratory correlates between responders and non-responders.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral selumetinib twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Archived tissue is examined for gene mutations, including RET, BRAF, NTRK, and RAS, by fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence melting curve analysis. Protein expression of ERK and phosphorylated ERK is assessed by immunohistochemical staining.

Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic analysis and biomarker assessment (thyroglobulin and antithyroglobulin autoantibodies).

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.