Radiation Therapy and Durvalumab, With or Without Tremelimumab, in Patients With Bladder Cancer
This is a multi-site, randomized, prospective, open-label phase II study. Patients in this study will have localized (cT3-cT4), or metastatic bladder cancer with a symptomatic, intact primary bladder tumor. In this study, patients will undergo stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the bladder tumor and will receive durvalumab with or without tremelimumab.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Toxicity according to NCI CTCAE v. 4.03 criteria, Safety profile, Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be determined from first day of treatment to date of progression. Progression will be defined based on RECIST 1.1, Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.
Local control at the primary irradiated site, As determined by RECIST v 1.1 from the date of randomization to the date of first local progression., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Pathologic Complete Response (CR) rate of primary irradiated tumor, As determined by post-treatment biopsy or TURBT in evaluable patients., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR will be as determined by RECIST v 1.1. The ORR will be defined as the number (%) of patients with at least 1 visit response of CR or Partial Response (PR)., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Abscopal response (in patients with metastatic disease), As determined by RECIST v 1.1 with response (PR and CR) sites away from the primary irradiated tumor., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Duration of response, Defined as the time from the date of the first documented response until the first date of documented progression or death., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Disease-specific survival, Defined as the time from the first day of treatment to the date of death related to treatment and/or disease., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.|Overall survival, Defined as the time from the first day of treatment to the date of death due to any cause., Over the duration of the study, which is estimated to be approximately 50 months.
The study will commence with a safety lead-in phase at UCSF in which 6 patients are accrued to Regimen A1 (RT + durvalumab). If this is not tolerated then an alternative Regimen A2, containing a lower total radiation dose will accrue 6 patients. If either A1 or A2 is tolerated then patients will be accrued to Regimen B1 (durvalumab, tremelimumab x 2 doses, and RT dose determined from Regimen A) following a 3+3 design for safety. If Regimen B1 is not tolerated an alternative Regimen B2 (durvalumab, tremelimumab x 1 dose, and RT dose determined from regimen A) will accrue following a 3+3 design for safety.

After the safety lead-in for each group is completed, an expansion cohort will accrue patients. In this expansion cohort, patients will be randomized 1:1 to be treated with either regimen A or regimen B dose selected from the safety lead-in stratified by patient population (localized patients and metastatic patients).