Hypofractionation Radiotherapy in Combination with Glofitamab in Relapsed/refractory Diffuse B-cell Lymphoma with Baseline High Tumor Burden
Glofitamab has shown efficacy and safety in the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (R/R DLBCL) and has been approved for marketing in China. However, in patients with baseline high tumor burden, the complete response (CR) rate is relatively lower compared with patients without. There is still a need to improve the efficacy of glofitamab in patients with high tumor burden. Previous studies have shown that hypofractionation radiotherapy (HRT) may induce T cell immune responses and improve the tumor microenvironment . Evidence shows that radiotherapy (RT) improves chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) efficacy as a bridging therapy . Based on the experience of RT combined with CAR-T, bispecific antibodies, as another T-cell therapy, may also demonstrate synergistic effects when combined with HRT, especially in those patients with bulky disease. This study will enroll R/R DLBCL patients with high tumor burden to assess the efficacy and safety of glofitamab in combination with HRT and to explore a new treatment model for R/R DLBCL patients with high tumor burden at baseline.
Relapsed/Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)|Lymphoma
DRUG: Glofitamab + Obinutuzumab
Complete remission rate, defined as the percentage of patients whose best overall response was a CR according to the 2014 Lugano Response Criteria (Cheson, et al. 2014); as determined by the investigator, From enrollment to the end of treatment at 8 cycles (each cycle is 21 days)
Best response rate, defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response is a PR or CR using 2014 Lugano Response Criteria (Cheson, et al. 2014), From enrollment to the end of treatment at 8 cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|DoCR, defined as the time from the initial occurrence of a documented CR until documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first,. This will be evaluated using investigator assessment based on the 2014 Lugano Classification (Cheson, et al. 2014)., from the initial occurrence of a documented CR until documented disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 48 months|PFS, defined as the time from the first study treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS will be assessed by the investigator, using the 2014 Lugano classification (Cheson et al. 2014, the time from the first study treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 48 months|OS, defined as the time from the first study treatment to the date of death from any cause., the time from the first study treatment to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 48 months
Glofitamab has shown efficacy and safety in the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (R/R DLBCL) and has been approved for marketing in China. However, in patients with baseline high tumor burden, the complete response (CR) rate is relatively lower compared with patients without. There is still a need to improve the efficacy of glofitamab in patients with high tumor burden. Previous studies have shown that hypofractionation radiotherapy (HRT) may induce T cell immune responses and improve the tumor microenvironment . Evidence shows that radiotherapy (RT) improves chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) efficacy as a bridging therapy . Based on the experience of RT combined with CAR-T, bispecific antibodies, as another T-cell therapy, may also demonstrate synergistic effects when combined with HRT, especially in those patients with bulky disease. This study will enroll R/R DLBCL patients with high tumor burden to assess the efficacy and safety of glofitamab in combination with HRT and to explore a new treatment model for R/R DLBCL patients with high tumor burden at baseline.