Clinical Characteristics of Lung Cancer in China
This study is a single-center, real-world and large-population-based retrospective study. In the current study, the investigators not only describe the changes of demographic and basic clinicopathological characteristics of lung cancer during recent years but delineate the correlation between clinicopathological features and common clinical blood tests in such a large population.
Lung Cancer
Comprehensive analysis of clinical characteristics of lung cancer of all participants, The changes of demographic characteristics and clinicopathological characteristics of Chinese lung cancer patients during the 8 years, from 2012 to 2020, will be analyzed., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of prothrombin time (PT) would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the prothrombin time (PT) (the unit is second). Then the investigators would compare PT among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) (the unit is second). Then the investigators would compare APTT among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of thrombin time (TT) would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the thrombin time (TT) (the unit is second). Then the investigators would compare TT among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of fibrinogen would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the blood fibrinogen content (the unit is gram per liter). Then the investigators would compare blood fibrinogen content among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of D-dimer would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the blood D-dimer content (the unit is nanogram per milliliter). Then the investigators would compare blood D-dimer content among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of fibrinogen degradation product (FDP) would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the blood fibrinogen degradation product (FDP) (the unit is microgram per milliliter). Then the investigators would compare blood FDP content among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Complete blood cell count (CBC) would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the result of complete blood cell count (CBC) of all participants. Then the investigators would compare CBC results among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Renal function test would be performed in all participants, The investigators collected the result of creatinine (the unit is micromole per liter) of all participants. Then the investigators would compare creatinine level among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Alanine aminotransferase would be measured in all participants, The results of measurement of alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (the unit is unit per liter) would be collected. Then the investigators would compare ALT among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Aspartate aminotransferase would be measured in all participants, The results of measurement of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (the unit is unit per liter) would be collected. Then the investigators would compare AST among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, these would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Alkaline phosphatase would be measured in all participants, The results of measurement of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (the unit is unit per liter) would be collected. Then the investigators would compare ALP among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Gamma-glutamyl transferase would be measured in all participants, The results of measurement of gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) (the unit is unit per liter) would be collected. Then the investigators would compare GGT among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.
Blood electrolyte level would be tested, The investigators collected the result of sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, phosphate and magnesium (the unit is millimole per liter) of all participants. Then the investigators would compare these among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, these would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of total glycerol would be performed, The investigators collected the result of total glycerol (the unit is millimole per liter) of participants. Then the investigators would compare it among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of total cholesterol would be performed, The investigators collected the result of total cholesterol (the unit is micromole per liter) of participants. Then the investigators would compare it among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) would be performed, The investigators collected the result of LDL-C (the unit is millimole per liter) of participants. Then the investigators would compare it among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Measurement of high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) would be performed, The investigators collected the result of HDL-C (the unit is millimole per liter) of participants. Then the investigators would compare it among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.|Fasting blood glucose (FBG) test would be performed, The investigators collected the result of FBG (the unit is millimole per liter) of participants. Then the investigators would compare it among the participants having different driver mutation. Meanwhile, it would also be compared among the participants at different stage., The data will be collected from medical records in recent 8 years from 2012 to 2020. And investigators will analyze these data in the following 1 year.
In this study, the investigators will collected all lung cancer patients diagnosed in Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital from 2012 to 2020. By conducting this population based study, the investigators would like to delineate changes of characteristics of lung cancer in Chinese patients during these years. Meanwhile, the investigators will compare clinicopathological features, routine blood tests, blood biochemical tests and coagulation status among participants at different stages. This comparing will assist the investigators to understand systemic changes during lung cancer progression. The same comparison will also be conducted among participants having different driver mutation through which the investigators will further understand the characteristics of different patients and treat patients more precisely.