DermTech's Non-Invasive Pigmented Lesion Assay to Detect and Track Lesions for Suspected Melanoma and to Determine Outcomes for up to 2 Years
This is a multi-center, sample collection study to follow clinically suspicious lesions to determine the outcome including surgical biopsy, removal, monitoring, etc. for up to 2 years after lesion identification. Subjects who had, or will have a DermTech Pigmented Lesion Assay completed on a lesion suspected of being melanoma are eligible for the study. Based on historical data, an expected melanoma rate of approximately 5% to 10% is anticipated.
Melanoma Detection
OTHER: Repeat Testing
Proportion of subjects without surgical biopsy, The proportion of subjects who exit the study without surgical biopsy out to approximately up to 24 months ± SOC, approximately up to 24 months
Results of PLA results compared to biopsy, Expression of genes during the 2-year study. The association of gene expression and algorithm values with melanoma versus non-melanoma will be examined using clinical performance indicators negative predictive value with their respective 95th percentile confidence intervals., approximately up to 24 months
This is a multi-center, sample collection study to follow clinically suspicious lesions to determine the outcome including surgical biopsy, removal, monitoring, etc. for up to 2 years after lesion identification.

Subjects will be consented and enter the trial to have their suspicious lesion(s), biopsied via DermTech's adhesive patch biopsy and assessed with DermTech's non-invasive PLA, and followed up to 2 years per standard of care. Lesions must be photographed and/or the site of the lesion anatomically defined to permit follow-up of the lesion(s) and lesional site(s) during future visits.

Subjects will be followed per standard of care for lesion biopsy, excision, treatment and/or monitoring. Other than DermTech's non-invasive PLA of the lesion(s) no other study procedures will be performed and subjects will be treated according to the standard of care. The subject's medical management team should use standard of care, visual assessment changes (i.e., "ABCDE") and physician judgment for suspicious lesion characterization and monitoring when planning the subject's course of treatment.