Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients with stage III or stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery
Stage III Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate (RR) defined as is either a complete or a partial response using RECIST criteria, The overall response rate along with subgroup-specific response rates will be estimated at the end of the trial along with 95% confidence interval., 56 days
Time to progression, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated for time to progression and overall survival, and medians, along with two-sided 95% confidence intervals, will be reported., From the first day of treatment until the first documentation of disease progression, assessed up to 3.5 years|Toxicity assessed using NCI CTCAE version 3.0, All adverse events without regard to causal relationship and by causal relationship to study drugs will be summarized., Up to 3.5 years|Changes in BRAF, P-MAPK, CDK4, and cyclin D1 levels, The proportion of patients with decreases in levels of BRAF, CDK4, or phospho-MAPK will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Baseline and up to 3.5 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be calculated for time to progression and overall survival, and medians, along with two-sided 95% confidence intervals, will be reported., Up to 3.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of sorafenib, in terms of anti-tumor effects and proportion of clinical responses, in patients with previously untreated unresectable stage III or stage IV melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Correlate the efficacy of this drug with the presence of mutant or wild-type BRAF gene in tumors of these patients.

II. Determine the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients. III. Correlate serum cryptic collagen epitopes with the extent of tumor burden, invasion, and metastasis in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine the potential of serum cryptic collagen epitopes to serve as a surrogate marker for monitoring the course of disease in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to presence of BRAF gene mutation in tumor sample (yes vs no).

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 26-74 patients (13-37 per stratum) will be accrued for this study within 5.2-18.5 months.