Efficacy and Safety Evaluation of IBI308 in Patients With Extranodal NK/T Cell Lymphoma Patients
This is phase II study. Efficacy and safety evaluation of IBI308 in patients with relapsed/refractory extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, nasal type: a multicenter, single arm.
Effect of Drugs
DRUG: Sintilimab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Before First PD, The tumor assessment is according to Lugano 2014 Criteria and then International Working Group (IWG) 2007 Criteria after 24 weeks. Objective response is defined as best overall response (CR or PR) across all assessment time points during the period from enrollment to termination of trial treatment (per Lugano 2014 criteria during intial 24 weeks, per IWG 2007 criteria after 24 weeks). The primary efficacy endpoint is ORR evaluated using the 2014 Lugano Criteria before first progression disease (PD)., Up to ~30 months (through database cut-off date of 28-February-2020)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the first dose to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per Lugano 2014 or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Participates who neither progress nor die were censored at the date of their last tumor imaging evaluation. Participates who did not have any tumor imaging evaluation after baseline were censored on the date of enrollment., Up to ~30 months (through database cut-off date of 28-February-2020)|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from first date of response to first PD per Lugano 2014 or death. Subjects who neither progress nor die were censored at the date of their last tumor imaging evaluation., Up to ~30 months (through database cut-off date of 28-February-2020)
Extranodal NK/T cell lymphoma, nasal type(ENKTL) accounts for about 6% of all lymphomas in china. Epstein Barr virus (EBV) infection is found in all cases of ENKTL and maybe plays an important pathogenetic role.

Conventional anthrocycline-based regimens are not preferred to be used in ENKTL because of high p-glycoprotein expression. ORR of L-asparaginase based regimens is about 80% and no salvage regimens are recommended in ENKTL so far after failure of L-asparaginase based regimen.

Recently, a phase II clinical trial result demonstrated high ORR of anti-PD-1 antibody treatment in ENKTL.IBI308, a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) directly against PD-1, is investigated in this phase II Chinese ENKTL clinical trial.

Additionally the correlation between PD-L1 expression and the response to IBI308 treatment in Chinese ENKTL subjects will also be assessed.