A Phase I Study of OncoLAR® (Registered Trademark) (NSC 685403) With/Without Tamoxifen in Patients With Osteosarcoma
The suppression of IGF-I and growth hormone may significantly alter the pathobiology of osteosarcoma. SMS 201-955 pa LAR is a long acting analog of Somatostatin which inhibits the pituitary release of growth hormone, reducing levels of circulating IGF-I . Additional data on tamoxifen usage has also demonstrated a reduction in circulating IGF-I levels. The degree of suppression of IGF-I and growth hormone will be determined at two dose levels of SMS 291-955 pa LAR. Tamoxifen will be added to two of the cohorts to determine if the additive effects of tamoxifen and SMS 201-955 pa LAR will lead to additional reduction of circulating IGF-I and growth hormone levels.

Arginine-stimulated GH tests to assess levels of growth hormone in the blood will be administered pre-treatment evaluation up to three times, one time on weeks 2, 8, 16, 28, 40, 52, and one month post last dose of SMS 201-955 pa LAR.

The four cohorts for this study will receive 60 or 90 mg SMS 201-955 pa LAR injectable every four weeks for up to 52 weeks. Two of the cohorts will receive 10 mg Tamoxifen on a daily basis.
Neoplasm Metastasis|Osteosarcoma
DRUG: OncoLAR® (Registered Trademark)|DRUG: tamoxifen
Osteosarcoma is the most common primary bone malignancy in childhood and adolescence. Its peak age of onset has suggested a possible contribution to the pathogenesis of the tumor by the endogenous hormonal milieu, which accompanies the adolescent growth spurt. In support of this, recent in vitro and in vivo laboratory investigators suggest that Insulin-like growth factor I (IGF I) may play an important role in the pathobiology of osteosarcoma. Somatostatin (and its longer-acting analogues) directly inhibits the pituitary release of growth hormone, thereby indirectly reducing the level of circulating IGF I. Other data have also demonstrated that the anti-estrogen, tamoxifen, significantly reduced circulating IGF I levels. We propose to administer the long acting somatostatin analog, OncoLAR® (Registered Trademark), alone and in combination with tamoxifen in patients with osteosarcoma. The degree of suppression of both circulating IGF I and growth hormone levels will be determined at two dose levels of OncoLAR® (Registered Trademark) alone and in combination with tamoxifen to determine whether the addition of tamoxifen to OncoLAR® (Registered Trademark) leads to significant additional reduction in circulating IGF I and growth hormone levels.