Combination Chemotherapy Plus Amifostine in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumors from dividing so they stop growing or die. Chemoprotective drugs, such as amifostine, may protect normal cells from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of amifostine plus combination chemotherapy in treating patients with advanced cancer.
Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders|Drug/Agent Toxicity by Tissue/Organ|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Precancerous Condition|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|DRUG: amifostine trihydrate|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the effects of priming on the granulocyte and thrombocyte nadirs produced by high dose cyclophosphamide and carboplatin in patients with advanced malignancies. II. Determine the effects of amifostine on the granulocyte and thrombocyte nadirs produced by this same regimen when administered with sargramostim primed progenitor cells. III. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of cyclophosphamide and carboplatin that can be administered with sargramostim primed progenitor cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive intravenous amifostine over 10 minutes on day 0, followed by intravenous cyclophosphamide and carboplatin consecutively over 5-15 minutes. Sargramostim is administered subcutaneously on days -7 to -2 and again beginning on day 1 until absolute neutrophil count is appropriate. Course is repeated every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxic effects are observed. Nonresponding patients discontinue treatment after 2 courses. Patients are treated for a maximum of 6 courses. Groups of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cyclophosphamide and carboplatin until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. If dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occurs in 2 of 6 patients at a given dose level, then dose escalation ceases and the next lower dose is declared the MTD.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 24-30 patients will be accrued for this study within 1 year.