The Lung Screening, Tobacco and Health Project
The purpose of this study is to compare intensive telephone counseling (ITC) plus the nicotine patch vs. standard telephone counseling plus the nicotine patch (Usual Care; UC) among current smokers undergoing lung cancer screening. Smoking-related outcomes will be examined at three, six and twelve months post-randomization.
Smoking, Tobacco|Tobacco-Related Carcinoma|Tobacco Use|Lung Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: Intensive Telephone Counseling (8 sessions) with nicotine replacement|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care: Telephone counseling (3 sessions) with nicotine replacement
Smoking cessation rate at 3-months post-randomization, Comparison between study arms of 7-day and 30-day point prevalence cessation with biochemical verification. The investigators will also assess quit rates among subgroups (gender, age, nicotine dependence, site)., Self-report measured at 3-months post-randomization; biochemical verification measured at 3-months.|Smoking cessation rate at 6-months post-randomization, Comparison between study arms of 7-day and 30-day point prevalence cessation with biochemical verification. The investigators will also assess quit rates among subgroups (gender, age, nicotine dependence, site)., Self-report measured at 6-months post-randomization; biochemical verification measured at 6-months.|Smoking cessation rate at 12-months post-randomization, Comparison between study arms of 7-day and 30-day point prevalence cessation. The investigators will also assess quit rates among subgroups (gender, age, nicotine dependence, site)., Self-report measured at 12-months post-randomization; biochemical verification measured at 12-month assessment;
Readiness to quit, Measured using the 10-point contemplation ladder., Measured at baseline (T0), 1-2 days post-receipt of screening result (T1), and 3-months (T2), 6-months (T3), and 12-months post-randomization (T4).|Quit attempts, The investigators will assess the number and length of prior quit attempts at baseline. At all follow-up assessments, the investigators will assess the number and length of quit attempts that have occurred since the previous assessment., Baseline (T0), 1-2 days post-receipt of screening result (T1),3-, 6- and 12- months post-randomization (T2, T3, T4)|TC intervention fidelity, Measurement of counselor adherence to the TC protocol, which will be assessed on 10% of randomly selected participants., Through study completion, an average of 3 months post-randomization.|Patient reach and patient engagement, Reach: % of eligible smokers enrolled in trial; Engagement: % who receive the TC and the nicotine patch interventions), both overall and among subgroups (gender, age, nicotine dependence, site), Through study completion, an average of 3 months post-randomization.|Costs per arm for study outcomes, Patient time costs in the interventions; fixed costs (space, overhead) and variable costs (intervention delivery and patient participation) by arm, Through study completion, an average of 3 months post-randomization.|Cigarettes smoked per day, Number of cigarettes per day, Measured at baseline (T0), 1-2 days post-receipt of screening result (T1), 3-months post-randomization (T2), 6 months post randomization (T3) and 12 months post randomization (T4)
The investigators have built on the evidence-base of telephone counseling for smoking cessation. This pragmatic approach is designed at the intersection of scalability and intensity, for future implementation within the national tobacco quitline. In collaboration with five geographically and ethnically diverse lung cancer screening programs, the investigators will accrue smokers who have registered for screening,and are at all levels of readiness to quit. Prior to the screening day, the investigators will conduct the baseline (T0) phone interview. Following participants' receipt of their screening result (one week post-screening), the investigators will complete the T1 phone interview, provide brief advice to quit and conduct randomization. Participants will be randomized into one of two groups: ITC, in which participants are provided up to 8 counseling sessions lasting approximately 20 minutes each and access to 8-weeks of free nicotine patches. ITC will include a discussion of screening results throughout counseling sessions. The UC arm will include up to 3 counseling sessions lasting approximately 20 minutes each and access to 2-weeks of free nicotine patches. UC will not include a discussion of screening results throughout counseling sessions. All sessions will be conducted by a Tobacco Treatment Specialist (English or Spanish) and the investigators will assess intervention fidelity. In both groups, the investigators will engage referring physicians by notifying them of their patients' study enrollment and of their patients' smoking status at the 6-month follow-up. The 3-month (T2), 6-month (T3), and 12-month (T4) assessments will assess readiness to quit, quit attempts, 7-day and 30-day abstinence verified by Nicalert or carbon monoxide testing, and intervention process variables. Furthermore, two important aspects of this approach include a cost-effectiveness analysis and use of the Cancer Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network (CISNET) to evaluate the cost of the interventions relative to their impact on short- and long-term smoking-related outcomes.

The aims are:

1. To compare ITC vs. UC standard telephone counseling. H1.1. At 3-, 6-, and 12- months, the ITC arm will have significantly improved biochemically verified 7-day and 30-day abstinence, compared to UC. H1.2. Mediators, including teachable moment factors (e.g., perceived risk based on screening results) and process measures (TC and nicotine patch adherence, primary care appointment) will positively affect cessation outcomes at 3-, 6- and 12-months. H.1.3. Moderators include screening result, readiness to quit, and nicotine dependence.
2. To evaluate reach (% of current smokers enrolled) and engagement (% who receive the interventions), both overall and among subgroups (gender, age, nicotine dependence, site). The investigators will assess intervention fidelity and feasibility for implementation, from both community-based and academically-based screening centers.
3. To conduct an economic analysis to test the hypothesis that while costlier, ITC will be more effective and have greater reach than UC in the lung screening setting, making it more cost-effective in terms of costs per 3-, 6- and 12-month cessation rates and quit attempts. The investigators will use these results as inputs to the CISNET model to project the long-term impact of the interventions on costs per life year saved and quality-adjusted life years saved, lung cancer deaths averted, lung cancer mortality reduction, and overall population mortality.

This study's strengths include the assessment of effective cessation methods designed for widespread implementation, novel components based on unique features of screening, cost-effectiveness analyses, and leveraging the University of Michigan CISNET model to project the population impact of implementing an effective cessation intervention in lung screening programs. The overall goal is to have a substantial public health impact by providing critical data to address scalability efforts by screening centers, insurers, and policy-makers.