Refractory Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
In the rituximab era, one-third of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients experience relapse/refractory disease after first-line anthracycline-based immunochemotherapy (IChemo). Optimal management remains an unmet medical need. The aim of this study was to report the outcomes of a cohort of refractory patients according to their patterns of refractoriness and the type of salvage option. The investigators performed a retrospective analysis, which included 104 DLBCL patients treated at Lyon Sud University Hospital (2002-2017) who presented with refractory disease. The investigators retrospectively evaluated the outcomes of a cohort of 104 refractory patients according to their patterns of refractoriness and the type of salvage option.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
Outcome according to pattern of refractoriness, OS was defined as the time from first relapse, or progression, to death from any cause., Up to 4 years
Outcome according to pattern of refractoriness, EFS was defined as the time from first relapse, or progression, to the next event (defined as either second relapse/progression, change of therapy, or death from any cause). Patients who did not experience an event were censored at the last follow-up., Up tp 24 months
In the rituximab era, one-third of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients experience relapse/refractory disease after first-line anthracycline-based immunochemotherapy (IChemo). Optimal management remains an unmet medical need. The aim of this study was to report the outcomes of a cohort of refractory patients according to their patterns of refractoriness and the type of salvage option. The investigators performed a retrospective analysis, which included 104 DLBCL patients treated at Lyon Sud University Hospital (2002-2017) who presented with refractory disease. The investigators retrospectively evaluated the outcomes of a cohort of 104 refractory patients according to their patterns of refractoriness and the type of salvage option.