Active Symptom Control Alone or With mFOLFOX Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced/ Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancers
The purpose of this study is to determine whether fit patients (with ECOG performance score of 0-1) with advanced biliary tract cancer (ABC) benefit from chemotherapy in the second-line setting (after prior therapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine) in terms of overall survival.
Biliary Tract Cancer|Gallbladder Cancer|Cholangiocarcinoma|Ampullary Cancer
OTHER: Active Symptom Control|DRUG: L-folinic acid|DRUG: 5 FU|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Overall survival, Evaluated by monthly follow-up until 12 months after last patient included
Progression-free survival, Clinical progression assessed monthly, radiological progression assessed to RECIST criteria every 12 weeks for patients in the chemotherapy arm., Evaluated by monthly follow-up until 12 months after last patient included|Response rate (chemotherapy arm only), After 12 weeks of treatment|Toxicity (frequency of adverse events and serious adverse events), Events will be classified according to CTCAE V4.03, Evaluated monthly until 12 months after last patient included|Quality of life, Assessed from patient completed questionnaire data: QLQ-C30 and QoL BiL, Evaluated every 3 months until 12 months after last patient included|Costs of health and social care, Evaluated every 3 months until 12 months after last patient included|Health status (Euroqol), Evaluated every 3 months until 12 months after last patient included|Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), Estimated from Euroqol and survival using published utility tariffs, Evaluated every 3 months until 12 months after last patient included
Active chemotherapy drugs for the treatment of ABC include gemcitabine, fluoropyrimidines and platinum agents. The randomized NCRN phase III ABC-02 trial provided level A evidence supporting first-line combination cisplatin and gemcitabine (CisGem) chemotherapy in ABC. To date, there is no randomized data to support the use of second-line chemotherapy in ABC. In this setting only a small number of retrospective and prospective (phase II) studies employing multiple different chemotherapy schedules have been conducted (level C). Thus, active symptom control (ASC) is the current standard of care after development of resistance to first-line chemotherapy. Oxaliplatin has activity in several gastrointestinal tumours and has synergistic activity with a favourable toxicity profile when used in combination with 5-FU. Several studies using mFOLFOX for biliary tract tumours have provided promising efficacy data and acceptable toxicity.

The aim of this trial is to determine if patients with ABC benefit with respect to survival from the addition of mFOLFOX chemotherapy to ASC in the second-line setting after progression to first-line treatment with CisGem. This study will establish the standard of care for patients with ABC who have progressed on first line CisGem chemotherapy.

This is a randomised phase III, multi-centre, controlled, open-label trial of patients with advanced biliary tract cancer with evidence of disease progression after prior CisGem chemotherapy treatment. Eligible patients (ECOG 0-1, adequate haematological, renal and liver function, adequate biliary drainage, with no evidence of ongoing infection) will be randomized to receive either ASC ("standard" arm) or ASC with oxaliplatin/5-FU chemotherapy ("experimental" arm). The total number of participants planned is 162 (randomized 1:1). At randomisation the following factors will be controlled for: serum albumin level, platinum sensitivity (determined from first-line therapy) and locally advanced vs metastatic disease.

The primary end point is overall survival. Quality of life and economic evaluation will assess the impact on patients and relative cost effectiveness of the intervention. Archival paraffin-embedded tissue will be collected at baseline and prospective blood samples (whole blood, serum and plasma) will be collected for translational research.