Nilotinib 800 Mg And Imatinib 800 Mg For The Treatment Of Patients With Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (Gist) Refractory To Imatinib 400 Mg
The study will investigate the comparative efficacy and safety of two oral inhibitors of Kit and PDGFR: nilotinib 400 mg bid, a novel agent, and imatinib 400 mg bid, an approved agent with an established efficacy.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
DRUG: Nilotinib|DRUG: Imatinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a participant has not had an event, progression-free survival is censored at the time of last adequate tumor assessment. Progression is defined according to modified RECIST criteria as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, worsening of the non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 24 months
Disease Control Rate (DCR), The Disease Control Rate (Complete Response(CR), Partial Response (PD) and Stable Disease (SD) rates for each treatment arm will be computed using the exact Clopper-Pearson interval estimation methodology. DCR is defined as the percentage of patients with a best overall response of • CR, i.e. at least two determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart without loss of response between the determinations, • PR, i.e. at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression (and not qualifying for a CR) and without loss of PR between the determinations, or • SD lasting at least 24 weeks, i.e. at least one SD or better response at least 24 weeks after randomization (and not qualifying for CR or PR)., every 2 months until 24 months (end of study)|Time to Treatment Failure, TTF, defined as the time from date of randomization to the earliest of date of the first objective tumor progression, date of death due to any cause, or date of discontinuation due to reasons other than 'Protocol deviation' or 'Administrative problems'., Time from date of radomization to the earliest date of the first objective tumor, death or discontinuation, assesed until 24 months.|Overall Survival (OS), . OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or the date of last contact prior to or on the date of data cutoff. The median time to overall survival and its associated 95 % CI will be derived, for each treatment arm, using the time to event analysis based on Kaplan-Meier methodology., time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or the date of last contact prior to or on the date of data cutoff, assesed until 24 months.
This is an international, randomized, open-label, double-arm, phase III trial that will be conducted in centers in Latin America, Asia, Europe and Canada. The study will be sponsored by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Patient enrollment will be competitive and will have a duration of up to 30 months. An interim analysis is planned to occur when approximately 60% of the PFS events occurs. A total of 150 patients per arm will be enrolled in the study. Eligible patients will have advanced/metastatic, inoperable GIST of any anatomical location or recurrent GIST while on or post imatinib adjuvant therapy, with documented disease progression on therapy with imatinib 400 mg q.d.