Comprehensive Genomic Analysis in Tissue and Blood Samples From Young Patients With Lung Cancer
This research trial studies genomic analysis in tissue and blood samples from young patients with lung cancer. Identifying specific gene mutations (changes in deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\]) may help doctors tailor treatment to target the specific mutations and help plan effective treatment.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: cytology specimen collection procedure|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Prevalence of targetable mutations, defined as any alteration in a drive oncogene for which Food and Drug Administration-approved therapy exists, for which an off-label therapy exists, or for which a clinical trial exists, Will compare this population with the historical experience of the Lung Cancer Mutation Consortium. For this specific comparison, the prevalence of mutations in EGFR, ALK, v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (BRAF), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), v-ros avian UR2 sarcoma virus oncogene homolog 1 (ROS1), and met proto-oncogene (MET) will be calculated., Baseline|Proportion of young lung cancer patients that enroll onto clinical trials, Baseline|Proportion of patients that received targeted therapies based on their clinical genotyping results, Baseline|Acquired deactivating mutations, All data summaries based on next generation sequencing of tumor and blood deoxyribonucleic acid/ribonucleic acid will be descriptive, with the goal of discovering novel tumor suppressor genes that may be deactivated leading to the development of NSCLC in individuals less than 40 years., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform comprehensive genomic analysis of young lung cancer patients' samples to facilitate delivery of targeted therapies and clinical trial enrollment.

II. To characterize the impact of young age at lung cancer diagnosis on the genomic landscape of primary lung cancer.

III. To establish a prospective registry of young lung cancer patients for both tumor and germline next generation sequencing.

OUTLINE:

Tissue and blood samples are analyzed via next generation sequencing and whole exome sequencing.

After completion of study, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.