Regulating Together in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex
The purpose of this study is to use a program called Regulating Together (RT), a remote, non-pharmacologic intervention to treat symptoms of emotion dysregulation in children and adolescents with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC) and TSC-Associated Neuropsychiatric Disorder (TAND).
TSC|Behavioral Symptoms
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention in a small group platform
Prevalence of ED in TSC Cohort, Prevalence of emotion dysregulation is highly prevalent in TSC patients who exhibit problematic behaviors. The EDI-R score at the screening study visit will determine the EDI-R and determine the presence or absence of emotion dysregulation in the cohort., Baseline|Change in EDI-R Score from Control Phase to RT Intensive and RT Generalization Phases Combined, EDI-R score will be compared from pre-treatment (control phase) to post-treatment (RT Intensive Phase and RT Generalization Phases combined). EDI-R is a caregiver administered, emotion dysregulation inventory with construct, range, and directionality that includes questions that the rater is asked to answer based on behaviors that are observed to cause problems. These questions include, but are not limited to, creating a dangerous situation, interference with daily activities, increasing the stress of those around the individual, and hurting relationships. There are 13 questions on the EDI-R; they are rated at, not at all, mild, moderate, severe, and very severe., Intensive Phase (Week 6-10) and Generalization Phase (Week 12-22)|Change in CP-CTI score from pre-treatment to post-treatment, The primary endpoint will be CP-CTI responses from caregivers upon completion of RT Generalization Phase using a thematic analysis. This will identify obstacles to treatment access. Scores will be compared pre-treatment to post-treatment. CP-CTI is a staff administered, caregiver perspective clinical trial interview. This will occur through a telephone call from the study team to the caregiver., Administered after completion of RT (Week 22)
This is a non-pharmacological intervention that will utilize small group-based therapy with participants, followed by a separate caregiver session. The clinical trial will consist of four phases; 1) single in person screening/baseline visit; 2) RT control phase which is a 5-week observational period (Week 1-5); 3) RT intensive phase which is a remote group treatment intervention twice per week over 5 weeks (Week 6-10); 4) RT individualization phase, which is an individualized consultation with the participant and caregiver (Week 11); and 5) the RT generalization phase which is a 10 week follow up period consisting of utilizing the learned skills at home. At the end of the 10-week generalization phase, a semi-structured interview for thematic analysis will occur at the end of the study to capture facilitators and barriers to the intervention (Week 12-22).