Combination Chemotherapy Plus Filgrastim in Treating Patients With HIV-Related Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more cancer cells. Colony-stimulating factors such as filgrastim may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood and may help a person's immune system recover from the side effects of chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of combining filgrastim with combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have HIV-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: bleomycin sulfate|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: mitoxantrone hydrochloride|DRUG: prednisolone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate
Toxicity|Effects of treatment on response rate, time to disease progression, and survival
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the toxicity of mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, etoposide, vincristine, bleomycin, prednisolone, and filgrastim (G-CSF) in patients with good-prognosis (defined by the study as having 1 adverse prognostic factor) HIV-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
* Determine the effects of this regimen on response rate, time to disease progression, and survival in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive mitoxantrone IV, cyclophosphamide IV, and etoposide IV on day 1; and vincristine IV and bleomycin IV on day 8. Patients also receive prednisolone daily on weeks 1-4 and then every other day on weeks 5-16. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously on days 6-12. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 8 courses (16 weeks) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) receive 4 courses beyond CR or PR.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-30 patients will be accrued for this study.