Nivolumab and Tocilizumab for Relapsed Hematological Malignancy Post-allogeneic Transplant
This is a phase 1, interventional single arm, open label, treatment study designed to evaluate the safety combination programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) inhibition in participants with relapsed disease post-allogeneic transplant.
Acute Leukemia|Chronic Leukemia|Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Nivolumab (.25 mg/kg)|DRUG: Tocilizumab|DRUG: Nivolumab (.5 mg/kg)
Maximum-tolerated Dose, Determine the safety and the maximum tolerated dose among two candidate doses of nivolumab in combination with tocilizumab for treatment of relapsed hematological malignancy post-allogeneic transplant. Maximum-tolerated dose is based on the determination of dose-limiting toxicities., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment (approximately 3 months)
Response Rates Based on Imaging, The number of subjects with stable disease as evidenced by imaging (Diagnostic positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scans or CT of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis)., End of study treatment (approximately 2 months)|Response Rates Based on Pathologic Response, The number of subjects with bone marrow response (achievement of complete response; \<5% blasts; stable disease; progressive disease)., End of study treatment (approximately 2 months)|Overall Survival, The number of participants alive., Up to 1 year from beginning of treatment|Progression-Free Survival, Determine the number of subjects alive and in remission after treatment., Up to 1 year from beginning of treatment|Duration of response in responding participants, Number of subjects with complete response or stable disease., Up to 1 year from the beginning of treatment|Dose-limiting toxicities, The number of subjects with dose-limiting toxicities. This will be measured by the number of adverse events as defined by the NCI CTCAE version 4.03 non-hematologic ≥ grade 3-5 signs/symptoms or by the development of steroid refractory grade 2-4 graft-versus-host disease or severe chronic graft-versus-host disease., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of study treatment (approximately 3 months)
Study disease: Hematologic malignancies including, but not exclusive to,acute/chronic leukemia, lymphoma, and myelodysplastic syndrome that has relapsed after allogeneic transplant.

Study Rationale: Phase 1 Safety/Dose Finding Study: To determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose of Nivolumab in combination with Tocilizumab.

Study Agent Description:

Tocilizumab is a monoclonal antibody and immunosuppressant; specifically, tocilizumab is an IL-6 receptor antagonist.

Nivolumab is a human immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 receptor of T cells blocking its interaction with PD-L1 and PD-L2, thereby enhancing T-cell proliferation and allowing the immune system to attack the tumor.

Number of Subjects: A maximum of 12 participants will be enrolled on this Phase 1 study.

Duration of Follow-up: Participants will be followed for up to one year post-treatment for survival and response.

Study Design: This is a 3 + 3 design. In a "3 + 3 design," three participants are initially enrolled into a given dose cohort. If there is no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) observed in any of these subjects, the trial proceeds to enroll additional subjects into the next higher dose cohort. If one subject develops a DLT at a specific dose, an additional three subjects are enrolled into that same dose cohort. Development of DLTs in more than one of six subjects in a specific dose cohort suggests that the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been exceeded, and further dose escalation is not pursued.