The Active After Cancer Trial (AACT)
This study is being done to determine whether a telephone-based counseling intervention can help survivors of breast and colorectal cancer increase their weekly physical activity. Observational evidence suggests that physical activity after breast and colorectal cancer diagnosis decreases recurrence rates. Unfortunately, many people become less active during cancer therapy, and a substantial proportion never return to pre-diagnosis levels of physical activity. This study looks to see if people who have recently finished chemotherapy for breast, colon or rectal cancer can be motivated to increase their exercise by talking to an exercise specialist over the phone. The study also looks at changes in mood, fatigue, fitness, fat distribution and weight.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Telephone-Based exercise intervention
To evaluate the ability of a multi-center, telephone-based physical activity intervention to increase weekly physical activity levels in sedentary patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy for Stage I-III breast or colorectal cancer., months
To evaluate the impact of a physical activity intervention upon fitness, exercise self-efficacy, anthropometric measures, and quality of life in a group of patients with stage I-III breast or colorectal cancer., months
This study is being done to determine whether a telephone-based counseling intervention can help survivors of breast and colorectal cancer increase their weekly physical activity. Observational evidence suggests that physical activity after breast and colorectal cancer diagnosis decreases recurrence rates. Unfortunately, many people become less active during cancer therapy, and a substantial proportion never return to pre-diagnosis levels of physical activity. This study looks to see if people who have recently finished chemotherapy for breast, colon or rectal cancer can be motivated to increase their exercise by talking to an exercise specialist over the phone. The study also looks at changes in mood, fatigue, fitness, fat distribution and weight.