Improving Utilization of Supplemental Breast MRI Screening for Women With Extremely Dense Breasts
The goal of this study is to increase MRI utilization among women with extremely dense breasts. The main question it seeks to answer is whether nudging of the provider, patient, or both increases the uptake of MRI among this group, and whether this effect differs between Black and White women.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Patient nudge|BEHAVIORAL: Provider nudge
Ordering and/or scheduling of supplemental breast MRI, Whether a breast MRI is ordered and/or scheduled within 6 months of receiving a nudge., 6 months
Ordering of breast MRI, Whether an MRI is ordered within 6 months of receiving a nudge. Analyzed separately from scheduling., 6 months|Scheduling of breast MRI, Whether an MRI is scheduled within 6 months of receiving a nudge. Analyzed separately from ordering., 6 months|Completion of breast MRI, Whether an MRI is completed within 6 months of receiving a nudge, 6 months|False-positive rate, False-positive rate among those women who schedule and undergo MRI, 6 months|Cancer detection rate, Cancer detection rate among those women who schedule and undergo MRI, 6 months
Women with dense breasts have 3-5-fold increased risk for breast cancer as women without dense breasts. Dense breast tissue can "mask" small tumors, leading to reduced mammography sensitivity. Recent randomized controlled trials demonstrate that supplemental breast MRI screening improves detection of small, invasive cancers that are not detected by mammography. In January 2022, a Pennsylvania law went into effect mandating insurance coverage of supplemental screening for women with extremely dense breasts. Currently only a small fraction of eligible women with extremely dense breasts are receiving supplemental breast MRI screening. Clinical pathways to identify patients who are eligible for insurance coverage of supplemental breast MRI screening and communicate this option to patients and providers are needed to ensure equitable access to supplemental screening. This study therefore proposes a stepped wedge cluster randomized clinical trial to determine whether electronic health record (EHR) and secure text message nudges increase utilization of supplemental breast MRI screening among eligible women with extremely dense breasts.