Study of Personalized Melphalan Dosing in the Setting of Autologous Transplant
This randomized phase II trial studies the side effects and how well melphalan hydrochloride works in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as melphalan hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Melphalan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Melphalan Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Complete response proportion, Complete response will be defined as complete response + stringent complete response according to the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform response criterion. Will be calculated with an exact 95% confidence interval, both within arms and across arms., At 90 days
Incidence of melphalan hydrochloride-related toxicities, Will assess melphalan-related toxicities (possibly, probably, or definitely related to high dose melphalan) including the incidence of grade 3/4 mucositis, grade 3/4 bacteremia, length of inpatient stay, duration of severe neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count \< 500), duration of severe thrombocytopenia (Platelet \< 20K), and proportion with tachyarrhythmias (e.g. atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular rate)., Up to 3.5 years|Minimal residual disease negative proportions, Will be assessed by standard next generation sequencing., Pre-transplant|Minimal residual disease negative proportions, Will be assessed by standard next generation sequencing., up to 1 year|Overall survival, Will be assessed., time from randomization to death, assessed up to 3.5 years|Progression free survival, Will be assessed., Time from transplant to death, clinical relapse, progressive disease, and death in all treated patients, assessed up to 3.5 years|Time to biochemical relapse, Will be assessed., Time from start of melphalan hydrochloride until the earliest of the following time points: progressive disease, clinical relapse, or relapse from complete response, assessed up to 3.5 years|Time to progression, Will be assessed., Time from start of melphalan hydrochloride until the criteria for disease progression are met, assessed up to 3.5 years
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair, Will compare DNA damage repair efficiency in patients that have minimal response to induction and high dose melphalan hydrochloride (partial response or less) compared to those that are sequencing minimal residual disease negative., Up to 3.5 years|Half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50), Will create a multivariate linear regression model that includes each patient?s IC50, DNA repair gene single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) presence or absence, and revised Multiple Myeloma International Staging System with progression free survival as the outcome., Up to 3.5 years|Melphalan hydrochloride pharmacokinetics (PK) parameters, Will compare the prediction accuracy of melphalan hydrochloride pharmacokinetics using the test dose versus the current PK model. Test the use of aspects of test dose PK as a covariate in the current high dose melphalan hydrochloride prediction model., Within 2 hours prior to start of melphalan hydrochloride infusion and at 5, 30, 45, and 60 minutes, and 3 and 6 hours|p53 messenger ribonucleic acid, Will correlate with progression free survival., Up to 3.5 years|Phosphorylated TP53, Will correlate with progression free survival., Up to 3.5 years|PK/pharmacodynamics (PD) model, Will determine the parameter accuracy and precision of the newly integrated PK/PD model for absolute neutrophil count, mucositis, tachyarrhythmias, and disease progression., Up to 3.5 years|XRCC1 rs25487 and XRCC3 rs861529 variant alleles, Will use Cox survival analysis, measure progression free survival of patients with XRCC1 rs25487 and XRCC3 rs861529 variant alleles compared to wild type., Up to 3.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify whether targeting approximate (approx.) 3- or 5-days of severe neutropenia after exposure to a personalized melphalan hydrochloride (melphalan) dose results in best clinical outcome.

II. Measure melphalan-related toxicities in both 3-day and 5-day arms. III. Measure response per International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG). IV. Record overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To administer a test dose of melphalan and obtain test dose melphalan pharmacokinetics (PK) data from the first 33 patients.

II. Measure drug-induced deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) treated with melphalan ex vivo post exposure.

III. Measure drug-induced DNA damage in patient myeloma cells treated with melphalan ex vivo.

IV. Assess melphalan-induced DNA damage in treated patients. V. Measure allele and genotype frequencies of variants, as well as gene expression of XRCC1 rs25487 and XRCC3 rs861529.

VI. Additional genetic variants relevant to DNA repair, melphalan transport, and clinical toxicities may be tested as well.

VII. Test cytotoxicity (half maximal inhibitory concentration \[IC50\]) of patient PBMCs prior to autologous transplant after exposure to melphalan ex vivo.

VIII. Measure p53 and phospho(TP53) in patient PBMCs prior to autologous transplant at baseline and after exposure to melphalan ex vivo.

IX. Incorporate both disease progression and drug-related toxicities into separate models linked to our calculated melphalan area under the curve (AUC) model.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive personalized dose of melphalan hydrochloride intravenously (IV) on day -2 for predicted 3-day duration of severe neutropenia and undergo standard of care autologous stem cell transplant on day 0.

ARM II: Patients receive personalized dose of melphalan hydrochloride IV on day -2 for predicted 5-day duration of severe neutropenia and undergo standard of care autologous stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, at 3 months after transplant, and then every 6-12 months.