Dose Escalation Study Using Ultra-Hypofractionated, Image-Guided, Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy in Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of a new type of IG-IMRT called "ultra-hypofractionated IG-IMRT" where a higher dose of radiation is given to the tumor during each treatment day. Since higher doses of radiation are used each day, the total number of treatment days needed to complete this type of radiation is only five instead of the 45-48 treatments currently used. Treatment takes place every other day and is complete after 2 weeks. If the patient decides to get this treatment, they will come in for 5 treatments. This is different from the 48 treatments they would get normally.
Prostate Cancer|Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: Hypofractionated, image-guided, intensity-modulated external beam radiation
Assess the toxicity of hypofractionated radiation therapy as definitive treatment for low and intermediate risk prostate cancer., With at least one status check visit during the course of treatment.
Evaluate post-treatment PSA kinetics and incidence of PSA relapse free survival., 1, 3, & 6 months (+/- 4 weeks) Months 6 - 36 every 6 months (+/- 4 weeks)|Evaluate pathologic response rates at 24-36 months via repeat biopsy., 24-36 months post treatment|Evaluate the effect of treatment on sexual function., 1, 3, & 6 months (+/- 4 weeks) Months 6 - 36 every 6 months (+/- 4 weeks)
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of a new type of IG-IMRT called "ultra-hypofractionated IG-IMRT" where a higher dose of radiation is given to the tumor during each treatment day. Since higher doses of radiation are used each day, the total number of treatment days needed to complete this type of radiation is only five instead of the 45-48 treatments currently used. Treatment takes place every other day and is complete after 2 weeks. If the patient decides to get this treatment, they will come in for 5 treatments. This is different from the 48 treatments they would get normally.