Interferon-α1b Combined With Toripalimab and Anlotinib Hydrochloride in Advanced Unresectable Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of recombinant human interferon-α1b (IFN-α1b) combined with toripalimab and anlotinib hydrochloride in patients with unresectable advanced melanoma. This study consists of 2 phases（ Ib / II）. Phase Ib will determine the recommended phase Ⅱ dose for anlotinib hydrochloride. Phase II will evaluate the efficacy and safety of the triple combination regimens.
Melanoma
DRUG: Recombinant human interferon α1b|DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Anlotinib hydrochloride
Phase I: Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of anlotinib hydrochloride, RP2D of anlotinib hydrochloride will be depended according to the dose-limiting toxicities of anlotinib hydrochloride, 12 weeks after first drug administration|Phase II: Objective response rate (ORR), proportion of patients with a complete response or partial response to treatment, Up to 24 months after the last episode|Phase II: progression-free survival (PFS), time from enrollment to progression or death, From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
disease control rate (DCR), the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease to the therapeutic intervention, Up to 60 months after the last episode|duration of response (DOR), time from response to progression/death (the earlier event), Up to 60 months after the last episode|overall survival(OS), The median and 3 year OS rate of patients with unresectable advanced melanoma treated with the combination regimen of interferon-α1b, toripalimab, and anlotinib hydrochloride, From date of enrollment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months|Clinical Benefit Rate(CBR), the proportion of patients with a complete or partial response or with stable disease at Week 24, Week 0-24
This is a single-arm, single-center Phase Ib/II trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the combination of recombinant human interferon α1b plus toripalimab and anlotinib hydrochloride in patients with unresectable Stage IIIc, Stage IIId, and Stage IV melanoma(AJCC 8th). Phase I is to evaluate the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) and determine the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of anlotinib hydrochloride in patients with unresectable advanced melanoma receiving recombinant human interferon α1b 600ug QOD plus toripalimab 240mg Q3W. Anlotinib hydrochloride will be given in a dose descending manner(12mg- 10mg- 8mg). In the phase II study, 30 Phase II will enroll 30 patients. The primary endpoint in the II phase is objective response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS). The second endpoint is disease control rate (DCR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival(OS). The safety profile of this combined IFN-α1b/ toripalimab/anlotinib hydrochloride regimen will be monitored during both phases. Specifically, phase Ib will evaluate dose-limiting toxicities(DLT). Phase II will evaluate the numbers and severity of toxicity per the Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 (CTCAEv) including but not limited to all adverse events (AE).