Assessment of What Patients and Healthcare Providers Value
To assess the importance patients place on each of the attributes of value (i.e., outcomes, quality of life \[QOL\], cost, experience), and how these patients’ views differ depending on the stage of their therapy (pretreatment, preoperative therapy, post-operative, long-term surveillance, recurrence).
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
OTHER: Survey Administration
Importance patients place on each of the attributes of value (i.e., outcomes, quality of life [QOL], cost, experience), We will calculate the mean rank of patients yielding usable data and its corresponding 95% confidence interval. Patient characteristics and survey items will be summarized using descriptive statistics, including means, standard deviations (SDs), proportions, range, and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), etc., Survey completion up to 1 year
Most important attributes of value to healthcare providers, Provider characteristics and survey items will be summarized using descriptive statistics, including means, SDs, proportions, range, and 95% CIs, etc., Survey completion up to 1 year|Importance care providers (i.e., physicians, nurses, administrators) place on each of the attributes of value (i.e., outcomes, quality of life [QOL], cost, experience), Chi-square tests (or Fisher's exact test) will be used to compare the results between patients and providers., Survey completion up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the importance patients place on each of the attributes of value (i.e., outcomes, quality of life \[QOL\], cost, experience).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess which attributes of value (i.e., outcomes, QOL, cost, experience) health care providers (i.e., physicians, nurses, administrators) feel are most important in health care delivery.

II. To assess how these patients' views differ depending on the stage of their therapy (pretreatment, preoperative therapy, post-operative, long-term surveillance, recurrence).

III. To assess how patients' view differ to health providers.

OUTLINE:

Patients and healthcare providers complete a survey over 10-15 minutes.