Re-irradiation With NBTXR3 in Combination With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Inoperable Locoregional Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of re-irradiation with NBTXR3 in combination with pembrolizumab in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (inoperable) and has come back (recurrent). NBTXR3 is a drug that is designed to improve the effectiveness (how well something works) of radiation therapy. The drug is injected into a tumor and activated (turned on) by radiation. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method may kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. Radiation therapy, such as intensity modulated radiation therapy or intensity modulated proton therapy, uses high energy to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving NBTXR3 activated by radiation together with pembrolizumab may help to control head and neck squamous cell cancer.
Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Hafnium Oxide-containing Nanoparticles NBTXR3|PROCEDURE: Intensity-Modulated Proton Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Progression free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated., From NBTXR3 injection to local or regional recurrence, local or regional progression, distant (outside the head and neck region) progression, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Early clinical benefit activated by SBRT reirradiation, Defined as radiographic evidence of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD), At 6-months post radiation therapy (RT)|Incidence of acute adverse events activated by dose reduction IMRT or IMPT reirradiation, Will assess treatment related acute and late onset toxicities defined as any grade \>= 3 adverse event (AE), excluding dermatitis and mucositis as per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0., Up to 90 days post RT|Incidence of late adverse events activated by dose reduction IMRT or IMPT reirradiation, Will assess treatment related acute and late onset toxicities defined as any grade \>= 3 AE, excluding dermatitis and mucositis as per NCI CTCAE v 5.0., From 90 days post RT to end of study (up to 5 years) From 90 days post RT to end of study (up to 5 years)|Incidence of late adverse events activated by SBRT reirradiation, Will assess treatment related acute and late onset toxicities defined as any grade \>= 3 AE, excluding dermatitis and mucositis as per NCI CTCAE v 5.0., From 90 days post RT to end of study (up to 5 years)
Objective response rate, Defined as complete or partial response per RECIST v1.1 in the target lesion(s), which are those injected with NBTXR3 and irradiated.

All other malignant lesions that have not received NBTXR3 injection will be evaluated as per RECIST v1.1, i.e. as measurable or non-measurable lesions (according to their characteristics) and included for the determination of best objective response., Up to 5 years post treatment|Overall response, Evaluated as per RECIST v1.1, Up to 5 years post treatment|Incidence of acute adverse events activated by SBRT reirradiation, Will assess treatment related acute and late onset toxicities defined as any grade \>= 3 AE, excluding dermatitis and mucositis as per NCI CTCAE v 5.0., Up to 90 days post RT|Local PFS, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated., From NBTXR3 injection to the radiographic and/or histological confirmation of local (within 2 cm of the high-dose reirradiation treatment volume [PTV]) disease recurrence, local progression, or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Regional PFS, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated., From NBTXR3 injection to the radiographic and/or histological confirmation of regional disease recurrence, regional progression, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Distant PFS, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated., From NBTXR3 injection to the radiographic and/or histological confirmation of a new lesion outside the head and neck region, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median times and 95% confidence intervals will also be estimated., From NBTXR3 injection to death from any cause or EoS, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis, Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis according to the Head and Neck-Lymphedema Fibrosis (HN-LEF)

Lymphedema/Fibrosis Grading: Clinician-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis will be conducted according to the published Head and Neck-Lymphedema Fibrosis (HN-LEF) per physical examination of the patient. Clinical grading is a brief assessment that can be completed in \< 5 minutes., Up to 5 years post treatment|Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis, Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis according Cervical range of motion (CROM) per physical examination of patient.

Cervical range of motion (CROM): A goniometer will measure CROM (degrees) to assess active cervical spine ROM. Five core CROM measures will be collected, including cervical extension, sagittal plane at rest, lateral flexion (left/right), coronal plane at rest, and lateral rotation (left/right). The primary CROM measure of interest is cervical extension. Cervical extension measures are highly reliable (ICC=.90). Average extension measures in healthy adults aged 60 to 69 range from 57 degrees in males (SD: 10.5) to 65 degrees in females (SD: 13.3). Cervical extension measures decrease by approximately 5 degrees for each decade of life\[41\]., Up to 5 years post treatment|Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis, Evaluation of the clinical-grading of lymphedema/fibrosis according to the Lymphedema Symptom Intensity and Distress Survey - Head and Neck (LSIDS-H\&N).

Lymphedema Symptom Intensity and Distress Survey - Head and Neck (LSIDS-H\&N)25 is a 64-item instrument designed to assess lymphedema symptoms in head and neck cancer patients. Survey items were selected to address six domains (head and neck-specific functioning, systemic symptoms, psychosocial issues, altered sensation symptoms, neck-shoulder musculoskeletal/skin symptoms, and miscellaneous symptoms) identified by an expert panel. Preliminary testing of LSIDS-H\&N demonstrated both feasibility and readability., Up to 5 years post treatment|Patient reports outcomes, Questionnaires measuring the patients' views of their health status, Up to 5 years post treatment|Biomarkers of response, Multiplex IHC (mIHC) analysis of tumor microenvironment (i.e. CD8, PD-L1, PD1, CD3, CD68, FoxP3, etc.) in biopsies

Flow cytometry analysis (cell counts) of the immune cell biomarkers in blood., Up to 5 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) and early clinical benefit in patients treated with hafnium oxide-containing nanoparticles NBTXR3 (NBTXR3) activated by stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) reirradiation, with concurrent pembrolizumab.

II. To assess the safety profile and estimate early clinical benefit of NBXTR3 activated by dose reduction intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or intensity modulated proton therapy (IMPT) reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab, in subjects with locoregional recurrent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) not eligible for SBRT.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate tumor response after NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate tumor response after NBTXR3 activated by dose reduction IMRT/IMPT reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

III. To evaluate the safety profile of NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

IV. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by SBRT reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

V. To evaluate time-to-event outcomes of NBTXR3 activated by dose reduction IMRT/IMPT reirradiation with concurrent pembrolizumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate lymphedema/fibrosis \& dysphagia-related toxicities and functional outcomes of treatment with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

II. To assess functional and patient reported outcomes (PRO) of treatment with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

III. To associate radiomic measurements with outcomes of treatment with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

IV. To evaluate biomarkers of response in subjects treated with NBTXR3 activated by SBRT or IMRT or IMPT reirradiation and concurrent pembrolizumab.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive NBTXR3 intratumorally (IT) on day 1. Patients then undergo SBRT every other day (QOD) on days 15-29. Beginning the first day of radiation therapy, patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive NBTXR3 IT on day 1. Patients then undergo IMRT/IMPT every day (QD) on days 15-50. Beginning the first day of radiation therapy, patients also receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.