Psycho-social Determinant for Sport Practised During Cancer
The litterature has demonstrates that physical activity can play an important role in decreasing patient mortality rates and increasing its well-being at all time of cancer. Despite this evidence, there is a weak adhesion in patients. It is therefore appropriate to look and see which may explain the high prevalence of physical inactivity in patients with cancer. The main objective of this study will be to recognize psychological and social factors which could explain the commitment or not to a physical activity in cancer patients. Besides the physical limitations related to the cancer and its treatment, socio-economic and psycho-social factors can often play an extremely important role in engagement or maintenance of sporting activity.
Physical Activity|Cancer
Physical activity, The Questionnaire include four main section: medical, socio-economic variables, personality traits situational variables and physical activity. Sociological variables will encompass age, gender, education, and socio-professional category, and professional activity, marital and socio-economic status, place of living. Life habits and PA practice before diagnose will help to look at inter-determinants relationships. Medical data will also be collected from patient perspective. Situational variables will encompass passion, basic need satisfaction in sport, state-hope, self-determined motivation for PA, anxiety and depression. PA and sedentary behaviors will be measured using self-reported Global Physical Activity questionnaire. This questionnaire will measure the frequency, intensity, duration, as well as context of PA practice., Day 1
Physical activity at 6 months, The Questionnaire six months after the inclusion, Month 6|Physical activity at 12 months, The Questionnaire one year after the inclusion, Month 12
Different individual factors have been identified as playing an important role in physical activity (PA) practice. For example, sex, age, education level, socio-professional category, ethnicity, overweight seemed to impact PA level in general population and among cancer patient.

Beyond the disease's effect, as well as its treatment, the socio-ecological approach has identified five group of factors associated to PA practice: individual factors, interpersonal factors, environmental factors, political factors and global factors.

The aim of this mixed methods study is to identify the variables of the socioecological model facilitating PA practice, as well as PA level and preferences at different time during cancer (at diagnose, during treatment, after treatment).