RObotic PArtial Nephrectomy National Study
The purpose of the study is to set up the larger prospective study on robotic partial nephrectomy, to describe the characteristics of patients operated for kidney cancer by this surgical procedure and also to determine the modalities of hemostasis in this procedure.
Kidney Cancer
PROCEDURE: Robotic partial surgery
Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Per and post-operative transfusion rates, From surgery until 1 year of follow up|Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Medical or surgical complication rates, From surgery until 1 year of follow up|Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Clavien's grading, From surgery until 1 year of follow up|Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Urinary fistula rate, From surgery until 1 year of follow up|Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Necessity for nephrectomy or re-exploration, From surgery until 1 year of follow up|Post-operative complications evaluated according to the Clavien criteria, Length of hospital stay, From surgery until 1 year of follow up
Renal function after robotic partial nephrectomy measured by biological parameters, Creatininemia, Follow-up during 12 months|Renal function after robotic partial nephrectomy measured by biological parameters, MDRD GFR, Follow-up during 12 months|Per-operative modalities of haemostasis procedure, Haemostasis procedure, At Surgery|Per-operative modalities of haemostatic agent, Haemostatic agent, At Surgery
The primary objective of the study is to describe the characteristics of patients operated for kidney cancer by a robotic partial nephrectomy in France (recruiting centers, patient profile, tumor characteristics).

Secondary Objective(s):

1. To describe the surgical techniques and operative development.
2. To assess the modalities of haemostasis, during robotic partial nephrectomy.
3. To assess peri-operative morbidity in robotic partial nephrectomy and post-operative complications.
4. To assess the outcome of renal function after a robotic partial nephrectomy. This study is a national, multicenter, prospective, cohort.