Induction FOLFOX With or Without Aflibercept Followed by Chemoradiation in High Risk Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
This trial compares induction treatment with FOLFOX with or without aflibercept in a high risk population selected by MRI, prior to receiving standard chemoradiation (capecitabine combined with 50.4 Gy in 28 days) and surgery, in order to evaluate the efficacy in terms of pathologic complete response (pCR).
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Aflibercept|DRUG: 5-Fluoruracil|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin
Number of Patients Achieving Pathologic Complete Response (pCR)., The number of patients achieving pCR after induction therapy with mFOLFOX6 +/- aflibercept followed by chemotherapy (CT)/radiotherapy (RT). pCR will be defined as the absence of viable tumor cells in the primary tumor and in the lymph nodes (T0N0), From baseline until 2 years and 2 months
Number of Patients Achieving Pathological Parameters of Efficacy: R0 Resection, Tumor Regression Grade, and Circular Radial Margin Rate, R0 resection is defined as complete tumor removal, and correlates with good prognosis.

Tumor regression grade (TRG) is defined as presence of residual tumor after preoperative therapy. This was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) according to the 5-point regression grading scale established by Mandard: TRG1 (complete response with no residual cancer), TRG2 (rare residual cancer), TRG3 (fibrosis outgrowing residual cancer), TRG4 (residual cancer outgrowing fibrosis) and TRG5 (absence of regression).

Circular Radial Margin (CRM) is defined as the distance from the margin of normal tissue to the edge of tumor tissue in the resected primary tumor the measured by histopathology study after surgery. A margin of ≤1 mm is considered to be a negative prognostic factor for local recurrence., From baseline until 2 years and 2 months|Number of Participants With Significant MRI Changes Post Intervention, as Defined by T Downstaging, Tumor size is assessed by MRI to determine the T stage. T Downstaging: defined as a lower pathologic T stage compared to pre-treatment T stage., From baseline until 2 years and 2 months|Number of Patients Reporting Adverse Events (AEs), The safety and tolerability of the study therapy were assessed by means of AEs and changes in laboratory data. AEs were coded and evaluated using the NCI-CTCAE v4.0 toxicity criteria (if NCI-CTCAE are not applicable, MedDRA was used)., From baseline until 2 years and 2 months|Number of Patients Reporting Surgical Complications, Surgical complications will be assessed by means of AEs reported during 30 days post surgery., From surgical intervention up to 30 days post-surgery, within a general time frame of 2 years and 2 months per study protocol|Disease Free Survival (DFS) Rate at 3 Years, DFS rate is defined as the percentage of participants without local recurrences at 3-years post study treatment. Here we report the DFS rate at 3-years after completing the Study treatment., At 3 years after study treatment completion, within a general time frame of 5 years and two months
This is a randomized trial comparing induction treatment with FOLFOX with or without aflibercept in a high risk population selected by MRI, prior to receiving standard chemoradiation (capecitabine combined with 50.4 Gy in 28 days) and surgery. Once it is confirmed that the subjects fulfill the eligibility criteria (MRI-defined high risk RC), and have signed the informed consent, a central review will be requested to confirm clinical stage, and then they will be randomized to receive mFOLFOX6 + Aflibercept or mFOLFOX6 (without Aflibercept).

Random assignment of treatment will be stratified by T3 versus T4 stage. All the patients enrolled in the study will receive one cycle of study medication (mFOLFOX6 with or without aflibercept) every 14 days for six cycles, unless unacceptable toxicity or progression is detected. After this treatment, patients will receive standard chemo-radiotherapy (CT/RT) (capecitabine 825 mg/m2 twice daily combined with a total dose of 50.4 Gy in 28 days) followed by surgery, provided they have not progressed.

Patients with progression disease during the treatment phase will be withdrawn from the study and will receive their treatment according to the investigator's judgment. If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to receive further treatment, the patient must be followed up for 3 years from randomization or until progression, to evaluate disease-free survival. If a patient withdraws consent and refuses to continue in the study, the follow-up evaluations must be discontinued.