Venetoclax and HMA Treatment of Older and Unfit Adults With FLT3 Mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) (A MyeloMATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II MyeloMATCH treatment trial compares the usual treatment of azacitidine and venetoclax to the combination treatment of azacitidine, venetoclax and gilteritinib in treating older and unfit patients with acute myeloid leukemia and FLT3 mutations. Azacitidine is a drug that is absorbed into DNA and leads to the activation of cancer suppressor genes, which are genes that help control cell growth. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Gilteritinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of a certain naturally occurring substance that may be needed to help cancer cells multiply. This study may help doctors find out if these different approaches are better than the usual approaches. To decide if they are better, the study doctors are looking to see if the study drugs lead to a higher percentage of patients achieving a deeper remission compared to the usual approach.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|DRUG: Gilteritinib|DRUG: Venetoclax
Rate of measured residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission (CR), Will be assessed by multiparameter flow cytometry at a level of ≤ 1 residual blast / 1,000 leukocytes (≤ 10\^-3)., Up to 4 cycles of treatment
Overall survival, Will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time between randomization and death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Event-free survival, Will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from randomization to failure to achieve complete remission (CR), CR with incomplete count recovery, and CR with partial hematologic recovery, or to relapse after CR/CRi/CRh or to death in remission, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be determined using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5 criteria., Up to 10 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the achievement rate of measured residual disease negative (MRDneg) complete remission (CR) of either triplet regimen to azacitidine and venetoclax alone within 4 cycles of therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the achievement rate of MRDneg CR/complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi)/complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) of either triplet regimen to azacitidine and venetoclax alone within 4 cycles of therapy.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of gilteritinib, azacitidine, and venetoclax, if both of the triplet regimens show superiority to the azacitidine plus venetoclax regimen.

III. To determine the optimal sequence and duration of gilteritinib, when added to azacitidine and venetoclax if both of the triplet regimens show superiority to the azacitidine plus venetoclax regimen.

IV. To estimate the rates of complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi), and complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh), morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS), event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) of the combination of gilteritinib, azacitidine, and venetoclax versus azacitidine and venetoclax alone.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the degree reduction in FLT3- internal tandem duplication (ITD) mutation burden after 2 and 4 cycles of therapy using a highly sensitive next-generation sequencing (NGS) MRD assay and compare the median reduction in the investigational regimens among patients with CR/CRi/CRh to that of control regimen.

II. To determine if the degree of FLT3 ITD reduction is associated with the duration of remission.

III. To monitor which mutations are present at the time of relapse. IV. To monitor which co-mutations at presentation are associated with lack of response to these regimens.

V. To determine if the FLT3 AR /variant allele frequency (VAF) is associated with response to the regimens.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 regimens.

REGIMEN 1:

INDUCTION: Patients receive azacitidine intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7 of each cycle and venetoclax orally (PO) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles or until patient achieves remission, whichever comes first, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC on days 1-7 and venetoclax PO on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

REGIMEN 2:

INDUCTION: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC on days 1-7 and venetoclax and gilteritinib PO on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles or until patient achieves remission, whichever comes first, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC on days 1-5, venetoclax PO on days 1-7 and gilteritinib PO on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

REGIMEN 3:

INDUCTION: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC on days 1-7 and venetoclax PO on days 1-28, and gilteritinib PO on days 8-21 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles or until patient achieves remission, whichever comes first, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive azacitidine IV or SC on days 1-5, venetoclax PO on days 1-14 and gilteritinib PO on days 8-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration as well as blood sample collection on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if patient is \< 2 years from first registration, and every 6 months if patient is 2-5 years from first registration. All patients, including those who discontinue protocol therapy early, are followed for response until progression, even if non-protocol therapy is initiated, and for survival for 10 years from the date of randomization.