Avastin in Combination With Temozolomide for Unresectable or Multifocal GBMs and Gliosarcomas
Primary objective- To determine efficacy of Avastin, 10 mg/kg every other week, in combination with standard 5-day temozolomide in terms of response rate.

Secondary objective- To determine safety of Avastin \& Temozolomide in unresectable glioblastoma patients
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Avastin and Temozolomide
Response Rate, The proportion of subjects with complete or partial response as determined by a modification of the RANO (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology) criteria. A confirmation of response was not required. Complete Response was defined as complete disappearance on MR/CT of all enhancing tumor and mass effect, off all corticosteroids (or receiving only adrenal replacement doses), accompanied by a stable or improving neurologic examination, and maintained for at least 4 weeks. Partial Response was defined as greater than or equal to 50% reduction in tumor size on MR/CT by bi-dimensional measurement, on a stable or decreasing dose of corticosteroids, accompanied by a stable or improving neurologic examination, and maintained for at least 4 weeks., 4 months
Subjects have histologically confirmed WHO gr IV primary malignant glioma that is unresectable/multifocal. This is Phase II study where up to 41 subjects will receive up to 4 cycles of Avastin \& Temozolomide. Avastin administered at 10 mg/kg every 14 days beginning a minimum of 7 days after biopsy/28 days after craniotomy. Temozolomide dosed at 200 mg/m2 daily for 5 days in 28-day cycle. Patients will receive up to 4 cycles of Avastin \& Temozolomide, then proceed with standard XRT. Study will use 2-stage "minimax" study design in which 21 subjects are accrued during 1st stage, with possibility that additional 20 patients accrued during 2nd stage. In initial Phase I \& II trials, 4 potential Avastin-associated safety signals were identified: hypertension, proteinuria, thromboembolic events, \& hemorrhage. Avastin-associated adverse events in Phase III trials include congestive heart failure, GI perforations, wound healing complications, \& arterial thromboembolic events. Most common toxicity associated with Temozolomide has been mild myelosuppression.