Low Dose Total Skin Electron Beam Treatment (TSEBT) Followed by Maintenance Valchlor for Patients With Mycosis Fungoides
The clinical efficacy of mechlorethamine gel (Valchlor) as a maintenance therapy after low dose total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) for the treatment mycosis fungoides cutaneous T-cell lymphoma will be evaluated in this study. Subjects will be treated with low dose TSEBT (12 Gy total) over a period of two weeks. After a 30 day observation period and confirmation that their disease stage has been downgraded to IA or IB, subjects will use Valchlor as a maintenance therapy over the course of one year. The efficacy of Valchlor as a maintenance drug will be followed clinically through Modified Severity Weight Assessment Tool (mSWAT) and percent body surface area measurements (%BSA). Furthermore, subjects will be followed histopathologically through skin biopsies performed at the screening visit, immediately after observation period, one month after the start of the maintenance period, and twelve months after the start of the maintenance period (4 biopsies total).
Mycosis Fungoides|Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
RADIATION: Total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT)|DRUG: mechlorethamine gel 0.016%
Time to progression, To assess the time to progression of patients treated with total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) followed by the year-long maintenance Valchlor regimen., One year
Response rate (CR and PR), To assess the response rate (CR and PR) of patients treated with total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) followed by the year-long maintenance Valchlor regimen. . CR and PR are defined as the standard oncology criteria for complete response (100% reduction from the baseline score) and partial response (50% to \<100% reduction from the baseline score)., One year
The clinical efficacy of mechlorethamine gel (Valchlor) as a maintenance therapy after low dose total skin electron beam therapy (TSEBT) for the treatment mycosis fungoides cutaneous T-cell lymphoma will be evaluated in this study. Subjects will be treated with low dose TSEBT (12 Gy total) over a period of two weeks. After a 30 day observation period and confirmation that their disease stage has been downgraded to IA or IB, subjects will use Valchlor as a maintenance therapy over the course of one year. The efficacy of Valchlor as a maintenance drug will be followed clinically through Modified Severity Weight Assessment Tool (mSWAT) and percent body surface area measurements (%BSA). Furthermore, subjects will be followed histopathologically through skin biopsies performed at the screening visit, immediately after observation period, one month after the start of the maintenance period, and twelve months after the start of the maintenance period (4 biopsies total).