Venetoclax, Ixazomib Citrate, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients with Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of venetoclax when given together with ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone and to see how well they work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back. Venetoclax and ixazomib citrate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving venetoclax together with ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|T(11;14)
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Venetoclax
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of venetoclax in combination with ixazomib and dexamethasone (Phase 1), Defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients). Will be examined in an exploratory and hypothesis-generating fashion., Up to 28 days|Overall survival, The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Rate of confirmed response defined as a patient who has achieved an stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR) on two consecutive evaluations (Phase 2), The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 3 years|Rate of confirmed response in patients with t(11;14) translocation, Will be estimated by the number of patients with a confirmed sCR, CR, VGPR, or PR divided by the total number of evaluable patients with t(11;14) translocation. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Rate of CR defined as the number of patients with an sCR or CR divided by the total number of evaluable patients, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of venetoclax in combination with ixazomib citrate (ixazomib) and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed multiple myeloma (MM). (Phase 1)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe toxicities associated with venetoclax, in combination with ixazomib and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed MM. (Phase 1)

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore levels of BCL-2 family member proteins (BCL-2, BCL-x, MCL-1) on bone marrow biopsies using ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNASeq) and immunohistochemistry.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of venetoclax followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) daily on days 1-28, ixazomib citrate PO once weekly on days 1, 8, and 15, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 for courses 1-12. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 or 6 months for 3 years.