Efficacy and Safety of HILOTERM® Device for the Prevention of Peripheral Neuropathy
Taxol is a very effective drug in breast cancer, but it can cause peripheral neuropathy (PN). This toxicity is often dose-limiting. Symptoms of PN usually improve after taxol discontinuation, but \>80% of affected women experience symptoms 1-3 years after treatment stop. The intensity, the duration and the type of symptoms related to PN are very different and they can strongly interfere with patients' quality of life.

The application of cold to the hands and feet seems to be able to reduce the incidence of PN. Hilotherm® is a machine that allows to cool hands and feet. The aim of this study is to verify whether the use of Hilotherm® is able to reduce the incidence of moderate and severe PN and to evaluate the tolerability of Hilotherm® and its impact on quality of life.
Breast Cancer|Neuropathy;Peripheral
DEVICE: Hilotherm® Cooling treatment
Overall incidence of grade 2 or 3 CIPN, Severity of PN evaluated using the CTCAE scale, version 5, 12 months
Incidence of withdrawal from Hilotherapy, Number of patients withdrawing Hilotherapy due to cold intolerance, 12 weeks|Patients' physical, psychological and social functions evaluation, Collection of EORTC QLQ-C30 \[European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer - Quality of Life Questionnaire\] (minimum value: 1, maximum value: 4 - higher scores mean a worse outcome), 12 months|Side effects impact evaluation, Collection of EORTC-BR23 \[European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer - Breast Cancer specific Module\] (minimum value: 1, maximum value: 4 - higher scores mean a worse outcome), 12 months|Pain assessment, Collection of Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire (minimum value: 0, maximum value: 10 - higher scores mean a worse outcome), 12 months|Technology acceptance and perception evaluation, Collection of Technology Acceptance Model Questionnaire (minimum value: 1, maximum value: 7 - higher scores mean a lower agreement with the statement), 12 months
Taxol is a very effective drug in breast cancer, but it can cause peripheral neuropathy (PN), that is damage to the nerves of the hands and feet. This toxicity can begin a few days to months after starting taxol treatment and is often dose-limiting.

Symptoms of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) usually improve after taxol discontinuation, but \>80% of affected women experience symptoms 1-3 years after treatment stop. The intensity, the duration and the type of symptoms related to PN are very different and they range from mild and transient symptoms to more severe and persistent symptoms. These symptoms can strongly interfere with patients' quality of life and can create difficulties in carrying out activities of daily living.

Despite numerous pharmacological approaches, no substance has proven capable of counteracting the onset of PN in patients eligible to receive chemotherapy with taxol. Some clinical studies have shown that the application of cold to the hands and feet is able to reduce the incidence of PN because the cold-induced constriction of the vessels leads to a reduction of blood flow and consequently to a reduced inflow of drug at the level of the hands and feet.

Hilotherm® is a machine that allows to keep hands and feet at a constant temperature of 10°C. The aim of this study is to verify whether the use of Hilotherm® is able to reduce the incidence of moderate and severe PN and to evaluate the tolerability of Hilotherm® and its impact on quality of life.