Safety and Antiemetic Efficacy of Akynzeo Plus Dexamethasone During Radiotherapy and Concomitant Weekly Cisplatin
This is a multicentre, single-arm, phase II study to investigate the safety and antiemetic efficacy of Akynzeo (a fixed dose combination of palonosetron and netupitant) plus dexamethasone in patients receiving concomitant chemo-radiotherapy with weekly cisplatin for at least five weeks.
Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting|Adverse Event|Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Akynzeo|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Safety of weekly administration of Akynzeo measured by incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Measurement of incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events., Five weeks.|Efficacy of weekly administration of Akynzeo measured by incidence of nausea and vomiting and use of rescue antiemetics, Measurement of incidence of nausea and vomiting and use of rescue antiemetics., Five weeks.
Complete response in terms of the proportion of subjects with complete response, To investigate Akynzeo and dexamethasone in terms of the proportion of subjects with complete response (defined as no vomits, no dry retches and no need for rescue medication) in the 5 days and the 35 days following initiation of fractionated radiotherapy and concomitant weekly cisplatin at a dose of ≥ 40 mg/m2., Five days and five weeks.|No significant nausea in terms of the proportion of subjects with no significant nausea, To investigate Akynzeo and dexamethasone in terms of the proportion of subjects with no significant nausea (none or mild nausea) in the 5 days and the 35 days following initiation of fractionated radiotherapy and concomitant weekly cisplatin at a dose of ≥ 40 mg/m2., Five days and five weeks.|No nausea in terms of the proportion of subjects with no nausea, To investigate Akynzeo and dexamethasone in terms of the proportion of subjects with no nausea in the 5 days and the 35 days following initiation of fractionated radiotherapy and concomitant weekly cisplatin at a dose of ≥ 40 mg/m2., Five days and five weeks.|Time to first emetic episode, To investigate Akynzeo and dexamethasone in terms of time to first emetic episode., Five weeks.
Akynzeo contains a combination of the neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist netupitant and the serotonin receptor antagonist palonosetron. Akynzeo is approved as antiemetic prophylaxis in patients receiving high emetogenic chemotherapy e.g. high dose cisplatin administered every three weeks.

From a previous clinical trial (GAND-emesis trial) we know that patients receiving radiotherapy and concomitant weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2 are better protected against nausea and vomiting when a triplet antiemetic prophylaxis (neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, serotonin receptor antagonist, and corticosteroid) is applied.

In the Akynzeo phase III clinical trials, Akynzeo was administered every three weeks. The neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, netupitant, has a long plasma half-life (approx. 90 hours), and theoretically the drug could accumulate when administered on a weekly basis.

The DANGER-emesis trial is designed to collect safety and efficacy data in patients receiving Akynzeo weekly as antiemetic prophylaxis in combination with dexamethasone in patients treated for cervical cancer with radiotherapy and concomitant weekly cisplatin 40 mg/m2.