A Study To Learn About the Safety Medicine (Called Mylotarg) In People With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The purpose of this clinical trial is to learn about the safety and effects of the study medicine (called Mylotarg) for the potential treatment of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). AML is a disease that affects the body's white blood cells. This study is seeking participants in Korea who:

* Are 18 years of age or older
* Are adults and newly diagnosed with AML
* Currently receive Mylotarg for AML treatment in a hospital
* Are capable of a personally signed and dated informed consent document indicating that the participant (or a legally acceptable representative) has been informed of all pertinent aspects of the study.

Participant's health will be closely monitored for any unwanted reactions during Mylotarg treatment. Disease progression will also be monitored. This will help determine if Mylotarg is safe to use and its effect on AML treatment.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death, initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization, life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying), persistent or significant disability or incapacity, congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent were events between first dose of infusion up to 2 years, that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. Serious infections including sepsis (excluding opportunistic infections and tuberculosis) were the pre-defined TEAE of special Interest for this study. AEs included both serious and non-serious adverse events., from initiating administration of first dose to the at least 28 calendar days following the last administration of Mylotarg速
Objective Response Rate - Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Percentage of participants with OR based assessment of confirmed complete remission (CR) or confirmed partial remission (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Confirmed remission are those with repeat bone marrow showing less than 5 percent (%) myeloblasts with normal maturation of all cell lines and absolute values of the peripheral blood lasting at least 2 months. PR are those with all CR criteria except at least 50% decrease in the blasts over the pretreatment., assessed after each cycle (each cycle is 7 days) and all cycles (maximum 3 cycles) are administered
This is a prospective, single-arm, open-label, non-interventional, multi-centre, PMS to evaluate safety and effectiveness of Mylotarg速 in patients with newly-diagnosed CD33-positive AML. As this is a Non-Interventional Study (NIS) all treatment and monitoring of the patients will be at the discretion of the investigator as part of routine practice. The study can be performed in Korean health care centers where Mylotarg速 is prescribed to treat AML after obtaining informed consent from the patients as whole case enrollment method.

This study is conducted to determine any problems or questions associated in regard to the following clauses under general clinical practice after marketing Mylotarg速, in accordance with the "Re-examination Guideline of New Drugs, Etc.":

1. Serious Adverse Event (SAE)/Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR)
2. Unexpected Adverse Event (AE)/Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR) that has not been reflected in the approved drug label.
3. Known Adverse Drug Reaction (ADR)
4. Non-Serious Adverse Drug Reaction (Non-SADR)
5. Other safety and effectiveness information