Are Smokers Switching to Vaping at Lower Risk for Cancer? (Electronic Cigarettes and Cancer Risk)
This project will address a growing public health concern, namely, the health risks or benefits of e-cig use relative to cigarette smoking. The investigators will use biomarkers of early effects of relevance to cancer to determine the carcinogenic potential of e-cig use relative to cigarette smoking in oral epithelium, which is a target tissue for smoking-associated cancer. The study population will consist of one group of smokers who are interested in switching to e-cig use (Grp 1), one group of smokers who do not intend to change their smoking habits (Grp 2), and one group of non-users who would like to maintain their nonsmoking non-vaping status (Grp 3); The total number of participants in this project is 150 (n = 50, each group). The investigators will use an integrative 'multi-omics' approach complemented with single-locus/gene validation analyses to detect temporal changes in the genome, epigenome, and transcriptome relevant to cancer in the oral cells of the participants as the intervention progresses.
Cigarette Smoking
DEVICE: NIDA Standard Research E-cigarette (SREC)
Genetic changes, Number and location of DNA damage, 3 months|Epigenetic changes, Number of epigenetic marks, 3 months
Gene expression, Relative gene expression, Every 2 weeks for 3 months|DNA methylation, Pattern and distribution of aberrant DNA methylation, Every 2 weeks for 3 months|Histone modifications, Pattern and distribution of histone marks, Every 2 weeks for 3 months|Mutation, Frequency and location of mutations, Every 2 weeks for 3 months
Electronic cigarettes (e-cig) are increasingly popular among adult smokers and adolescent never smokers. Chemical analyses of e-cig vapor and liquid have shown the presence of many of the same carcinogens as those found in cigarette smoke, albeit in generally lower concentrations. However, the carcinogenic potential of e-cig has not been investigated in e-cig users (otherwise known as 'vapers'). The investigators will investigate the cancer-causing potential of e-cig use as compared to cigarette smoking by quantifying molecular changes linked to risk of cancer in smokers who switch to e-cig use vs. those who maintain their smoking habits. Leveraging a source population for ongoing studies on e-cig, the investigators will recruit smokers who are interested in switching to e-cig use, and two control groups of non-vapers, including smokers and nonsmokers who do not intend to change their smoking and nonsmoking status, respectively (n = 50, each group). Smokers consenting to switch completely to e-cig will be assigned to a 3-month intervention with a standard e-cig with fully described product characteristics. Control groups will maintain their smoking/nonsmoking habits during the intervention. At weekly intervals, the investigators will verify participants' compliance through personal interviews, CO breath tests, cotinine quantification, and vaping/smoking topography measurements. The investigators will use a non-invasive brushing technique to collect oral cells from the inside of the cheeks of all participants at baseline and every 2 weeks, afterwards. The investigators will use an integrative 'multi-omics' approach complemented with single-locus/gene validation analyses to detect temporal changes in the genome, epigenome, and transcriptome relevant to cancer in the oral cells of the participants as the intervention progresses.