Cevostamab Following CAR T Cell Therapy for RRMM
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single-arm, single stage, single-institution study, with an initial safety run-in period. Potential participants with relapsed/refractory myeloma who are undergoing standard of care, commercially-available BCMA-directed CAR T cell therapy may be identified pre-CAR T cell infusion but are not consented and enrolled until at least 4-6 weeks after CAR T cell infusion, once recovered from acute toxicities. Note: the lymphodepleting chemotherapy and CAR T cell therapy is being administered as part of standard clinical practice and is not considered part of this protocol. Alternative lymphodepleting regimens other than fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (eg in the setting of fludarabine shortages) are acceptable. Cevostamab will be given as an IV infusion once every 3 weeks, starting roughly 10 weeks (day 70 +/- 4 days) post-CAR T cell infusion, with subjects planned to receive 8 cycles initially. Aiming to assess the impact of cevostamab consolidation post-BCMA CAR T cell therapy on rate of MRD-negative complete remission (CR) at 12 months.
Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Cevostamab
MRD-negative complete remission (CR), The proportion of participants who achieve CR as well as MRD-negativity at 12 months post-CAR T cell therapy., 12 months
Safety and tolerability (Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events) of cevostamab administration post-BCMA CAR T cell therapy, Assessed as the frequency of adverse and serious adverse events, including CRS and neurotoxicity, and frequency of dose reductions and delays., infusion start Day 56 through 30 days post final infusion|Feasibility of cevostamab administration post-BCMA CAR T cell therapy, Frequency of enrolled subjects who are able to start cevostamab by day 56 post-CAR T cell therapy, and the frequency who complete the 8 planned consolidation doses., Day 56 and completion through day 203|Impact of cevostamab consolidation post-BCMA CAR T cell therapy on other clinical outcomes, Efficacy as assessed by rates of best overall response, partial response (PR), very good partial response (VGPR), complete response (CR), stringent CR (sCR), MRD-negativity, 6 and 12 months post-CAR T cell therapy
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single-arm, single stage, single-institution study, with an initial safety run-in period. Potential participants with relapsed/refractory myeloma who are undergoing standard of care, commercially-available BCMA-directed CAR T cell therapy may be identified pre-CAR T cell infusion but are not consented and enrolled until at least 4-6 weeks after CAR T cell infusion, once recovered from acute toxicities. Note: the lymphodepleting chemotherapy and CAR T cell therapy is being administered as part of standard clinical practice and is not considered part of this protocol. Alternative lymphodepleting regimens other than fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (eg in the setting of fludarabine shortages) are acceptable. Cevostamab will be given as an IV infusion once every 3 weeks, starting roughly 10 weeks (day 70 +/- 4 days) post-CAR T cell infusion, with subjects planned to receive 8 cycles initially. Aiming to assess the impact of cevostamab consolidation post-BCMA CAR T cell therapy on rate of MRD-negative complete remission (CR) at 12 months.