A Safety and Efficacy Study of Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab and CA4P in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of combretastatin A4 phosphate (CA4P), also known as fosbretabulin, in combination with bevacizumab (Avastin), carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients with chemotherapy naïve non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This is a randomized parallel arm study. All participants will receive carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab, and half will additionally receive CA4P. Patients who complete the first 6 cycles of therapy and have not experienced disease progression will receive maintenance therapy with bevacizumab alone or with bevacizumab plus CA4P.

The rationale for this study is the potential additive or synergistic actions of vascular disrupting agents like CA4P with anti-angiogenic agents like bevacizumab.
Tumors
DRUG: Fosbretabulin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS) in the Intent-to-Treat Population, Progression was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0. Based on 20% increase of the longest diameter of target lesions or appearance of one or more new non-target lesions or/and progression of non-target lesions since the treatment started., Six 21-day cycles
Best Overall Tumor Response Rate (RR) in the Intent-to-Treat Population, Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0 for target lesions (assessed by MRI or CT scan): Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, Progressive Disease is defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, Stable Disease (SD) is defined as neither shrinkage to qualify for a PR or increase to qualify for a PD., Six 21-day cycles|Overall Survival (OS) Using a Multivariate Cox Regression Model in the Intent-to-Treat Population, Until death or lost to follow-up, up to 12 months since randomization|Chemistry NCI-CTCAE Toxicity Grade of 3 or 4 (Safety Population), Days 1 (pretreatment) per 21-day Cycle (6 Cycles)|Hematology NCI-CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 (Safety Population), Days 1 (pretreatment), 7, 14, and 21 per 21-day Cycle (6 Cycles)|Coagulation NCI-CTCAE Grade 3 or 4 (Safety Population), Day 1 (pretreatment) per 21-day Cycle (6 Cycles)
Lung cancer has become the leading cause of cancer death in both men and women in the US and Europe, accounting for 29% of all cancer deaths. Non-Small Cell Lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for approximately 80% of all lung cancer cases. Currently, no curative treatment is available for advanced stages of the disease (stages III and IV), which comprise the majority of cases. Treatment with the combination of carboplatin and paclitaxel has been shown to be effective and well tolerated in advanced stage NSCLC. Targeted therapies, such as bevacizumab, often act synergistically with chemotherapy. Bevacizumab inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), necessary for endothelial cell proliferation and new blood vessel formation. CA4P targets existing abnormal vasculature of tumors, impeding tumor blood flow and leading to extensive tumor cell death as a consequence of oxygen and nutrient deprivation.

This study will compare the effect of CA4P when combined with chemotherapy and bevacizumab on progression free survival (PFS) to PFS after chemotherapy and bevacizumab alone.