IR, Inflammatory and Cardiovascular Markers in PCOS Among Obese and Non-obese Women
FPCOS is associated with an adverse cardiometabolic profile, consisting of increased total or central adiposity, increased insulin resistance and abnormal glucose metabolism. Low-grade chronic inflammation predicts cardiovascular outcomes and is observed in women with PCOS. However, obesity is also associated with increased inflammatory markers. Obesity is per se associated with increased adipose expression and plasma levels of leptin, lower expression of adiponectin, and elevated inflammatory markers. To study the insulin resistance縲（nflammatory markers and cardiovascular risk in women with PCOS, body weight status should be considered. Investigator therefore conduct this retrospective study to evaluate the insulin resistance縲（nflammatory and cardiovascular markers between PCOS and non-PCOS among obese and non-obese women.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome,|Insulin Resistance,
Studying the insulin resistance, inflammatory and cardiovascular markers in polycystic ovary syndrome among obese and non-obese women., A retrospective study in 800 Taiwanese women medical records reviewed from 2009 to 2012, up to 4 years in Wan Fang Hospital.
FPCOS is associated with an adverse cardiometabolic profile, consisting of increased total or central adiposity, increased insulin resistance and abnormal glucose metabolism. Low-grade chronic inflammation predicts cardiovascular outcomes and is observed in women with PCOS. However, obesity is also associated with increased inflammatory markers. Obesity is per se associated with increased adipose expression and plasma levels of leptin, lower expression of adiponectin, and elevated inflammatory markers. To study the insulin resistance縲（nflammatory markers and cardiovascular risk in women with PCOS, body weight status should be considered. Investigator therefore conduct this retrospective study to evaluate the insulin resistance縲（nflammatory and cardiovascular markers between PCOS and non-PCOS among obese and non-obese women.