Chemotherapy With Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
PURPOSE: Cetuximab with platinum and 5FU is now the standard combination as first-line treatment in patients with metastatic or recurrent Head and Neck squamous cell carcinomas. Cetuximab and taxane combinations have demonstrated promising activity in Head and Neck cancer. This phase II trial is studying new cetuximab, docetaxel and cisplatin combination named TPEx as first-line treatment in this setting.
Squamous Cell Head and Neck Carcinoma|Recurrent or Metastatic Disease
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab IV|OTHER: Biopsies
Objective Tumor Response Rate, The objective tumor response rate is evaluated every 6 weeks according to RECIST criteria.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT-scan or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., 12 weeks (after completion of the 4th cycle of chemotherapy)
Grade 1 to 5 Toxicity, All grade 1 to 5 toxicity are registered during treatment. Patients have weekly clinical and biological examination., 24 weeks (average)|Best Overall Response, Tumor response is evaluated every 6 weeks according to RECIST criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, Stable Disease (SD); Best overall Response = CR + PR + SD., 12 weeks|Progression-free Survival, 1 year|Overall Survival, 1 year|Biomarkers, two years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the efficacy of TPEx combination in patients with head and neck cancer in term of objective response rate (RECIST, see statistical consideration) Secondary
* To assess toxicities of TPEx combination
* Determine the efficacy of TPEx combination in patients with head and neck cancer: Best Overall Response , progression-free survival and survival.
* Translational research objective:To better understand the mechanisms of chemoresistance and to identify biomarkers by the analysis of the tumor biopsies (RNA, gene expression profile) and protein profile (plasma samples). Exploratory analyses.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label phase II, multicenter study. Patients receive four cycles of chemotherapy comprising cetuximab IV plus docetaxel IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of the fourth cycle of chemotherapy, patients receive a maintenance therapy with cetuximab every 2 weeks. Treatment will be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities according to the patient or the investigator. Tumor check-up will be performed every 6 weeks. This study will allow translational research with blood sample and biopsies at baseline before any treatment, during the treatment with TPEx combination (week 6).,After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months.