Anal HPV Tests in Screening for Cell Changes in the Anus in Patients With HIV
This clinical trial studies anal human papillomavirus (HPV) tests in screening for cell changes in the anus in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Screening tests may help doctors find cancer cells early and plan better treatment for anal cancer. Completing multiple screening tests may help find the best method for detecting cell changes in the anus.
Anal Cancer|HIV Infection|Human Papilloma Virus Infection
PROCEDURE: comparison of screening methods|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Specificity of Each Other Methods of HSIL Detection for APTIMA Assay, Among patients who are HRA negative for HSIL, the number of participants who tested negative for HSIL on the APTIMA assay, at baseline|Prevalence of HSIL, The prevalence of HSIL will be estimated as the proportion of women who are HRA positive for HSIL at entry and its 95% confidence interval. Logistic regression analysis will be used to evaluate the association of potential risk factors with diagnosis of HSIL., at baseline|Sensitivity of Each of the Methods of APTIMA Assay at Baseline, Among patients whose high resolution anoscopy (HRA) results were positive for HSIL and had APTIMA assays at baseline, the number whose APTIMA assay results were positive., at baseline|Incidence of HSIL Among Women Who Were HRA Negative for HSIL at Study Entry, The Poisson rate and its 95% confidence interval will be estimated from the number of HSIL cases detected divided by the cumulative years of follow-up across these cases., Up to 2 years
Acceptability of Anal Cancer Screening, Anal cancer screening is typically done using a high resolution anoscopy, a device which allows visualization of the anus. To determine if participants found anal screening acceptable, they were asked if they were at east with having a high resolution anoscopy. The results indicated the number of participants who felt at ease with having a high resolution anoscopy, at baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the sensitivity and specificity of HPV testing using different methods of detection, including HPV Hybrid Capture 2 (HC2), HPV messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) assays (APTIMA) and OncoHealth HPV E6/E7 oncoprotein assay and whether they improve the screening performance of routine anal cytology for the detection of anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) when measured against the gold standard, biopsy-proven HSIL.

II. To determine the prevalence and risk factors for prevalent HSIL in HIV-infected women.

III. To determine incidence and risk factors associated with anal HSIL and HPV over 2 years among HIV infected women undergoing semi-annual anal evaluations.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the acceptability of anal cancer screening among HIV-infected women.

II. To collect data on quality of life and health care costs (including non-direct health care costs and time costs) for an economic evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of anal cancer screening strategies in HIV-positive women.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo screening for the detection of HSIL using anal cytology, HPV hybrid capture 2, HPV mRNA assays, and OncoHealth HPVE6/E7 oncoprotein at baseline, at 12 and 24 months.