Radiolabeled Monoclonal Antibody Therapy and Combination Chemotherapy Before Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Primary Refractory or Relapsed Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I clinical trial studies the side effects and best dose of radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy when given together with combination chemotherapy before stem cell transplant and to see how well it works in treating patients with primary refractory (did not respond to treatment) or relapsed (returned after treatment) Hodgkin lymphoma. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies can find cancer cells and carry cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carmustine, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM), work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or stopping them from spreading. Giving radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy together with combination chemotherapy may kill more cancer cells
Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: basiliximab|DRUG: carmustine|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: melphalan|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: yttrium Y 90-labeled basiliximab
RP2D of Yttrium-90 labeled basiliximab, RP2D will generally be the highest maximum tolerated dose (MTD), but it may be less than the MTD based on a review of available data/cumulative toxicities. Additional pulmonary toxicity monitoring will be performed among enrolled/treated patients with prior brentuximab vedotin exposure for both portions of the study., Up to 18 months|DLT, Toxicities will be recorded using two distinct grading systems: the modified Bearman Scale and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 scale. Observed toxicities will be summarized by type, severity, date of onset, duration (for neutropenia only), and attribution., For 30 days post-transplant
Best ORR, Response will be evaluated using the revised Cheson criteria. Objective tumor response for all patients will be summarized for each dose level, and the number and percent responding combined across dose levels., Up to 5 years|Biodistribution of basiliximab, Serum basiliximab levels will be evaluated. T1/2 and alpha- and beta- phase will be estimated for each patient using compartmental and non-compartmental methods, with summary statistics tabulated. Exploratory models to predict tumor response, survival, and toxicities from serum data and patient characteristics will be performed to better understand the effect of treatment on patients., Pre-basiliximab infusion; pre radiolabeled basiliximab infusion; 2 and 4-6 hours post radiolabeled basiliximab infusion; and then 1, 2, 3-4, 5, and 6 days post radiolabeled basiliximab infusion|Cumulative incidence of non-relapsed mortality (NRM), Cumulative relapse incidence will be estimated treating non-relapse related death events as competing risks and conversely, NRM will be calculated controlling for relapse as a competing risk. Cumulative incidence of NRM and relapse-related mortality will be calculated using the method of Gooley et al. Cumulative incidence differences will be assessed by Gray's test., From stem cell infusion to death from any cause other than disease relapse or progression, assessed up to 5 years|Cumulative incidence of relapse/progression incidence, Cumulative relapse incidence will be estimated treating non-relapse related death events as competing risks and conversely, NRM will be calculated controlling for relapse as a competing risk. Cumulative incidence of NRM and relapse-related mortality will be calculated using the method of Gooley et al. Cumulative incidence differences will be assessed by Gray's test., Up to 5 years|Incidence of toxicity, Observed toxicities will be summarized by type (organ affected or laboratory determination such as absolute neutrophil count), severity (by NCI CTCAE v4.0 and nadir or maximum values for lab measures), dates of onset, duration, reversibility, and attribution., Up to 100 days post-infusion|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the KM product-limit method; 95% CIs will be calculated using the logit transformation and the Greenwood variance estimate. OS will be estimated using two different start times (from radio-labeled therapeutic infusion and from stem cell infusion) to death from any cause., Time from transplant to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) product-limit method. 95% confidence intervals (CIs) will be calculated using the logit transformation and the Greenwood variance estimate. PFS will be estimated using two different start times (from radio-labeled therapeutic infusion and from stem cell infusion) to recurrence, progression, or death from any cause., Time from transplant to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 5 years|Response duration, Time from when criteria for response (CR or PR) are met to the first documentation of relapse or progression, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of the autologous hematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT) regimen of yttrium Y-90 basiliximab/DOTA, given in combination with standard dose(s) of BEAM in patients with primary progressive or relapsed Hodgkin lymphoma (HL).

II. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) and characterize toxicities at each dose level - including time course.

III. To evaluate hematological recovery in terms of neutrophil and platelet engraftment time.

IV. To estimate overall response rate (ORR: complete remission \[CR\] + partial remission \[PR\]), response duration, overall survival, progression-free survival, and the cumulative incidence of non-relapse mortality and relapse/progression.

V. To estimate the radiation doses to the whole body and normal organs through serial imaging studies.

VI. To define biodistribution/extended pharmacokinetics of 111indium (In)-basiliximab/DOTA and 90Y- basiliximab/DOTA including terminal elimination, serum half-life (t1/2), and area under the curve (AUC).

OUTLINE: DOSIMETRY STUDY: Patients receive basiliximab intravenously (IV) and indium In 111 basiliximab IV on day -21. Patients undergo indium In 111 imaging scans daily. Patients with appropriate biodistribution continue on to treatment.

TREATMENT: Patients receive basiliximab IV and yttrium Y 90 basiliximab IV on day -14. Patients also receive BEAM chemotherapy comprising carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -7 and -6, etoposide IV over 4 hours twice daily (BID) and cytarabine IV over 2 hours BID on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV on day -1. Patients undergo autologous hematopoietic progenitor cell infusion on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at day 90-100, 180, 1 year, 1.5 years, and 2-5 years.