Platinum and Taxane Chemo in Met Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer Patients With Alterations in DNA Damage Response Genes
The usual approach for most patients who are not in a study is treatment with docetaxel.

This study is being done to answer the following question: Can the chance of prostate cancer growing or spreading be lowered by adding a drug to the usual approach?

This study is being done to find out if this approach is better or worse than the usual approach for prostate cancer. The usual approach is defined as the care most people get for prostate cancer.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Overall Survival, 5.25 years
To compare the two treatment arms with respect to PSA response, Defined as a reduction in PSA from baseline by 50%, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to progression free survival, as defined by PCWG3 and RECIST 1.1, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to time to next systemic therapy, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to time to number and severity of adverse events, Utilizing CTCAE version 5.0, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to patient-reported Quality of Life (QoL) quantified by FACT-P questionnaire, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to patient-reported Quality of Life (QoL) quantified by FACT-Taxane questionnaire, 5.25 years|To compare the two treatment arms with respect to patient-reported Quality of Life (QoL) quantified by BPI-SF questionnaire, 5.25 years|Economic Evaluation of healthcare utilization, Health system resources will be identified as, but not limited to, clinic visits, treatments (radiation, surgery, medication), physician encounters, hospitalizations related to treatment and complications, emergent visits and diagnostics., 5.25 years|Economic Evaluation of health utilities measured by Eq-5D-5L, 5.25 years
If taking part in this study, the patient will either get docetaxel, or carboplatin in addition to docetaxel. In both cases, the cancer will be monitored by CT scans and bone scans every 9 weeks, and blood tests every 3 weeks. Study treatments, scans, and tests will continue until the disease gets worse.

After finishing study treatment, even if treatment is stopped before the disease gets worse, the study doctor will continue to follow patients condition, watch for side effects and keep track of the health of the patient. If treatment is stopped before the disease got worse, patients will be asked to continue getting CT scans and bone scans every 9 weeks, and blood tests every 3 weeks, until the disease worsens. If the disease gets worse while receiving treatment, or after treatment is stopped, the patient will be contacted by phone every 3 months for the rest of their life to monitor their status. Patients may be seen more often if the study doctor thinks it is necessary.