Steps for PRosTAte Cancer Health and Survival (SPaRTACuS): Pilot Study of a Walking Intervention to Improve Health and Quality of Life in Prostate Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine whether sustainable daily physical activity is effective in improving biological indicators of health and self-reported quality of life in men with prostate cancer.
Prostatic Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Walking Intervention|OTHER: Standard of Care
C-Reactive Protein, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|High-Density Lipoprotein, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Adiponectin, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Total Cholesterol, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Triglycerides, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Insulin, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Testosterone, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Estradiol, Levels assessed in blood. Blood draw performed by clinician at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Self-Reported Stress, Self-reported stress level measured using the Perceived Stress Scale-4. Questionnaire completed by participant at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Self-Reported Sleep Quality, Self-reported sleep quality measured using the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale. Questionnaire completed by participant at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Self-Reported Emotional Quality of Life, Self-reported emotional quality of life using the 21-Item Depression Anxiety Stress Scale, DASS-21. Questionnaire completed by participant at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Self-Reported Physical Quality of Life, Self-reported physical quality of life measures related to urinary, bowel, and sexual function using the FACT-P questionnaire. Questionnaire completed by participant at start and 11 weeks after start of intervention., At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks|Blodpressur, systolic and diastolic., Blodpressur systolic and diastolic, will be assesed by the clinican at randomisation and after 11 weeks, At time of randomisation(March 1, 2010) and after 11 weeks
Living with prostate cancer is a unique challenge faced by millions of men across the globe. Existing research has indicated many potential methods of attenuating prostate cancer progression and preserving patients' quality of life, but is lacking in definitive conclusions regarding the effectiveness of these methods in practice. This study seeks to further investigate the impact of post-diagnosis physical activity on biological indicators of health and self-reported quality of life in a cohort of men with prostate cancer in Sweden. Participants are randomized to either a walking intervention group, which encourages walking 10,000 steps per day for one year, or to a standard-or-care control group, and followed for 11 weeks.