Cell Therapy (STEAP1 CART) With Enzalutamide for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I/II trial tests the safety and effectiveness of cell therapy (STEAP1 CART) with enzalutamide in treating patients with prostate cancer that continues to grow despite surgical or medical treatments to block androgen production (castration-resistant) and that has spread from where it first started (the prostate) to other places in the body (metastatic). Prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in men. Localized prostate cancer is often curable and even metastatic disease may respond to treatment for a few years. Despite multiple therapies, including hormone therapy and chemotherapy, metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) still remains an incurable disease. Recently, adoptive cellular immunotherapies have been developed to transfer immunogenic cells to the patient to produce an anti-tumor response. Chimeric antigen receptor T (CART)-cell therapy is a type of treatment in which a patient's T-cells (a type of immune cell) are changed in the laboratory so they will attack tumor cells. T cells are taken from a patient's blood. Then the gene for a special receptor that binds to a certain protein on the patient's tumor cells is added to the T cells in the laboratory. The special receptor is called a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). Large numbers of the CAR T cells are grown in the laboratory and given to the patient by infusion for treatment of certain cancers. Prostate stem cell antigen and prostate specific membrane antigen CAR T cell therapies have been shown to be safe and effective, but objective tumor responses remain rare. STEAP1 is an antigen that promotes cancer growth and spread and is found to be broadly expressed in mCRPC tissues. STEAP1 CART is CAR T cells that have been engineered with a STEAP1 antigen to better target prostate tumor cells. Enzalutamide is in a class of medications called androgen receptor inhibitors. It works by blocking the effects of androgen (a male reproductive hormone) to stop the growth and spread of cancer cells. Giving STEAP1 CART with enzalutamide may kill more tumor cells in patients with mCRPC.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Anti-STEAP1 CAR T-cells|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) (Phase I), Toxicity will be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0., Up to 28 days post infusion|Incidence of AEs (Phase II), Toxicity will be graded according to NCI CTCAE v 5.0., Up to 28 days post infusion|Response (Phase II), Response will be defined as best overall response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and/or Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria., Up to 1 year post infusion|Prostate specific antigen (PSA) response, PSA responses, defined as \>= 50% reductions in PSA from baseline at any point post baseline assessment will be calculated., At baseline up to 1 year post infusion|Time to response (TTR), TTR will be assessed from the time of study infusion to time of first documented response (partial response \[PR\] or better)., At time from study infusion to time of first documented response up to 1 year post infusion|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be assessed from the time of first documented response (PR or better) to time of confirmed disease progression., At time of first documented response to time of confirmed progression up to 1 year post infusion
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier with time zero being the time of first T cell infusion., At time from initiation of protocol treatment to disease progression or death up to 1 year post infusion|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier with time zero being the time of first T cell infusion., At time from initiation of protocol treatment to death of any cause up to 1 year post infusion|Frequency of participants that achieve an overall response rate (ORR, including complete and partial response) according to RECIST v.1.1 or PCWG3, To measure how well the treatment succeeds in producing the desired effect., Anti-tumor response according to RECIST v1.1 or PCWG3 up to 1 year post infusion|Frequency of participants that achieve a stable disease (SD) according to RECIST v.1.1 or PCWG3, To measure how well the treatment succeeds in producing the desired effect., Anti-tumor response according to RECIST v1.1 or PCWG3 up to 1 year post infusion|Frequency of participants that achieve a clinical benefit rate (ORR + SD) stable disease RECIST v.1.1 or PCWG3, To measure how well the treatment succeeds in producing the desired effect., Anti-tumor response according to RECIST v1.1 or PCWG3 up to 1 year post infusion|ORR by immune RECIST, Up to 1 year post infusion
OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of STEAP1 CART in combination with enzalutamide followed by a dose expansion study.

Patients undergo leukapheresis then receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) and fludarabine IV on days -5, -4 and -3 and STEAP1 CART IV on day 0. Patients may receive enzalutamide orally (PO) on day 0 then once daily (QD) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo a tumor biopsy at baseline, day 14 and optionally at progression. Patients additionally undergo blood sample collection, nuclear medicine (NM) bone scan and computed tomography (CT) scan, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) scan throughout study. Additionally, patients may undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) at screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, and 12 months then every 6 months up to year 5 followed by yearly up to year 15.