A First-in-Human Phase I Study of ESG206 in Subjects With B-cell Lymphoid Malignancies
This is a first-in-human phase I, multicenter, open label, sequential-cohort, dose escalation study of ESG206. The purpose is to evaluate the clinical safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary efficacy and to establish the MTD, if any, and RP2D(s) of ESG206 in adult subjects with B lymphoid malignancies.
B-cell Lymphoid Malignancies
DRUG: ESG206
Percentage of Participants Experiencing Any Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) were defined as: Any AE that happens after treatment initiation,.or AE that was present at time of treatment initiation but worsened after treatment initiation, or AE that was present and resolved prior to treatment and reappeared after treatment initiation after the start of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug. The severity was graded based on the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0., First dose date up to last dose plus 30 days
Cmax, Maximum observed plasma concentration, Up to 20 months|AUC0-inf, Area under the serum concentration time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinity, Up to 20 months|Tmax, Time to maximum plasma concentration, Up to 20 months|T1/2, Half-life, Up to 20 months|Overall Response (OR), Defined as complete response (CR) + partial response (PR), Up to 20 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the interval from the start of study therapy to the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression or death from any cause, Up to 20 months|ADA, Incidence of anti-drug antibodies, Up to 20 months
This is a first-in-human phase I, multicenter, open label, sequential-cohort, dose escalation study of ESG206. The study will follow a modified 3+3 dose escalation scheme. Dose escalation will continue until identification of MTD or the predicted efficacy dose in the event that a MTD is not identified due to paucity of DLTs. Toxicity including dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) observed in Cycle 1 of the first 28 days will be used to determine escalation to the next dose level as described below.

Five dose levels are planned. Dose choosing will be determined by the SMC and the sponsor based on the pharmacokinetics, tolerability and preliminary antitumor activities, as well as other available data.

Subjects will be monitored for safety, tolerability, and efficacy throughout the study.