Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Metastatic, Locally Advanced, or Recurrent Medullary Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well sorafenib tosylate works in treating patients with medullary thyroid cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic), spread to the tissue surrounding the thyroid (locally advanced), or has returned after a period of improvement (recurrent). Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Hereditary Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma|Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2A|Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 2B|Recurrent Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma|Sporadic Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma|Stage III Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Objective Response Rate of Sorafenib Tosylate in Metastatic Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma in Setting of Inherited Tumor Syndromes as Well as in Setting of Sporadic Medullary Thyroid Cancer, Measured using MRI scans. Determined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors/World Health Organization response criteria. 95% confidence interval will be calculated to estimate the frequency of response., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate
Number of Patients With Decreased Calcitonin Levels, Identifying the number of patients with decreased calcitonin levels, Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Patient With Decreased Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) Levels, Identify the number of patients with decreased Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) levels, Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Percent of Baseline Dynamic-Contrast Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) Exchange Rate Constant (Kep), Median decrease in exchange rate Kep in index lesions, Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Degree of Ras-MAPK Signaling Inhibition in the Tumor, Identify the number of patients with degree of Ras-MAPK signaling inhibition, Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Degree of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Expression in the Tumor, Correlated with clinical response., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Standardized Uptake Value (SUV Max) as Measured by Fludeoxyglucose F-18 Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Identify the median SUV at baseline and 8 week follow up as measured by Fludeoxyglucose F-18 Positron Emission Tomography (PET)., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Number of Patients With Toxicity, Graded Using the Revised National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Toxicities were graded for patients using the revised National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, Up to 4 weeks after last dose of sorafenib tosylate|Number of Participants With Ret Proto-Oncogene (RET) Gene Defects in the Tumor, Percent of patients with RET mutations, Baseline|Selected Polymorphisms of Genes Influencing Sorafenib Tosylate Metabolism and/or Resistance Genes That May Predict Response or Toxicity, Changes will be correlated with toxicity and clinical response to therapy., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess objective response rate of sorafenib tosylate (sorafenib \[BAY 43-9006\]) in metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma in setting of inherited tumor syndromes, such as multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN) 2A, MEN 2B, or familial medullary thyroid carcinoma (FMTC).

II. To assess objective response rate of sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) in sporadic metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess toxicity of sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) in patients with metastatic medullary thyroid carcinoma.

II. Measure serum tumor markers calcitonin and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) pre-, during, and post-treatment to correlate with disease response.

III. Correlate nuclear medicine functional imaging (fludeoxyglucose F 18 \[F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose\] positron emission tomography \[PET\] scan) data obtained at pre-, during, and post-treatment with tumor response.

IV. Correlate dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) data obtained at pre-, during, and post-treatment with changes in tumor permeability and vascularity with tumor response.

V. Perform pharmacogenomic studies on procured peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) if clinical responses are observed.

VI. To correlate between the degree of retrovirus-associated sequence (Ras)-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling inhibition and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in the tumor and clinical response.

VII. To correlate between the presence and type of ret proto-oncogene (RET) gene defects in tumor and clinical response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.