Role of Soy Supplementation in Prostate Cancer Development
This is a randomized study evaluating the effectiveness and direct effect a commercial soy supplement has on prostate cancer and normal prostate tissue. Patient will be randomized it either receive placebo or a commercial soy supplement for 2-4 weeks prior to the planned surgery for treatment of their prostate cancer. Patient's blood and prostate tissue will be evaluated to determine the effects of the soy supplement on the prostate tissue.
Prostate Neoplasm
DRUG: Soy Supplement|DRUG: Placebo
Effect of Soy Isoflavones on Serum Testosterone Levels., Total testosterone (ng/ml) serum levels were measured at the time of enrollment(baseline), after two weeks on soy supplement(time point 1), and just prior to prostatectomy (time point 2). All patients must have completed at least two week of soy supplement or placebo and time point 3 varied depending on date of planned prostatectomy. Results were analyzed and are reported at the two week time period, comparing between patients receiving soy supplement or placebo., Two weeks
Effect of Soy Isoflavones on Estrogen Receptor Status, Samples of the prostate cancer tissue (paraffin embedded) were sectioned and placed on a glass slide. Using immunohistochemistry and an estrogen receptor antibody, sections were stained and assess to determine the extent of estrogen receptor expression. Patients in the soy supplement arm's samples results were compared to placebo arm results., Two weeks|Molecular Effects of Soy Supplementation Compared to Placebo., Using a tissue microarray targeting the cell cycle, selected fresh prostate cancer samples were evaluated in patients in the soy supplement arm compared to the placebo arm., One year
This is a randomized study evaluating the effectiveness and direct effect a commercial soy supplement has on prostate cancer and normal prostate tissue. Patients will be randomized to either receive placebo or a commercial soy supplement for 2-4 weeks prior to the planned surgery for treatment of their prostate cancer. The specific objectives are:

1. To assess the effect of soy supplementation on endogenous hormone production levels and serum prostate specific antigens.
2. To assess the impact of soy supplementation on estrogen receptor expression(ER).
3. To determine the impact of soy isoflavones on cell cycle regulation and associated gene expression.