Hatha Yoga in Improving Physical Activity, Inflammation, Fatigue, and Distress in Breast Cancer Survivors
RATIONALE: Yoga may improve inflammation, fatigue, and depression in female breast cancer survivors.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well Hatha yoga works in improving physical activity, inflammation, fatigue, and distress in female breast cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer|Depression|Fatigue|Pain
PROCEDURE: Yoga Therapy
Stimulated ln (TNF-a), log-transformed Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment|Stimulated ln (IL-6), log-transformed Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Interleukin-6 (IL-6), Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment|Stimulated ln (IL-1b), log-transformed Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulated Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1b), Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment|MFSI-SF Fatigue, The 30-item Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short form (MFSI-SF) assesses behavioral, cognitive, physical, and affective expressions of fatigue.

Items are rated on a 5-point scale indicating how true each statement was for the respondent during the last week (0=not at all; 4=extremely). The total score represents the sum of the subscales measuring general, physical, emotional, and mental fatigue, minus the vigor scale, providing a possible range of scores from -24 to 96, with higher scores indicating greater fatigue., Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment|Vitality, SF-36, The SF-36's (RAND Health Survey) energy/fatigue (vitality) scale focuses on the frequency of feelings of fatigue over the last month.

Standardized scores on the RAND SF-36 vigor/vitality scale range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating less fatigue., Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment|CES-D, The Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) is a self-report scale designed to measure current symptoms of depression rated on a four-point likert scale.

Scores range from 0-60, with higher scores indicating a higher frequency of depressive symptoms., Immediately post-treatment and 3 months post-treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine if the yoga intervention will decrease inflammation, fatigue, and depressive symptoms relative to the waiting-list controls in women who are stage 0-IIIa breast cancer survivors.

OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to stage of cancer (stage 0 vs stage I vs stage II and stage IIIA) and prior radiation therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

* Arm I (waiting-list control): Patients are encouraged to perform usual activities, but asked to refrain from any yoga practice or other related activities. After a six-month observation period, patients undergo yoga intervention as described in arm II .
* Arm II (yoga intervention): Patients participate in a Hatha yoga intervention session comprising body postures and breath control techniques for 1.5 hours twice a week for 12 weeks. Patients are encouraged to practice Hatha yoga at home. Patients complete daily diaries on home Hatha yoga practices and submit them at each session.