INVINCIBLE TRIAL: Intratumoral INT230-6 in Breast Cancer
This is a phase II, randomized, multi-center, parallel design, window of opportunity trial evaluating intratumoral INT230-6 in up to 90 patients with early stage breast cancer. In a 2:1 randomization, patients on the treatment arm will receive intratumoral INT230-6 injections prior to breast surgery.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: INT230-6|OTHER: Saline injection
The proportion of patients achieving a CCCA defined as a reduction in the proportion of cells staining positive for Ki67 as assessed by immunohistochemistry to less than a natural logarithm, or ≤2.7%, at the post-treatment specimen., Tumor's viable plus necrotic tissue, at the post-treatment specimen., presurgical window (period from diagnosis to surgery window of 3-6 weeks)
The proportion of patients that achieved a complete pathologic response on surgical pathology as measured by the residual cancer burden index, Assessed by the local pathologist at the time of definitive surgery in subjects with breast cancer, presurgical window (period from diagnosis to surgery of 3-6 weeks)|Immunohistochemical and gene expression markers of necrosis, apoptosis and tumor proliferation pathways., Comparison of pre (diagnostic biopsy) and post treatment (surgical resection) samples, presurgical window (period from diagnosis to surgery of 3-6 weeks)|Markers of immunomodulation including macrophages, NK, DC, CD4 T-cells, CD8 T-cells, regulatory T-cells., Comparison of pre (diagnostic biopsy) and post treatment (surgical resection) samples, presurgical window (period from diagnosis to surgery of 3-6 weeks)|Adverse effects of INT230-6 injected to breast cancers in healthy patients prior to surgery., overall safety of INT230-6 injected prior to surgery, presurgical window (period from diagnosis to surgery of 3-6 weeks)
The study comprises 2 consecutive parts. The first part will be to test safety and feasibility of the dosing procedures. Results from Part I of the study will standardise the optimal dose and frequency of INT230-6 for participants in Part II.

Part I: Open-label 2:1 randomized study of up to 30 patients. Treatment arm patients will be given up to 3 doses of INT230-6 injected weekly prior to breast surgery, at a dose based on longest diameter. The control arm patients receive no treatment.

Part II: Double-blind, 2:1 randomized study of up to an additional 60 patients. The placebo arm includes a saline injection of similar dose and frequency as the treatment arm (up to 2 doses of INT230-6/saline injected weekly prior to breast surgery).