Randomized, Double Blind Trial of the Quadrivalent HPV Vaccine to Improve Responses to LEEP Treatment of Cervical HSIL
Cervical cancer occurs commonly in HIV-infected women in South Africa. These women have poor response to treatment of cervical cancer precursors. This study will test whether giving the quadrivalent vaccine to women prior to surgical treatment of the cervical cancer precursor will improve outcomes. We hypothesize that pre-treatment HPV vaccine will result in a reduced occurrence or cervical cancer precursors in follow-up.
Cervical High Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion
BIOLOGICAL: Human Papillomavirus vaccine
Cervical HSIL, For this trial, the primary endpoint is high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) or atypical squamous cells suggestive of HSIL found on cervical cytology, or HSIL found on cervical biopsy specimens at either the week 26 or week 52 visit., up to 52 weeks
Cervical Cytology, Cervical cytology abnormalities according to the Bethesda scale. The Bethesda scale classifies cytologic abnormalities. We have dichotomized the outcomes into high grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL)/atypical squamous cells suggestive of HSIL, or no evidence of intraepithelial lesions or malignancy (NILM)/atypical squamous cells of unknown significance (ASC-US)/low grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL). We report the number of women in each category., Week 26
This is a single-center, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, phase II trial of the quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine (qHPV) in HIV-infected women to prevent occurrence of cervical HSIL after LEEP/LLETZ. Participants will undergo colposcopy with directed biopsies, cervical cytology, and stored HPV testing prior to vaccination. Participants will be randomized to the quadrivalent vaccine or saline placebo to be given at entry, week 4, and week 26. Women will have LEEP treatment at week 4. Participants will be seen in follow-up for cervical cytology, colposcopy with directed biopsies at weeks 26 and 52, and stored HPV specimens. Treatment assignment will be unblinded after study follow-up is completed for the last study participant. Women aged 45 or less randomized to placebo will be offered open label HPV vaccine after the study is concluded..