S1313, PEGPH20 in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This partially randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase (PEGPH20) when given together with combination chemotherapy and to see how well they work compared with combination chemotherapy alone in treating patients with newly diagnosed pancreatic cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase may help chemotherapy drugs work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, and oxaliplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy is more effective with or without pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase in treating pancreatic cancer.
Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: PEGPH20|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of PEGPH20 in Combination With mFOLFIRINOX, Assess safety of mFOLFIRINOX in combination with PEGPH20 and select the optimal dose of PEGPH20 for the Phase II portion.

MTD of PEGPH20 in combination with mFOLFORINOX was evaluated by testing decreasing doses of PEGPH20 from 3mcg/kg on Day 1 and Day 3/4, to 3mcg/kg on Day 1 only and to 1.6 mcg/kg on Day 1 only.

MTD reflects the highest dose that had a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) rate of ≤ 17%. DLTs were defined as treatment regimen related: grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic toxicity; grade 4 absolute neutrophil count (ANC) anemia or thrombocytopenia; grade 4 ANC lasting \> 7 days; grade ≥ 3 febrile neutropenia; grade ≥ 3 elevation of aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/alanine aminotransferase (ALT), total bilirubin, and creatinine; delay in starting the 2nd cycle of mFOLFIRINOX by \> 2 weeks due to drug related toxicity.

DLT were graded using the NCI CTCAE version 4. Note: the third and lowest dose level was not reached., 2 cycles of 14 days|Phase II: Overall Survival, Time from date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact.

Assessed using the logrank test., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), Time from date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration or death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive without report of progression are censored at date of last contact., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Objective Tumor Response Rate (Confirmed and Unconfirmed, Complete and Partial), Objective tumor response rate (complete response, unconfirmed complete response, partial response, unconfirmed partial response) in patients with measurable disease were assessed in each arm and compared between arms using Chi-squared test.

Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, Up to 3 years|Number of Patients With Gr 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drugs, Adverse Events (AEs) are reported by CTCAE Version 4.0. Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported.

Grade 3: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care activities of daily living e.g. bathing, dressing and undressing, feeding self, using the toilet, taking medications, and not bedridden.

Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated.

Grade 5: Death related to adverse event, Duration of treatment and follow up until death or 3 years post registration
Cancer Antigen (CA) 19-9 Levels, Explore correlation of maximum decrease in CA 19-9 levels to maximum decrease in CA 19-9 levels with overall survival, progression-free survival and response., Within 2 years of the end of the study|Plasma Expression of Hyaluronan (HA), Within 2 years of end of study|Tumor Expression of HA, Within 2 years of end of study
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of modified leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride and oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX) in combination with PEGPH20 and select the optimal dose of PEGPH20 for the phase II portion in patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. (Phase I) II. To assess the overall survival of patients with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with mFOLFIRINOX + PEGPH20 compared to those treated with mFOLFIRINOX alone. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression free survival (PFS) in patients receiving mFOLFIRINOX with PEGPH20 and patients receiving mFOLFIRINOX alone in this patient population.

II. To assess objective tumor response (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial) in patients with measurable disease treated with mFOLFIRINOX with PEGPH20 and patients receiving mFOLFIRINOX alone in this patient population.

III. To determine the frequency, severity, and tolerability of adverse events of mFOLFIRINOX with PEGPH20.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the correlation of maximum decrease in cancer antigen (CA) 19-9 levels and time to maximum decrease in CA 19-9 levels with overall survival, progression-free survival and response.

II. To explore the correlation of plasma hyaluronan (HA) and tumor expression of HA with overall survival, progression-free survival and response.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose de-escalation study of pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase followed by a randomized phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1\*; oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1.5 hours on day 2; and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 2-4. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1.5 hours on day 2, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 2-4. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase IV over 10 minutes on day 1\* and oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, irinotecan hydrochloride, and fluorouracil as in Arm I. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

\*NOTE: Some patients also receive pegylated recombinant human hyaluronidase on day 3 or 4 of courses 1 and 2.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.