Comparing Brief Behavioral Therapy (BBT-CI) and Healthy Eating Education Learning (HEAL) for Cancer-Related Sleep Problems While Receiving Chemotherapy
This phase III trial compares BBT-CI to HEAL for the reduction of insomnia in patients with stage I-IV cancer who are receiving cancer treatment. Cancer treatment can cause side effects such as sleep problems. Sleep problems such as insomnia, are common for cancer patients. Insomnia can be described as difficulty falling asleep, waking up many times during the night or waking up earlier than patient would like. Insomnia can increase fatigue and worsen quality of life. This trial may help researchers determine which treatment works better in reducing insomnia, BBT-CI or HEAL.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Behavioral Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Mean change in the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) total score, The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) is a validated self-report measure of insomnia. A 5-point Likert Scale of seven questions is used to rate each item (0=no problem; 4=very severe problem), yielding a total score ranging from 0-28 with higher scores indicating higher severity of insomnia. A linear mixed effects analysis of covariance model (ANCOVA) will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between BBT-CI and HEAL., Baseline to day 49
Mean change in Sleep Efficiency assessed via Actigraphy, Actigraphy will assess sleep efficiency, calculated as the percent of total sleep time to time in bed. Higher percentage indicates better sleep efficiency. A linear mixed effects analysis of covariance model (ANCOVA) will be used to assess the statistical significance of the differences in mean change between BBT-CI and HEAL., Baseline to day 49
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of BBT-CI compared to HEAL for treating insomnia as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) at post-intervention.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of BBT-CI compared to HEAL for improving sleep efficiency as measured via actigraphy at post-intervention.

MECHANISTIC OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the efficacy of BBT-CI compared to HEAL for regulating circadian rhythms as measured via actigraphy (i.e., Mesor, Acrophase, Amplitude, I\<O dichotomy index).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine potential moderators of BBT-CI effects on insomnia (ISI). II. Examine potential mediators of BBT-CI effects on insomnia (ISI). III. Determine the efficacy of BBT-CI compared to HEAL for treating insomnia as measured by the Insomnia Severity Index at the 6-month follow-up.

IV. Determine the efficacy of BBT-CI compared to HEAL for improving sleep efficiency as measured via actigraphy at the 6-month follow-up.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (BBT-CI): Patients complete face to face/video sessions with a trained staff member. Patients also complete phone sessions.

GROUP II (HEAL): Patients complete face to face/video sessions with a trained staff member. Patients also complete phone sessions.

After completion of study, patients are followed for up to 6 months.