Pilocarpine in Preventing Mucositis and Dry Mouth in Patients Receiving Radiation Therapy for Head and Neck Cancer
RATIONALE: Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs such as pilocarpine may protect normal cells from the side effects of radiation therapy. It is not yet known if pilocarpine may be effective in preventing mucositis and dry mouth in patients receiving radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized, double-blinded, phase III trial to study the effectiveness of pilocarpine in preventing mucositis and dry mouth in patients receiving radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.
Head and Neck Cancer|Oral Complications
DRUG: pilocarpine hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo
Acute salivary gland toxicity, From the start of treatment to 13 weeks
Acute mucositis in the pharynx, palate, tongue, or buccal, From the start of treatment to 13 weeks|Quality of life as measured by the University of Washington Head and Neck Symptom questionnaire, Pretreatment to 26 weeks from the start of treatment|Effects of continuing pilocarpine out to 6 months from the start of treatment, From the start of treatment to 26 weeks
OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether prophylactic use of pilocarpine can shelter unstimulated and stimulated whole salivary flow in patients with head and neck cancer. II. Determine whether prophylactic use of pilocarpine can moderate xerostomia in these patients. III. Determine whether prophylactic use of pilocarpine can reduce the grade and duration of radiation induced mucositis in these patients. IV. Evaluate quality of life outcomes between patients receiving pilocarpine versus placebo. V. Evaluate the impact of xerostomia on patients receiving irradiation to the head and neck.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double blind study. Patients receive a central axis midplane dose of radiotherapy five days per week over 6 to 7 weeks. Oral pilocarpine or placebo is administered beginning 3 days prior to radiotherapy, one tablet four times per day for three months. A tablet will be taken 45-60 minutes before radiotherapy. After three months, and after a 3-4 day rest period, all patients receive non blinded pilocarpine for an additional three month period. Patients are followed at weeks 4, 13, and 26 after the start of radiotherapy.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 244 patients will be accrued (122 per treatment arm).