Neoadjuvant PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody in Cisplatin-ineligible High Risk Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
Neoadjuvant therapy of cisplatin-based chemotherapy has been proved to improve prognosis of muscle invasive UTUC patients in several studies. This study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant PD-1 monoclonal antibody in patients with locally advanced upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) which are ineligible for cisplatin. Tislelizumab, an anti-programmed death protein-1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody, was engineered to minimize binding to FcγR on macrophages to abrogate antibody-dependent phagocytosis, a mechanism of T-cell clearance and potential resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. The safety, tolerability, and efficacy of tislelizumab in patients with PD-L1 positive urothelial carcinoma who progressed during/following platinum-containing therapy was proved in a phase 2 trial (CTR20170071). This trial focuses on the efficacy of Tislelizumab to induce pathological down-staging of locally advanced UTUC in neoadjuvant setting.
Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy of Cisplatin-ineligible High Risk Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab
pathological reponse rate, ypT0N0 at surgical specimen，in the intention-to-treat population, 30 days after surgery
pathological response rate, ypT0 and ypT1 at surgical specimen，in the intention-to-treat population, 30 days after surgery|perioperative complication rate, the rate of perioperative complications are determined according to Clavien classification, 30 days after surgery|objective response rate, the proportion of patients with a confirmed complete response or partial response based on radiological examination before surgery per RECIST version 1.1, 12 months after drug treatment|disease free survival, from surgery to any kind of recurrence including tumour bed, first metastasis, or death from any cause, 5 years after surgery or treatment|overall survival, time from enrollment to death for any cause, 5 years after enrollment
Neoadjuvant therapy of cisplatin-based chemotherapy has been proved to improve prognosis of muscle invasive UTUC patients in several studies. This study is designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of neoadjuvant PD-1 monoclonal antibody in patients with locally advanced upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) which are ineligible for cisplatin. Tislelizumab, an anti-programmed death protein-1 (PD-1) monoclonal antibody, was engineered to minimize binding to FcγR on macrophages to abrogate antibody-dependent phagocytosis, a mechanism of T-cell clearance and potential resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy. The safety, tolerability, and efficacy of tislelizumab in patients with PD-L1 positive urothelial carcinoma who progressed during/following platinum-containing therapy was proved in a phase 2 trial (CTR20170071). This trial focuses on the efficacy of Tislelizumab to induce pathological down-staging of locally advanced UTUC in neoadjuvant setting.