Mosunetuzumab and Polatuzumab Vedotin With Split-Dose CHP Chemotherapy for Elderly Patients With Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This single-arm, interventional phase 2 study is designed to evaluate whether the inclusion of mosunetuzumab subcutaneous and polatuzumab vedotin (Mosun-Pola) to a split-dose CHP chemotherapy backbone will improve outcomes for elderly patients with a new diagnosis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
DRUG: Polatuzumab Vedotin|DRUG: Mosunetuzumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone|OTHER: Pegfilgrastim
Complete Response, This is defined as the number of subjects achieving a complete response at the end of treatment using the Lugano criteria., Up to six months.
Partial Response, This is defined as the number of subjects achieving a partial response at the end of treatment using the Lugano criteria., Up to six months|Duration of Response, This is defined as the time from the first documentation of tumor response to disease progression (per the Lugano criteria), relapse, or death among patients who achieve a response of partial response or better. The measure will be the median duration of response in months., Up to 60 months|Overall Survival, This outcome measure is the number of subjects expiring from any cause., 2 years|Adverse Events, The number of grade 3 or higher adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely related to study therapy in the safety run-in population from the start of therapy through 30 days after the end of study therapy. Adverse events will be graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) will be graded using the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) consensus grading system described by Lee et al., 2019. The scale for ICANS will be the ASTCT ICANS consensus grading for adults. The score evaluates neurotoxicity domains. The lowest grade is 1 (less severe) and the highest is 4 (more severe). The ASTCT Consensus Grading for CRS, is based on the severity of the patient's symptoms. The lowest grade is 1 and the highest is 4. The higher the grade, the more severe., Up to 7 months|Study therapy completion, The number of subjects who complete the study therapy., Up to 6 months|Eligibility for abbreviated therapy, The number of subjects eligible for abbreviated therapy., 56 days|Eligibility for full therapy, The number of subjects eligible for full therapy., 56 days|CRS or ICANS, The number of subjects experiencing a CRS or ICANS of the total study population within the first 28 days after study therapy start. The scale for ICANS will be the ASTCT ICANS consensus grading for adults. The score evaluates various neurotoxicity domains. The lowest grade is 1 and the highest is 4. The higher the grade, the more severe the symptoms. The scale for CRS, ASTCT Consensus Grading for CRS, is based on the severity of the patient's symptoms. The lowest grade is 1 and the highest is 4. The higher the grade, the more severe the symptoms., 28 days|Minimal residual disease at Cycle 3, The number of subjects who achieve minimal residual disease negativity at Cycle 3. This will be determined using the clonoSEQ assay., 56 days|Minimal residual disease at end of study treatment, The number of subjects who achieve minimal residual disease negativity at the end of treatment. This will be determined using the clonoSEQ assay., Up to six monts
This trial combines two novel agents, mosunetuzumab subcutatneous and polatuzumab vedotin (Mosun-Pola), with cytotoxic chemotherapy while allowing de-escalation in rapidly responding patients. After completing the first two cycles of Mosun-Pola-SD-CHP therapy, subjects will undergo an interim response assessment with positron emission tomography (PET) / computed tomography (CT) and minimal residual disease (MRD) testing (ClonoSEQ; Adaptive Biotechnology) prior to Cycle 3A. Patients who are interim PET-negative and MRD-negative will be placed on an abbreviated treatment regimen, where they will receive Mosun-Pola-SD-CHP therapy for only four cycles.