Chemotherapy and Pelvic Hypofractionated Radiation Followed by Surgery Cervical Cancer
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the role of hypofractionated in the treatment of locally advanced cervical cancer. The study will be conducted in Honduras and Mexico, and patients will be randomized to a standard fraction (45 Gy in 25 fractions) or hypofractionated (37.5Gy in 15 fractions) followed by surgery. Patients will receive weekly cisplatin with their treatments at 40 mg/m2. Response rate, survival, and toxicity will be evaluated.
Cervix Cancer
RADIATION: Standard radiotherapy|RADIATION: hypofractionated radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Radical hysterectomy
Acute and late toxicity., Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by RTOG, 2 years
Overall survival, Number of Participants dead at two years according to kaplan-meyer analysis, 2 years|disease specific survival, Number of Participants dead of disease at two years according to kaplan-meyer analysis, 2 years|equivalent treatment, hypofractionated radiotherapy is similar in toxicity and disease control compared to standard external beam treatment., 2 years|Surgical complications, comparison of surgical complications between the two arms of treatment according to The Clavien-Dindo classification., 1 year
Toxicity will be assessed six times during this study. In addition to the primary endpoint of patient-reported gastrointestinal toxicity, a broad range of other toxicities will be comprehensively evaluated, including urinary, hematologic and dermatologic, this data will allow to determining the effect of hypofractionated radiation therapy on each of these aspects of toxicity from pelvic radiation. Additionally, will be recognized that it is possible to advance in the understanding of the clinical risk and benefits of hypofractionation.

The primary endpoint will be acute gastrointestinal toxicity using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) common toxicity criteria.

In total, evaluating toxicity in different time points will allow determining if hypofractionation is secure concerning acute and late toxicity, that would enable to offer an optional treatment to this kind of patient. Chronic gastrointestinal toxicity from radiation continues to increase rapidly over two years, and then the rate of developing new toxicities slows. As a result, the majority of chronic radiation-induced gastrointestinal toxicity by evaluating toxicity two years after completion of radiotherapy is going to be identified.

Quality of life (QOL) will be evaluated using EORTC QLQ-CX24 and EORTC QLQ-C30, both of which have been validated and available in Mexican Spanish.