Safety and Efficacy of Nivolumab in Treating Oral Proliferative Verrucous Leukoplakia
This research study is studying an immunotherapy drug, as a possible treatment for oral proliferative verrucous leukoplakia (OPVL).
Leukoplakia, Oral
DRUG: Nivolumab
Best Overall Response Rate (BORR), BORR on treatment is the percentage of participants who achieved CR or PR. Best overall response is the best response recorded from study registration until the first disease progression/diagnosis of invasive OSCC (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Best overall response was determined by using composite scores based on both measurement and histology, matching to the response grid as following, (1)CR, a decrease of \>80% or more; (2)PR, a decrease of 40-80%; (3)SD, neither PR or PD, (4)PD, an increase of 10% or more., Participants were followed up to 164 days.
COMD QLQ Score Change From Baseline to End of Treatment, Quality of Life was evaluated using COMD QLQ (chronic oral mucosal diseases quality of life questionnaire). The range of the possible total score is 0-104, and low score is a good QoL., Assessed at baseline and end of treatment. Treatment duration in days was a median (range) of 105 (21-164).|Grade 1/2 Toxicity Rate, The proportion of participants who experienced a maximum grade 1 or 2 adverse events regardless of treatment attribution based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse events Version 5.0 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms., Participants were followed up to 194 days.|Grade 3/4 Toxicity Rate, The proportion of participants who experienced a maximum grade 3 or 4 adverse events regardless of treatment attribution based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse events Version 5.0 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms., Participants were followed up to 194 days.|Time to the Next Surgery for a Head and Neck Malignancy, Time to Next Surgery is defined as time from the first study treatment to any head \& neck surgery or resection for biopsy-proven carcinoma in situ (CIS) or invasive oral carcinoma., Participants were followed up to 13.3 months.|Cancer Free Survival at 2 Years (CFS2), CFS2 is the probability of participants remaining alive and cancer-free at 2 years based on Kaplan-Meier methodology. Cancer-Free Survival (CFS) is defined as the time from study registration to development of invasive oral cancer or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression or recurrence (of invasive oral cancer) are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Participants were followed up to 2 years.|2-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, 2-year OS rate was defined as the percentage of participants alive at 2 years., Participants were followed up to 2 years.|PD-L1 Combined Positive Scores (CPS), PD-L1 CPS (programmed death-1 ligand 1 combined positive score) was calculated by dividing the number of PD-L1 staining cells by the total number of viable tumor cells and then multiplying by 100. Its range of possible values was 0-100, where higher scores were better when participants received PD-L1 targeted therapy., PD-L1 CPS assessed at baseline.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug or combination of drugs to learn whether it works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug/s is being studied.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate effectiveness (how well the drug works) of nivolumab in treating OPVL and or prolonging the onset of possible malignancy.

Nivolumab is a type of immunotherapy. Immunotherapy works by encouraging the body's own immune system to attack cancer cells. Nivolumab has been demonstrated to activate the immune system to attack cancer cells in participants with different types of cancers. OPVL has a high risk for turning into cancer and the investigators are testing if nivolumab may help to shrink the white lesions in the participant's mouth and reduce cancer risk.

In November 2016, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved nivolumab for the treatment of participants with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). Squamous cell carcinoma is the kind of cancer that OPVL can transform into.