Safety and Effectiveness Study of Imiquimod Creams in the Treatment of External Genital Warts
The purpose of this study is to determine whether imiquimod creams are effective in treating external genital warts (EGW). The secondary objective of this study is to provide information on recurrence of EGW. Additionally the study will also look at any adverse events associated with the use of the creams.

External genital and perianal warts are caused by the infection of human papillomavirus or HPV. HPV infection is a sexually transmitted disease (STD). External genital warts look like small flesh-colored, pink, or red growths on or around the external skin of sex organs or perianal area. The warts may look similar to the small parts of a cauliflower or they may be very tiny and difficult to see. They often appear in clusters of three or four, and may grow and spread rapidly. They usually are not painful, although they may cause mild pain, bleeding, and itching.
Genital Warts
DRUG: Imiquimod|DRUG: 3.75% imiquimod cream|DRUG: placebo cream
Proportion of Subjects With Complete Clearance of All Warts (Both Presented at Baseline and Newly Emerged Warts) at End of Study, Proportion of subjects with complete clearance of all warts (both presented at Baseline and newly emerged warts) at End of Study. Primary analysis performed on the Intent to Treat population with imputation (Last Observation Carried Forward)for missing data points., Up to 16 weeks
Safety Variables Include Adverse Reactions (AEs), Local Skin Reactions (LSRs), and Number of Subjects Who Took Rest Periods During the Treatment Period., Local skin reactions in the treatment and/or immediate surrounding area were clinically identified as: erythema, edema, weeping/exudate, flaking/scaling/dryness, and erosion/ulceration. LSRs were visually assessed by investigator at each visit.

Rest period was a temporary interruption of dosing dur to intolerable LSRs., Up to 16 weeks|Treatment Related Adverse Events, Numbers of subjects in each treatment group reporting one or more adverse events, Up to 16 weeks
The purpose of this study is to determine whether imiquimod creams are effective in treating external genital warts (EGW). The secondary objective of this study is to provide information on recurrence of EGW. Additionally the study will also look at any adverse events associated with the use of the creams.

External genital and perianal warts are caused by the infection of human papillomavirus or HPV. HPV infection is a sexually transmitted disease (STD). External genital warts look like small flesh-colored, pink, or red growths on or around the external skin of sex organs or perianal area. The warts may look similar to the small parts of a cauliflower or they may be very tiny and difficult to see. They often appear in clusters of three or four, and may grow and spread rapidly. They usually are not painful, although they may cause mild pain, bleeding, and itching.