Efficacy and Safety of Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation on Radiotherapy-Related Neuropathic Pain
This multi-center, randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled trial aims to investigate the effect and safety of TaVNS in treating radiotherapy-related neuropathic pain.
Neuropathic Pain|Radiotherapy Side Effect
DEVICE: Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation(TaVNS)|DEVICE: Sham Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation(SS)
Change from baseline to day 7 with respect to pain intensity based on the NRS., The primary outcome of this trial is to evaluate the change from baseline to Day 7 with respect to pain intensity based on the NRS, which evaluates the average pain in the last 24 hours from "0" indicating "No Pain" to "10" indicating "Pain as bad as you can imagine"., Day 7
Change from baseline to week 16 with respect to pain intensity based on the NRS., The primary outcome of this trial is to evaluate the change from baseline to Day 7 with respect to pain intensity based on the NRS, which evaluates the average pain in the last 24 hours from "0" indicating "No Pain" to "10" indicating "Pain as bad as you can imagine"., week 16|BPI-SF, The Chinese version of Brief Pain Inventory (Short-Form) is used to assesses pain severity and inference, which has been widely used in neuropathic pain. The Pain severity score is assessed as mean of the four pain items (i.e., pain at its worst, least, average, and now)29. Functional inference is measured by the BPI Interference in 7 items, which includes General activity, Mood, Walking ability, Work, Social relations, Sleep and Life enjoyment. Each item is scored on a 10-point scale. Lower scores indicate alleviative functional interference., day 7, week 16|POMS-SF, The Chinese version of short form of the Profile of Mood States (POMS-SF) has been recommended as core outcome measures of emotional functioning in chronic pain clinical trials. It's a 30-item scale to evaluate patients' mood states, including 5 negative mood states (Tension-anxiety, Depression-Dejection, Anger-Hostility, Fatigue-Inertia, Confusion-Bewilderment) and 1 positive mood state (Vigor-Activity).Lower scores indicate alleviative mood disturbance in all fields except the positive one., day 7, week 16|WHOQOL-BREF, The Chinese version of WHOQOL-BREF is a brief version of The World Health Organization Quality of Life (WHOQOL), which has been widely used in clinical studies on cancer and neuropathic pain. In the questionnaire, a total of 26 items assess 4 domains of quality of life, including physiology, psychology, social relationship and environment. Lower scores correspond to poorer quality of life., day 7, week 16|FACIT-F, The Chinese version of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) is widely used to assess various chronic disease-related fatigue states. The FACIT-F is a self-report scale. It comprises 13 items with five-point response options from 0 to 4. Except for items An5 and An7, which are forward scoring, all other items are reverse scoring. The total score ranges from 0 to 52, with a higher total score representing less fatigue., day 7, week 16|PGIC, The Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) is self-evaluation of the patient's overall change on a 7-point scale (1 = very much improved; 2 = much improved; 3 = minimally improved; 4 = no change; 5 = minimally worse; 6 = much worse; 7 = very much worse), and is obtained at the end of the study. Treatment success is defined as "much" or "very much" improved. The PGIC question will ask: "With respect to your overall radiotherapy-related neuropathic pain symptoms, how will you describe yourself now compared to immediately before starting study medication?", day 7, week 16|CGIC, The Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGIC) is single item questionnaire that asks the investigator to evaluate the subject's overall symptom change on a 7-point scale (1 = very much improved; 2 = much improved; 3 = minimally improved; 4 = no change; 5 = minimally worse; 6 = much worse; 7 = very much worse), and is obtained at the end of the study. Treatment success is defined as "much" or "very much" improved. The CGIC question will ask: "With respect to the subject's overall radiotherapy-related neuropathic pain symptoms, how will you describe him (or her) now compared to immediately before starting study medication?", day 7, week 16|Serum Inflammatory Factors, The serum inflammatory factors including: serum tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α) level; serum interleukin-1beta (IL-1β) level; serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) level; serum interleukin-10 (IL-10) level.Whole blood was centrifuged, serum was then stored at -80°C. The inflammatory factors were detected by ELISA in the laboratory, day 7
Radiotherapy-related neuropathic pain(RRNP) is one of the most distressing complications after radiotherapy for head and neck cancers. The prevalence of neuropathic pain in cancer pain patients is as high as 31-45%.Our previous RCT of pregabalin for RRNP showed that nearly 41.6% of patients still did not achieve 30% pain relief even with standard doses of pregabalin. At the same time, drug side effects such as dizziness and obesity are common, and a dose titration process for at least one week is required.Therefore, new treatments that effectively relieve pain and improve quality of life must be explored.

Transcutaneous Auricular Vagus Nerve Stimulation (TaVNS) works by stimulating the auricular branches of the vagus nerve through electrical impulses. Previous studies have shown it can relieve various pains including migraine, cluster headache, musculoskeletal pain with few adverse events. This study plans to evaluate the efficacy of TaVNS versus sham stimulation for relieving RRNP, and assessed its safety.