A Trial to Compare Preoperative Chemoradiation and Surgery Versus Surgery Alone in Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oesophagus
Carcinoma of the esophagus is the among the most common cancers in Indian population. While adenocarcinoma is more common in western countries, in India squamous cell carcinoma is the more frequent form. Surgery is the standard treatment in resectable lesions, but survival is poor. Adjuvant and neoadjuvant treatment therapy is used with an aim to improve the results. Though few randomized trials have addressed the issue of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, the methodology was inhomogeneous and the populations studied were different. The investigators will be conducting a randomized controlled trial in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Preoperative chemoradiation followed by surgery will be compared with surgery alone.
Esophageal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Esophagectomy|PROCEDURE: Neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by surgery
Resectability rate, To compare the resectability rate of carcinoma esophagus between patients randomized to surgery alone and neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by surgery, 2 years|postoperative morbidity, To compare the postoperative morbidity between patients of carcinoma esophagus randomized to surgery alone versus chemoradiation followed by surgery, 2 Years|operative mortality, To compare the operative mortality between patients randomized to surgery alone and neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by surgery., 2 Years
Early disease control, To compare the early disease control in patients randomized to receive either neoadjuvant chemoradiation and surgery or surgery alone., 2 years|Treatment toxicity, This study will also assess the treatment toxicity of preoperative chemoradiation, 2 years
Carcinoma of the esophagus is the among the most common cancers in Indian population. While adenocarcinoma is more common in western countries, in India squamous cell carcinoma is the more frequent form. Surgery is the standard treatment in resectable lesions, but survival is poor. Adjuvant and neoadjuvant treatment therapy is used with an aim to improve the results. Though few randomized trials have addressed the issue of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, the methodology was inhomogeneous and the populations studied were different. The investigators will be conducting a randomized controlled trial in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus. Preoperative chemoradiation followed by surgery will be compared with surgery alone.