Medical Cannabis in Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Many patients with Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC) experience burdensome and difficult-to-treat symptoms. The impact of multiple symptoms (called "symptom burden") can negatively affect a patient's quality of life, decrease their ability to tolerate cancer treatments, and lead to worse survival. Current approaches to manage PDAC-associated symptoms often work poorly, with most patients reporting a moderate to severe symptom burden. Therefore, there is an urgent need for treatments that improve these symptoms in patients with PDAC, and data suggests that medical cannabis can help. In this research study, we are examining the usefulness of using medical cannabis in patients with pancreatic cancer to further study how cannabis can impact their symptom burden.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC)
DRUG: Medical Cannabis
Assess feasibility for conducting a larger randomized trial by determining rate of recruitment, compliance with randomization group, and protocol adherence to this clinical trial, Hypothesis - we will successfully recruit patients from a large community oncology practice and observe good protocol adherence over an 8 week period.

1.1 Achieve successful completion of feasibility trial by demonstrating the following: a) at least 20% of eligible patients who are offered participation enroll in the trial, b) at least 60% of patients comply with randomization group through week 8, and c) patients in both early and delayed group complete at least 50% of weekly PROs through week 8., Early Cannabis - 8 weeks from cannabis initiation; Delayed Cannabis - 8 weeks from randomization
Participants will be randomized 1:1 to receive "early'' or "delayed'' medical cannabis. The early group will have access to medical cannabis immediately at no charge, while the delayed group will agree not to use cannabis of any type during the first 8 weeks. The primary study period for assessing the primary aim is 0 - 8 weeks. Participants in the early arm will then have an option to receive cannabis at no charge for another 8 weeks (total 16 weeks). Participants in the delayed arm will receive cannabis from weeks 8 to 16 at no charge. This secondary study period (8-16 weeks) will be used to assess the proportion of participants in the early arm who choose to continue cannabis, persistence of symptom relief with cannabis, and ongoing safety signals. Patients in the delayed group will complete patient-reported outcomes using NCI PRO-CTCAE (PRO) (weekly) and PROMIS Global (QOL) (every 4 weeks) through 16 weeks. Patients in the early group will complete PRO (weekly) and QOL (every 4 weeks) through week 8, then PRO/QOL every 4 weeks until week 16. All patients will complete a close out survey at the end of their cannabis administration period.