Comparison of Sphincter Preservation Surgery and Abdominoperineal Resection (APR): Prospective Clinical Trial
Sphincter preservation surgery in low rectal cancer has been increased due to better understanding of tumor biology and advances in surgical technology. Furthermore, a majority of patients prefer sphincter preservation rather than living with permanent colostomy. But it is not clear whether sphincter preservation is directly related with better quality of life. There have been many studies comparing sphincter preservation surgery and abdominoperineal resection in many aspects including oncologic and functional outcomes, and the quality of life. However, the conclusion remains controversial because of the different results between studies.
Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Abdominoperineal resection|PROCEDURE: Sphincter preservation surgery
Quality of life outcome, Measured by EORTC-QLQ C30, CR38 questionnaires at preoperative(baseline)and postoperative(12,24,36 months)., 3 years
Oncologic outcomes, Oncologic outcomes (recurrence, survival), 5 years|Bladder function, Measured by IPSS questionnaire at preoperative(baseline)and postoperative(12,24,36 months)., 3 years|Sexual function, Measured by FSFI,IIEF-5 questionnaires at preoperative(baseline)and postoperative(12,24,36 months)., 3 years|Anal function, Only patients with sphincter preservation surgery, measured by manometry and MSKCC questionnaire at preoperative(baseline)and after ileostomy repair (12,24,36 months)., 3 years
This prospective study was designed to compare the quality of life after sphincter saving surgery and abdominoperineal resection. Because of ethical issues, it is difficult to conduct as a randomized trial. On the basis of tumor location, extent, and preoperative anal function, patient will be attributed to two different operative method groups. On the assumption that 10% of the patients are lost to follow-up at 1 year, at least 74 patients undergoing APR and 220 patients undergoing SPS will be recruited. The study will be continued until the target sample size will be achieved.