VEG113971: An Open-Label Study of the Effects of Ketoconazole or Esomeprazole on Pazopanib PK
The purpose of this study is to determine how dosing with ketoconazole (Nizoral) or esomeprazole (Nexium) affects the pharmacokinetics of oral pazopanib. The study will also test for safety of pazopanib when administered with ketoconazole or esomeprazole.
Cancer
DRUG: pazopanib
Plasma Pazopanib Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Zero (Pre-dose) to 24 Hours (AUC[0-24]) of Pazopanib Alone and of Pazopanib in Combination With Ketoconazole and Esomeprazole, Blood samples for pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter AUC(0-24) was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. Plasma AUC(0-24) is a measure of the amount of drug a participant has been exposed to in 24 hours., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.|Plasma Maximum Observed Concentration (Cmax) of Pazopanib Alone and of Pazopanib in Combination With Ketoconazole and Esomeprazole, Blood samples for PK analysis of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter Cmax was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. The concentration-time curve is the result of time points of blood sampling and its measured concentration of pazopanib in the plasma., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.|Time of Occurrence of Cmax (Tmax) of Pazopanib Alone and of Pazopanib in Combination With Ketoconazole and Esomeprazole, Blood samples for PK analysis of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter tmax was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. Nominal data collection time points (TPs) were defined in the protocol; however, the actual data collection TP often differed slightly from the nominal TP for various reasons. This leads to medians and ranges that don't coincide with planned nominal data collection TPs., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.
Plasma Concentration at 24 Hours After Administration (C24) of Pazopanib Alone and of Pazopanib in Combination With Ketoconazole and Esomeprazole, Pazopanib plasma concentration-time data were analyzed by non-compartmental methods with WinNonlin. Calculations were based on the actual sampling times. From the plasma concentration-time data, the PK parameter C24 was determined., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained 24 hours after administration of pazopanib.|Plasma AUC(0-24) for the Indicated Metabolites of Pazopanib When Administered Alone or in Combination With Ketoconazole and Ezomeprazole, Blood samples for PK analysis of the metabolites of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter AUC(0-24) was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. Plasma AUC(0-24) is a measure of the amount of drug a participant has been exposed to in 24 hours., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.|Plasma Cmax for the Indicated Metabolites of Pazopanib When Administered Alone or in Combination With Ketoconazole and Ezomeprazole, Blood samples for PK analysis of the metabolites of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter Cmax was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. The concentration-time curve is the result of time points of blood sampling and its measured concentration of pazopanib in the plasma., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.|Tmax for the Indicated Metabolites of Pazopanib When Administered Alone or in Combination With Ketoconazole and Ezomeprazole, Blood samples for PK analysis of pazopanib were obtained at pre-dose (within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration) and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration. From the plasma concentration-time curve, the PK parameter tmax was determined by standard non-compartmental analysis using WinNonlin. Nominal data collection time points (TPs) were defined in the protocol; however, the actual data collection TP often differed slightly from the nominal TP for various reasons. This leads to medians and ranges that don't coincide with planned nominal data collection TPs., Day 7 of Period 1 (monotherapy) and Day 5 (Study Day 12) of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were obtained within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and at 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after pazopanib administration.|Plasma Ketoconazole Concentration at the Indicated Time Points, Blood samples for the determination of plasma ketoconazole concentrations were collected before (pre-dose \[within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration\]) and after the final pazopanib and ketoconazole dose (fifth dose) during Period 2 at the indicated time points, relative to pazopanib administration (at 1 and 2 hours after pazopanib administration). Blood samples were obtained via peripheral intravenous cannula or central line. Concentrations of ketoconazole were determined in plasma samples using the currently approved analytical methodology., Day 5 of Period 2 (combination therapy). Blood samples were collected within 60 minutes prior to pazopanib administration and 1 and 2 hours after pazopanib administration.|Number of Participants With the Indicated Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events (AEs), AEs were graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE), Version 4.0. Grades range from 0 (no toxicity) to 4 (life-threatening or disabling). A Grade 3 AE is severe; defined as considerable interference with the participant's daily activities, medical intervention/therapy required, and hospitalization possible. A Grade 4 AE is life-threatening; defined as extreme limitation in activity, significant medical intervention/therapy required, and hospitalization probable., From Baseline (Day 1) to a maximum of 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug was administered (on Study Day 12)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Event of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), The following were considered DLTs only while participants were receiving pazopanib co-administered with either ketoconazole or esomeprazole: Grade 4 hematologic toxicities, excluding lymphopenia; and Grade 3/4 non-hematologic toxicities, excluding alopecia and nausea/vomiting/diarrhea for which adequate supportive therapy had not been instituted. Toxicities observed once co-administration of pazopanib with ketoconazole or esomeprazole was complete (after Day 5 of Period 2) could also be considered DLTs if judged to be relevant by the investigator and the GlaxoSmithKline Medical Monitor., From Baseline (Day 1) to a maximum of 4 weeks after the last dose of study drug was administered (on Study Day 12)
The study is a 2-arm, open-label, repeat-dose, single sequence, crossover, study designed to evaluate the effects of ketoconazole (Arm A) and esomeprazole (Arm B) on the pharmacokinetics (PK) of oral pazopanib in subjects with solid tumor malignancies. This study will compare the PK parameters of oral pazopanib and its metabolite concentrations when given alone and when co-administered with either ketoconazole (Arm A) or esomeprazole (Arm B). Safety assessments (physical examinations, vital signs, 12-lead electrocardiograms, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, clinical laboratory assessments, and monitoring of adverse events) will also be evaluated during the study.