Observational Study on the Use of Akynzeo® in Patients Receiving HEC
This Canadian, multi-centre, prospective, observational real-world study is designed to collect patient-reported outcome data on the use of Akynzeo® (netupitant/palonosetron) for the prevention of nausea and vomiting in oncology patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC).
Chemotherapy-Induced Nausea and Vomiting
DRUG: 300mg netupitant/0.5mg palonosetron hydrochloride
Total Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE) Score at Cycle 1, The Functional Living Index - Emesis questionnaire is a validated patient reported outcome with the objective of assessing the impact of chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting on patient's daily function.

Questionnaire consists of a nausea domain and a vomiting domain of nine items each where the patient should rate how much nausea and vomiting have affected the quality of life. For each question the patient will rate how much nausea (or vomiting) has affected an aspect of his quality of life during the past five days. Each question uses a visual analogue scale (100 mm) and an ordinal scale (where 1= no emesis-7=a great deal). The minimum total score is 18 and the maximum total score is 126. Higher scores indicate less impairment on daily life as a result of nausea or vomiting. A FLIE total score \> 108 indicates no impairment on daily life as a result of nausea or vomiting.

Assessed by patient following day 5 of each cycle., Day 5 of cycle 1
Complete Response, No emetic episode and no use of rescue medication in the overall period (0-120h/Day 1-5), Days 1-5 (0 - 120 hours) of cycles 1, 2, 3, 4; each cycle is approximately 28 days|Severity of Nausea on Day 5 (Change From Day 1), Question 1 of the daily evaluation of the Patient Diary ("How much nausea did you experience on average during the last 24 hours?"). Data was collected on a visual analogue scale. Scale ranges from 0 mm ("no nausea") to 100 mm ("always severe nausea")., Days 1-5 (0 - 120 hours) of cycles 1, 2, 3, 4; each cycle is approximately 28 days
The study will assess quality of life using the Functional Living Index of Emesis (FLIE) questionnaire and generate Real World Evidence in support of existing clinical trial data, including effectiveness and safety of Akynzeo® in the real world setting for the prevention of Chemotherapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting (CINV) in patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC).