Second-Line Chemotherapy Combined With Endostatin for Recurrent/Metastatic HN Epithelial Tumors
The prognoses of recurrent/metastatic head and neck epithelial tumors after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy is poor. The efficacy of second-line chemotherapy for those patients that cannot be re-irradiated or re-operated is limited according to NCCN guideline and other published data. This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endostatin combined with second-line chemotherapy for patients of recurrent/metastatic head and neck epithelial tumors that cannot be re-irradiated or re-operated after fist-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DRUG: second-line chemotherapy|DRUG: Recombinant human endostatin
Disease Control Rate (DCR), include complete remission, partial remission, and stable disease, From the date of first drug administration, evaluation of response was performed every cycle during the treatment and then every 3 months after the completion of the treatment up to 36 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), include complete remission and partial remission, From the date of first drug administration, evaluation of response was performed every cycle during the treatment and then every 3 months after the completion of the treatment up to 36 months|Progress Free Survival (PFS), 1，2 years PFS, From the date of first drug administration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), 1，2 years OS, From the date of first drug administration until the date of death, assessed up to 36 months
The prognoses of recurrent/metastatic head and neck epithelial tumors after first-line platinum-based chemotherapy is poor. The efficacy of second-line chemotherapy for those patients that cannot be re-irradiated or re-operated is limited according to NCCN guideline and other published data. New agent for second-line treatment of recurrent and/or metastatic head and neck tumors is urgently needed. Recombinant human endostatin is an anti-angiogenetic target drug, which has been demonstrated a good efficacy for NSCLC. Studies about recombinant human endostatin in head and neck cancer mainly focus on NPC. And phase I study of endostatin combined with chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy for NPC showed a promising results.

This study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endostatin combined with second-line chemotherapy for patients of recurrent/metastatic head and neck epithelial tumors that cannot be re-irradiated or re-operated after fist-line platinum-based chemotherapy.