Intravitreal Ranibizumab for the Prevention of Radiation Maculopathy Following Plaque Radiotherapy
Uveal Melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adulthood. Eye preserving treatments can deliver equivalent life prognosis in the management of small and medium sized uveal melanomas, as compared to enucleation. Plaque radiotherapy has emerged as the most common eye-preserving treatment in the current management of uveal melanoma, but is complicated by visual loss in approximately 70% of patients at 10 years follow-up. Strategies for the prevention and early treatment of radiation retinopathy/maculopathy need to be developed to improve visual outcomes following plaque treatment. Ranibizumab (Lucentis) is the antigen binding fragment of a recombinant, humanized monoclonal antibody, which inhibits the activity of vascular endothelial growth factor A, a mediator in the development of choroidal neovascularization. Lucentis is commonly used in the eye for eye conditions such as age related macular degeneration. This study will investigate the possible benefit of Anti-VEGF therapy (Lucentis) in reducing the incidence of radiation complications following plaque radiation for uveal melanoma.
Uveal Melanoma|Radiation Retinopathy|Radiation Maculopathy
DRUG: Ranibizumab
Presence or absence of optical coherence (OCT) evidence of macular edema., 4 months
Grade of macular edema on OCT, visual acuity (LogMAR), and foveal thickness measurement on OCT at follow-up., 4 months
Uveal Melanoma is the most common primary intraocular malignancy in adulthood. Eye preserving treatments can deliver equivalent life prognosis in the management of small and medium sized uveal melanomas, as compared to enucleation. Plaque radiotherapy has emerged as the most common eye-preserving treatment in the current management of uveal melanoma, but is complicated by visual loss in approximately 70% of patients at 10 years follow-up. Strategies for the prevention and early treatment of radiation retinopathy/maculopathy need to be developed to improve visual outcomes following plaque treatment. Ranibizumab (Lucentis) is the antigen binding fragment of a recombinant, humanized monoclonal antibody, which inhibits the activity of vascular endothelial growth factor A, a mediator in the development of choroidal neovascularization. Lucentis is commonly used in the eye for eye conditions such as age related macular degeneration. This study will investigate the possible benefit of Anti-VEGF therapy (Lucentis) in reducing the incidence of radiation complications following plaque radiation for uveal melanoma.