Safety and Efficacy of Belinostat When Used With Standard of Care Chemotherapy for Untreated Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to establish the safest dose of the investigational medication Belinostat that can be administered with a standard of care chemotherapy regimen of bevacizumab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel. Further study will examine the short and long-term effect (up to 2 years) of this medication on participant's disease status and overall survival.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Belinostat, carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab
The recommended phase II dose of Belinostat when used in combination with carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab., The aim of the initial phase Ib component is to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Belinostat when used with a standard of care carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab course of therapy ("BelCap-B") regimen. The MTD will be determined through the process of dose-limiting-toxicity evaluation., 1 year
To evaluate overall survival with this investigational treatment., The percentage of participants who are alive at 2 years post initiation of investigational treatment., 2 years|Long-term safety (late-effects up to 2 years), Long-term (up to 2 years) safety evaluation of the investigational treatment will be evaluated by ongoing evaluation of adverse events/late-effects using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria., 2 years|Evaluate disease response of participants who receive this investigational medication regimen, Response to therapy will be measured by the RECIST criteria. The investigators will assess the percentage of research participants whose disease status indicates a response to investigational treatment according to the RECIST criteria., 2 years|To evaluate progression-free survival, The number (%) of participants who do not show evidence of disease progression (according to RECIST criteria)at 2 years post initial administration of the investigational product., 2 years
This is a Phase Ib/II, single center, open label, dose-finding study to evaluate the use of Belinostat when given with standard of care chemotherapy in patients with untreated, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In the Phase Ib portion, dose limiting toxicity evaluation will be used to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Belinostat when given with fixed doses of bevacizumab, carboplatin, and paclitaxel(a BelCap-B regimen). Three dose levels of Belinostat are proposed (600mg/kg, 800mg/kg, 1000mg/kg). Determination of MTD will be the basis for establishing set dosing for the phase II component of the study.

The phase II portion of the study includes further drug safety evaluation and a preliminary assessment of efficacy of Belinostat when used with specified induction and maintenance regimens. Response will be evaluated through the RECIST criteria. Additional analysis will be done to estimate the time to response, progression free survival, median survival, and overall survival (OS) in study participants to 2 years post-initiation of cycle 1.

Based on a standard 3 x 3 statistical design, the phase Ib portion may accrue between 3 to 12 participants. Phase II will have a minimum sample size of 10 and a maximum of 16 patients. Participants who complete the Phase I portion and are able to advance to Phase II, will be evaluable for the Phase II objectives.