Study of Low-Dose Radiotherapy Concurrent Chemotherapy With Serplulimab for Patients With ES-SCLC
This is a Phase II, single arm, multicenter study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of low-dose radiotherapy (LDRT) concurrent cisplatin/carboplatin plus etoposide with serplulimab in participants who have extensive-stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) and are chemotherapy-navïe for their extensive-stage disease.
Extensive-stage Small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: serplulimab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Thoracic radiation therapy (TRT)
Progression-free survival (PFS), The time from the date of first dosing of serplulimab to the first appearance of objective disease progression (according to RECIST1.1) or death from any cause (if it occurs before disease progression)., Baseline up to approximately 24 months
PFS Rate at 6 Months and 1 Year, PFS rate at 6 months and 1 year, defined as the proportion of patients who have not experienced disease progression or death from any cause at 6 months and 1 year separately, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline up to 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), The time from the date of first dosing of serplulimab to death from any cause., Baseline up to approximately 24 months|OS Rate at 1 Year and 2 Years, OS rate at 1 year and 2 years, defined as the proportion of patients who have not experienced death from any cause at 1 year and 2 years., Baseline to 2 years or death, whichever occurs first.|Duration of response (DOR), defined as the time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response to disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline to disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurs first)(up to approximately 24 months)|Disease control rate (DCR), defined as the proportion of participants who have a best overall response of CR or PR or stable disease (SD), as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline up to approximately 24 months|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Event, • The incidence and severity of adverse events, with severity determined according to the U.S. National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAEv5.0), Baseline up to approximately 36 months
Enrolled patients will receive the following treatment regimen: LDRT-concurrent cisplatin/carboplatin plus etoposide in combination with serplulimab. The induction period consists of 4 cycles of 21 days each. Low-dose radiotherapy at 15Gy/5f will be performed concurrently from Day 1 to Day 5 (D1-D5) of Cycle 1. An efficacy assessment will be performed at the end of Cycle 2 and one week before the start of Cycle 3. For patients with primary lung lesions (intrathoracic lesions) evaluated as small PR (tumor shrinkage \< 80%)/SD/PD, low-dose radiotherapy at 15Gy/5f will be performed in addition to serplulimab with chemotherapy in Cycle 3. For subjects evaluated as PD/SD/PR with extrathoracic residual metastases, low-dose radiotherapy at 15Gy/5f will be performed in addition to serplulimab with chemotherapy in Cycle 4. Definition of extrathoracic lesions for radiotherapy: Metastases to liver, metastases to adrenals and metastases to lymph nodes (at the discretion of the investigator).

After the induction period, the subjects will continue to receive maintenance treatment with serplulimab. Prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) is allowed for treatment according to local standard of care. Patients will be treated until loss of clinical benefit, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, or death, whichever occurs first.