Safety and Efficacy of CAR T Cell Therapy in Patients with R/r B-ALL
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of CD19 CAR-T cells in pediatric patients of all genders, aged 2 to 18 years, with relapsing or refractory B cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (r/r B-ALL). The main questions it aims to answer are as following:

1. What is the percentage of patients with overall remission rate (ORR) of complete response (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi)?
2. What is the rate of Event-free survival at first month and 2-3 months after intervention?
3. What is the rate of Overall survival at first month and at 3 months after the intervention?
Relapse/Refractory B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy
Percentage of patients with overall remission rate (ORR) of complete response (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), First month and 2-3 months after intervention|Overall survival, First month and 3 months after intervention|Incidence of cytokine release syndrome: grade 3 and 4, First month and 3 months after intervention|Incidence of Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS): grade 3 and 4, First month and 3 months after intervention|Event-free survival, First month and 2-3 months after intervention
Percentage of patients with overall remission rate (ORR) of complete response (CR) or complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), 6 months and 12 months after intervention|Investigation of Minimal residual disease in patient, First month and 2-3 months after intervention|Incidence of cytokine release syndrome: grade 3 and 4, 6 months and 12 months after intervention|Incidence of Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS): grade 3 and 4, 6 months and 12 months after intervention|Incidence of tumor lysis syndrome (TLS), Months 1, 3, 6, and 12 after the intervention|Incidence of leukopenia, Months 1, 3, 6, and 12 after the intervention|Incidence of infection, Months 1, 3, 6, and 12 after the intervention|Event-free survival, 6 months and 12 months after intervention|Overall survival, 6 months and 12 months after intervention
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), as the most common type of pediatric tumor, is identified by unregulated cell proliferation of immature lymphoid cells that can infiltrate the bone marrow and blood. Also, relapse and refractory B-ALL (R/R B-ALL) is the main reason of global mortality due to the constraints of combination chemotherapy.

Over the past few years, substantial advancements have been made in treatment of ALL, specifically in the R/R context. Chimeric antigen receptor T (CAR-T) cells are a type of cancer immunotherapy treatment that function through modification of patient T cells to express CAR antigen on their surface. CAR-T cells aimed at CD19 have demonstrated promising activity in treatment of r/r B-ALL. In this study we aim to evaluate safety and efficacy of Anti-CD19 CAR T cell therapy in children with R/R B-ALL.