RIC Allo-HSCT vs. Venetoclax-Based Consolidation in Elderly AML Patients After First CR
Elderly patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) often face unfavorable prognostic factors such as multiple comorbidities, adverse cytogenetic profiles, and pre-existing hematological disorders. The long-term survival rate remains very low, with a 5-year survival rate of only 5% to 10%. The introduction of the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax (Ven) has improved the induction remission rates in elderly patients. However, the question of whether to use chemotherapy maintenance or proceed with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) for post-remission consolidation therapy remains unclear due to the lack of prospective controlled studies. Therefore, our center plans to conduct a prospective, open-label, two-arm, non-randomized, single-center study to further explore the optimal consolidation treatment strategy for elderly AML patients at intermediate and high risk following induction complete remission (CR).
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Allogeneic transplant
Relapse-free survival, Relapse-free survival (RFS) is measured from the date of achievement of first remission until the date of hematologic relapse or death from any cause., Up to 2 years
Non-Relapsed Mortality, Non-relapsed mortality (NRM) is measured from the date of achievement of first remission until the date of death from any cause other than relapse., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, OS is measured from the date of reaching CR1 to the date of death from any cause., Up to 2 years|2-years Relapse Rate, Relapse rate is defined as relapse probability at a given time point, Up to 2 years
Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Detected by Flow Cytometry, Research on MRD involves using flow cytometry to detect residual cancer cells, with statistical methods including Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, Fine-Gray analysis and Cox regression modeling to evaluate disease remission and predict relapse risk., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events (AEs) as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Research on AE uses descriptive statistics, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, χ² or Fisher's exact tests to assess and compare AE incidence and survival outcomes., Up to 2 years
Elderly patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) often face unfavorable prognostic factors such as multiple comorbidities, adverse cytogenetic profiles, and pre-existing hematological disorders. The long-term survival rate remains very low, with a 5-year survival rate of only 5% to 10%. The introduction of the BCL-2 inhibitor venetoclax (Ven) has improved the induction remission rates in elderly patients. However, the question of whether to use chemotherapy maintenance or proceed with allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) for post-remission consolidation therapy remains unclear due to the lack of prospective controlled studies. Therefore, our center plans to conduct a prospective, open-label, two-arm, non-randomized, single-center study to further explore the optimal consolidation treatment strategy for elderly AML patients at intermediate and high risk following induction complete remission (CR).