Matched Targeted Therapy For High-Risk Leukemias and Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This research study is seeking to gain new knowledge about Recurrent, Refractory, or High Risk Leukemias in children and young adults.

This study is evaluating the use of specialized testing called leukemia profiling. Once the profiling is performed, the results are evaluated by an expert panel of physicians, scientists and pharmacists. This may result in a recommendation for a specific cancer therapy or a clinical trial called matched targeted therapy (MTT). The results of the leukemia profiling and, if applicable, the MTT recommendation will be communicated to the participant's primary oncologist.
Recurrent, Refractory, or High Risk Leukemias|Matched Targeted Therapy
GENETIC: Leukemia Profiling
Rate of Patients With Actionable Alterations, An actionable alteration was defined as a cancer-associated genomic event for which there was a targeted drug available. Actionable genetic alterations were identified by a combination of standard-of-care cytogenetics/fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and sequencing performed as part of the study. This study is considered feasible if at least 13% of participants analyzed have profile data and identifiable actionable alterations. A 90% exact binomial confidence interval is presented for the rate of patients with actionable alterations to compare the observed rate against 13%., Actionable alteration was identified based on a combination of fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)/cytogenetics and sequencing. Average time to full results was 2 weeks.
Rate of Somatic Genomic Alterations, This Secondary Outcome will be addressed by describing the somatic genomic alterations in Cohort 1 (Relapsed/Refractory Leukemia arm) and Cohort 2 (New Diagnosis arm) that are discovered by genomic analyses., 2 Years|Rate of Results Reporting, This Secondary Outcome will be addressed by a description of the time of results reporting. Documentation of the time of sample receipt and processing, resources and personnel utilized at each step of the process, time to results reporting, interpretation and review by Expert panel and communication of results to the primary oncologist will be captured., 2 Years|Parent's Feelings and Understanding of Genomic Testing, This Secondary Outcome will be addressed by describing the hopes and concerns of parents of children with recurrent/refractory/high-risk de novo leukemia regarding genomic testing of their child's leukemia as well as their understanding of the testing and evaluate whether the hopes and concerns were realized following the return of results., 2 Years|Analysis of Primary Leukemia Sensitivity Testing and Establishment of Xenograft Models, This Secondary Outcome will be addressed by completing analysis of the primary leukemia sensitivity testing to a panel of drugs or shRNA and establishing xenograft models in dedicated participating research laboratories and conducting co-clinical trials with the recommended matched therapy once the animal model is established., 2 Years
Our tissues and organs are made up of cells. Cancer occurs when the molecules that normally control cell growth are damaged. The damage results in unchecked cell growth which causes a tumor, a collection of cancer cells. The damage is referred to as an alteration. There are different types of cancer-causing alterations. Genes are the part of cells that contain the instructions which tell our cells how to make the right proteins to grow and work. Genes are composed of Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) letters that spell out these instructions.

By participating in this study, the participant's leukemia cells will be tested for cancer causing alterations. This testing is called leukemia profiling. The leukemia profiling will be performed using bone marrow or blood that has already been obtained during a clinical test. Alternately, the profiling may be done on leukemia cells that are planned to be obtained as part of routine clinical care.

This study will determine whether it is possible to use profiling results to determine a matched targeted therapy for patients with leukemia. It will describe the range of mutations found in patients with leukemia with this type of profiling, and describe the clinical outcomes of patients who receive a matched targeted therapy.