Monotherapy Dose Finding With BI 847325 in Solid Tumours
The aim of the Phase Ia (dose escalation) part of this trial is to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BI 847325 administered at escalating doses in 2 treatment arms. In the Phase Ib expansion part of the trial, the aim is to further evaluate the safety profile of BI 847325 at the recommended dose and schedule and to assess target modulation and the potential antitumour efficacy in patients with selected tumour types.
Neoplasms
DRUG: day 1 to day 5|DRUG: day 1 to day 14
Percentage of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity During the First Treatment Cycle in Phase Ia Part of the Study, Occurrence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during the first treatment cycle for the treatment Schedules A and B.

Some patients excluded from Treated Set (TS) as they were not evaluable for determination of maximum tolerated dose. Thus the number of evaluable TS patients are not the same as the number of original TS patients., 3 weeks
Best Overall Response, Best overall response was the best response a patient experienced during their time on study from the start of treatment until: disease progression, the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, or the start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy. Death was not considered as progressive disease when determining best overall response; patients who died prior to an evaluable imaging assessment were reported as not evaluable. Some patients were excluded from TS as they were not evaluable for determination of maximum tolerated dose. Thus the number of evaluable TS patients are not the same as the number of original TS patients., From the start of treatment until the last evaluable assessment. The data cut-off date is 29-Nov-2013|Objective Response, Objective response was a best overall response of complete or partial response, recorded between the start of treatment and the earliest of disease progression, death, or the end of treatment.

Some patients excluded from TS as they were not evaluable for determination of maximum tolerated dose. Thus the number of evaluable TS patients are not the same as the number of original TS patients., From the start of treatment and the earliest of disease progression, death, or the end of treatment. The data cut-off date is 29-Nov-2013.|Disease Control, Disease control was a best overall response of complete response, partial response or stable disease, recorded between the start of treatment and the earliest of disease progression, death, or the end of treatment. Some patients excluded from TS as they were not evaluable for determination of maximum tolerated dose. Thus the number of evaluable TS patients are not the same as the number of original TS patients., From the start of treatment to the earliest of disease progression, death, or the end of treatment. The data cut-off date is 29-Nov-2013.
The aim of the Phase Ia (dose escalation) part of this trial is to assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BI 847325 administered at escalating doses in 2 treatment arms. In the Phase Ib expansion part of the trial, the aim is to further evaluate the safety profile of BI 847325 at the recommended dose and schedule and to assess target modulation and the potential antitumour efficacy in patients with selected tumour types.