H3.3K27M Peptide Vaccine With Nivolumab for Children With Newly Diagnosed DIPG and Other Gliomas
This is 3-arm, multicenter study that will be conducted through the Pacific Pediatric Neuro-oncology Consortium (PNOC). This study will assess the safety and immune activity of a synthetic peptide vaccine specific for the Histone 3 lysine27-to-methionine (H3.3K27M) epitope given in combination with poly-ICLC and the H3.3K27M epitope given in combination with poly-ICLC and the PD-1 inhibitor, nivolumab, in HLA-A2 (02:01)+ children with newly diagnosed diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) or other midline gliomas that are positive for H3.3K27M.
Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma|Glioma|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant
BIOLOGICAL: K27M peptide|DRUG: Nivolumab
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AE) Related to Treatment, Safety of the vaccine (Strata A and B) or vaccine in combination with nivolumab (Stratum C) will be assessed for participants who received the vaccination. The severity of toxicities will be graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)version 5.0. and include any clinically-significant lab abnormalities meeting Grade 3, 4, or 5 criteria according to CTCAE. Grade 1 \& 2 AEs will be summarized if probably, possible, or definitely related to study therapy. Descriptive statistics will be utilized to display the data on toxicity reported by participants., 24 months|Overall Survival Rate at 12 Months (OS12) (Stratum A Only), OS12 is defined as the percentage of participants still alive at 12 months, and is the clinical efficacy, primary endpoint for Stratum A. Any eligible participant that received at least one dose of the K27M/TT vaccine will be considered evaluable for clinical efficacy. OS12 will be censored at the last contact date and estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 12 months
Participants who are eligible will receive a specific peptide vaccine, along with a helper drug called poly-ICLC, in combination with nivolumab, every 3 weeks for the first 6 months of treatment. Participants will be monitored routinely by laboratory assessments, physical evaluation, vital signs, and MRI. Participants who tolerate therapy well and have stable or improved disease after 6 months of treatment can continue to receive treatment, nivolumab continuing every 3 weeks but vaccine and poly-ICLC now every 6 weeks, for a total of 96 weeks of treatment.