Botensilimab, Balstilimab and Regorafenib or Botensilimab and Balstilimab for the Treatment of Advanced or Metastatic Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well the combination of botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib works compared to botensilimab and balstilimab in treating patients with microsatellite stable colorectal cancer that may have spread from where it first started to nearby tissue, lymph nodes, or distant parts of the body (advanced) or that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as botensilimab and balstilimab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Regorafenib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals tumor cells to multiply. This helps to slow or stop the spread of tumor cells. The combination of botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib or botensilimab and balstilimab may be a safe and effective treatment for advanced or metastatic microsatellite stable colorectal cancer.
Advanced Colon Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Colon Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colon Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Rectal Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Balstilimab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Botensilimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Regorafenib
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (Safety lead in), Assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., During cycle 1 (42 days)|Treatment related adverse event rates (Safety lead in), Assessed by NCI CTCAE version 5.0., During cycle 1 (42 days)|Response rate (Phase II) RECIST, Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 (primary) in microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib versus botensilimab and balstilimab, by treatment arm. Will be summarized by number, and percentage, along with Clopper-Pearson exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Response rate (Phase II) Immune-Modified RECIST, Assessed by Immune-Modified RECIST (secondary) in microsatellite stable metastatic colorectal cancer patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib versus botensilimab and balstilimab, by treatment arm. Will be summarized by number, and percentage, along with Clopper-Pearson exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 5 years after completion of study treatment
Overall survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and calculated with 95% confidence intervals (CIs).

Will be summarized by number, and percentage, along with Clopper-Pearson exact binomial confidence intervals., From enrollment to death as a result of any cause or being censored at their last contact, assessed up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Progression free survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and will be calculated with 95% CIs.

Will be summarized by number, and percentage, along with Clopper-Pearson exact binomial confidence intervals., From enrollment to disease progression/relapse or death as a result of any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Duration of treatment response, Defined as time to progression or death, starting at the time when a response is experienced., Up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Defined as toxicity, graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0. Toxicity data will be summarized in frequency tables by category and grade to evaluate the safety profile of the combination therapy., Up to 90 days after completion of study treatment
COPRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib (BBR) in microsatellite stable (MSS) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients without metastatic liver lesions in the safety run-in. (Safety lead-in) II. Compare the overall response rate in microsatellite stable (MSS) metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving botensilimab, balstilimab and regorafenib (BBR) versus botensilimab and balstilimab (BB), by treatment arm. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the overall survival in MSS mCRC patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving BBR and BB, by treatment arm.

II. Estimate the progression free survival in MSS mCRC patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving BBR and BB, by treatment arm.

III. Estimate the duration of response (DOR) in MSS mCRC patients without metastatic liver lesions receiving BBR and BB that experience a response to therapy, by treatment arm.

IV. Describe the safety of giving to BBR and BB to patients with MSS mCRC without metastatic liver lesions, by treatment arm.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Through the performance of baseline and on treatment biopsies and serial blood work (cytokines and flow cytometry), explore potential biomarkers of response to BBR and BB therapy given to MSS mCRC patients without metastatic liver lesions, by treatment arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM BBR: Patients receive botensilimab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, balstilimab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 of each cycle, and regorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, 15-21, and 29-35 of each cycle or on days 1-5, 15-19, and 29-33 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 2 cycles of botensilimab and up to 2 years of balstilimab and regorafenib in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy during screening and on study.

ARM BB: Patients receive botensilimab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle and balstilimab IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15, and 29 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 2 cycles of botensilimab and up to 2 years of balstilimab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT or MRI and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days and then every 2-3 months for 5 years.