Special Investigation For Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) Of Sunitinib Malate (Regulatory Post Marketing Commitment Plan)
The objective of this surveillance is to collect information about 1) adverse drug reaction not expected from the LPD (unknown adverse drug reaction), 2) the incidence of adverse drug reactions in this surveillance, and 3)factors considered to affect the safety and/or efficacy of this drug.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: sunitinib malate
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.)., MAX 2 Years|Objective Response Rate, Percentage of participants with objective response per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST V1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR),\>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesion; Overall Response(OR) = CR + PR. The result was presented along with the corresponding exact 2-sided 95% confidence interval (CI)., MAX 2 Years
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events in Pediatric Population, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). Pediatric population was defined as the participants who aged younger than 15, and adult population was defined as those aged 15 or older., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events in Elderly Population, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). Elderly population was defined as the participants who aged 65 or older., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Who Had Hepatic Impairment, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). Hepatic impairment referred not to transient laboratory test value abnormalities, but to the events that were clinically noteworthy and required follow-up., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Who Had Renal Impairment, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). Renal impairment referred not to transient laboratory test value abnormalities, but to the events that were clinically noteworthy and required follow-up., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Who Used Concomitant Cytochrome P450 3A4 (CYP3A4) Inhibitors, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). A total of 38 drugs including tofisopam, bromocriptin mesilate, and fluvoxamine maleate were defined as CYP3A4 inhibitors., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Who Were Under Long-Term Treatment, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). The long-term treatment was defined as the treatment continued more than 24 weeks., MAX 2 Years|Numbers of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Corresponded to Items for Priority Investigation, The following adverse events were defined as items for priority investigation : (1) lung disorder including interstitial pneumonia, (2) bone marrow depression including platelets decreased, white blood cell decreased, and anaemia, (3) haemorrhage including those due to tumor degeneration or shrinkage, (4) cardiac function disturbance including QT interval prolonged and left ventricular ejection fraction decreased, (5) dysfunction adrenal, (6) pancreatic dysfunction including lipase increased, (7) thyroid function decreased, (8) cutaneous symptoms (hand and foot syndrome), (9) serious infections, (10) rhabdomyolysis, myopathy, and (11) reversible posterior leukoencephalopathy syndrome (RPLS). Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.)., MAX 2 Years
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Serious Adverse Events, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. A treatmen-trelated serious adverse event was a treatment-related adverse event resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death余 initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization余 lifethreatening experience (immediate risk of dying)余 persistent or significant disability/incapacity余 congenital anomaly. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.)., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Unexpected From Japanese Package Insert, A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). Expectedness of the adverse event was determined according to the Japanese package insert. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.)., MAX 2 Years|Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher in Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), A treatment-related adverse event was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to sunitinib malate in a participant who received sunitinib malate. Relatedness to sunitinib malate was assessed by the investigator and sponsor (Pfizer Japan Inc.). The severity for each adverse event was assessed according to CTCAE as follows: grade 3, severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening, hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated, or disabling; grade 4, life-threatening consequences or urgent intervention indicated; grade 5, death related to adverse event., MAX 2 Years
All the patients whom an investigator prescribes the first sunitinib malate(Sutent) should be registered.