Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy With Tavo + Electroporation in Combination With Nivo. in Melanoma Patients
This is a Phase 2 open-label, single-arm study of neoadjuvant treatment of intratumoral tavo-EP plus nivolumab IV infusion. Eligible participants will be those with pathological diagnosis of operable locally-regionally advanced melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: Tavo|DRUG: Nivolumab|DEVICE: OncoSec Medical Electroporation Therapy System
Pathologic Complete Response, For each subject, the study intervention consists of 3 phases: (1) Neoadjuvant Phase; (2) Surgery Phase; (3) Adjuvant Phase. Completion of all 3 phases is required for primary completion of the study. The study protocol requires that all subjects will be followed for 4 weeks after last dose of nivolumab at End of Study (EOS) visit. That is 4 weeks after the conclusion of the adjuvant phase. For the purpose of reporting the primary outcome measure, Pathologic Complete Response will be estimated based on the proportion of participants who have completed the study phases and were found to have no viable tumor on histologic assessment at definitive surgery after the 12- week Neoadjuvant phase. Surgery will then be scheduled 2-4 weeks after neoadjuvant phase. This will be followed by the adjuvant phase. Therefore, the proportion of participants who continue in Pathologic Complete Response following completion of the 3 study phases would be reported., At least four weeks after the last dose of nivolumab at End of Study (EOS) visit
Objective Response Rate, Preoperative ORR assessed by Investigator based on RECIST v1.1 at the conclusion of the Neoadjuvant phase., Conclusion of the neoadjuvant phase.|Relapse Free Survival, RFS assessed by Investigator based on RECIST v1.1 at least four weeks after the last dose of nivolumab at End of Study (EOS) visit., At least four weeks after the last dose of nivolumab at End of Study (EOS) visit|Overall Survival, Overall survival at 1 year after start of therapy., At 1 year after start of therapy|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], To determine the safety and tolerability of combined treatment as neoadjuvant therapy will be based on the frequency of AEs, Up to 5 years after start of therapy|Risk of Surgical Delay, Definitive surgery will be planned at about 12 weeks. Participants will be monitored for surgical delay (either due to toxicity and/or tumor progression). Defined as the number of participants who had Surgery delayed due to progression., Up to 16 weeks after start or therapy
This is a Phase 2 open-label, single-arm study of neoadjuvant treatment of intratumoral tavo-EP plus nivolumab IV infusion. Eligible participants will be those with pathological diagnosis of operable locally-regionally advanced melanoma.