A Prospective Cohort Study of Advanced Colorectal Cancer Treated With Oxaliplatin and Irinotecan.
The goal of this prospective observational study is to learn about the treatment decisions in advanced colorectal cancer treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan. The main questions:1. learn about the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy or targeted drugs or other chemotherapy for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan（non-retreatment/rechallenge group，NR group）. 2. learn about the efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin or irinotecan for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan (retreatment/rechallenge group, RT/RC group). 3. compare the efficacy and safety of various treatment regimens for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan. This study will only collect the clinical data of patients, without any intervention, in the treatment services. All participants will be provided written informed consent as per the Declaration of Helsinki principles.
Advanced Colorectal Cancer
Progression free survival, PFS, PFS was calculated as the time from the date of treatment initiation to the date of disease progression or the last follow-up, Up to 12 months|Overall Survival, OS, OS was calculated as the time from the date of treatment initiation to the date of any cause of death, or the last follow-up., Up to 24 months
Objective response rate ，ORR, The ORR was defined as the percentage of patients performing a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) according to RECIST V1.1., Up to 12 months|Disease Control Rate，DCR, The ORR was defined as the percentage of patients performing a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) or a stable disease (SD) according to RECIST V1.1., Up to 12 months|Quality of life score, evaluated according to EORTC QLQ-C30 V3.0, Up to 24 months|Comprehensive score of economic burden, evaluated according to COST-PROM, Up to 24 months|Adverse events, AEs, evaluated by NCI-CTC AE V5.0, Up to 24 months
The goal of this prospective observational study is to learn about the treatment decisions in advanced colorectal cancer treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan. The main questions:1. learn about the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy or targeted drugs or other chemotherapy for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan（non-retreatment/rechallenge group，NR group）. 2. learn about the efficacy and safety of oxaliplatin or irinotecan for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan (retreatment/rechallenge group, RT/RC group). 3. compare the efficacy and safety of various treatment regimens for patients treated with oxaliplatin and irinotecan. This study will only collect the clinical data of patients, without any intervention, in the treatment services. All participants will be provided written informed consent as per the Declaration of Helsinki principles.