Testing the Effects of Oxybutynin for the Treatment of Hot Flashes in Men Receiving Hormone Therapy for Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial compares the effect of oxybutynin versus placebo for reducing hot flashes in men receiving androgen deprivation (hormone) therapy for the treatment of prostate cancer . Androgen deprivation therapy decreases testosterone and other androgens through medications or surgical removal of the testicles. Relative to placebo, low- or high-dose oxybutynin may reduce hot flashes in men receiving androgen deprivation therapy.
Prostate Carcinoma
DRUG: Oxybutynin Chloride|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in Weekly Patient-reported Hot Flash Scores, Using patients' hot flash diaries, daily hot flash scores will be determined by multiplying the frequency of each defined hot flash grade (mild=1, moderate=2, severe=3, very severe=4) by the severity and summing the values over a 24-hour period. Weekly hot flash scores will be computed by averaging these hot flash scores across 7 days. A score of 0 would mean the patient experienced no hot flashes during the week, and every unit increase reflects more or more severe hot flashes experienced. A mixed model will be estimated that includes baseline and weekly hot flash scores across the 6-week treatment period. Estimates from the mixed model will be used to construct 90% confidence intervals for mean differences in hot flash score reduction from baseline to 6 weeks between the oxybutynin and placebo arms. Contrasts estimated via the mixed model will involve a two-sided t-test with alpha = .10., 6 weeks post-randomization
Change in Patient-reported Hot Flash Frequency, Weekly hot flash frequencies will be determined by patients' hot flash diaries. A mixed model will be estimated that includes baseline and weekly hot flash frequencies across the 6-week treatment period. The mixed model and subsequent contrasts will account for the observed distribution of weekly hot flash frequencies., 6 weeks post-randomization|Number of Patients That Experienced a Grade 3+ Adverse Event, Grade 3 or higher adverse events will be assessed by the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0 and summarized by arm., 12 weeks post-randomization|Patient-reported Symptoms, Patient-reported symptoms will be assessed by the Symptom Experience Questionnaire. A mixed model will be estimated that includes baseline and weekly patient-reported symptoms across the 6-week treatment period. The mean change in answers from baseline to week 6 to the item "How Distressing Was Your Experience With Hot Flashes" will be reported. Answers are given on a scale from 0 to 10 with higher scores being worse; therefore a positive number indicates a worse experience at week 6., 6 weeks post-randomization|Patient Accrual, The time required to accrue 87 patients will be reported., 26 months|Patients That Completed Treatment, Treatment adherence rates will be calculated by dividing the number of patients who completed treatment per protocol by the number of patients who started treatment. Treatment adherence rates will be summarized by arm., 4 months|Patient-reported Hot Flash Interference, A mixed model will be estimated that includes patients' scores on the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS) across the 6-week treatment period. The mean change in answers from baseline to week 6 to the item "Overall Quality of Life" will be reported. Answers are given on a scale from 0 to 10 with higher scores being worse; therefore a positive number indicates a worse experience at week 6., 6 weeks post-randomization
The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effects of two doses of oxybutynin chloride (oxybutynin) on hot flash scores relative to placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess study accrual rates and compliance with the therapy. II. To characterize the safety and adverse event profile of two doses of oxybutynin in the study population.

III. To evaluate the consistency of the results across the various methods used to evaluate the efficacy of oxybutynin (i.e., hot flash scores versus hot flash frequencies, mean differences versus 50% or greater reduction since baseline, single day versus full week to define patients' baseline hot flash scores).

IV. To compare patient-reported quality of life and hot flash interference, as measured by the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale (HFRDIS), across arms.

V. To compare other changes in patient symptoms, as measured by the Symptom Experience Questionnaire, across arms.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms in a 2:2:1:1 ratio according to the dynamic allocation scheme.

Experimental Arm (low dose): Patients receive low-dose oxybutynin chloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 8-49 (6 weeks) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Experimental Arm (high dose): Patients receive high-dose oxybutynin chloride PO BID on days 8-49 (6 weeks) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Placebo Arm (low dose): Patients receive low-dose placebo PO BID on days 8-49 (6 weeks). After 6 weeks, patients may cross over to Experimental Arm (low dose) per physician discretion.

Placebo Arm (high dose): Patients receive high-dose placebo PO BID on days 8-49 (6 weeks). After 6 weeks, patients may cross over to Experimental Arm (high dose) per physician discretion.

There will be a 6-week follow-up for the Placebo Arm patients who participate in the optional crossover phase.