A Study of Pioglitazone and Carboplatin in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The proposed investigation is a Phase 1 trial to determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of pioglitazone ( and carboplatin patients with advanced or metastatic solid malignancies.
Advanced Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor
DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: pioglitazone
MTD of pioglitazone and carboplatin, To determine the safety, tolerability, and MTD of the combination of pioglitazone (dosed orally once daily at conventional FDA-approved doses) and carboplatin (dosed IV every 3 weeks) in patients with advanced or metastatic solid malignancies. The trial will describe the toxicities of this regimen based on CTCAE. In addition, using RECIST criteria, will look at preliminary anti-tumor activity, Baseline, 6 Weeks
Plasma Concentration-time Profiles, The Wilcoxon Signed Rank test will be used to determine whether the addition of pioglitazone (at cycle 2) affects carboplatin pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (assessed during cycle 1 of the MTD cohort). The Wilcoxon Signed Rank test will be used to determine whether the addition of pioglitazone (at cycle 2) affects carboplatin pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics (assessed during cycle 1 of the MTD cohort)., 5 minutes pre dosing, at 15 min and 30 min after beginning the infusion, 2 min before the end of the approximately 60 min infusion, and at approximately 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 6 h, and 24 h after the end of the infusion|Induction Rate of metallothionein expression and DNA damage by carboplatin in the absence or presence of pioglitazone., To assess induction of metallothionein expression and DNA damage by carboplatin in the absence or presence of pioglitazone. In depth, molecular analysis measuring protein levels of tumor biopsy specimen will be performed to look for molecular predictors of response, Day 2|Anti-Tumor Response and Progression Rate, To assess preliminary anti-tumor activity of the combination of pioglitazone and carboplatin. We will use RECIST criteria to measure the response rate., Baseline, ≥ 4 Weeks
* In Part I of the study, the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined. During part I, Cycle 1, days 1-28, pioglitazone will be administered once daily. On cycle 1, day 8, the first dose of carboplatin will be administered. On cycle 2, day 1, both carboplatin and pioglitazone will be administered. Cycles 2 and onward are 21-day cycles, with pioglitazone administered once daily and carboplatin administered once every 3 weeks. Part I of the study will end when the MTD has been determined in a minimum of 6 patients.
* In Part II of the trial, an MTD Expansion Cohort may be utilized to further characterize the safety profile and pharmacodynamics of the drug. Patients in the MTD Expansion Cohort will receive carboplatin alone on cycle 1, day 1. Over days 15-21 of the cycle pioglitazone will be administered alone. On cycle 2, day 1, both carboplatin and pioglitazone will be administered.

Cycle 2 and onward are 21-day cycles, with pioglitazone administered once daily and carboplatin administered once every 3 weeks.