Sunitinib and Irradiated Donor Lymphocytes in Treating Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Sunitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Infusing irradiated donor lymphocytes into the patient may help the patient's immune system kill tumor cells. Giving sunitinib together with irradiated donor lymphocytes may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving sunitinib together with irradiated donor lymphocytes works in treating patients with metastatic kidney cancer.
Kidney Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes|DRUG: sunitinib malate
Progression-free Survival, Determined as the time from treatment with combination sunitinib with irradiated allogeneic lymphocytes to progressive disease or death whichever occurred first. Progression is determined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v 1.0) as 20% increase in the sum of the of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, on average up to 1 year.
Response Rate, Per response evaluation criteria in solid tumors criteria (RECIST v 1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI; Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR; Stable disease - not meeting criteria for response or progression., Best responseFrom date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 1 year.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine progression-free survival of patients with metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma treated with sunitinib and irradiated allogeneic lymphocytes.

Secondary

* Determine rates and kinetics of clinical/radiographic response in these patients.
* Determine toxicities associated with treatment in these patients.
* Assess stable disease at 6 months in these patients.
* Assess overall survival of these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning with course 2 of sunitinib malate, patients also receive irradiated allogeneic lymphocytes IV over 1 hour every 8-16 weeks for up to 6 infusions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 60 days.