Comparison of the Hologic Genius Digital Diagnostics System With the ThinPrep Imaging System
Quality assurance of the laboratory examinations. Retrospective non-interventional study with ThinPrep slides collected as part of the German Co-Screening Program for routine diagnostic. These slides will retrospectively be used to validate the Hologic Genius Digital Cytology (DC) system vs. the ThinPrep Imaging system (TIS).
Cervical Cancer Screening
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Hologic's Genius Digital Diagnostics System
Sensitivity and specificity of detection of pre-cancerous lesions using Hologic Genius Digital Cytology Imaging scanner, To demonstrate non-inferiority, the appropriate approximative one sided 95% confidence interval for the true difference between the two approaches (Digital Cytology and the ThinPrep Imaging system (TIS)) will be constructed., 3 months
Change in time needed to screen 80 slides using Hologic Genius Digital Cytology Imaging scanner., To assess the impact on the workflow of the introduction of a Digital Cytology procedure to a high-throughput screening lab in Germany., 3 months|Clinical performance of Hologic Genius Digital Cytology Imaging scanner using cells on a ThinPrep® slide., The performance of Hologic Genius Digital Cytology Imaging scanner during cervical cancer screening (using histology as reference method) will be assessed via sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values., 3 months
The cause of cervical cancer is a persistent infection with high-risk types of human papillomavirus (HPV). Cytology has been the gold standard for cervical screening since the introduction of routine screening with the Pap test in the 1950s due to its effect on mortality in regions with screening programs. Since that time, there have been several technological advances (LBC, Imaging) to improve and automate cervical cytology, resulting in increased disease detection and efficiency. The Hologic's Genius Digital Diagnostics System is a CE-IVD (CE-marked in vitro diagnostic device) marked digital cytology platform. For quality assurance and to retrospectively validate the Hologic Genius Digital Cytology (DC) system selected slides earlier measured with TIS will be additionally reviewed with the Genius Digital Diagnostic System in order to demonstrate clinical performance and efficiency.

Hologic's Digital Image Analysis Algorithm uses AI to identify diagnostically relevant objects of interest.Only anonymized results will be evaluated.