Anlotinib Combined With Docetaxel Versus Docetaxel for Previous Treated Advanced NSCLC
Anlotinib is a multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor in domestic research and development. It can inhibit the angiogenesis related kinase, such as VEGFR, FGFR, PDGFR, and tumor cell proliferation related kinase -c-Kit kinase. In the phase Ⅲ study, patients who failed at least two kinds of systemic chemotherapy (third line or beyond) or drug intolerance were treated with anlotinib（12mg，po. qd. on day 1to14 of a 21-day cycle） or placebo, the anlotinib group PFS and OS were 5.37 months and 9.63 months, the placebo group PFS and OS were 1.4 months and 6.3 months. Therefore,we envisage using anlotinib plus docetaxel treat the EGFR wild-type advanced Non-small cell lung cancer patients who were failure in the treatment of chemotherapy with platinum containing drugs, to further improve the patient's PFS or OS.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib combined Docetaxel|DRUG: Docetaxel
PFS, Progress free survival, each 42 days up to PD or death(up to 24 months)
OS, Overall Survival, From randomization until death (up to 24 months)|quality of life, use EORTC QLQ-C30(version 3) questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life, each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|ORR, Objective Response Rate, each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|DCR, Disease Control Rate, each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Record Adverse Events (AEs) according to CTCAE (V4.03). To find Potential adverse reaction, measure blood pressure at least 2 times a week and test blood routine, Blood biochemical, Urine routine, stool routine, coagulation function, electrocardiogram for each follow-up, record and analyze the number of abnormal data., Until 21 day safety follow-up visit
This multicentre randomised controlled clinical trial conducted in China include phase I study and phase II study.

Phase I study: to get the maximum tolerated dose of anlotinib when combined with Docetaxel.

Phase II study: to compare the effectiveness and safety of Anlotinib Plus Docetaxel in patients of EGFR wild-type Advanced Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.