Gefitinib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Thyroid Cancer That Did Not Respond to Iodine Therapy
RATIONALE: Gefitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of gefitinib in treating patients who have locally advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer that did not respond to iodine therapy.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Gefitinib
Objective Tumor Response Rate at 3, 6, and 12 Months, Response rate as assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Tumor assessment is performed within 4 weeks of initiation of treatment and then every 8 weeks. If a patient has stable disease for four tumor assessments (6 months), then tumor assessment may occur every 4 months. If the patient continues to experience stable disease after 2 years, tumor assessments may occur every 6 months. If the patient continues to experience stable disease after 5 years, tumor assessments may occur once a year.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, 3 Months, 6 Months, 1 Year
Toxicity, Drug related toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE that occurred in more than 10% of patients, Through study completion, on average 12 months|Median Progression-free Survival, The median progression-free survival as assessed by RECIST criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) measured from the time of enrollment until disease progression or death.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study) or the appearance of new lesions., From the time of enrollment until disease progression or death, whichever came first|Overall Survival, The median overall survival time, measured from the time of enrollment until death., 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the all-measurable-disease response rate in patients with iodine-refractory locally advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer treated with gefitinib.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.
* Determine progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

Patients receive oral gefitinib once daily. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 27 patients will be accrued for this study.