Raman Spectroscopy in the Diagnosis of Extrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma - a Pilot Study
Diagnosis of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is challenging because the yield of imaging and tissue sampling is limited. Raman spectroscopy is an optical method based on the analysis of scattered monochromatic light. Raman spectroscopy is able to provide a molecular 'fingerprint' of the tissue to determine its type. The aim of this pilot study was to develop a methodology for in vivo Raman spectroscopy in bile ducts to improve the current diagnostic capabilities of extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma, Extrahepatic|Cholangiocarcinoma of the Extrahepatic Bile Duct|Cholangiocarcinoma, Perihilar|Diagnosis|Raman Spectroscopy|Klatskin Tumor|Endoscopy|Biliary Stricture|Malignant Biliary Stricture
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)
The differences in Raman spectra of malignant biliary tissue compared to healthy biliary tissue, During single ERCP procedure, we take 20 measurements of the Raman spectra (10 from malignant biliary tissue and 10 from healthy biliary tissue) that each tissue emits after interaction with the laser light. We are interested in the specific difference in the spectra of each tissue, which will be shown as a two-dimensional curve. The differences in the spectra of each tissue will be reflected by a change in the shape of the curve., Perioperative/Periprocedural
During ERCP, a fibre Raman probe (Endoscopic Fiber-Optic Raman Probe Bundle Fiber, Uni-Export Instruments, USA) is introduced transpapillary into the known extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. The Raman probe is placed in an adequate position under fluoroscopy control. Raman spectroscopy measurements are performed (without fluoroscopy) 20 times for each patient (laser wavelength 785 nm), 10 times for extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and 10 times for healthy bile duct. The attained data are saved and analysed by a specialised biophysicist. All patients provided informed consent.