Spiritual Health Scale in Chinese Pediatric Cancer Patients
Pediatric cancer patients experience spiritual concerns such as meaningless, hopeless of life, fear of death and losses at all stages of illness. The availability of a valid and reliable instrument that accurately assesses the level of spiritual health among pediatric cancer patients is crucial before any appropriate interventions to solve their spiritual concerns can be appropriately planned and evaluated.
Child
OTHER: Questionnaire
The adapted spiritual well-being scale of the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-12 (FACIT-Sp-12) for pediatric cancer patients, For measuring participants' spiritual well-being, past senven days|The Chinese version of the center for epidemiology studies depression scale for children (CES-DC), For measuring participants' depressive symptoms, past seven days|Pediatric quality of life inventory 3.0 cancer module (PedsQL 3.0 Cancer Module), For measuring participants' quality of life, past seven days|Socio-demographic and clinical characteristics, For collecting the background information of the participants, including their age, gender, educational attainment, household income, number of siblings, parents' marital status and religious belief. In addition, participants' medical records will be retrieved to acquire their diagnosis., on that day filling out questionnaire
The study aimed to adapt the 12-item Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual Well-being Scale (FACIT-Sp-12) scale and validate it in Chinese pediatric cancer patients.

A two-phase sequential method design will be used. Phase I will use a descriptive qualitative approach to understand pediatric cancer patients' opinions related with spiritual issues and experience. At least 12 participants are expected to be interviewed. The results of the qualitative study will be used to compare with the items of the original scale, and emerging themes will be used to generate new items. Phase Ⅱ will translates and adapt the scale based on the result of Phase I. Further, the adapted version of the scale will be validated among 200 pediatric cancer patients.