A Study to Evaluate Genetic Predictors of Aromatase Inhibitor Musculoskeletal Symptoms (AIMSS)
E1Z11 is a study to determine whether certain genetic information can predict which breast cancer patients will discontinue treatment with aromatase inhibitors (AIs) due to the development of musculoskeletal symptoms (MSS). Women with stage I-III breast cancer who are prescribed the aromatase inhibitor anastrozole as treatment may join.
Estrogen Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Musculoskeletal Complications|Progesterone Receptor-positive Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IA Breast Cancer|Stage IB Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DRUG: anastrozole
Associations Between Pre-specified Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) and Discontinuation of Treatment With Aromatase Inhibitor (AI) Due to the Development of Musculoskeletal Symptoms (MSS), Patients were classified into two groups based on whether or not they discontinued treatment due to MSS within 12 months. The 10 SNPs evaluated include ESR1 (rs2234693, rs2347868, rs9340835), CYP19A1 (rs1062033, rs4646), TCL1A (rs11849538, rs2369049, rs7158782, rs7159713), and HTR2A (rs2296972).

The associations between SNPs and discontinuation of treatment due to AIMSS are presented by odds ratios (ORs). An OR of 1 suggests no association, while an OR \> 1 indicates a greater chance of treatment discontinuation in the one group compared to the reference group, and an OR \< 1 suggests a lower chance., Assessed at baseline and 3, 6, 9, 12 months
Associations Between Other SNPs in CYP, UGT, Vitamin D, Serotonin and Other Receptors and Discontinuation of Treatment Due to the Development of Severe AIMSS, The associations between discontinuation of treatment due to AIMSS and various factors, including other SNPs in CYP, UGT, vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are evaluated., Assessed at baseline and 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Associations Between Development of Other Potential Complications of AI Therapy and Other SNPs in CYP, UGT, Vitamin D, Serotonin and Other Receptors, The associations between development of other potential complications of AI therapy and other SNPs in CYP, UGT, vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are evaluated., Assessed at baseline, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months|The Distribution of the Development of AIMSS by Genotype of the rs2296972 SNP, The association between the rs2296972 SNP in the HTR2A-AS1;HTR2A gene and the development of AIMSS was evaluated. Patients were categorized into CC, AC and AA genotypes for the rs2296972 SNP.

AIMSS was defined using two criteria, physician assessment and the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) score. Patients who developed joint pain or stiffness were encouraged not to discontinue treatment and were to be seen by their treating clinician within 2 weeks of the symptom(s). At the time of the visit, the treating clinician could make an AIMSS diagnosis based on a clinical assessment. AIMSS based on HAQ was defined as ≥0.20 mean increase in scaled HAQ score at 3, 6, 9 or 12 months from baseline., Assessed at baseline, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months|The Distribution of Development of AIMSS by Race, The association between race and the development of AIMSS was evaluated. AIMSS was defined using two criteria, physician assessment and the Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) score. Patients who developed joint pain or stiffness were encouraged not to discontinue treatment and were to be seen by their treating clinician within 2 weeks of the symptom(s). At the time of the visit, the treating clinician could make an AIMSS diagnosis based on a clinical assessment. AIMSS based on HAQ was defined as ≥0.20 mean increase in scaled HAQ score at 3, 6, 9 or 12 months from baseline., Assessed at baseline, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Patient Reported Outcomes (Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] Pain Scores) at Baseline for Patients With Breast Cancer Treated With Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)., HAQ was administered to evaluate pain among the patients. The pain scores range between 0 and 3 with 0 indicating no pain and 3 indicating very severe pain., Assessed at baseline|Patient Reported Outcomes (Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] Pain Scores) at 3 Months for Patients With Breast Cancer Treated With Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)., HAQ was administered to evaluate pain among the patients. The pain scores range between 0 and 3 with 0 indicating no pain and 3 indicating very severe pain., Assessed at 3 months|Patient Reported Outcomes (Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] Pain Scores) at 6 Months for Patients With Breast Cancer Treated With Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)., HAQ was administered to evaluate pain among the patients. The pain scores range between 0 and 3 with 0 indicating no pain and 3 indicating very severe pain., Assessed at 6 months|Patient Reported Outcomes (Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] Pain Scores) at 9 Months for Patients With Breast Cancer Treated With Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)., HAQ was administered to evaluate pain among the patients. The pain scores range between 0 and 3 with 0 indicating no pain and 3 indicating very severe pain., Assessed at 9 months|Patient Reported Outcomes (Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] Pain Scores) at 12 Months for Patients With Breast Cancer Treated With Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs)., HAQ was administered to evaluate pain among the patients. The pain scores range between 0 and 3 with 0 indicating no pain and 3 indicating very severe pain., Assessed at 12 months|To Develop a Model That Incorporates Patient Ratings of Treatment Burden, Fear of Recurrence and Adherence Behaviors to Describe Patient Decisions to Continue or Discontinue Anastrozole, To develop a model that incorporates patient ratings of treatment burden, fear of recurrence and adherence behaviors to describe patient decisions to continue or discontinue anastrozole, Assessed at baseline, diagnosis of AIMSS, discontinuation of treatment due to AIMSS, one month after treatment discontinuation due to AIMSS, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months
To Assess the Utility of the Reported Outcomes Management Information System (PROMIS) to Collect Patient Reported Outcomes in a Cooperative Group Study, and Validate the PROMIS Physical Function 20a Form in Patients With AIMSS, The NIH has developed a Web-based system for recording patient reported outcomes during clinical trials, the Patient Reported Outcomes Management Information System (PROMIS) that will enable the efficient collection of patient reported outcomes and decrease the logistical burdens on office practices for patients on clinical trials. The PROMIS Assessment Center is the web-based platform for dissemination of NIH PROMIS measures. The assessment center can be used to administer patient rated outcome instruments, monitor accrual, manage data, send reminders to patients, be used to deliver custom researcher developed content, and has numerous features that support both simple and complicated accrual designs., Assessed at baseline, diagnosis of AIMSS, discontinuation of treatment due to AIMSS, one month after treatment discontinuation due to AIMSS, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months|To Collect Serum Samples for Future Testing for Biomarkers of AIMSS, Serum samples will be collected for future testing for biomarkers of AIMSS, Assessed at baseline, diagnosis of AIMSS, discontinuation of treatment due to AIMSS, one month after treatment discontinuation due to AIMSS, and 3, 6, 9, 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To validate previously identified associations between 10 specific single nucleotide polymorphisms (single nucleotide polymorphisms \[SNPs\]) and discontinuation of treatment with aromatase inhibitors (AIs) due to the development of musculoskeletal symptoms (MSS) among women with breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether other SNPs in cytochrome P450 enzymes (CYP), glucuronosyltransferases (UGT), Vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are associated with discontinuation of treatment due to the development of severe aromatase inhibitor-associated musculoskeletal symptoms (AIMSS).

II. To determine whether other SNPs in CYP, UGT, Vitamin D, serotonin and other receptors are associated with the development of other potential complications of AI therapy.

III. To develop a gene signature that can identify patients at risk for developing severe anastrozole-related AIMSS and other potential complications of AI therapy.

IV. To determine the epidemiology and predictors of severe AIMSS and of AI discontinuation.

V. To describe patient reported outcomes for minority patients with breast cancer treated with AIs.

VI. To assess the utility of the Patient Reported Outcomes Management Information System (PROMIS) system to collect patient reported outcomes in a cooperative group study, and validate the PROMIS Physical Function 20a form in patients with AIMSS.

VII. To develop a model that incorporates patient ratings of treatment burden, fear of recurrence and adherence behaviors to describe patient decisions to continue or discontinue anastrozole.

VIII. To collect serum samples for future testing for biomarkers of AIMSS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive anastrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 12 months.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.