GSK1572932A Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic as Adjuvant Therapy in Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this clinical trial is to demonstrate the benefit of the immunotherapeutic product GSK1572932A when given to patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, after removal of their tumor. A course of 13 injections will be administered over 27 months. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
BIOLOGICAL: GSK1572932A Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo Control
Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the Overall Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. PYAR= n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the No-CT Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. PYAR= n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)
Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the CT Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Overall-survival (OS) in the Overall Population, OS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Patients still alive were censored at the last visit they were known to be alive. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Overall-survival (OS) in the No-CT Population, OS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Patients still alive were censored at the last visit they were known to be alive. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Overall-survival (OS) in the CT Population, OS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Patients still alive were censored at the last visit they were known to be alive. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Lung-cancer Specific Survival (LCSS) in the Overall Population, LCSS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death due to lung cancer. Deaths due to other or unknown causes were censored at the date of death. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Lung-cancer Specific Survival (LCSS) in the No-CT Population, LCSS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death due to lung cancer. Deaths due to other or unknown causes were censored at the date of death. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Lung-cancer Specific Survival (LCSS) in the CT Population, LCSS was defined as the time interval from randomization to the date of death due to lung cancer. Deaths due to other or unknown causes were censored at the date of death. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median OS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Kaplan-Meier Estimate (KME) of 2, 3, 4 and 5-year as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the Overall Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. Median DFS KMEs in % were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method and confidence intervals (CIs) calculated using the Greenwood formula for standard error computation., KME assessed at 2, 3, 4 and 5-year (Y) post Dose 1 of treatment. Follow-up period was from administration of 1st dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Kaplan-Meier Estimate (KME) of 2, 3, 4 and 5-year as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the No-CT Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. Median DFS KMEs in % were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method and confidence intervals (CIs) calculated using the Greenwood formula for standard error computation., KME assessed at 2, 3, 4 and 5-year (Y) post Dose 1 of treatment Follow-up period was from administration of 1st dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Kaplan-Meier Estimate (KME) of 2, 3, 4 and 5-year as Regards Disease-free Survival (DFS) in the CT Population, DFS = time interval from randomization to 1st evidence of recurrence/death, if occurring before. All recurrence types were included, including local, regional \& distant metastasis \& 2nd primary lung cancer (i.e. local recurrence, defined as a tumor within same lung or at bronchial stump; regional recurrence, involving a clinically or radiologically manifest disease in mediastinum or supraclavicular nodes; \& distant recurrence \[any tumor arising in contralateral lung or outside hemithorax\]). Deaths occurring without prior documentation of recurrence were considered as event \& not censored. If no event occurred by time of analysis, time to event was censored at last assessment date of patient. New 1ry cancers outside lungs were not considered as event. Median DFS KMEs in % were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method and confidence intervals (CIs) calculated using the Greenwood formula for standard error computation., KME assessed at 2, 3, 4 and 5-year (Y) post Dose 1 of treatment. Follow-up period was from administration of 1st dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Specific Survival (DFSS) in the Overall Population, DFSS was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of disease recurrence or death due to lung cancer. Patients who had died due to another cause than lung cancer were censored on their date of death and patients alive at the time of analysis were censored on the date of last assessment. Patients with no assessment post-randomization were censored on the date of randomization. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Specific Survival (DFSS) in the No-CT Population, DFSS was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of disease recurrence or death due to lung cancer. Patients who had died due to another cause than lung cancer were censored on their date of death and patients alive at the time of analysis were censored on the date of last assessment. Patients with no assessment post-randomization were censored on the date of randomization. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., From administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Person Year Rate (PYAR) as Regards Disease-free Specific Survival (DFSS) in the CT Population, DFSS was defined as the interval from randomization to the date of disease recurrence or death due to lung cancer. Patients who had died due to another cause than lung cancer were censored on their date of death and patients alive at the time of analysis were censored on the date of last assessment. Patients with no assessment post-randomization were censored on the date of randomization. PYAR = n (number of subjects reported with at least 1 event) divided by T (sum of follow-up period \[in years\] censored at 1st occurrence of event in group). Median DFS estimates were obtained non-parametrically by Kaplan-Meier method., Period of follow-up was from administration of first dose of GSK1572932 study product/placebo solution to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Subjects Seropositive for Anti-Melanoma AntiGEn (MAGE)-A3 Antibodies (Anti-MAGE-A3 S+), A seropositive subject for anti-MAGE-A3 antibodies was a subject with anti-MAGE-A3 antibodies \>= the seropositivity cut-off of 27 Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per millilitre (EL.U/mL)., Pre-treatment (PRE), at Weeks (W) 6 and 12, at Months (M) 9, 12, 18 and 30 and at one year after treatment concluding time point, i.e. at follow-up visit 2 at W120 added of one year (At 12M post W120)|Number of Humoral Responders as Regards Anti-Melanoma AntiGEn (MAGE)-A3 Antibodies (Anti-MAGE-A3 HR), A seropositive/seronegative subject for anti-MAGE-A3 antibodies was a subject with anti-MAGE-A3 antibodies \>=/\< the seropositivity cut-off of 27 Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per millilitre (EL.U/mL). A humoral responder as regards anti-MAGE-A3 antibodies was defined as 1) for initially seronegative patients, a patient with post-administration Anti-MAGE-A3 antibody concentration \>= 27 EL.U/mL; 2) for initially seropositive patients: post-treatment administration antibody concentration \>= 2 fold the pre-treatment antibody concentration., At Weeks (W) 6 and 12, at Months (M) 9, 12, 18 and 30 and at one year after treatment concluding time point, i.e. at follow-up visit 2 at W120 added of one year (at 12M post W120)|Number of Subjects Seropositive for Anti-protein D (PD) Antibodies (Anti-PD S+), A seropositive subject for anti-PD antibodies was a subject with anti-PD antibodies \>= the seropositivity cut-off of 100 Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per millilitre (EL.U/mL)., Pre-treatment (PRE), at Weeks (W) 6 and 12, at Months (M) 9, 12, 18 and 30 and at one year after treatment concluding time point, i.e. at follow-up visit 2 at W120 added of one year (at 12M post W120)|Number of Humoral Responders as Regards Anti-protein D (PD) Antibodies (Anti-PD HR), A seropositive/seronegative subject for anti-PD antibodies was a subject with anti-PD antibodies ≥/\< the seropositivity cut-off of 100 Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units per millilitre (EL.U/mL). A humoral responder as regards anti-PD antibodies was defined as 1) for initially seronegative patients, a patient with post-administration anti-PD antibody concentration ≥ 100 EL.U/mL; 2) for initially seropositive patients: post-administration antibody concentration ≥ 2 fold the pre-vaccination antibody concentration., At Weeks (W) 6 and 12, at Months (M) 9, 12, 18 and 30 and at one year after treatment concluding time point, i.e. at follow-up visit 2 at W120 added of one year (at 12M post W120)|Health-related Quality of Life (HQL) Scores, HQL was assessed using the EQ-5D generic health state classification and valuation system. The number and percentage of patients with each score within each dimension of the EQ-5D questionnaire (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression) were tabulated at each assessment for each group. Each of these scores can take 3 levels: no problem (level 1), moderate problem (level 2) or extreme problem (level 3). Resulting descriptive mean and standard deviation (SD) for the EQ-5D Utility Value (EQ-5D UV) were tabulated. Valid EQ-5D data were defined as questionnaires assessed 1) on day of and before treatment administration; or 2) on day after treatment administration for W0, W6, W12; or 3)during follow-up visits or at time of recurrence. The EQ-5D total score ranges from -0.016 (worst health state) to 1.000 (best health state)., At Week (W) 0 on day of treatment (DoT) (W0 DoT), W0 on day post treatment (DpT) (W0 DpT), W6 DoT, W6 DpT, W12 DoT, W12 DpT, Month (M) 6, M9, M12, M24, 6M post W120, at recurrence, and at 12M post W120|Number of Patients With Abnormal Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards ALT laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1 and G2. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Alanine Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards AST laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1 and G2. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Alkaline Phosphatase (ALKP) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards ALKP laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1 and G2. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Bilirubin (BIL) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards BIL laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0) and G1. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Creatinine (CREA) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards CREA laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1 and G2. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Haemoglobin (HGB) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards HGB laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1, G2 and G3. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Leukocytes (LEU) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards LEU laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1, G2 and G3. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Lymphocytes (LYM) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards LYM laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1, G2 and G3. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Neutrophils (NEU) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards NEU laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1, G2, G3 and G4. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Abnormal Platelets (PLA) Values by Maximum Grade, The status of each patient as regards PLA laboratory values at baseline (SCR) up to DLP was collected and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. The post-treatment values were presented by worst grade versus baseline grade. SCR CTC grade statuses reported were unknown (UNK), Grade 0 (G0), G1 and G3. CTC grade statuses reported at DLP were G0, G1, G2, G3, G4, and UNK., From screening (SCR) to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Any Adverse Events (AEs) and With AEs by Maximum Grade Reported - Up to Data Lock Point (DLP), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. AEs reported are here below tabulated irrespective of grade, as well as graded by maximum grade reported according to the Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) Adverse event terminology, version 3.0. Maximum grade reported and tabulated were Grade 1 (G1), G2, G3, G4 and G5. Any here below is defined as irrespective of CTC grade reported., Within the 31-day follow-up period post treatment administration, up to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)|Number of Patients With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) - Up to Data Lock Point (DLP), A SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that resulted in death, was life-threatening, required hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in disability/incapacity, was a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study subject, or was a Grade 4 AE according to CTC for Adverse Events, Version 3.0. Events part of natural course of lung cancer (i.e., disease progression, recurrence) were captured towards clinical efficacy assessment (CEA) and were not reported as SAEs. Death due to a progressive disease was similarly recorded towards CEA, but not as an SAE. However, if progression of lung cancer disease was greater than normally be expected, or if investigators considered that there was a causal relationship between treatment or protocol design/procedures and disease progression/ recurrence, then it was reported as SAE. Any new cancer (non-related to lung cancer) was reported as SAE., From screening (SCR) up to data lock point (DLP) on 23 January 2014 (up to 5 years per patient)
The purpose of this clinical trial is to demonstrate the benefit of the immunotherapeutic product GSK1572932A when given to patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, after removal of their tumor. A course of 13 injections will be administered over 27 months. The Protocol Posting has been updated in order to comply with the FDA Amendment Act, Sep 2007.