A Pivotal Study of Safety and Effectiveness of NanoKnife IRE for Stage 3 Pancreatic Cancer
Subjects will be offered the opportunity to participate in a randomized, controlled, 2-arm, unblinded multicenter trial (RCT). There will be 2 study arms: the control arm receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen alone; and the irreversible electroporation (IRE) arm, receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen followed by IRE with the NanoKnife System using either an open or a percutaneous approach. All subjects will be treated with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen for at least 3 months; randomization to either control or IRE arm will take place at the time of completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen. Randomization will be conducted centrally. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio and must be found to have no evidence of disease progression after completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen in order to participate in the RCT. All radiologic assessments will be performed as consistent with the imaging protocol. All post induction and post IRE treatments are left to the discretion of the treating physician. The minimum period of follow-up will be for 24 months or until death.
Stage III Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Modified FOLFIRINOX Regimen|DEVICE: NanoKnife System
Overall Survival, Time (in months) from randomization to the date of death for any reason, Time (in months) from randomization to the date of death for any reason, assessed through at least 24 months.
Subjects will be offered the opportunity to participate in a randomized, controlled, 2-arm, unblinded multicenter trial (RCT). There will be 2 study arms: the control arm receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen alone; and the irreversible electroporation (IRE) arm, receiving chemotherapy with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen followed by IRE with the NanoKnife System using either an open or a percutaneous approach. All subjects will be treated with the modified FOLFIRINOX regimen for at least 3 months; randomization to either control or IRE arm will take place at the time of completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen. Randomization will be conducted centrally. Subjects will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio and must be found to have no evidence of disease progression after completion of the 3 month modified FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy regimen in order to participate in the RCT. All radiologic assessments will be performed as consistent with the imaging protocol. All post induction and post IRE treatments are left to the discretion of the treating physician. The minimum period of follow-up will be for 24 months or until death.