Anti-Tumor Immunity Induced by Cryoablation of Invasive Breast Cancers
This protocol will study the impact of cryoablation on immune response in patients diagnosed with invasive breast cancers smaller than 1.5 cm. It will profile the immune response to cryoablation of invasive breast cancers. The intra-tumoral and systemic immune response to cryoablation will be determined and compared to pre-ablated breast cancer specimens and historical control specimens.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Cryoablation
Characterization of the intra-tumoral and systemic immune response to cryoablation in invasive breast cancers, 1. Determine number (percentage via flow cytometry), phenotype and functionality of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes in ablated breast cancer
2. Determine number (percentage via flow cytometry)and phenotype of APC in ablated breast cancer
3. Characterize cytokine and chemokine expression (in IU) in ablated tissue and in pre-ablated and post-ablated serum over time
4. Quantify T cell response (IUs of IL2 and IFN gamma, and T cell specific cells as measured by number of spots on an elispot assay) to tumor associated antigens using in vitro assays of T cell proliferation and function (cytokine release, elispot, peptide-MHC)
5. Determine morphology and histology of regional lymph node after cryoablation, 12 Months
Comparison of the intra-tumoral and systemic response between non-ablated and ablated breast cancer and pre-ablated and post ablated serum, 1. Difference in intra-tumoral lymphocyte populations (percentage via flow cytometry) in ablated and non-ablated breast cancers
2. Compare serum cytokine and chemokine expression (in IU) between patients undergoing or not undergoing tumor ablation
3. Compare intra-tumoral lymphocyte populations (percentage via flow cytometry) in ablated tumor tissue with paraffin embedded specimens for tumors that are matched for age, tumor size and histology., 24 Months
Patients with small breast cancers will undergo cryoablation of their breast cancer. Approximately six weeks after cryoablation, definitive breast surgery will be performed. Blood will be drawn for research before cryoablation and surgery and at regular follow-up visits. Blood and tissue samples will be used to determine immune responses.