Duvelisib Exposure to Enhance Immune Profiles of T Cells in Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, DEEP T CELLS Study
This early phase I trial investigates how well duvelisib exposure before CAR-T cell manufacturing works to enhance immune profiles of T cells in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Duvelisib, an oral phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor, may favorably change a patient's T cells to make them more efficient and have a longer duration for manufacturing of CAR-T cells.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Duvelisib|BIOLOGICAL: Tisagenlecleucel
Fold-change increase in CD27/CD28 double positive T cells, Will estimate fold-change increase in CD27/CD28 double positive T cells following in vivo exposure to duvelisib using multiparametric flow cytometry., From Baseline up to day 15
Proportion of patients that completed at least 75% of duvelisib doses, Descriptive statistics will be used to calculate the proportion of patients that completed at least 75% of duvelisib doses as documented by the patient pill diaries. The proportion along with an exact 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to day 15|Manufacturing time of CAR-T 19 cells, Descriptive statistics will be used to calculate the median manufacturing time from the 10 patients that completed at least 75% of duvelisib doses. The median will be reported along with the minimum and maximum manufacturing times., Up to day 15|Change in proportion of CD27/28 double positive T cells and CD4/8 double negative T cells, A Wilcoxon signed-rank test will evaluate the change in proportion of CD27+/CD28+ and CD4-/CD8- T cells using multiparametric flow cytometry., At baseline and at day 15|Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR (complete response or partial response) will be summarized along with an exact 95% confidence interval. Disease response will be based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria (version 1.1)., At 3 months following CAR-T cell infusion|Frequency of intensive care unit (ICU) transfers due to cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and/or neurotoxicity, Descriptive statistics will be used to calculate the frequency of ICU transfers due to CRS and/or neurotoxicity. Descriptive statistics will also be used to calculate the frequency of administration of tocilizumab and/or corticosteroids use for CRS and/or neurotoxicity., Up to day 90 post CAR-T cell infusion|Incidence of grade III-IV adverse events, Grade III-IV toxicities (as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0) during duvelisib administration or for two weeks after the last dose of duvelisib., Up to 2 weeks after last dose of duvelisib
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the increase in CD27+/CD28+ T cells, after 8 to 15 day exposure duvelisib prior to collection of mononuclear cells for chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CART cell) manufacturing.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate patient compliance with duvelisib. II. To evaluate the time required for manufacturing CAR-T using mononuclear cells from duvelisib-treated patients.

III. To describe the frequencies of CD27/28 double positive T cells and CD4/8 double negative T cells.

IV. To evaluate expansion and persistence of CAR-T cells V. To evaluate overall response rates following CAR-T cell therapy VI.To evaluate survival rates following CAR-T cell therapy VII. To describe the frequency of CRS and neurotoxicity requiring ICU transfer (for CRS or neurotoxicity) and/or treatment VIII. Describe the safety and tolerability profile of duvelisib

OUTLINE:

Patients receive duvelisib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 2 weeks prior to collection of CAR-T cells in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive tisagenlecleucel via infusion.

Patients are followed up 100 days after CAR-T infusion.