A Trial Comparing Safety and Efficacy of Carboplatin and Paclitaxel Plus or Minus Sorafenib (BAY43-9006) in Chemonaive Patients With Stage IIIB-IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this study conducted in Asia-Pacific was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Sorafenib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin versus placebo in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin for chemonaive patients with unresectable stage IIIB (with effusion) or stage IV NSCLC. However, as indicated below, the study was terminated prematurely when the results from Study 11961 (NCT00300885), an earlier Phase 3 study of similar design in subjects with advanced NSCLC, showed an overall lack of efficacy and increased mortality in subjects with squamous subtype. The data available is presented as descriptive analyses, due to the limitations of implementing the statistical analysis plan.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Sorafenib + Paclitaxel + Carboplatin|DRUG: Placebo + Paclitaxel + Carboplatin
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is the time (days) from date of randomization to date of first observed disease progression (radiological or clinical, whichever was earlier) or death due to any cause, if death occurred before progression was documented. Since the study was terminated early and 89% of subjects' data were censored, only the number of PFS events (Failed \[progressed or died before progression\]) is reported, not the usual measure "number of days"., Up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is the number of days from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Subjects alive at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of follow-up. Since the study was terminated early and 89% of subjects' data were censored, only the number of subjects who Failed (died) or were Censored is reported, not the usual measure "number of days"., Up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient|Best Tumor Response (Number of Responses Per Category) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions (TL). Partial response (PR): At least 30% decrease in sum of the largest diameter (LD) of TLs, taking baseline sum as reference. Stable disease (SD): No change in tumor size. Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of TLs, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Best tumor response assessed every 6 weeks by investigator during treatment up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient.|Duration of Response, Duration of response (PR or better) was defined as the time from the first documented objective PR or CR, whichever was noted earlier, to disease progression or death (if death occurred before progression was documented). Since only 4 subjects had a response, the duration of response was not calculated., Time from first documented objective response (complete response or partial response) to disease progression or death, or to last tumor assessment if censored, up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient.|Change From Baseline of Lung Cancer Symptoms (LCS) Score Assessed at Each Treatment Cycle (21 Days Per Cycle) Starting With Cycle 2, The LCS is a validated instrument for determining treatment impact on lung symptoms. The LCS consists of 7 questions with 5 responses ranging from "not at all" to "very much". The LCS total score ranges from 0 to 28. Lower scores reflect greater lung cancer symptoms., Change from baseline of LCS score assessed at each treatment cycle starting with Cycle 2 (Cycles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7; 21 days per cycle) up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient.|Change From Baseline of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Score Assessed at Treatment Cycle 3 and Cycle 5, HRQoL was assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) questionnaire, a validated instrument for determining lung cancer HRQoL. The 36-item questionnaire includes 4 domains: Physical, functional, emotional, and social/family well-being, and a lung cancer-specific subscale. The FACT-L total score ranges from 1 to 136. Lower scores demonstrate impaired HRQoL., Change from baseline of HRQoL score assessed (at treatment Cycle 3 and Cycles 5 [21 days per cycle]) up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient.|Change From Baseline of Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Score Assessed at Treatment Cycle 7, HRQoL was assessed with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) questionnaire, a validated instrument for determining lung cancer HRQoL. The 36-item questionnaire includes 4 domains: Physical, functional, emotional, and social/family well-being, and a lung cancer-specific subscale. The FACT-L total score ranges from 1 to 136. Lower scores demonstrate impaired HRQoL., Change from baseline of HRQoL score assessed (at treatment Cycle 7 [21 days per cycle]) up to 5 months after randomization of the first patient.
The study was terminated early when the results from Study 11961 (NCT00300885), an earlier Phase 3 study evaluating the effects of Sorafenib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in subjects with advanced NSCLC, showed an overall lack of efficacy of Sorafenib in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin in NSCLC and increased mortality in subjects with squamous subtype.