Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Progressive Carcinoid Tumors
This randomized phase II trial studies how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with carcinoid tumors that are growing, spreading, or getting worse. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Foregut Neuroendocrine Tumor|Hindgut Neuroendocrine Tumor|Metastatic Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumor|Midgut Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Neuroendocrine Tumor G2|Recurrent Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Regional Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS will be measured from date of patient entry until documented progression of disease as determined by central review or death from any cause. If a patient does not have a documented date of progression or death, then PFS will be censored at the date of last adequate assessment. PFS will be estimated within treatment arm using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression is defined as any new lesion or increase by ≥20% of previously involved sites from nadir based on RECIST criteria., From date of patient entry until documented progression of disease or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Best Response, The best response per RECIST 1.1 criteria of participants receiving randomized treatment assignment. Complete response (CR): Disappearance of all evidence of disease, Partial response (PR): Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, Stable disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as references the smallest sum diameters while on study. Progressive disease (PD): Any new lesion or increase by ≥20% of previously involved sites from nadir. Note that those considered evaluable for best response here were those who had disease measurements while on treatment. Those who discontinued therapy early prior to a disease evaluation were not included., Up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) will be measured from randomization until death from any cause. A patient who is alive at the time of the statistical analysis will be considered censored at the last date of known contact. OS will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method within each treatment arm., From randomization until death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of Response for the Subset of Patients With a Confirmed Complete Response or Partial Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from documented response to time of progression and/or death. This time-to-event outcome will be summarized descriptively using the methods of Kaplan and Meier to characterize the cohort and distribution of this outcome., From first documented evidence of complete response or partial response until first documented disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure is defined as the time from randomization to the time that treatment is terminated, including the reasons of disease progression, adverse events, withdrawal from study, or death. This time-to-event outcome will be evaluated using the methods of Kaplan and Meier., From randomization until termination of protocol therapy for any reason including progression of disease, adverse events, and death, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Second Progression for Patients Who Crossover From Placebo to Active Therapy, Up to 5 years
PFS Within Each Arm, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used including calculations of 95% confidence intervals., At 6 months|Biochemical Response, Biochemical response (for chromogranin A, defined as a decrease of 50% or more in chromogranin A levels from baseline, and for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid \[5-HIAA\], defined as a decrease of 50% or more in urinary 5-HIAA levels from baseline) will be compared between treatment arms among patients with elevated baseline levels of serum chromogranin A (CGA) and 5-HIAA., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. For patients with progressive carcinoid tumors, progression-free survival (PFS defined by central review according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1) will be compared between patients randomized to treatment with pazopanib (pazopanib hydrochloride) versus placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS) will be compared between treatment arms. II. Objective response rate, duration of response, and time to treatment failure will be compared between treatment arms.

III. Progression free survival (PFS) as assessed by central radiology review and local radiology review will be compared overall and within treatment arms.

IV. Safety and tolerability of treatment with pazopanib/placebo will be evaluated within each treatment arm.

V. PFS and other indicators of efficacy will be estimated in patients who crossover to pazopanib from placebo.

VI. To determine the turn-around time for timely adjudicated central review. VII. To characterize the nature of discordance between local and central radiology review in assessment of progression.

VIII. To characterize the type and rate of progression in carcinoid (at study entry, on-study, and at progression).

IX. To develop new methods for modeling carcinoid growth and detecting treatment effects, and to perform simulations that advance new clinical trial designs to apply to future trials of carcinoid therapeutics.

X. To assess for differences in quality of life (QOL)-related domains between the two treatment groups (pazopanib versus placebo).

XI. To determine if the more brief measures of QOL-related domains provide comparable information to that which is provided by the longer assessments (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer \[EORTC\], neuroendocrine tumors \[NET\]21).

XII. To provide validation data for the EORTC NET21 module in terms of responsiveness over time and differences across arms.

XIII. To determine whether components of the plasma angiome panel that have been shown to be predictive previously (interleukin-6 \[IL-6\] and vascular endothelial growth factor \[VEGF\]-D) are predictive of a therapeutic advantage for pazopanib treatment in baseline samples from the patients treated on A021202.

XIV. To determine whether other components of the plasma angiome panel tested (not IL-6 and VEGF-D) are predictive of a therapeutic advantage for pazopanib treatment in baseline samples from the patients treated on A021202.

XV. To evaluate the changes in the plasma angiome markers after treatment with or without pazopanib over time.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. PFS at 6 months will be estimated within each treatment arm. II. Biochemical response (for chromogranin A, defined as a decrease of 50% or more in chromogranin A levels from baseline and for 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid \[5-HIAA\], defined as a decrease of 50% or more in urinary 5-HIAA levels from baseline) will be compared between treatment arms among patients with elevated baseline levels of chromogranin A (CGA) and 5-HIAA.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and chest x-ray throughout the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. At the time of progressive disease, patients may cross-over to Arm I. Patients undergo ECHO or MUGA during screening. Patients also undergo CT, MRI, and chest x-ray throughout the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection during screening and on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 5 years.