Combination Chemotherapy and Rituximab in Treating Patients With HIV-Associated Stage I, Stage II, Stage III, or Stage IV Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together with rituximab works in treating patients with HIV-associated stage I, stage II, stage III, or stage IV non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining chemotherapy with monoclonal antibody therapy may kill more cancer cells.
AIDS-related Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|AIDS-related Peripheral/Systemic Lymphoma|AIDS-related Small Noncleaved Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Complete Response Proportion as Measured by Tumor Response After Completion of Study Treatment, Complete response defined by the International Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, 60 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response rate after treatment with EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab.

II. To evaluate the effect of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab on immune function (CD4, CD8 lymphocyte count) after two cycles of EPOCH, and 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the completion of EPOCH.

III. To evaluate the effect of EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab on HIV and EBV viral load after two cycles of EPOCH, and 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after the completion of EPOCH.

IV. To evaluate the relationship between EBV viral load and EBV CD8 cytotoxic T cells in the peripheral blood and the presence of EBV in lymphoma tumor cells.

V. To determine whether rituximab or the concurrent use of antiretroviral therapy significantly alters the steady state concentration of etoposide, doxorubicin, or vincristine during the first cycle of therapy.

VI. To determine whether steady state concentration of etoposide or doxorubicin correlate with nadir neutrophil and platelet count during the first cycle of therapy.

VII. To determine time to progression and overall survival in patients treated with EPOCH given either concurrently or sequentially with rituximab.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to CD4 count (less than 100/mm\^3 vs at least 100/mm\^3), age-adjusted International Prognostic Index adverse risk factors (0 or 1 vs 2 or 3), and concurrent antiretroviral therapy (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) over 2-4 hours prior to each course of chemotherapy. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4-6 courses. Patients who achieve a complete response after 4 courses of chemotherapy and rituximab receive additional rituximab alone weekly for 2 weeks.

ARM II: Patients do not receive rituximab concurrently with chemotherapy. Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients receive rituximab IV over 2-4 hours weekly for 6 weeks.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.