Nexavar for Neoadjuvant Treatment of Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
Undifferentiated thyroid cancer is the most malignant tumor of the thyroid gland, with a median survival of only 3 months. Most undifferentiated cancers lose the chance of surgery when they are first diagnosed. The current study, Nexavar, is used only for dedifferentiated thyroid cancer and has not been applied to undifferentiated cancer. This study attempted to apply it to preoperative treatment of undifferentiated cancer to see if it would shrink the tumor and give the patient an opportunity for surgery.
Thyroid Cancer, Anaplastic
DRUG: Nexavar|PROCEDURE: operation|RADIATION: External radiation therapy
Thyroglobulin, Thyroglobulin, Change from Baseline Blood Thyroglobulin at 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|CT assessment, Maximum tumor diameter measured by CT, Change from Baseline Blood Thyroglobulin at 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|Length of contact surface between tumor and common carotid artery, Length of contact surface between tumor and common carotid artery, Change from Baseline Blood Thyroglobulin at 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|Percentage of patients in whom the actual dose of sorafenib equaled the planned dose, Percentage of patients in whom the actual dose of sorafenib equaled the planned dose, 6 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|MST, Median Survival Time (MST) was defined as the duration from the date of patient recruited to the date of death from any cause, 12 months after treatment with NEXAVAR
Overall tolerability of treatment as measured by rate of adverse events, Overall tolerability of treatment as measured by rate of adverse events, 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|ORR, Overall Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the total of CR (Complete Response) and PR (Partial Response). CR and PR were assessed by independent reviewers according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. ORR evaluated in 1 to 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR, 1 month, 2 months, 3 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|TTP, Time to Progression (TTP) was defined as the duration from the date of patient recruited to the first progress at any site or the date of death, 12 months after treatment with NEXAVAR|Rate of III-IV grade adverse events, Adverse events was evaluated during received protocol therapy according to CTCAE 4.03, 12 months after treatment with NEXAVAR
Undifferentiated thyroid cancer is the most malignant tumor of the thyroid gland, with a median survival of only 3 months. Most undifferentiated cancers lose the chance of surgery when they are first diagnosed. The current study, Nexavar, is used only for dedifferentiated thyroid cancer and has not been applied to undifferentiated cancer. This study attempted to apply it to preoperative treatment of undifferentiated cancer to see if it would shrink the tumor and give the patient an opportunity for surgery.

We chose patients with recurrent or inoperable anaplastic thyroid cancer and used NEXAVAR for 1 month of neoadjuvant therapy. If tumor lesions begin to resolve, they continue neoadjuvant therapy until the end of the second month. The total duration of preoperative treatment is two months.at the end of the second month, a CT scan was performed to assess whether surgery could be performed. If surgery is possible, NEXAVAR will continue to perform adjuvant radiotherapy after the surgery.