A Study of Tarceva (Erlotinib) as First Line Therapy in Participants With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Harbouring Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutations
This open-label, single arm study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tarceva (erlotinib) as first-line therapy in participants with stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer who harbour epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. All participants will receive Tarceva 150 mg daily orally until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. At the investigator's discretion, participants may receive Tarceva beyond disease progression.
Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Progression-free Survival Per RECIST, v. 1.1 (PFS1), PFS1 was defined as time from first dose until documented progressive disease (PD), assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors RECIST, v. 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PD was defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; and the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 68 months
Progression-free Survival Per Investigator (PFS2), PFS2 was defined as time from first study dose to off-erlotinib progressive disease (PD), assessed by the investigator based on overall clinical evaluation., Approximately 68 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) for All Participants and Participants With EGFR Mutation E19del or L858R, ORR was defined as the occurrence of either a confirmed complete (CR) or a partial response (PR, as a best overall response), as determined by RECIST, v. 1.1 criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR was defined as least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Approximately 68 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) for All Participants and Participants With EGFR Mutation E19del or L858R, DCR was defined as CR + PR + Stable disease (SD). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR was defined as least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. PD was defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; and the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 68 months|Progression-free Survival for Participants With EGFR Mutation E19del or L858R Per RECIST, v. 1.1 (PFS1), PFS1 was defined as time from first dose until documented progressive disease (PD), assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors RECIST, v. 1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PD was defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; and the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 68 months|Overall Survival (OS) for All Participants and Participants With EGFR Mutation E19del or L858R, OS was defined as the time from baseline to the date of death from any cause., Approximately 68 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a study drug, whether or not considered related to the study drug., Approximately 68 months|Correlation Between EGFR Mutations in Plasma and Clinical Outcome (ORR/PFS/OS), This outcome measure was not assessed., Approximately 68 months
This open-label, single arm study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tarceva (erlotinib) as first-line therapy in participants with stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer who harbour epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations. All participants will receive Tarceva 150 mg daily orally until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. At the investigator's discretion, participants may receive Tarceva beyond disease progression.