Study of the Immune Response of MUC1 (Mucin1) Peptide Vaccine for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
All subjects will receive the vaccine subcutaneously every 3 weeks x 3 with optional yearly booster vaccines up to and including 5 years post last vaccine for those patients who are confirmed responders to the vaccine . The rationale for using Poly-ICLC as an adjuvant are two ongoing trials at University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute (UPCI) of the MUC1 100mer peptide vaccine - one as a therapeutic vaccine in subjects with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer and the other in subjects with advanced colonic adenomas at risk for developing colon cancer. The same formulation, MUC1 100mer peptide admixed with Poly-ICLC, is used in both trials. There has been no toxicity observed and the vaccine is highly immunogenic in early disease. In the proposed NSCLC trial the anti-MUC1 immune response will be thoroughly characterized.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: Vaccine + PolyICLC
Immunologic response, Immunologic response will be measured by increases in anti MUC1 antibody titers post vaccination at different stages of disease: localized (Stage I, II) or locally advanced (Stage III) non-small cell lung cancer and neuroendocrine carcinoid tumors., 2 years
Anti-MUC1 immunity, To assess spontaneous anti- MUC1 immunity in response to cancer prior to administration of the MUC1 vaccine, 2 years|Association between baseline MUC1 immunity and vaccine, To assess the association between baseline MUC1 immunity and vaccine - induced increases in anti MUC1 antibodies, 2 years|Immunocompetence versus immunosuppression, To characterize the change in the balance between immunocompetence (response of T cells to polyclonal stimulation) versus immunosuppression at different stages of disease {check for increased numbers of regulatory T cells (Treg) and Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSC)}, 2 years|MUC1 associated safety, To monitor adverse events associated with the study agents, 2 years|survival, To monitor for progression free survival, 2 years|survival, To monitor for progression of overall survival, 2 years
All subjects will receive the vaccine subcutaneously every 3 weeks x 3 with optional yearly booster vaccines up to and including 5 years post last vaccine for those patients who are confirmed responders to the vaccine . The rationale for using Poly-ICLC as an adjuvant are two ongoing trials at University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute (UPCI) of the MUC1 100mer peptide vaccine - one as a therapeutic vaccine in subjects with metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer and the other in subjects with advanced colonic adenomas at risk for developing colon cancer. The same formulation, MUC1 100mer peptide admixed with Poly-ICLC, is used in both trials. There has been no toxicity observed and the vaccine is highly immunogenic in early disease. In the proposed NSCLC trial the anti-MUC1 immune response will be thoroughly characterized.