Strategies to Improve Bone Health in Men on ADT
This is a phase II randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 2 strategies to improve bone health in men receiving androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Healthy bones pamphlet|BEHAVIORAL: Bone Health Care Coordinator|BEHAVIORAL: Letter to GP
Patient/physician satisfaction, Satisfaction will be measured with 5-point Likert scale ranging from poor to excellent and administered to patient, PC clinician, and General Physician, 6 months|Adherence rate, Adherence to following through on recommendations/referrals related to study intervention and clinical outcomes., 6 months|Recruitment rate, Enrolled patients divided by approached eligible patients, and reasons for both ineligibility and refusal as documented in logs., 6 months|Retention rate, Proportion of patients available for follow-up outcome assessment., 6 months|BMD ordering, Rate of Bone Mineral Density ordering, 6 months
In this RCT the investigators are comparing 2 strategies to improve bone health to usual care. Strategy 1 - Patient and physician-specific written educational material. Pilot-tested customized written educational material about bone health for men on ADT will be used for this study. A customized letter will be prepared for the patient's primary care physician, with specific advice and recommendations for the targeted strategies. Both pamphlet and letter will include a list of additional resources. Strategy 2 - patient written material and a bone health care coordinator (BHCC). The same written patient material as in strategy 1 will be used, along with a BHCC who will follow the approach of successful studies and contact the patient by phone or arrange an in-person visit at the hospital if preferred by the patient. The BHCC will also encourage the patient to pursue a bone mineral density test (BMD) with their physician and adopt bone-appropriate diet, lifestyle, and supplement intake recommendations, and will follow up with the patient at least twice over the next 3 months to facilitate behavioural changes and BMD ordering. Counselling sessions are short, typically \<15 min. The BHCC will also contact the patient's physician to help facilitate BMD testing. Time points in the study are baseline, 3-month follow up, and 6-month follow up.

Control group The control group consists of a wait-list control for 6 months, during which no specific recommendations or interventions will be made by the study team. Prostate Cancer (PC) clinicians can still provide usual care. At the end of 6 months, control group participants will be referred to the Osteoporosis Clinic at the University Health Network.