Comparative Effectiveness of Palbociclib Plus AI Versus Fulvestrant for HR+/HER2- ABC
A retrospective cohort study conducted at the Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences to compare the effectiveness of palbociclib plus AI therapy and fulvestrant monotherapy as initial endocrine therapy in the patients with HR+/HER2- advanced breast cancer.
Hormone Receptor Positive Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: palbociclib + aromatase inhibitor|DRUG: fulvestrant
Real-world progression-free survival (rwPFS), It is defined as the time (months) from the start of palbociclib+AI or fulvestrant monotherapy to progressive disease or all-cause mortality. The progressive disease is determined by clinicians based on the results of clinical evaluation, laboratory tests, imaging or pathological examinations. Patients who have not died or have not experienced progressive disease will be censored at the beginning of next-line treatment or at the last visit during the study period., From date of index treatment to death, disease progression, or end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.
Overall survival, It is defined as the time (months) from the start of palbociclib+AI or fulvestrant monotherapy to all-cause mortality. Patients who have not died are censored on the study deadline., From date of index treatment until date of death from any acuse or date of end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|Real-world tumor response (rwTR), Real world ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) reported by doctors among all patients with response data available.Real world CBR is defined as the proportion of patients who have reached CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks reported by the doctors among all patients with response data available., From date of index treatment to death, disease progression, or end of study, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.
This study is designed to be a retrospective cohort study conducted at the Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences. The target populations of this study are patients with HR+/HER2- advanced breast cancer who received the initial endocrine therapy of palbociclib plus AI or fulvestrant monotherapy from August 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020. It is expected to enroll 600 subjects in this study. The subjects' data such as demographics and other baseline characteristics, medications, prognosis, will be collected retrospectively, and statistical analysis of data will be conducted to compare the effectiveness outcome measures.