Testing the Combination of Two Anti-cancer Drugs, Peposertib (M3814) and M1774 for Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of peposertib (M3814) in combination with tuvusertib (M1774) in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (advanced). Peposertib and tuvusertib stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Peposertib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Tuvusertib
Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events, Descriptive statistics will be used for safety in the Phase 1b escalation study. Patients will be included in this analysis if they receive at least one dose of any study treatment. For toxicity reporting, all adverse events will be graded and analyzed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). Type of adverse events, intensity (grading), and attribution will be provided in a listing. All adverse events resulting in discontinuation, dose modification, and/or dosing interruption, and/or treatment delay of drug will also be summarized. Laboratory test results will be classified according to CTCAE., Up to week 12
Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis, Peposertib (M3814) and M1774 concentrations in these samples will be quantitatively measured using a liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric method. The individual PK parameters will be derived: maximum concentration (Cmax), time to maximum concentration (Tmax), are under the curve (AUC), half life (T1/2), apparent oral clearance (Cl/F), and apparent volume of distribution in steady state (Vss/F) using non-compartmental methods with the software WinNonlin, as feasible. Advanced population PK methods may be employed to assess the link between drug exposure and biological effects and efficacy. The PK variables will be tabulated and descriptive statistics (e.g., geometric means and coefficients of variation) calculated for each dose level. PK parameters (e.g., T1/2, Cmax, Cl, and AUC) will be compared across dose level using nonparametric statistical testing techniques., Pre, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hour (h) post dose on cycle (C)1 day (D)1, pre, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 h post dose on C1D10 (dose-escalation); pre, 0.5, 1,1.5, 2, and 3 h post dose on C1D1 and C1D10 (dose-expansion)
Pharmacodynamics (PD), Will be assessed using the changes in gammaH2AX, phosphorylated biomarkers (e.g., NBS1, RPA, KAP1), and gene expression by ribonucleic acid sequencing before and on treatment. Correlation between mutation status and immunohistochemistry results with ATM will be descriptive as well., After registration and before C1D1 and at C1D10|Overall response rate (ORR), In the phase 1b expansion, the ORR will be estimated by the proportion of patients who achieve complete or partial response as their best response to treatment. ORR will be accompanied by a 95% confidence interval estimated using exact binomial methods., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), The time to event endpoint PFS will be estimated with the Kaplan Meier methodology. Median and event-free rate at selected time points will be provided with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of peposertib (M3814) in combination with M1774. (DOSE ESCALATION AND EXPANSION COHORT) II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination of peposertib (M3814) and M1774. (DOSE ESCALATION COHORT)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of peposertib (M3814) and M1774 when administered in combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore correlations between pharmacodynamic (PD) and predictive biomarkers (gammaH2AX, phospho-KAP1 and phospho-RPA) with clinical outcomes.

II. To explore correlations between baseline genomic alterations of ataxia-telangiectasia mutated (ATM) or markers of replicative stress, ATM expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC), RAD5' foci formation with clinical outcomes.

III. To determine metrics of anticancer activity including the objective response rate (ORR) and progression-free survival (PFS).

OUTLINE: This a dose-escalation study of peposertib and tuvusertib, followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive peposertib orally (PO) in combination with tuvusertib PO once (QD) or twice (BID) daily on days 1-14 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression, pregnancy, non-compliance, unacceptable toxicity, termination of the study or the study drug is no longer available. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy before cycle(C) 1 day (D)1, C1D10 and at progression and blood sample collection during prestudy and weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and at progression. Patients additionally undergo positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline and are repeated every 8 weeks for 24 weeks then every 12 weeks unless clinically indicated.