System for Postoperative Admission to ICU for Patients With Digestive System Malignancy
Postoperative admission to ICU for patients with digestive system tumors is one of the most common postoperative complications of all non-cardiac surgeries. The study found that supportive treatment of critically ill patients admitted to ICU after surgery was conducive to reducing mortality, and the most common complications of postoperative ICU admission were infections, especially respiratory infections and surgical site infections. A growing body of evidence supports that ICU stays are expensive, always occupy major hospital resources, and are associated with the worst outcomes. To date, there is insufficient evidence to determine which patients with digestive system tumors benefit the most from being admitted to the ICU after surgery. Therefore, this study intends to adopt retrospective study to determine the risk factors of postoperative ICU transfer for patients with digestive system malignant tumor, and build a risk prediction model for postoperative ICU admission, so as to guide the decision of postoperative ICU transfer for patients with digestive system malignant tumor.
Intensive Care Unit Syndrome
PROCEDURE: Surgery for malignant tumors of the digestive system
admitted to ICU after surgery, whether the patient was admitted to ICU after surgery or within three days, the day and three days after surgery
The incidence of malignant tumors of digestive system is increasing year by year in the world, and surgical treatment is the first choice for malignant tumors of digestive system. Most of these patients were elderly, had more complications before surgery, had greater surgical trauma, and had a high proportion of postoperative ICU admission. In recent three years, 28.1% of patients with malignant tumor of digestive system were admitted to ICU after surgery. The study found that postoperative ICU care in critically ill patients was conducive to reducing mortality, while non-essential postoperative ICU care in some patients was associated with the worst outcome. At present, there is still a lack of accurate and reliable decision making system for postoperative admission to ICU for patients with digestive system malignancies at home and abroad. Therefore, this project intends to establish a predictive model for postoperative ICU admission of patients with malignant tumors of the digestive system, develop a friendly interface that is convenient for medical care, help medical care quickly determine the biggest beneficiaries of postoperative ICU admission, rationally allocate medical resources, improve medical quality, reduce medical costs, ensure perioperative safety of patients, and promote postoperative rehabilitation of patients. At present, there is still a lack of accurate and reliable decision making system for postoperative admission to ICU for patients with digestive system malignancies at home and abroad. Therefore, this project intends to establish a predictive model for postoperative ICU admission of patients with malignant tumors of the digestive system, develop a friendly interface that is convenient for medical care, help medical care quickly determine the biggest beneficiaries of postoperative ICU admission, rationally allocate medical resources, improve medical quality, reduce medical costs, ensure perioperative safety of patients, and promote postoperative rehabilitation of patients.