Artificial Intelligence-based Model for the Prediction of Occult Lymph Node Metastasis and Improvement of Clinical Decision-making in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This nationwide, multicenter observational study aims to develop and validate a multimodal artificial intelligence (AI) model for detecting occult lymph node metastasis in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Despite advances in lymph node staging, 12.9%-39.3% of occult nodal metastasis cases remain undetected preoperatively, affecting treatment decisions. This study will use deep learning to extract imaging features of occult metastasis and combine them with clinical data to build an AI model for risk prediction. This study will provide insights into the feasibility of AI-driven detection of occult metastasis, supporting clinical decision-making and potentially revealing underlying biological mechanisms of lymph node metastasis in NSCLC.
NSCLC (Non-small Cell Lung Cancer)|Artificial Intelligence (AI)|Lymphnode Metastasis
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: chest enhanced CT
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The time from surgical treatment or SBRT to disease recurrence or death. Patients who were still not progressing at the time of analysis will have the date of their last contact as the cutoff date., 1 year
Overall Survival (OS), The time from the surgery or SBRT until death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at the time of analysis will have their last contact date used as the cutoff date., 1 year
This nationwide, multicenter observational study aims to develop and validate a multimodal artificial intelligence (AI) model for detecting occult lymph node metastasis in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. Despite advances in lymph node staging, 12.9%-39.3% of occult nodal metastasis cases remain undetected preoperatively, affecting treatment decisions. This study will use deep learning to extract imaging features of occult metastasis and combine them with clinical data to build an AI model for risk prediction. This study will provide insights into the feasibility of AI-driven detection of occult metastasis, supporting clinical decision-making and potentially revealing underlying biological mechanisms of lymph node metastasis in NSCLC.