Analgesic Efficacy of Intravenous Acetaminophen After Video-assisted Thoracic Surgery
We will study the efficacy of FDA approved intravenous (IV) acetaminophen ("Ofirmev", © 2011 Cadence Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) in reducing opioid consumption after minimally invasive thoracic surgery in a double blind randomized trial. This drug has been shown in Europe to reduce the need for patient controlled analgesia and the total dose of opioids, which have serious side effects in thoracic surgery patients. We will compare the use of IV patient-controlled morphine (PCA) in two groups of subjects in treating postoperative pain. We will determine if IV acetaminophen reduces post-operative morphine requirements (primary end point). We will also assess subject pain scores and post-operative complications associated with pain management as secondary end points. Our hypothesis is that the study arm receiving intravenous acetaminophen will have lower total morphine consumptions compared to the placebo group.
Lung Tumor
DRUG: IV Acetaminophen|DRUG: Saline Placebo
Total Morphine Consumption (mg), How much morphine the subject consumes in the first 24 hours after surgery (mg)., 24 hours
Total Number of PCA Requests in First 24 Hours Post-Operation, The total number of Patient Controlled Analgesic (PCA) requests in the first 24 hours after the conclusion of the subject's operation, 24 hours post-operation|VAS Pain Score 2 Hours Post Operation, 2 hours after the conclusion of their operation,participants were asked to draw a vertical line on the VAS to indicate their level of pain, which was then converted into millimeters for interpretations. Scores ranged from 0-100mm. VAS pain score identifies two extremes on a 10 centimeter horizontal line; the extremes are labeled "No Pain" (score of 0) and "Worst possible pain" (score of 100)., 2 Hours Post Operation|VAS Pain Score 6 Hours Post-Operation, 6 hours after the conclusion of their operation, participants were asked to draw a vertical line on the VAS to indicate their level of pain, which was then converted into millimeters for interpretations. Scores ranged from 0-100mm. VAS pain score identifies two extremes on a 10 centimeter horizontal line; the extremes are labeled "No Pain" (score of 0) and "Worst possible pain" (score of 100)., 6 Hours Post-Operation|VAS Score 24 Hours Post-Operation, 24 Hours after the conclusion of the subject's operation, participants were asked to draw a vertical line on the VAS to indicate their level of pain, which was then converted into millimeters for interpretations. Scores ranged from 0-100mm. VAS pain score identifies two extremes on a 10 centimeter horizontal line; the extremes are labeled "No Pain" (score of 0) and "Worst possible pain" (score of 100)., 24 hours post-operation
We will study the efficacy of FDA approved intravenous (IV) acetaminophen ("Ofirmev", © 2011 Cadence Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) in reducing opioid consumption after minimally invasive thoracic surgery in a double blind randomized trial. This drug has been shown in Europe to reduce the need for patient controlled analgesia and the total dose of opioids, which have serious side effects in thoracic surgery patients. We will compare the use of IV patient-controlled morphine (PCA) in two groups of subjects in treating postoperative pain. One group of subjects will receive IV acetaminophen every six hours beginning within 30 minutes before surgical end time and continuing for 24 hours plus IV morphine PCA, and the other group will receive IV placebo every six hours plus IV morphine PCA, a standard treatment for postoperative pain. We will determine if IV acetaminophen reduces post-operative morphine requirements (primary end point). We will also assess subject pain scores and post-operative complications associated with pain management as secondary end points. Our hypothesis is that the study arm receiving intravenous acetaminophen will have lower total morphine consumptions compared to the placebo group.