Trilaciclib, a CDK4/6 Inhibitor, in Patients With Early-Stage Triple Negative Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the mechanism of action, as well as the safety and efficacy of trilaciclib in combination with standard of care treatment in the neoadjuvant setting of early-stage triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

This study will have four phases: 1) Screening Phase, 2) Trilaciclib Lead-In Phase, 3) Treatment Phase, and 4) Surgery and Follow-Up Phase. After a screening phase of up to 21 day, each participant will receive trilaciclib single-dose monotherapy during the lead-in phase, followed by a tumor biopsy. During the treatment phase, each participant will receive trilaciclib with standard of care chemotherapy. Immunotherapy may be included during the treatment phase, per standard of care. 3-5 weeks following conclusion of the treatment phase, each participant will undergo definitive surgery. A 30-day Safety Follow-up Visit will occur 30 days after the last dose of trilaciclib and an End of Study Visit will occur within 14 days after definitive surgery.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trilaciclib|DRUG: Cylophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin (Investigator discretion)|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab (Investigator discretion)
Immune-based Mechanism of Action, Evaluated 7 days after a single-dose of trilaciclib, measured by the change in CD8+ T cells/regulatory T cells (Treg) ratio in tumor tissue; post-trilaciclib ratio minus pre-trilaciclib ratio.

Research shows a correlation between immune cells, (tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes - TILs), and favorable outcomes. Both the presence of effector CD8+ T cells and the ratio of effector CD8+ T cells to immune-suppressive regulatory T cells (Treg) correlate with improved outcome and long-term survival in solid cancers. Therefore, the higher the ratio of CD8+ T cells/Tregs, the better the predicted outcome for a patient. This outcome measure is completed by looking at tumor tissue under a microscope., Up to 8 days after lead-in trilaciclib dose
Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Rate, Rate of pCR using the definition of ypT0/Tis ypN0 (i.e., no invasive residual tumor in breast or nodes; noninvasive breast residuals allowed) as assessed by the local pathologist., Up to 26 weeks|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Safety/tolerability as per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 28 weeks
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the mechanism of action, as well as the safety and efficacy of trilaciclib in combination with standard of care treatment in the neoadjuvant setting of early-stage triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

This study will have four phases: 1) Screening Phase, 2) Trilaciclib Lead-In Phase, 3) Treatment Phase, and 4) Surgery and Follow-Up Phase. After a screening phase of up to 21 day, each participant will receive trilaciclib single-dose monotherapy during the lead-in phase, followed by a tumor biopsy. During the treatment phase, each participant will receive trilaciclib with standard of care chemotherapy. Immunotherapy may be included during the treatment phase, per standard of care. 3-5 weeks following conclusion of the treatment phase, each participant will undergo definitive surgery. A 30-day Safety Follow-up Visit will occur 30 days after the last dose of trilaciclib and an End of Study Visit will occur within 14 days after definitive surgery.