MalnutritiOn Assessment With biOelectrical impedaNce Analysis in gastRic Cancer patIentS Undergoing Multimodal trEatment
The aim of this single-arm prospective, multicenter, cross-sectional study is to evaluate the nutritional status and body composition on tumor regression grade with bioelectrical impedance analysis in gastric cancer patients undergoing multimodal treatment. Results of this study will reveal whether nutritional status and body composition assessment based on bioelectrical impedance analysis will become a validated and objective tool to support clinical decisions in gastric cancer patients undergoing multimodal treatment.
Gastric Cancer|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Malnutrition|Cachexia
OTHER: Observational Survey
Tumor Regression Grade, determined using the Becker criteria (1- complete response, 2 - good response, 3 - partial response, 4 - no response), Up to 2-4 weeks after the surgery
Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Toxicity, evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria (version 5.0), From date of inclusion up to 1-3 months after the date of the first neoadjuvant chemotherapy cycle|Postoperative Complications, Assessed by the Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI). Min-Max values (0-100), higher scores mean a worse outcome, From date of surgery, assessed up to 90 days|Overall Survival, Overall survival analysis will determine whether bioelectrical impedance analysis is a prognostic factor in advanced gastric cancer patients, From from the date of surgery to the date of patient death or the date of the last follow-up - up to 10 years|Quality of Life score, Assessment based on The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life, gastric-cancer specific questionnaire(EORTC QLQ - STO22). Min-Max value (1-7); higher scores mean a better outcome, From date of inclusion through study completion - an average of 3 years
Up to 20% of gastric cancer patients experience unintentional loss of their pretreatment body weight. Malnutrition contributes to increased morbidity, higher risk of perioperative complications and systemic toxicity. A standardized approach to evaluate the nutritional status of gastric cancer patients is yet to be established. Bioelectrical impedance analysis is a non-invasive technique estimating changes in body composition over time.

125 patients with locally advanced gastric adenocarcinoma scheduled for multimodal treatment will be included in the study. Four consecutive nutritional status assessments will be performed throughout the treatment.