Reduced ATG Plus Mini PTCy for GVHD Prophylaxis in Haplo-SCT
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is regarded as a curative therapy for a variety of hematological malignancies and nonmalignant diseases. However, donor limitations have restricted the widespread use of allo-HSCT for a long period. The development and success of haploidentical allografts worldwide makes "everyone has a donor" a reality. In the past two decades, researchers have established several haploidentical HSCT (haplo-HSCT) protocols based on different approaches to induce immune tolerance. The representative approaches for haplo-HSCT without in vitro. T cell depletion include granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) plus Anti-human Thymocyte Immunoglobulin (ATG) based (Beijing Protocol) and post-transplantation cyclophosphamide based (PT-Cy, Baltimore Protocol) protocols. Both of two protocols have common problems that need to be solved, including infection transplantation related mortality and disease relapse. The main aim of this study is to explore whether the combined protocol can improve the efficacy of haploidentical transplantation further.
Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Acute Leukemia
DRUG: Reduced ATG plus mini PTCy
Non-relapse mortality, None-relapse mortality within 100 days post transplantation, 100 days
Regimen related toxicity, Regimen related toxicity will be evaluated by Bearman Criteria from the begining of conditioning to 1 month post HSCT. The organ functions that need to be assessed include the heart, liver, kidneys, cystitis, oral mucositis, and the gastrointestinal tract., 30 days post transplantation|Engraftment, Myeloid and platelet engraftment, Within 30 days post transplant. Myeloid engraftment was deﬁned as the ﬁrst of three consecutive days with an ANC 0.5×109 /L, and platelet engraftment was deﬁned as the day the platelet count met or exceeded 20×10^9 /L without transfusion for a week.|Disease relapse, The incidence of disease relapse, 1 year post transplantation|Disease free survival, The time from the start of transplantation until a patient experiences leukemia relapse or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 1 year post transplantation
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) is regarded as a curative therapy for a variety of hematological malignancies and nonmalignant diseases. However, donor limitations have restricted the widespread use of allo-HSCT for a long period. The development and success of haploidentical allografts worldwide makes "everyone has a donor" a reality. In the past two decades, researchers have established several haploidentical HSCT (haplo-HSCT) protocols based on different approaches to induce immune tolerance. The representative approaches for haplo-HSCT without in vitro. T cell depletion include granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) plus Anti-human Thymocyte Immunoglobulin (ATG) based (Beijing Protocol) and post-transplantation cyclophosphamide based (PT-Cy, Baltimore Protocol) protocols. Both of two protocols have common problems that need to be solved, including infection transplantation related mortality and disease relapse. The main aim of this study is to explore whether the combined protocol can improve the efficacy of haploidentical transplantation further.