Promoting Resilience in Early Survivorship Among Adolescents and Young Adults With Cancer
The goal of this study is to find the best way to help participants and families manage the stress of facing a serious illness and be better able to "bounce back" or be resilient after a difficult situation. Participants will take part in the "Promoting Resilience in Stress Management" PRISM program, which is designed to provide skills to change or improve the impact of stress in everyday life.

The name of the intervention used in this research study is:

-PRISM (a mobile app program comprised of 6 sessions of skills-based, manualized resilience education)
Stress|Anxiety
BEHAVIORAL: PRISM Program Video Coach|BEHAVIORAL: PRISM Program Text Coach|BEHAVIORAL: mPRISM Program App
Connor Davidson Resilience Scale (CDRISC-10) Score, Assessed by the CDRISC-10, a 10-item measures consisting of a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 (not true at all) to 4 (true nearly all the time) for a total of 40 points. Higher scores reflect greater resilience. Evaluation will be based on the scores of the video and text cohorts vs. the self-guided cohort., At 6 months
CDRISC-10 Score for App-Only Cohort Responders, Assessed by the CDRISC-10, a 10-item measures consisting of a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 (not true at all) to 4 (true nearly all the time) for a total of 40 points. Higher scores reflect greater resilience. Participant "responders" are defined as having sustained CDRISC scores \>29 after PRISM sessions or increased by \>2 points at the timepoints., 3 months|CDRISC-10 Score for Text Coach Cohort Responders, Assessed by the CDRISC-10, a 10-item measures consisting of a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 (not true at all) to 4 (true nearly all the time) for a total of 40 points. Higher scores reflect greater resilience. Participant "responders" are defined as having sustained CDRISC scores \>29 after PRISM sessions or increased by \>2 points at the timepoints., 3 months|Change in HOPE Scale Score, Assessed by the HOPE Scale, a 12-item measures scored on an 8-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 1 "Definitely False" to 8 "Definitely True" for a total score of 96. A higher score implies a greater level of hopeful thought patterns., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months|Change in Adolescent Participant Quality of Life Total Score, Assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL) Generic Core Scales Short Form (SF15) (Teen or Child Report) and PedsQL Cancer Module (Child or Teen Report) scales, 42-items to evaluate health-related quality of life. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Almost Always" for a score range of 0 - 100. A higher score represents better health-related quality of life., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months|Change in Young Adult Participant Quality of Life Total Score, Assessed by the Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL) Generic Core Scales Short Form (SF15) Young Adult Report and PedsQL Cancer Module Young Adult Report scales, 42-items to evaluate health-related quality of life. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Almost Always" for a score range of 0 - 100. A higher score represents better health-related quality of life., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months|Change in Kessler-6 Psychological Distress Scale Score, Assessed by the Kessler-6, a 6-item measure for the level of psychological distress in the past month. Responses are scored on a 5-point Likert scare with answers ranging from 0 "None of the time" to 4 "All of the time," and with a total score range of 0 - 4. Scores \> or = 7 suggest "high" distressed and those \> or = 13 meet criteria for serious or debilitating psychological distress., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months|Change in Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) Anxiety Subscale Score, Assessed by the HADS-A subscale which is comprised of 7 items. Items are scored 0-3 with a subscale total score range of 0 - 21. A higher scores represents increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months|Change in HADS Depression Subscale Score, Assessed by the HADS-D subscale score which is comprised of 7 items. Items are scored 0-3 with a subscale total score range of 0 - 21. A higher score represents increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., At Baseline, 3 months, and 6 months
In this sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial participants will be randomly selected to participate in PRISM program sessions with a trained research coach either by text or by video sessions, or participants will use the PRISM mobile app program in a self-guided way. Randomization means the group participants are placed in will be decided by chance. All groups will continue to receive all the same care from primary medical, social work, and other care teams.

In this two-stage study, participants will be randomly assigned to either the "app-only" (20% chance), "text" (40% chance) or "video" (40% chance) groups for the first stage. In the second stage, participants may be re-randomized again to the "app-only," or "text," groups, or will be referred to a specialty psychosocial support, social worker or counselor, based on responses to questionnaires. Participants randomized to the "app-only" group in the first stage will not be re-randomized.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and completion of questionnaires.

Participation in this research study is expected to last for up to 6 months.

It is expected about 325 people will take part in this research study.

The National Institute for Health (NIH) is funding this research study.