Chemoprevention of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC) With Valproic Acid
This study evaluates the addition of valproic acid as a chemopreventive drug in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients that do not have signs of recurrence or residual disease. The participants will be randomized 1:1 (valproic acid : placebo). The primary outcome is to document histone acetylation and DNA methyltransferase expression (DNMT) in saliva collected from participants when comparing valproic acid arm with placebo arm.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Valproic Acid|DRUG: Placebo
Changes in protein or histone acetylation, Saliva samples will be collected in baseline and three months after study enrolment. Histone acetylation will be quantified (through ELISA method) and compared in the same arm (if there will be a change in histone acetylation when looking at these different timelines) and between arms (if one group will have or will not have more histone acetylation than the other)., Three months after study enrollment
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Evaluation of incidence of treatment-induced adverse events at the beginning of each new cycle (day 1, every 30 days, for a total of six months) using Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE v.4.0)., Day 1 of each new cycle up to 3 months (3 months of treatment and 3 months of follow-up), in other words, from day 1 of the first cycle until the date of first documented emergent adverse event, assessed up to 6 months|Change in DNA methyltransferases expression. (DNMT), Saliva samples will be collected in baseline and three months after study enrolment. DNA methyltransferases expression (through microarray method) will be compared in the same arm (if there will be a change in DNMT expression when looking at these different timelines) and between arms (if one group will have or will not have a different DNMT expression when compared to the other)., Three months after study enrollment
Chemoprevention is an attractive strategy to reduce the incidence of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, although past trials have not demonstrated its feasibility.

Valproic acid (VA) is a modifier of epigenetic events as it is an histone deacetylase inhibitor and causes DNMT degradation. The histone deacetylase inhibitors (e.g. VA) encompasses a new class of anti-tumor drugs, that can affect multiple pathways related to tumor initiation and progression due to histone and non-histone protein acetylation and DNMT degradation. VA promote histone acetylation when orally administered with a dose of 20-40 mg/kg, per day or 1000/1500 mg, per day.

Initially the authors will study saliva from participants documenting if there is saliva histone acetylation and if a difference in DNMT expression in saliva exists when comparing valproic acid arm to placebo arm (biological validation) after giving placebo or valproic acid for three months.

This will be the initial step of a bigger project. If authors prove that there will be a difference in histone acetylation and/or DNMT expression between groups they will launch a randomized, double blind, placebo control clinical trial (phase 3 clinical trial), to evaluate VA action as a chemopreventive agent in HNSCC patients who usually carries a high chance to develop recurrence (stages III/IV) or second primary malignancies (stages I/II/III/IV).