Intravitreal Carboplatin for the Treatment of Participants With Recurrent or Refractory Intraocular Retinoblastoma
Retinoblastoma (RB) is the most common intraocular tumor of childhood. Recurrent or refractory disease following therapy most often occurs due to persistence of vitreous disease and/or retinal reactivation of the main tumor mass. With this treatment protocol, investigators seek to identify a less invasive method of local drug delivery that does not disrupt the eye's integrity.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

* To determine the safety and toxicity profile associated with intravitreal carboplatin for the treatment of recurrent or progressive intraocular retinoblastoma with vitreous seeding.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

* To estimate the ocular salvage rate after treatment with intravitreal carboplatin in patients with recurrent or progressive intraocular retinoblastoma with vitreous seeding.
* To evaluate the effects of intravitreal carboplatin therapy on the histopathology of eyes enucleated for progressive or recalcitrant disease while on therapy.
Retinoblastoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Maxitrol®|PROCEDURE: Focal Therapy|PROCEDURE: Plaque Radiotherapy
Number of participants who develop dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), DLTs are defined as any of the following: uveitis, sterile or infectious endophthalmitis, retinopathy or rhegmatogenous retinal detachment, massive vitreous hemorrhage that obscures direct visualization of the retina/tumor, and/or cataract that threatens the visual axis or view by treating physician.

Grade 3 or 4 allergic reactions should lead to discontinuation of intravitreal carboplatin injections. Patients who have grade 3 or 4 allergic reactions will not be evaluable for this objective and will be replaced., From baseline through end of therapy (up to 5 months)
The eye(s) will be sterilized prior to injection. Aqueous fluid (0.1-0.15ml) will be withdrawn and sent for pathology review. Carboplatin diluted in normal saline will be administered via intravitreal injection under anesthesia once to each eligible eye approximately every 14 days. Following the injection, triple freeze/thaw cryotherapy is applied to the injection site and the eye is washed with water. The eye is gently "shaken" in all directions to evenly distribute the drug.

This trial will use a traditional phase I design for dose de-escalation with two dose levels. The first 6 patients will be enrolled at dose level 1 and will be observed for dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) throughout the treatment period up to approximately 5 months after start of therapy. If 0-2 (of the first 6) participants experience DLT, a second cohort of 6 patients will be enrolled at the same dose level 1. Study accrual would be completed at 12.

However, if 3 or more of the first 6 patients experience DLT at dose level 1, the dose level would be de-escalated to level -1 and 6 patients enrolled at this level (dose -1). If 0-2 patients experience DLT at dose level -1, a second cohort of 6 patients will be enrolled at dose level -1, and the study accrual would be complete. If 3 or more patients experience DLT at dose level -1, accrual would also be complete.