A Stress Management and Resiliency Program for Adolescent and Young Adult Survivors
This research study aims to explore the feasibility and acceptability of an adapted resiliency group program, called the Relaxation Response Resiliency Program (3RP-AYA), to reduce stress and promote stress-management among adolescents and young adults who have completed treatment for cancer.
Cancer
OTHER: Waitlist control|OTHER: 3RP-AYA
3RP-AYA Feasibility: Percent of Identified Eligibles Who Enroll, Percent of identified eligibles who were approached (hence given the opportunity to participate) who enroll (i.e., sign consent and complete baseline). Qualitative information from experts and participants will be used to inform feasibility., Post-treatment completion (treatment is approximately 8 weeks)|3RP-AYA Feasibility: Proportion of Participants Completing the 3RP-AYA Program, Among those who initiated the program, this is the proportion of patients who completed the program (defined as completing 6 out of 8 sessions). Qualitative information from experts and participants will be used to inform feasibility., Post-treatment completion (treatment is approximately 8 weeks)|3RP-AYA Acceptability: Five Questions, Acceptability will be assessed with five questions rated on a 4-point Likert scale (1=not at all to 4=very). Items will prompt participants to rate the extent to which they found the program to be enjoyable, helpful, applicable, convenient, and satisfaction. Qualitative information from experts and patients will also inform acceptability., Post-treatment completion (treatment is approximately 8 weeks)
The Relaxation Response Resiliency Program, or 3RP, was developed by researchers at the MGH Benson-Henry Institute for Mind Body Medicine. The 3RP is a group program that-through a variety of mind-body approaches, such as imagery, relaxation, and yoga-seeks to buffer stress and promote psychological resiliency and physical well-being.

The 3RP has not yet been carried out with adolescent or young adult individuals who have recently completed treatment for cancer. As such, the investigators have adapted the original 3RP to target the specific needs of adolescent and young adult patients who are transitioning off active treatment. The investigators are conducting this study to see if the adapted program, the 3RP-AYA, is effective at reducing stress and stress-related symptoms for people of at least age 16 who have completed treatment for cancer within the past five years.