Enabling Symptom Identification and Tracking in Children Receiving Cancer Treatment
Children with cancer and hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients suffer from severe and bothersome symptoms because treatments are intense. So, the investigators developed SPARK (Supportive care Prioritization, Assessment and Recommendations for Kids), a website devoted to helping children track symptoms and providing a way to let doctors and nurses know which symptoms are bothersome. This study will examine the likelihood that children will complete SPARK once daily, help the investigators figure out how to improve the website so that children will use it, and help the investigators plan the large scale trial to test its efficacy in improving quality of life (QoL).

Participants will be children with cancer or HSCT recipients who are 8-18 years of age and who are expected to be in hospital or in clinic daily for 5 days.To determine the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of symptom feedback to healthcare providers
Pediatric Cancer|Quality of Life|Symptom Screening
OTHER: Symptom feedback to Health Care Provider|OTHER: Standard of care
Feasibility of an RCT of symptom feedback to healthcare providers versus standard of care, Will be determined by both the number of patients who are recruited for this study, and the number of patients who complete at least 60% of evaluations. We will aim to enroll 30 participants at SickKids over one year. Outcome feasibility will be met if at least 30 participants are enrolled within one year and at least 75% complete at least 60% of evaluations, Study will be enrolling for 1 year with a goal to enroll 30 participants. Feasibility will be determined once all 30 participants have completed the study after 1 year
Pediatric Quality of Life (Peds QL) Cancer Module Acute Version, Measures self-reported symptoms related to cancer treatment, capturing physical, psychological and cognitive health. 5-point likert scale ranging from 0(almost never) to 4 (almost always); there is no weighting of items. Scores are transformed on a scale from 0 to 100. Items are reversed scored and linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale as follows: 0=100, 1=75, 2=50, 3=25, 4=0. Mean score is calculated= Sum of the items over the number of items answered.

Total Score is used and calculated by: Sum of all the items over the number of items answered on all the Scales. Higher scores indicate lower problems., Measure will be completed by participant on day 5±1 day.|Symptom Screening in Pediatrics (SSPedi), Self-reported symptom screening questionnaire asking pediatric patients (age 8-18) how bothered they are by 15 identified symptoms and side effects of cancer treatment. This 5-point Likert scale score from 0 (not bothered at all) to 4 (extremely bothered), and has a total score ranging from 0-60, with a higher number indicating more bother cancer-related symptoms. Likert scores will be summed for a total score that ranges from 0 (none) to 60 (worst possible)., Those randomized to the intervention arm measure will be completed by participant every day for 5 days. Those randomized to control arm measure will be completed by participant on Days 1 and 5±1 day.|Faces Pain Scale Revised, The Faces Pain Scale Revised is a self-report measure of pain intensity developed for children to score the sensation of pain on the 0-to-10 metric. The scale shows a close linear relationship with visual analog pain scale, counting left to right; 0" = "no pain" and "10" = "very much pain, Measure will be completed on day 5±1 day.
Methods: Participants will be children with cancer or HSCT recipients who are 8-18 years of age and who can understand English, and who are expected to be in hospital or in clinic daily for 5 days.

SPARK RCT will be a pilot multi-center RCT in which we will randomize children to either undergo daily symptom screening for 5 days with symptom reports provided to the healthcare team or standard of care. Feasibility will be met if at least 30 participants are enrolled within one year and at least 75% complete at least 60% of evaluations.

Quality of the Idea Children receiving cancer treatment have excellent survival outcomes, in part, related to the provision of intensive therapies. Unfortunately, most children suffer and experience severe and bothersome treatment-related symptoms. Symptoms not only impact on QoL and morbidity but, in addition, may negatively influence future psychosocial functioning.

Symptoms remain unaddressed even during healthcare encounters because children do not complain and clinicians fail to ask about them. We recently developed SSPedi, a pediatric-specific symptom screening tool on an iPad. SSPedi, however, consists only of the questions which ask about symptoms. SPARK is the web-based application which will facilitate access to SSPedi, encourage symptom screening, generate reports and allow children to track their symptoms. Careful thought to design is required to ensure SPARK optimizes future use and has clinical utility. The proposed project output is a product that facilitates longitudinal symptom screening and provides the groundwork for a future RCT of symptom feedback.