Gemcitabine and Nab-Paclitaxel vs Gemcitabine, Nab-Paclitaxel, Durvalumab and Tremelimumab as 1st Line Therapy in Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The standard or usual treatment for this disease consists of two chemotherapy drugs gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel given together.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab
Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death from any cause with patients who were alive at the time of the final analysis or who became lost to follow-up censored at their last date known to be alive., 35 months
Progression Free Survival, Defined as the time from randomization to the first objective documentation of disease progression, defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, or death due to any cause with patients who had not progressed or died at the time of final analysis censored on the date of the last tumour assessment., 35 months|Objective Response Rate, Defined as percentage of participants with objective response over all participants randomized. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., 35 months
Durvalumab is a new type of drug for many types of cancer. Laboratory tests show that it works by allowing the immune system to detect cancer and reactivate the immune response. This may halp to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die. Durvalumab has been shown to shrink tumours in animals and has been studied in a few people and seems promising but it is not clear if it can offer better results than standard treatments alone.

Tremelimumab is a new type of drug for various types of cancers. It works in a similar way to durvalumab and may improve the effect of durvalumab. This may also help slow the growth of the cancer cells or may cause cancer cells to die. Tremelimumab has been shown to shrink tumours in animals and has been studied in a few people and seems promising but it is not clear if it can offer better results than standard treatment alone when used with durvalumab.

Combination of durvalumab and tremelimumab have also been studied and when combined have been shown to increase tumour shrinkage in animals compared to either drug alone and while the combination has been studied in a few people, it is not clear if it can offer better results than standard treatment.