CapTemY90 for Grade 2 NET Liver Metastases
This is a Phase 2 evaluation of hepatic-progression free survival among patients with Grade 2 liver-dominant NET metastases undergoing combination therapy with CapTem and Y90 radioembolization.The hypothesis is to confirm safety and to assess if disease control is improved relative to expectation from either therapy alone.
Neuroendocrine Tumor Grade 2|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Capecitabine Oral Product|DRUG: Temozolomide Oral Product|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: transarterial radioembolization
Intra-hepatic progression-free survival, Intra-hepatic progression-free survival by RECIST 1.0 is defined as the time from initiation of study therapy until first documented intra-hepatic disease progression, death due to any cause or last scan date that documented intra-hepatic progression-free status., 2 years. Time from initiation of study therapy until first documented intra-hepatic disease progression, death due to any cause or last scan date that documented intra-hepatic progression-free status.
Overall Progression free survival, Overall progression-free survival is defined as the time from initiation of study therapy until first documented intra- or extra-hepatic disease progression, death due to any cause or last scan date that documented progression-free status, 2 years. time from initiation of study therapy until first documented intra- or extra-hepatic disease progression, death due to any cause or last scan date that documented progression-free status|Intra-hepatic tumor responses by RECIST, Intra-hepatic tumor responses will be evaluated by RECIST., 2 years. from time of initiation of study therapy until subject comes off of study, or study closes|Intra-hepatic tumor responses by EASL, Intra-hepatic tumor responses will be evaluated by EASL criteria., 2 years. from time of initiation of study therapy until subject comes off of study, or study closes|extra-hepatic tumor responses, extra-hepatic tumor responses will be evaluated by RECIST., 2 years. from time of initiation of study therapy until subject comes off of study, or study closes|Number of participants with systemic toxicities, Systemic toxicities will be individually assessed by NCI CTCAE Version 4., From period of enrollment to 24 months after last treatment|Number of participants with hepatic toxicities, Hepatic toxicities will be individually assessed by NCI CTCAE Version 4., From period of enrollment to 24 months after last treatment|Change in CgA over time, The primary marker is CgA. Additional cancer site-specific (i.e., gastrinoma) markers may also be assayed., Tumor markers will be assessed at baseline and then every 3 months for 24 months.|Quality of Life by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for Neuroendocrine tumor, Quality of Life will be measure by a validated NET-specific instrument, EORTC. Scale is 0-100, higher scores indicate worse symptoms/functioning, Quality of life will be measured at baseline and then every 3 months for 24 months .
Patients with liver-dominant Grade 2 NET metastases from any primary will start CapTem and undergo simulation angiography for radioembolization planning during the first cycle. If they tolerate CapTem and are not excluded from radioembolization, then TARE will be performed on Day 7 of Cycle 2, with additional TARE of Day 7 of cycle 3 or 4 as needed to treat the entire tumor burden. Patients will remain on CapTem until progression or intolerance.

Primary outcome measure is hepatic progression-free survival.