Investigator-initiated Clinical Trial of MIKE-1
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Am80（Generic name: Tamibarotene, Development code: MIKE-1） in combination with gemcitabine (GEM) and nab-paclitaxel (nab-PTX) in patients with unresectable pancreatic cancer and to determine the recommended dose. Efficacy will also be exploratively investigated.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Am80|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: nab-Paclitaxel
Phase I study; DLT (dose-limiting toxicity), The severity of adverse events will be determined by the investigator based on CTCAE v 5.0.

* Grade 4 hematologic toxicity that persists for more than 7 days
* Grade 3 or higher non-hematologic toxicity that persists for more than 7 days despite symptomatic treatment
* An adverse event that caused the inability to administer both Day 8 and Day 15 of Cycle 1 of GEM or nab-PTX
* An adverse event that caused the inability to administer Day 8 of the first cycle of GEM or nab-PTX, resulting in a reduced dose of Day 15, The DLT evaluation period is from Day 1, the start date of study drug administration, to Day 28 of Phase I study.|Phase II study; response rate (based on RECIST ver1.1), If each subject has measurable disease, tumor shrinkage efficacy determination (CR, PR, SD, PD, NE) will be performed based on RECIST v1.1., through phase II study completion,an average of half year.
AE（Adverse events）, Adverse events will be classified and tabulated in MedDRA/J., All of the clinical trial period (up to 6 cycles, 28 days per cycle)|OS（Overall survival）, The distribution of overall survival will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, the Kaplan-Meier curve will be illustrated, and the median and 95% confidence interval will be calculated., The time from the date of first dose of MIKE-1 until date of death from any cause. The cut-off date is the end of post-observation for all patients.|PFS（Progression-free survival）, The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, the Kaplan-Meier curve will be illustrated, and the median and 95% confidence interval will be calculated., The time from date of first dose of MIKE-1 to date of first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurs. The cut-off date is the end of post-observation for all patients.|Area under the blood concentration time curve (AUC), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Elimination half-life (t1/2), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Clearance (CL), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Mean residence time (MRT), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Volume of distribution (Vds), Calculate summary statistics, 1, 2, 4, 8, 10, and 24 hours after first dosing in phase I.|Response rate （Phase I）, Based on RECIST ver1.1, All of the clinical trial period (up to 6 cycles, 28 days per cycle)
Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are an important component of the tumor microenvironment. The most common notion in the CAF research field has been that CAFs promote cancer progression through various mechanisms. Interestingly, however, recent studies have revealed that CAFs are heterogeneous and that CAF subsets that suppress cancer progression (cancer-restraining CAFs \[rCAFs\]) must exist in addition to well-characterized cancer-promoting CAFs (pCAFs). However, the identity and specific markers of rCAFs have not been reported.

The investigators recently identified Meflin as a specific marker protein of rCAFs in pancreatic and colon cancers. The investigator's studies revealed that rCAFs are similar to a small subset of resident fibroblasts, which is consistent with the famous hypothesis proposed by Micheal Stoker (University of Glasgow) more than 50 years ago, stating that static normal fibroblasts suppress tumor growth. Interestingly, The investigator's lineage tracing experiments showed that Meflin-positive rCAFs differentiate into Meflin-negative pCAFs during cancer progression. These studies revealed that the tumor stroma is comprised of pCAFs and rCAFs, which is analogous to the heterogeneity of tumor-infiltrating immune cells (e.g., protumor regulatory T cells versus antitumor cytotoxic T cells).

The identification of the rCAF marker Meflin enabled the investigators to develop new strategies to convert or reprogram pCAFs to rCAFs. Using a pharmacological approach, The investigators performed a chemical library screen and identified Am80, a synthetic unnatural retinoid, as a reagent that effectively converts Meflin-negative pCAFs to Meflin-positive rCAFs. Am80 administration improved the sensitivity of pancreatic cancer to chemotherapeutics. These data suggested that the conversion of pCAF to rCAFs may represent a new strategy for pancreatic cancer treatment.

The object of this study is to perform an investigator-initiated clinical study to investigate the effect of AM80 on pancreatic cancer with a combination of conventional tumoricidal agents including gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.