Nivolumab With DA-REPOCH Chemotherapy Regimen in Treating Patients With Aggressive B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works with the DA-REPOCH chemotherapy regimen in treating patients with aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body?s immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dose-adjusted rituximab, etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (DA-REPOCH), work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving nivolumab with DA-REPOCH may work better in treating patients with aggressive B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage I Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage II Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Cell Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Mediastinal B-Cell Lymphoma, Unclassifiable, With Features Intermediate Between Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma and Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma|Transformed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated by the method of Kaplan-Meier and the estimate will be provided with 95% confidence intervals. Depending on the number of events, Cox regression model may be used to explore the association between baseline clinical variables and PFS in a univariable manner., From start of treatment to progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 2 years
Objective response rate, Will be calculated with patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at end of induction therapy as the numerator and all eligible patients who start treatment as the denominator, with a 95% binomial confidence interval provided. CR rate will be analyzed in the same way., Up to 8 years|Duration of response defined for all patients who have achieved an objective response (CR or PR), Will be described using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From date of which patient?s response is documented to the date of progression or death, censoring event-free patients at the time of last follow-up, assessed up to 8 years|Incidence of adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, All adverse events will be summarized and tabulated across all patients who received any treatment with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities that are deemed at least possibly related to study treatment., Up to 30 days post-treatment
Major histocompatibility complex (MCH) class I and II expression, Will be correlated with PFS and be explored using graphical methods such as Kaplan-Meier curves., Up to 8 years|Expression of PD-1 and PD-L1 with PFS, Will be correlated with PFS and explored using graphical methods such as Kaplan-Meier curves., Up to 8 years|Somatic mutations detection by circulating tumor (ct)-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) over time, Will be described using either box plots or individual time plots grouped by relevant subcategories (e.g. response) to help identify potential patterns. Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare baseline expression with values measured at time of relapse., Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) of nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH with short course nivolumab maintenance.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR), complete response (CR) rate, and duration of response to nivolumab in combination with DA REPOCH with short course nivolumab maintenance.

II. To establish that nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH with short course nivolumab maintenance is feasible at standard dosing.

III. To establish the toxicity profile of nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH with short course nivolumab maintenance at standard dosing.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate the presence of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II by immunohistochemistry (IHC) with PFS.

II. To correlate tumor and microenvironment expression of PD-L1 and microenvironment expression of PD-1 with PFS.

III. To correlate cell of origin, MYC and Bcl-2 expression, Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positivity, and Ki67 proliferation index with response to treatment.

IV. To determine the effect of nivolumab in combination with DA-REPOCH on immune cell subsets in the peripheral blood over time.

V. To correlate circulating tumor (ct) deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) with disease response by positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

VI. To track clonal evolution and detect the emergence of treatment-resistance by ct-DNA monitoring.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) and nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive etoposide, vincristine sulfate and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 96 hours, cyclophosphamide IV bolus, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After course 6, patients receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 3 years, and then every 6 months for 5 years.