Postoperative Sequence Chemoradiotherapy Compared With Chemotherapy Alone for Advanced Gastric Cancer
Gastric cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies in China; the survival rate remains poor despite potentially curative resections. Complete surgical resection is the only potentially curative therapy available to patients with gastric cancer. However, even after a complete resection with negative margins, many patients will experience recurrence. In recent years, the radiation therapy in the carcinoma of the stomach represents a new issue that should be addressed accompanying the development of radial physics and radial biology, the clinical application of computed tomographic (CT) simulation and digital reconstitution technique, especially the application of 3-dimensional conformal and intensity modulated radiation therapy. Radiation therapy plus concurrent chemotherapy has been demonstrated to cause a significant improvement in overall and disease-free survival according to Intergroup Trial 0116/SWOG 9008. So the investigators designed the trial to see whether a postoperative sequence chemoradiotherapy including oxaliplatin fluorouracil-based regimen can improve survival for advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Cancer
RADIATION: sequence chemoradiotherapy|DRUG: chemotherapy alone following radical resection
overall survival, 1 year
Gastric cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies in China; the survival rate remains poor despite potentially curative resections. Complete surgical resection is the only potentially curative therapy available to patients with gastric cancer. However, even after a complete resection with negative margins, many patients will experience recurrence. In recent years, the radiation therapy in the carcinoma of the stomach represents a new issue that should be addressed accompanying the development of radial physics and radial biology, the clinical application of computed tomographic (CT) simulation and digital reconstitution technique, especially the application of 3-dimensional conformal and intensity modulated radiation therapy. Radiation therapy plus concurrent chemotherapy has been demonstrated to cause a significant improvement in overall and disease-free survival according to Intergroup Trial 0116/SWOG 9008. So the investigators designed the trial to see whether a postoperative sequence chemoradiotherapy including oxaliplatin fluorouracil-based regimen can improve survival for advanced gastric cancer.