Sexual Function Screening in Childhood Cancer Survivors
This is a qualitative research study involving semistructured interviews and Think-Aloud methodology during completion of a clinical screening tool. All participants will undergo the same semistructured interviews.
Childhood Cancer|Survivorship|Sexual Dysfunction
OTHER: Interviews
Describe AYA CCS perspectives on implementation of screening for sexual dysfunction, including preferred modality, setting and timing for evaluating sexual dysfunction., Qualitative interviews will be conducted by phone by a trained qualitative research interviewer. Interviews will be in-depth and semistructured, utilizing a combination of broad, open-ended questions and more specific probes. The interview guide was developed with the help of Dr. Michael Fisher, PhD, who has expertise in qualitative research methodology. The interviewer will take detailed field notes. This portion of the interview will last approximately 25-35 minutes and will be digitally recorded and professionally transcribed. After each interview, the interviewer will complete an Interview Summary Form, which will serve as a memoing tool and summarize initial themes or impressions that may be relevant to the research question., 1 year
Assess AYA CCS perceptions of the PROMIS SexFS Brief, an existing adult clinical screening tool for sexual dysfunction, in a qualitative pilot study., Participants will be asked to evaluate the PROMIS SexFS Brief, which will be emailed to them at the time of the interview via a unique/secure REDCap link. Participants will be given a choice of which version of the tool they complete (male or female). Participants will be asked to complete the PROMIS SexFS Brief via REDCap while completing Think-Aloud methodology. Via Think-Aloud, participants will be asked to verbalize their thoughts as they proceed through the task, which asks participants to verbalize their thoughts, without probing or additional explanations, as they undertake a task such as completing a clinical screening questionnaire. In accordance with recommendations for conducting Think-Aloud, participants will participate in a warm-up exercise unrelated to sexual dysfunction prior to completing Think-Aloud., 1 year
The proposed research will explore patient-centered approaches to evaluating younger Adolescent/young adult Childhood cancer survivors for sexual dysfunction, including strategies for implementation and usability of thePatient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information® v2.0 Brief Profile for Sexual Function and Satisfaction Brief, an existing adult screening tool. This study will include interviews with 24 patients age 15-24 who were diagnosed with cancer prior to age 18, and treated with chemotherapy, radiation and/or surgery and are now at least two years off therapy.