Study of Tagraxofusp for Post-Transplant Maintenance for Patients With CD 123+ AML, MDS, MF and CMML (HSCT 002)
In this study, tagraxofusp (Tag) is given to patients with CD 123+ myelofibrosis (MF), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) after allogeneic stem cell transplant (HCT) to help prevent relapse. Patients will receive up to about 9 cycles of treatment with Tag and have a bone marrow biopsy after cycle 4 and about 1 year after HCT.
Myelofibrosis|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Tagraxofusp
Incidence and severity of grade ≥ 3 adverse events, Severity is based upon CTCAE v5 criteria., Through about 30 days following last infusion of tagraxofusp|Dose limiting toxicities, Frequencies of certain, more severe, types of side effects from the study drug, During cycles 1 and 2 (each cycle is 28 days) of study treatment for each participant|Percent of planned tagraxofusp dose received, During cycles 1-4 only, Through cycle 4 (each cycle is 28 days) of study treatment for each participant
Time from HCT to relapse and death or last contact., Duration, Participants will be followed through 2 years after date of HCT|Frequency and severity of acute GVHD grades II-IV and chronic GVHD, Mild, moderate or severe per Magic criteria, Participants will be followed through 2 years after date of HCT
Relapsed disease is the primary cause of treatment failure after hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT). In this study, patients are given increasing levels of tagraxofusp (Tag) to evaluate the safety of each dose. Participants will start treatment with Tag starting between 60 and 120 days following HCT. Tag will be given by IV over about 15 minutes on days 1 through 3 of cycles 1-4 of treatment (28 day cycles) and then on days 1 and 2 of subsequent cycles, for up to 9 cycles or until disease progression or if you have a bad side effect. In the first cycle, Tag will be given while participants are inpatient. In all other cycles, Tag will be given outpatient and participants will be observed for 4 hours following each infusion. After about 4 cycles of treatment and again about 1 year after HCT, participants will have a bone marrow biopsy and also take a questionnaire about their quality of life. During the study, participants will have their blood checked regularly to monitor for side effects.