Iodine I 131 Tositumomab, Etoposide and Cyclophosphamide Followed by Autologous Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving iodine I 131 tositumomab together with etoposide and cyclophosphamide followed by autologous stem cell transplant works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies, such as iodine I 131 tositumomab, can find cancer cells and deliver radioactive cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Combining a radiolabeled monoclonal antibody with combination chemotherapy before autologous stem cell transplant may kill more cancer cells
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Cutaneous B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Mixed Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Small Cleaved Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: etoposide|RADIATION: iodine I 131 tositumomab|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate of progression-free survival at 3 years will be used as the primary determinant of potential efficacy., At year 3
5 Year Overall Survival, Survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Associated confidence intervals will be provided as part of the analysis., Up to 15 years|Response Rate, Response rates will be estimated as the percentage of patients, From date of transplant through date of relapse/progression or death, assessed up to 15 years|Toxicity as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) v 2.0, Grade 3-4 Bearman non-hematologic toxicity will be carefully monitored throughout this study. The protocol will be terminated due to safety concerns if there exists sufficient evidence suggesting that the true rate of grade 3-4 nonhematologic toxicity exceeds 25%. All patients, regardless of histology, will be evaluated together for purposes of toxicity. Sufficient evidence will be taken to be a lower limit to the appropriate 90% one-sided confidence interval in excess of 25%, From date of first exposure to study drug, through date of relapse/progression or other significant medical event confounding further assessment, assessed up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the progression-free survival of patients receiving 131 I labeled tositumomab antibody, etoposide (VP-16) and cyclophosphamide (CY) followed by autologous transplantation.

II. To examine the potential efficacy of 131 I labeled tositumomab antibody, etoposide (VP-16) and cyclophosphamide (CY) followed by autologous transplantation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the overall survival of patients receiving 131 I labeled tositumomab antibody, etoposide (VP-16) and cyclophosphamide (CY) followed by autologous transplantation.

II. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of the above therapy.

OUTLINE:

RADIOIMMUNOTHERAPY: Patients receive a test dose of iodine I 131 tositumomab intravenously (IV) on day -24 to determine biodistribution. Patients then receive therapeutic iodine I 131 tositumomab IV over approximately 40-60 minutes on day -14 and are entered into radiation isolation until day -4.

CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive etoposide IV on day -4 and cyclophosphamide IV on day -2.

AUTOLOGOUS STEM CELL TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months and then annually thereafter.