Genetic Exploration of the Molecular Basis of Malignancy in Adults
Genetic Exploration of the Molecular Basis of Malignancy in Adults.
Neoplasms
Feasibility (proportion of patients with successful molecular profiling compared to the number of patients enrolled), Assess the feasibility of integrating genomic profiling in the adult oncology clinic within a community-based, multi-facility, health system. Feasibility is defined as the proportion of patients with successful molecular profiling compared to the number of patients enrolled., 12 months
Patient and biopsy characteristics (including cancer type, biopsy type, and number of prior treatments), Determine patient and biopsy characteristics, including cancer type, biopsy type, and number of prior treatments, 12 months|Molecular testing characteristics (include: the frequency at which molecular analysis yields a genetic alteration, frequency of actionable alterations, and time from biopsy to final report), Define molecular testing characteristics.This will include: the frequency at which molecular analysis yields a genetic alteration, frequency of actionable alterations, and time from biopsy to final report., 12 months|Molecular profiling influence, Determine how often molecular profiling influences treatment decision.Treatment type implemented will be classified as: standard therapy per treating physician, FDA approved off-label influenced by molecular profiling, internal targeted agent clinical trial influenced by molecular profiling, or external targeted agent clinical trial influenced by molecular profiling., 12 months|Clinical outcome of genomic based therapy (response according to RECIST 1.1 response criteria), Determine the clinical outcome of genomic based therapy, as defined by response rate (according to RECIST 1.1 response criteria) the percent of patients with progression-free survival (PFS) at 4 months, and overall survival., At 16wks following initiation of treatment impacted by molecular profiling. After 16wks tumor assessments per routine practice/clinical trial protocol requirements, continued until progression/time of treatment discontinuation, whichever is later.
This protocol is not designed as a treatment protocol. Patients enrolled on this study will be treated according to the treating physician's plan of care, independent of enrollment into the study. Once enrolled, the physician may proceed with the appropriate plan of care during the period of specimen analysis if indicated. Upon return of the results, therapy may or may not be altered based upon the patient's pathology, pertinent medical and treatment history, imaging studies, available clinical trials, and on the CLIA validated clinical molecular profiling results. Regardless of the results, the patient will be offered a treatment selected on an empirical basis by the treating physician at the individual site. All patients enrolled in the study will be followed for clinical outcome. Clinical molecular profiling results will expire 14 weeks following the date the Foundation One report is received. No investigational agents will be administered as part of this study. However, patients may be referred to open clinical trials based on the results of profiling. Patients referred for clinical trial may receive investigational agents under a separate clinical trial in accordance with the written protocol for which they are subsequently enrolled. All anti-neoplastic drugs used while participating in this study, whether used on-label or off-label, will be administered to the patient by the route of administration published in the FDA approved package insert. In addition, the dosing of the agent (including dose modifications) will be calculated based upon what is published in the FDA approved package insert.