A Study Evaluating Whether Pembrolizumab Alone or in Combination With CMP-001 Improves Efficacy of Treatment in Patients With Operable Melanoma
This phase II trial studies the effect of pembrolizumab alone or in combination with CMP-001 in treating patients with melanoma that can be treated by surgery (operable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Immunotherapy with CMP-001 may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. The addition of CMP-001 to pembrolizumab could improve the ability of the immune system to shrink tumors and to prevent them from returning.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Melanoma of Unknown Primary|Pathologic Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIID Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Recurrent Cutaneous Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|DRUG: VLP-encapsulated TLR9 Agonist CMP-001
Pathologic complete response rate, Will be estimated by the percentage of patients who achieve complete response, partial response or stable disease by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and Immune-Modified RECIST criteria, with exact 90% confidence intervals., Up to 15 years
Radiographic response rate, Will be assessed using RECIST., Up to 15 years|Relapse-free survival, From randomization to relapse or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 15 years|Overall survival, From randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 15 years|Incidence of adverse events, Patients will be monitored for adverse events using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., Up to 30 days after the last study drug administration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) rate in patients in each arm.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the rate of pathologic near-complete/major response (pMR) of the neoadjuvant therapy in each arm.

II. To evaluate the pathologic response rate of un-injected lesions on the combination arm (Arm B).

III. To evaluate relapse-free survival (RFS) in each arm. IV. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in each arm. V. To evaluate the preoperative radiographic response rate in each arm. VI. To evaluate safety and toxicity of neoadjuvant therapy in each arm.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A:

NEOADJUVANT PHASE: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery 1-2 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant phase.

ADJUVANT PHASE: After recovery from surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of every other cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT throughout the trial and may undergo optional biopsy at baseline and disease progression and optional collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

ARM B:

NEOADJUVANT PHASE: Patients receive VLP-encapsulated TLR9 agonist CMP-001 (CMP-001) subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of cycle 1 and then intratumorally on days 8 and 15 of cycle 1, days 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 2, and day 1 of cycle 3. Patients also receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 8 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery 1-2 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant phase.

ADJUVANT PHASE: After recovery from surgery, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of every other cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 16 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients also undergo CT or PET/CT throughout the trial and may undergo optional biopsy at baseline and disease progression and optional collection of blood samples throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months if \< 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry, and every 12 months if \> 5 years from study entry for up to 10 years (15 years total follow up).