A Feasibility Study of Unsupervised, Pre-operative Exercise Program for Patients Scheduled for Lung Cancer Surgery
The paradigm of pre-operative exercise as a neoadjuvant therapy to reduce morbidity is increasingly promoted within general surgery and surgical oncology.

Patients with lung cancer participating in pre-operative exercise have better aerobic capacity and pulmonary function and shorter hospital length-of-stay after surgery. Additionally, pre-operative exercise may increase the likelihood of resuming exercise post-surgery, thereby accelerating the pace of rehabilitation and recovery.

In order to translate the research findings into sustainable clinical practice, clinician-scientists need to develop pragmatic and effective home-based exercise protocols. Wearable fitness devices offer a way to approximate the supervision that occurs in exercise research.

Before the investigators can develop an intervention in which patients receive tailored support similar to what occurs with supervised exercise, they need to pilot test the monitoring aspect of the wearable fitness device in conjunction with the pre-operative exercise program. The investigators propose a mixed methods, 16 single arm feasibility study of an unsupervised, pre-operative exercise prescription (uPEP) augmented by a wearable fitness device. The proposed study of 30 patients scheduled for lung cancer surgery will identify the strengths, weaknesses, and utility of this approach.
Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
Adherence to exercise:, number of completed pre-operative exercise sessions divided by number of prescribed sessions, according to exercise log, Time 3, day of surgery
Feasibility of recruitment:, number of patients enrolled divided by number of patients eligible, Time 5, 16 weeks post-surgery|Acceptance of technology, number of hours the fitness tracker was worn in pre-operative period, Time 3, day of surgery|Participant perception of exercise program, semi-structured interview regarding perceptions of the exercise program, Time 2, 3-5 days before surgery|Participant perception of fitness tracker, semi-structured interview regarding perceptions of the fitness tracker, Time 2, 3-5 days before surgery|Subjective minutes spent in exercise, Number of minutes spent in exercise according to exercise log, Time 3, day of surgery|Objective minutes spent in exercise:, Number of minutes spent in exercise according to fitness tracker, Time 3, day of surgery|Aerobic capacity:, Six minute walk test, Time 3, day of surgery|Pulmonary function:, Diffusion of lungs for carbon monoxide test, Time 2, 3-5 days before surgery|Subjective physical function:, PROMIS (Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System) physical function scale, Time 2, 3-5 days before surgery|Objective physical function:, Grip strength per dynamometer, Time 3, day of surgery|Length of stay in hospital:, Number of days from surgery to discharge home, Time 4, 2 weeks post-surgery|Feasibility of Retention, Number of patients completing all study assessments divided by the number enrolled, 16 weeks post-surgery
The investigators propose a parallel mixed methods, 16 single arm, pre-post study with 30 participants scheduled for lung cancer surgery. At time of enrollment (at least 3 weeks before their scheduled surgery), participants will complete baseline assessments, receive the uPEP exercise prescription, and be oriented to the wearable fitness device. A research assistant will call the participant to conduct an audiotaped semi-structured interview regarding the acceptability of the electronically-monitored uPEP within 7- 14 days of enrollment. The study team will complete follow-up assessments on the day of surgery, two weeks after surgery, and four months after surgery. Data will also be collected from chart review and the wearable fitness device throughout the study.