Analysis of the Toxicity and Efficacy of Daily 1 vs 2 Beam Proton Therapy
Thanks to the intrinsic qualities of the proton beam, proton therapy will reduce adverse effects of irradiation. The Proteus®One is the latest generation of proton therapy equipment, enabling the Centre Antoine Lacassagne to expand its range of treatments by carrying out new proton therapy treatments. It has an innovative compact isocentric rotating head (Gantry) that allows the radiation beam to be directed at different angles around the patient. In some cases, two beams are used to treat tumours, and by convention, both beams are delivered during the same session. However, it is necessary to position the patient before each beam, which is time-consuming because 2 beams have to be positioned very precisely each day. The aim of this study is therefore to assess the toxicity of proton therapy delivered by a single daily beam compared with proton therapy delivered by two daily beams, which is the conventional technique.
Chordoma|Chondrosarcoma|Ewing Sarcoma|Osteosarcoma
RADIATION: Proteus ONE one daily beam|RADIATION: Proteus ONE two daily beam
To evaluate the frequency of occurrence of toxicities in the group of patients treated with two daily beams (2DB) and in the group of patients treated with one daily beams (1DB)., Assessment of the incidence of grade ≥2 medical device-related toxicities assessed according to CTCAE version 5.0 in each of the two treatment arms., During 2 to 7 weeks of protontherapy treatment and during 5 years follow-up
Determining the effectiveness of proton therapy, Efficacy will be assessed in terms of relapse rate, 5-year follow-up visits|Determining the effectiveness of proton therapy, Efficacy will be assessed in terms of local control by MRI assessment, 5-year follow-up visits|Determining the effectiveness of proton therapy, Efficacy will be assessed in terms of overall survival, 5 years follow-up|Quality of life assessment, Quality of life will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 scale (Appendix 2), version 3 at the inclusion assessment, at the end-of-treatment visit and at each assessment visit for five years. Version 3.0 of the QLQ-C30 has four-point scales for the items 1 to 28 namely : 1 : "Not a tall", 2 : "A little", 3 : "Quite a bit" and 4 : "Very much." Higher score mean worse outcome. Item 29 and 30 has seven-point scales from 1 : " very bad " to 7 "Excellent". Lower score mean worse outcome., During 2-7 weeks of protontherapy treatment and during 5 years follow-up|Evaluate the time saving between the two arms 1DB and 2DB, Time savings will be assessed by measuring the time taken for door-to-door proton therapy treatment sessions., 2-7 weeks of protontherapy treatment
Thanks to the intrinsic qualities of the proton beam, proton therapy will reduce adverse effects of irradiation. The Proteus®One is the latest generation of proton therapy equipment, enabling the Centre Antoine Lacassagne to expand its range of treatments by carrying out new proton therapy treatments. It has an innovative compact isocentric rotating head (Gantry) that allows the radiation beam to be directed at different angles around the patient. In some cases, two beams are used to treat tumours, and by convention, both beams are delivered during the same session. However, it is necessary to position the patient before each beam, which is time-consuming because 2 beams have to be positioned very precisely each day. The aim of this study is therefore to assess the toxicity of proton therapy delivered by a single daily beam compared with proton therapy delivered by two daily beams, which is the conventional technique.