R-CDOP Combined With Intrathecal Methotrexate for DLBCL Patients With High-risk of CNS Relapse
This is a double-center, single-arm, phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of R-CDOP regimen combined with intrathecal methotrexate in chemo-naive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma patients with high-risk of CNS relapse.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: R-CDOP+intrathecal MTX
2-year central nervous system relapse rate, The proportion of patients with central nervous system recurrence within two years from enrollment accounted for all patients treated with drugs., up to 6 years after the start of the study|Concentration of doxorubicin in cerebrospinal fluid after using doxorubicin hydrochloride liposome injection, CSF doxorubicin concentrations 24 hours after the first 5 courses of lipso-doxorubicin infusion will be tested. Peak concentration of doxorubicin in CSF will be recorded, and the area under the curve will be calculated., up to 4 years after the start of the study
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate measured as number of complete and partial response divided by the number of patients included., 2 years after enrollment of final patient|2-year progression-free survival (PFS) rate, Number of non-progression cases/all enrolled cases at 2 years, 2 years after enrollment of final patient|2-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, Number of non-event cases/all enrolled cases at 2 years, 2 years after enrollment of final patient|Overall Survival (OS), Time from the date of enrollment to data of death from any cause, or date of lost follow-up, whichever comes first, and otherwise censored at time last known alive., 2 years after enrollment of final patient|Adverse events, Hematologic and non hematologic adverse event (CTCAE 4.03）, Since the signing of informed consent forms to 30 days after the last cycle|Cmax（maximum concentration）, The peak concentration of the drug, Time from zero to Tmax|Tmax（maximum time）, The peak time of the drug, Time from zero to Cmax|T1/2（drug half time）, The time it takes for blood concentration levels to drop by half, The time it takes for blood concentration levels to drop by half|AUC（0-∞）（area under the curve）, area under the concentration-time curve, Time from zero to ∞|AUC （0-t）（area under the curve from time zero to the last observation time, area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the time of last area area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last observation time, Time from zero to the last observation time
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is the most common subtype of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, accounting for 31% of all non-Hodgkin's lymphomas. At present, the standard treatment is R-CHOP (rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) Regimen. In DLBCL, central nervous system recurrence is rare, but once it occurs, it is often fatal. The prognosis of patients with central recurrence of DLBCL is very poor, and the median survival time is only 3.5-7 months.The CNS relapse rate of the R-CHOP regimen combined with MTX (methotrexate) intrathecal in high CNS-IPI DLBCL patients is approximately 12%.

This study was a phase II, prospective, single arm，double-center study, which requires a total of 83 DLBCL patients with high-risk of CNS relapse.

Patients will receive a total of 6-8 cycles of R-CDOP regimen, repeated every 3 weeks. Intrathecal MTX will be administered after the 1st-5th cycle of chemotherapy. All the patients will receive a mid-treatment PET scan after 4 cycles of chemotherapy. Patient achieves CR (complete response) after 4 cycles will continue to receive another 2 cycles of treatment. For those who achieve PR, another 4 cycles of chemotherapy will given.