A Study Evaluating the Safety and Efficacy of Venetoclax in Combination With Trastuzumab Emtansine in Patients With Previously Treated HER2-Positive Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
This two-part study is composed of two stages: a Phase Ib stage consisting of a dose-escalation phase and an expansion phase; and a Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter stage. The Phase Ib stage will assess the safety and tolerability, determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D), and evaluate the preliminary efficacy of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax in participants with previously treated human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive unresectable locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) or metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Additional patients may be enrolled in an expansion phase to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax at RP2D in patients with previously treated HER2-positive LABC or MBC who have previously received either trastuzumab emtansine or trastuzumab deruxtecan (DS-8201a). The Phase II randomized stage will evaluate the safety, efficacy, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax at RP2D compared with trastuzumab emtansine plus placebo in participants with previously treated HER2-positive LABC or MBC who have not received prior trastuzumab emtansine therapy, either alone or in combination with other anti-cancer therapies.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine
Dose Escalation: Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Baseline up until 28 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of new systemic anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (up to a maximum of 20 weeks).|Expansion Phase: Objective Response Rate (ORR), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 30 months|Phase II: ORR, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 30 months|Phase II: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 30 months
All Phases: Plasma Concentration of Venetoclax, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., At pre-defined time points from Cycle 1 Day 8 and/or Cycle 2 Day 1 through Cycle 4 Day 1 (cycle = 21 days)|Phase II: Serum Concentration of Trastuzumab Emtansine, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., At pre-defined time points from Cycle 1 Day 1 through Cycle 4 Day 1 (cycle = 21 days)|Expansion Phase and Phase II: Number of Participants With Adverse Events, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Baseline up until 28 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of new systemic anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first (up to a maximum of 20 weeks).|Expansion Phase and Phase II: Duration of Response (DOR), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 30 months|Phase II: Overall Survival (OS), The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Randomization to death from any cause (up to 30 months)|Phase II: Number of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Trastuzumab Emtansine, The study was terminated by the Sponsor. Only 1 participant was enrolled in this study. Based on the low enrolment number, no data is reported here in order to protect and maintain participant privacy/confidentiality., Up to 30 months
This two-part study is composed of two stages: a Phase Ib stage consisting of a dose-escalation phase and an expansion phase; and a Phase II, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicenter stage. The Phase Ib stage will assess the safety and tolerability, determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D), and evaluate the preliminary efficacy of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax in participants with previously treated human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive unresectable locally advanced breast cancer (LABC) or metastatic breast cancer (MBC). Additional patients may be enrolled in an expansion phase to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and efficacy of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax at RP2D in patients with previously treated HER2-positive LABC or MBC who have previously received either trastuzumab emtansine or trastuzumab deruxtecan (DS-8201a). The Phase II randomized stage will evaluate the safety, efficacy, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of trastuzumab emtansine in combination with venetoclax at RP2D compared with trastuzumab emtansine plus placebo in participants with previously treated HER2-positive LABC or MBC who have not received prior trastuzumab emtansine therapy, either alone or in combination with other anti-cancer therapies.