BEAT-meso: Bevacizumab and Atezolizumab in Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
The aim of this clinical trial is to assess the effect of treatment with a monoclonal antibody called atezolizumab in patients diagnosed with a type of lung cancer called malignant pleural mesothelioma. The efficacy (whether the treatment works), safety and tolerability (side effects of treatment) of atezolizumab plus bevacizumab in combination with standard chemotherapy versus bevacizumab in combination with standard chemotherapy will be investigated.
Pleural Mesothelioma Malignant Advanced
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until death from any cause. Data for patients who are not reported as having died at the date of analysis will be censored at the date when they were last known to be alive. Data for patients without post-baseline information will be censored at the date of randomization (plus 1 day)., From date of randomisation until death from any cause, assessed up to 58 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS) according to the mRECIST v1.1, PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until documented progression (according to the mRECIST v1.1) or death, if progression is not documented. Censoring (for participants without a PFS/death event) will occur at the date of last tumour assessment. Patients without a post-baseline tumour assessment will be censored at the date of randomization (plus 1 day)., From date of randomisation until documented progression or death, if progression is not documented, assessed up to 58 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the percentage of patients that achieve a best overall response \[complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)\] evaluated according to the mRECIST v1.1 across all post-randomization time-points until the end of protocol treatment or, as an alternative approach, until the end of follow-up. Confirmation of response will not be required., From start of protocol treatment acorss all time-points until end of protocol treatment or, as an alternative approach, until the end of follow-up, assessed up to 58 months|Disease Control (DC) at 24 weeks, Defined as complete or partial response, or disease stabilisation at 24 weeks., 24 weeks after protocol treatment start|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), Defined as the time from the date of randomisation to discontinuation of protocol treatment for any reason (including progression of disease, death, discontinuation of at least one of the drugs consisting the treatment combination due to any reason, such as toxicity or refusal). Censoring will occur at the last follow-up date., From randomisation until discontinuation of protocol treatment for any reason, assessed up to 58 months|Duration of Response (DoR), Defined as the interval from the date of first documentation of objective response (complete response or partial response, according to the mRECIST v1.1) to the date of first documented progression/ relapse or death., From date of first documentation of objective response until date of first documented progression/ relapse or death, assessed up to 58 months|Number of participants with treatment related adverse events according to Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, Assessed through analysis of the worst grade of toxicity/adverse events and will include all participants who received at least one dose of protocol treatment. Adverse events leading to dose interruption, withdrawal of protocol treatment and deaths, laboratory parameters and abnormalities and vital signs over the whole treatment period will be assessed and graded according to CTCAE v5.0 criteria., Assessed from the date of informed consent until 90 days after protocol treatment discontinuation. Analysed at 58 months after randomisation of the first patient
Malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) is a rare and aggressive cancer arising from the mesothelial surface of the pleura. In Europe, the incidence is about 20 per million and is almost always caused by asbestos exposure, with a usual lag time of 30 years between exposure and presentation. Patients diagnosed with advanced MPM have limited treatment options, representing a strict unmet need. Despite decades of clinical research, cytotoxic chemotherapy remains one of the few therapeutic options that has been proven to improve survival in advanced MPM in a randomised controlled trial.

The combination of cisplatin and pemetrexed has become standard first-line therapy worldwide for patients who are not suitable for aggressive surgery or in whom chemotherapy is recommended as part of a multimodality regimen. Carboplatin is often substituted for cisplatin, due to simpler and shorter administration and assumption of a more favourable toxicity profile based on experience in other diseases. Patients with MPM have limited treatment options, representing a strict unmet need.

An antibody is a common type of protein usually made in the body in response to a foreign substance. Antibodies attack foreign substances and protect against infection. The two monoclonal antibodies (atezolizumab and bevacizumab) used in this trial are laboratory-produced antibodies. Atezolizumab is engineered to attach to immune cells to stimulate their activity against cancer cells.

Atezolizumab and bevacizumab are both approved by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment of lung and other cancers. The addition of atezolizumab to bevacizumab plus standard chemotherapy for the treatment of MPM is being investigated in this trial.

All participants will receive 4-6 cycles of standard chemotherapy consisting of carboplatin AUC 5 (area under the plasma concentration versus time curve) plus pemetrexed 500mg/m\^2 given intravenously, on day 1 of every 3 week cycle for about 12 to 18 weeks.

Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups:

Treatment 1

* Bevacizumab 15 mg/kg intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus
* 4-6 cycles of chemotherapy

OR

Treatment 2

* Atezolizumab 1200 mg fixed dose intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus
* Bevacizumab 15 mg/kg, intravenously on day 1 of every 3-week cycle, plus
* 4-6 cycles of chemotherapy

Participants will continue to receive treatment until disease progression, or until treatment is stopped at the request of the participant or treating doctor, or the participant withdraws consent.

A total of 400 participants from approximately 45 centres in Europe are expected to be included in this trial which will take approximately 6 years to be completed after the first participant is enrolled.