ChiCGB vs BEAM in High-risk or R/R Lymphomas
High-dose chemotherapy (HDT) with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) plays a vital role in treating high-risked or relapsed/refractory lymphoma. Our previous study showed chidamide combined with cladribine, gemcitabine, and busulfan (ChiCGB) as conditioning therapy improved the survival of these patients. So we designed this trial to verify if ChiCGB were better than BCNU, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM). Patients with diffuse large B cell or extra-nodal NK/T cell Lymphoma who consent to this study will be randomized into the trial group who receive ChiCGB or the control group whom receive BEAM. Patients will be followed for up to 2 years after the hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).
Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse|Lymphoma, T-Cell
DRUG: Chidamide|DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Carmustine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplant
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival of this group of patients at the end of 2 year, 2 years
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival of this group of patients at the end of 2 year, 2 years|100 day adverse events (AE), non-hematologic adverse events @ Day +100, 100 days from transplant|100 day complete response (CR) rate, Complete response @ Day +100, 100 days from transplant
High-dose chemotherapy (HDT) with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) plays a vital role in treating high-risked or relapsed/refractory lymphoma. Our previous study showed chidamide combined with cladribine, gemcitabine, and busulfan (ChiCGB) as conditioning therapy improved the survival of these patients. So we designed this trial to verify if ChiCGB were better than BCNU, etoposide, cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM). Patients with diffuse large B cell or extra-nodal NK/T cell Lymphoma who consent to this study will be randomized into the trial group who receive ChiCGB or the control group whom receive BEAM. Patients will be followed for up to 2 years after the hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT).