Clinical Nursing Practice Supported by Results of Research: Mixed-method Study
The purpose of the study is to assess the attitudes and the use of research by nurses at the IRCCS-CRO Aviano. Furthermore, it will make it possible to identify attitudes towards the use/non-use of research results, specific training needs and targeted interventions to ensure adequate care for cancer patients along the disease course, derived from a constant updating of nursing skills. The study will involve nurses working in different care settings of the Institute and some patients who will be able to express their care needs and research priorities, making a direct contribution towards development of care centred on the health needs, preferences and values of the cancer patients.
Oncology
To assess the attitudes and use of research by nurses IRCCS of Aviano, The Modified Research Utilization Questionnaire (M-RUQ), consisting of 22 items across three subscales assessed on a 5-point Likert scale (range: 22-110), will be used for data collection. Total scores are computed by summing and averaging domain scores, with reverse-scoring for negative items. Missing data will be imputed with item means, and results presented as mean ± standard deviation., 1 year
To identify nursing issues, research priorities, and educational needs of nurses at IRCCS Aviano., he qualitative data obtained from the research (using interview and focus group method) will be evaluated with inductive content analysis, following Colaizzi's framework (1978). In order to enhance the validity of the data, two researchers will independently examine the transcripts, and comprehensive readings will be conducted. Codes will be generated and compared by interpreting differences and similarities, from which themes and sub-themes will be obtained, 1 year|To explore care needs and research priorities of patients at IRCCS Aviano, he qualitative data obtained from the research (using interview and focus group method) will be evaluated with inductive content analysis, following Colaizzi's framework (1978). In order to enhance the validity of the data, two researchers will independently examine the transcripts, and comprehensive readings will be conducted. Codes will be generated and compared by interpreting differences and similarities, from which themes and sub-themes will be obtained, 1 year
The purpose of the study is to assess the attitudes and the use of research by nurses at the IRCCS-CRO Aviano. Furthermore, it will make it possible to identify attitudes towards the use/non-use of research results, specific training needs and targeted interventions to ensure adequate care for cancer patients along the disease course, derived from a constant updating of nursing skills. The study will involve nurses working in different care settings of the Institute and some patients who will be able to express their care needs and research priorities, making a direct contribution towards development of care centred on the health needs, preferences and values of the cancer patients.