Panobinostat (LBH589) and Imatinib Mesylate in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
RATIONALE: Panobinostat and imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of panobinostat when given together with imatinib in treating patients with previously treated chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia.
Leukemia
DRUG: imatinib mesylate|DRUG: panobinostat|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|GENETIC: western blotting|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximum tolerated dose of histone deacetylase inhibitor LBH589 in combination with imatinib mesylate, 1 month|Safety and tolerability of histone deacetylase inhibitor LBH589 in combination with imatinib mesylate, 4 months
Effect of treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitor LBH589 in combination with imatinib mesylate on cytogenetic response status and BCR-Abl levels, 4 months|Effect of treatment with histone deacetylase inhibitor LBH589 in combination with imatinib mesylate on residual BCR-Abl positive primitive progenitors, 4 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the safety and tolerability of LBH589 given in combination with imatinib mesylate in CML patients who are in Major Cytogenetic Remission (MCR) with residual BCR-ABL positive cells after at least 1 year of daily imatinib mesylate treatment.
* To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity of LBH589 given in combination with imatinib mesylate in CML patients.

Secondary

* To study the effect of LBH589 given in combination with imatinib mesylate on cytogenetic response status and BCR-ABL levels in CML patients in major cytogenetic remission on imatinib mesylate treatment.

Tertiary

* To study the effect of LBH589 given in combination with imatinib mesylate on residual BCR-ABL positive primitive progenitors in CML patients in major cytogenetic remission on imatinib mesylate treatment.

OUTLINE: This is dose-escalation study of panobinostat.

Patients receive oral panobinostat once daily on days 1, 3 and 5; 8, 10, and 12; 15, 17, and 19; and 22, 24, and 26. Patients also receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 21 or 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month and then every 3 months for up to 1 year.