Prospective Surgical Study on the Pattern of Electrical Activity in High Grade Glioma as a Predictor of Progression
The purpose of this study is to test the safety and feasibility of recording brain activity within and around high-grade glioma tumors at the time of surgery. A small biopsy will be taken at the sites of the recordings.
High Grade Glioma|Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Standard Surgical Treatment|PROCEDURE: Intraoperative Electrocorticography
Correlation between electrical activity and anatomic region of progression based on follow-up contrast-enhanced MRI, To describe the pattern of electrical activity (neuronal hyperexcitability) in brain surrounding the enhancing tumor during open surgery in patients with high grade gliomas and its correlation with progression, Up to 9 months post surgery
Correlation between electrical activity (neuronal hyperexcitability) in brain surrounding the enhancing tumor and cellular and molecular profile of the tumor and its microenvironment, Electrical activity will be assessed as described above and correlated with transcriptomic changes. Bioinformatics analyses including gene ontology analyses and multi-dimensional network analyses will be performed., At study completion, an aim for 1 year post treatment
High-grade gliomas are incurable primary brain tumors. Recent data support that glioma cells can integrate within neuronal circuits. Glioma cells and neurons communicate via electrical impulses and chemically, through neurotransmitters. This crosstalk has been shown to promote glioma cell migration and invasion in preclinical models. However, the nature of the electrical activity and underlying molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. The long-term goal of this study is to determine the impact of high electrical activity and pattern of activity on tumor invasion, and mechanistic basis of its regulation and functional consequences. This phase I safety and feasibility study is being proposed as a first step toward dissecting the connection between electrical activity and glioma behavior. The goal is to determine the safety and feasibility of recording electrical activity in the tumor-neuron interface using technologies that are already being used clinically for participants undergoing brain surgery.