Mechanistic Characterization of Uterine Pain
There are limited treatment options for management of dysmenorrhea, and the physiological processes they affect are not completely understood. For example, NSAIDs are effective in reducing menstrual pain in some women by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis, but whether those effects are mediated by affecting contractility, perfusion, or hypoxemia is unknown. Understanding how these drugs relieve menstrual pain (and why they fail) would be of substantial clinical significance. Given the foregoing, Two Specific Aims are proposed:

Aim #1: Characterize menstrual pain phenotypes associated with impairments in myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation. Continuous MRI scans of the uterus will be performed with simultaneous measurement of self-reported pain in healthy women and those experiencing menstrual pain. The investigators will include cohorts of women with imaging diagnosed leiomyoma and surgically-confirmed endometriosis to evaluate the contribution of structurally identifiable factors. Based on preliminary data, the investigators anticipate finding four phenotypes with menstrual pain related to: 1) myometrial activity, 2) inadequate perfusion and/or oxygenation, 3) a combination of phenotypes 1 \& 2, and 4) a non-uterine source.

Aim #2: Evaluate the effects of naproxen on myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation with respect to pain relief. In women with primary dysmenorrhea, the investigators will acquire pelvic MRI scans and evaluate self-reported menstrual cramping pain before and after administration of randomized naproxen or placebo.

Naproxen could principally affect one or more potential sources of uterine pain such as myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation. The investigators will corroborate preliminary data findings, which suggest menstrual phenotypes with myometrial activity will be more likely to respond. Conversely, Aim 2 will also elucidate the mechanisms responsible for inadequate pain relief from naproxen.

Bioavailability of naproxen levels and other molecules associated with NSAID-resistance will be evaluated from the serum of participants after taking naproxen using HPLC-MS.
Dysmenorrhea (Disorder)|Dysmenorrhea Primary|Dysmenorrhea Secondary|Endometrial Diseases|Leiomyoma|Fibroid Uterus
DRUG: Naproxen Sodium
Calculate response profiles of MRI signals for each menstrual pain phenotype, The investigators will calculate the change in R2\*, ASL (arterial spin label), HASTE, and BOLD (Blood Oxygen Level Dependent) signal for each menstrual pain phenotype.

Principal component analysis of derived MRI signal variables and subsequent scree plotting will be used to reduce the dataset to 4-6 representative parameters that meaningfully separate potential phenotypes via hierarchical cluster analysis (R cluster library). Cluster dissimilarity metrics will be used to establish the probable number of phenotypes. Thus, our analyses are not entirely dependent on hypothesized phenotypes. A post-hoc ANOVA will be performed on relevant signal intensity variables to validate differences between the phenotypes. A post-hoc ANOVA will also be performed to compare whether there are differences in R2\*, ASL, HASTE, and BOLD signals between primary dysmenorrhea, endometriosis and leiomyoma participants., Initial Scan (1 hour)|Calculate response profiles of MRI signals associated with NSAID-resistance, Data will be processed similarly to Outcome #1. The investigators will use a repeated measures ANOVA and ANCOVA to examine changes in mean R2\*, ASL, HASTE, or EPI-BOLD signal intensity (4 dependent variables) after naproxen and/or placebo administration in all women with primary dysmenorrhea-regardless of cluster identity or phenotype. The investigators will also use an ANCOVA to examine whether the 4 MRI metrics of uterine physiology are related to changes in pain, using the difference of VAS (Visual Analog Scale) after naproxen minus the VAS before naproxen as a covariate. The investigators will detect for ANCOVA assumptions (e.g., homogeneity of variance, normality) and utilize appropriate corrections (transformation, permutation analysis) when needed., through study completion, an average of 16 weeks|Calculate phenotype consistency, The investigators will also use a paired X2 (McNemar) test to establish reliability of the repeat scans and examine differences in cluster/phenotype categorization across visits. The combined use of principal component analysis, hierarchical testing, and validation by a repeatability test follows recommended guidelines, through study completion, an average of 16 weeks
Anatomical effects, Since participants with anatomical anomalies are provisionally excluded, the investigators will perform a sensitivity analysis by measuring the impact of provisional exclusion on linkage distance on clusters from Aim #1. Similarly, the impact of endometriosis and leiomyoma on cluster linkage distance will be calculated using recommended methods. Exploratory posthoc ANOVA/ANCOVAs will be performed within individual phenotypes/clusters identified in Aim #1 including endometriosis and leiomyoma to identify phenotypic-specific effects as a secondary analysis for Aim #2., through study completion, an average of 16 weeks|Covariate analysis, The investigators will calculate the correlation coefficient between NSAID resistance (defined as visual analog scale pain at 6 hours minus baseline pain) and age, parity, abuse (SPAQ score), anxiety (PROMIS Tscore), depression (PROMIS T-score), central pain sensitization (pain pressure thresholds). To accommodate differences in dimensionality we will use a combination of spearman, pearson, kendalls regression methods., through study completion, an average of 16 weeks|Calculate the relationship between Naproxen absorption and NSAID resistance., The investigators will calculate the correlation coefficient between NSAID resistance (defined as visual analog scale pain at 6 hours minus baseline pain) and absorbed serum Naproxen (90 minutes)., through study completion, an average of 16 weeks
Due to a lack of noninvasive tools to study uterine physiology, the root causes of menstrual cramping pain within primary dysmenorrhea and secondary dysmenorrhea (leiomyoma, endometriosis, adenomyosis) remain unknown. This pain does not respond to typical over-the-counter anti-inflammatories in 15% of women and is a leading risk factor for developing challenging chronic pelvic pain disorders. In order to guide drug discoveries and create personalized treatment approaches, it is essential to unveil the underlying mechanisms of dysmenorrhea. Our research program has focused on key gaps in our knowledge of uterine physiology, such as the contributions of uterine contractions, perfusion, and oxygenation to menstrual pain. Although these factors are strongly implicated in this debilitating pain disorder, confirmatory human data is still needed. Such research would be quite timely, as numerous drug candidates targeting these potential mechanisms already exist. Our collaborative team has developed MRI-based tools to noninvasively and dynamically measure uterine contractions, perfusion, relative tissue oxygenation, and metabolites indicative of anaerobic respiration. The investigators have also pioneered methods that link spontaneous pain report to simultaneous uterine events. Together, these methods will allow us to evaluate the contribution of contractility, perfusion, or hypoxemia to menstrual pain. Notably, our preliminary data supports our central hypothesis that menstrual pain is associated with different phenotypes involving myometrial hypercontractility, impaired uterine perfusion, uterine hypoxemia, or a non-uterine source. Since understanding how current anti-inflammatory medications relieve or prevent pain (and why they fail) is valuable for the development of improved treatment strategies, the investigators will also investigate the effects of naproxen on uterine physiology in women with menstrual pain. To test our hypothesized contributions of altered uterine muscle activity, perfusion, and oxygenation on pain, The investigators propose: Aim 1: Characterize menstrual pain phenotypes associated with impairments in myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation. Continuous MRI sequences of the uterus will be performed with simultaneous measurement of self-reported pain in healthy women and those experiencing menstrual pain. A cohort of women with leiomyoma and endometriosis will also be analyzed to evaluate the contribution of myometrial activity, perfusion, and oxygenation in women with structurally identifiable conditions. Aim 2: Evaluate the effects of naproxen on myometrial activity, perfusion, and/or oxygenation with respect to pain relief. Preliminary data suggests unresolved myometrial activity and inadequate naproxen absorption are associated with insufficient pain relief. Evaluating the naproxen-dependent effects of uterine physiology will provide a foundation for diagnostic tests to indicate relevant personalized treatment for patients that have failed conventional treatments. Further translation of these studies could advance mechanisms for discovery in other chronic pelvic pain conditions and uterine disorders such as idiopathic preterm labor and unexplained infertility.