Evaluating Quality of Life in Patients With AIDS-Associated Kaposi Sarcoma Treated With Bleomycin and Vincristine
This pilot phase I trial studies how well treatment with vincristine and bleomycin affect quality of life in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-associated Kaposi sarcoma.
AIDS-Related Kaposi Sarcoma|Human Immunodeficiency Virus 1 Positive
BIOLOGICAL: Bleomycin Sulfate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Total Score on Quality of Life Assessed Using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Questionnaire, The four domains of the FACT-G questionnaire will be determined for each questionnaire: physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, and functional well-being. Each of these four domains is scored on a subset of 6-7 statements with a 0-4 scale. The domain is scored by summing up the responses to these statements. The ranges for the domains are as follows: physical well-being 0-28, social/family well-being 0-28, emotional well-being 0-24, and functional well-being 0-28. Using general estimating equations, changes in these domains with time will be explored. Logistic regression analyses will be used to correlate changes in quality of life domains with clinical response.

The overall score is the sum of all the subscales and ranges from 0 to 108. Higher scores reflect better quality of life outcomes.

The FACT-G Total Score at 3 months is reported here, Up to 3 months after treatment completion
Clinical Data Collection Quality for Site Evaluation and Training Purposes, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the longitudinal quality of life of participants with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated Kaposi sarcoma (KS) during treatment with bleomycin sulfate (bleomycin) and vincristine sulfate (vincristine) at a single institution in East Africa.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

II. To explore baseline and time-dependent correlates of improvements in quality of life (QOL).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

III. To assess quality control (completeness and accuracy) in data capture of adverse events, clinical benefit, and objective response for site evaluation and training purposes.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) over 1-2 minutes and bleomycin IV over 10 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 12 weeks.