Phase Ib/II Trials of RAD001 in Triple Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study consists of two parts. In a phase Ib part, investigators will explore the recommended dose of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and RAD001 combination in patients with metastatic TNBC. After completing the phase Ib part, investigators will review the data and discuss with Novartis before the start of a phase II part. In the phase II part, investigators will compare the efficacy of the gemcitabine and cisplatin with or without RAD001 in patients with metastatic TNBC.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: RAD001|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
The recommended dose of the combination of gemcitabine, cisplatin and RAD001 (everolimus) in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer, phase IB part, up to 1 year|Efficacy of gemcitabine and cisplatin with or without RAD001 in patients with metastatic triple-negative breast cancer by evaluating progression free survival (PFS), phase II part, up to 5 years
The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of gemcitabine/cisplatin/RAD001, phase Ib part, up to 1 year|number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, phase Ib and phase II, up to 5 years|objective response rate, phase Ib and phase II, up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), phase Ib and phase II, up to 5 years|check biomarkers associated with the response of RAD001: angiogenesis, metabolism, immune cells profiles, phaseIb and phaseII, up to 5 years
PIK3CA active mutations are the most frequent genetic event in breast cancer, including in TNBC which presents activated PI3K/AKT signaling due to PIK3CA mutation or PTEN deficiency. TNBC cell lines having activated PI3K/AKT signaling showed a high sensitivity to PI3K/mTOR inhibitors. RAD001 is a potent mTOR complex 1 inhibitor and showed to enhance cisplatin or gemcitabine induced apoptosis by inhibiting p53 induced p21 expression.

This study consists of two parts. In a phase Ib part, investigators will explore the recommended dose of gemcitabine, cisplatin, and RAD001 combination in patients with metastatic TNBC. After completing the phase Ib part, investigators will review the data and discuss with Novartis before the start of a phase II part. In the phase II part, investigators will compare the efficacy of the gemcitabine and cisplatin with or without RAD001 in patients with metastatic TNBC.