Phase II Intratumoral IL12 Plasmid Electroporation in Cutaneous Lymphoma
A single arm, open label, multi-center, phase 2 study to assess the safety and anti-tumor activity of ImmunoPulse IL-12® in participants with stage IB to IIIB mycosis fungoides. ImmunPulseIL12® is the combination of intrtumoral interleukin-12 gene (also known as tavokinogene telseplasmid \[tavo\]) and in vivo electroporation-mediated plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] vaccine therapy (tavo-EP) administered using the OncoSec Medical System (OMS).

All participants may receive up to four cycles of treatment consisting of three treatment days, Days 1, 5 and 8, in a 12-week cycle as per Protocol version 6 (see Limitations and Caveats section of this record for protocol version information). Patients will receive intra-tumoral injection of tavo at a concentration of 1.0 mg/mL (maximum volume of 1 mL/day distributed over 2-4 lesions), followed immediately by electrical discharge around the tumor site resulting in electroporation of plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) into tumor cells.
Cutaneous T Cell Lymphomas (CTCL)|Mycosis Fungoides (MF)
BIOLOGICAL: Tavokinogene Telseplasmid (tavo)|DEVICE: OncoSec Medical System (OMS)
Objective Response Rate Assessed by Modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool (mSWAT) Score in the Skin, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants that achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by mSWAT score. The mSWAT defines 3 lesion types and assigns each a weighing factor: patch (no induration or significant elevation)=1; plaque (induration, crusting, ulceration or poikiloderma)=2; tumor (solid or nodular ≥ 1 cm in diameter with evidence of deep infiltration and/or vertical growth)=4. Lesions are assessed by body surface area (BSA) where palm + fingers = approximately 1% BSA in each of 12 areas (head, neck, anterior trunk, arms, forearms, hands, posterior trunk, buttocks, thighs, legs, feet, groin), and the sum of each area of BSA is multiplied by its weighing factor. An overall sum of each subtotal represents the mSWAT score (0=no lesions; 400=lesions covering all areas). CR=100% clearance of skin lesions; PR= 50%-99% clearance of skin disease from baseline without new tumors ( ≥1.0 cm in diameter) in patients with T1, T2 or T4 only skin disease., Every 28 days for the first 24-weeks of treatment|Objective Response Rate Assessed by Modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool (mSWAT) Composite Global Score, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants that achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by mSWAT Composite Global Score. This assessment evaluated skin, lymph node, blood and visceral involvement. The response generated in each category was used to determine the Global ORR: CR=complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease or, no involvement of disease at baseline through time of response evaluation (NI); PR=regression of measurable disease as follows: 100% clearance of skin lesions, all other categories do not have CR/NI and no category has progressive disease (PD) -OR- 50%-99% clearance of skin disease from baseline without new tumors ( ≥1.0 cm in diameter) in patients with T1, T2 or T4 only skin disease, and if any other category was involved at baseline, at least one has CR/PR and no category has PD., Every 28 days for the first 24-weeks of treatment
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, medical treatment or procedure and which did not necessarily have to have had a causal relationship with this treatment. An adverse event could have, therefore, been any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, medical treatment or procedure whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE was defined an any untoward medical occurrence that at any dosage resulted in one or more of the following: death, A life-threatening adverse event (real risk of dying), inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly, required intervention to prevent permanent impairment of damage., From the start of study treatment up to 340 days|Duration of Overall Objective Response Assessed by mSWAT Skin Score, Duration of overall objective response (CR or PR) is defined as the number of days from the initial documentation of an objective response to the most current evaluation of that response or to documentation of progression assessed by mSWAT Skin Score: CR=100% clearance of skin lesions; PR= 50%-99% clearance of skin disease from baseline without new tumors ( ≥1.0 cm in diameter) in patients with T1, T2 or T4 only skin disease., From first documented response until disease progression (Up to 340 days)|Time to Overall Objective Response Assessed by mSWAT Skin Score, Time to overall objective response (CR or PR) is the number of days from the start of therapy to the first documentation of objective response assessed by mSWAT Skin Score: CR=100% clearance of skin lesions; PR= 50%-99% clearance of skin disease from baseline without new tumors ( ≥1.0 cm in diameter) in patients with T1, T2 or T4 only skin disease., From start of study treatment until overall objective response (Up to 340 days)|Quality of Life (QoL), Participants were to complete the following QoL assessments prior to clinical evaluations every 4 weeks: Skindex29, FACT-G (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy -General) and VAS-P (Visual Analog for Pruritus) questionnaires., Every 28 days for up to 340 days
Immunologic Effects of IL-12 Plasmid Electroporation in Tissue, This outcome measure was erroneously entered as secondary but is truly an exploratory endpoint.

Planned analyses were:

1. Transcriptional analysis of interferon pathway activation, antigen presentation and processing machinery (APM) upregulation, and immune cell infiltration in tissue at baseline and post-treatment.
2. Changes in the characterization of local tissue effects, proportion and phenotype, of intratumoral leukocyte subsets post-treatment.
3. Changes in T cell receptor clonal expansion and persistence of initial clones post- treatment.
4. Changes in FOXP3 methylation and quantification of regulatory T cells post- treatment., 2 years|Immunologic Effects of IL-12 Plasmid Electroporation in Peripheral Blood, This outcome measure was erroneously entered as secondary but is truly an exploratory endpoint.

Planned analyses were:

1. Changes in the proportion of circulating regulatory and effector T cells in peripheral blood.
2. Changes in phenotype of leukocyte subsets and T cell receptor clonal expansion, 2 years
This is a single arm, open label, multi-center phase 2 study to assess the safety and anti-tumor activity of intratumoral tavo electroporation in participants with stage IB to IIIB mycosis fungoides. All participants received up to four cycles of treatment consisting of three treatment days, Days 1, 5 and 8, in a 12-week cycle. Patients will receive intra-tumoral injection of tavo at a concentration of 1.0 mg/mL (maximum volume of 1 mL/day distributed over 2-4 lesions), followed immediately by electrical discharge around the tumor site resulting in electroporation of plasmid deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) into tumor cells. Prior to the first cycle of treatment, the investigator will select at least one lesion, or affected area in erythrodermic patients, to be left untreated for the duration of the study to allow for clinical observation of an untreated site. Participants will be followed for safety and clinical evaluation every 4 weeks. Quality of Life will be assessed using the Skindex29, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) and Visual Analog Scale for Pruritus (VAS-P) instruments. Survival follow up will occur at 3-month intervals over 2 years following end of study.