Comparison Between ROLL Versus Magnetic Seed for Preoperative Localization of Non-palpable Breast Lesion by Randomized Clinical Study.
Several localization techniques are now in use for localization of non-palpable breast lesions. Several studies have compared wire guided localization (WGL), which has been for years the gold standard for non-palpable breast lesions' localization, with more modern techniques. Scientific evidence supports the efficacy of the new "wire-free" techniques, which appear to be comparable to the WGL in terms of safe surgical resection, while overcoming limitations associated with logistic difficulties and patient discomfort. There is still limited data in literature on the comparative effectiveness of these modern techniques, and there is no strong evidence that one is superior to the others. In particular, no randomized trials of comparison between ROLL and magnetic seed localization are currently available. The aim of this randomized study is to compare ROLL with magnetic seed to assess their efficacy for non-palpable breast lesions' localization.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Breast conservative surgery
Free-surgical margins, Number of surgical procedures in which surgical margins are disease-free ("no ink on tumor" for invasive cancer and margin of 2 mm for in situ-carcinoma)., 3 years
Excess breast resection, Excess breast resection calculated by the "calculated resection ratio" (CRR) as follow: CRR = total resection volume/optimal resection volume, 3 years|Surgery Time, Surgery duration (hours), 3 years|Hospitalization days, Number of hospitalization's days, 3 years|Complications, Complications occurred after biopsy or surgery, 3 years|Reintervention, Reintervention rates, 3 years|Cost-effectiveness analysis, Cost-effectiveness analysis in different subgroups, 3 years|Follow up, 5-years follow-up outcomes, 5 years after enrollment
Several localization techniques are now in use for localization of non-palpable breast lesions. Several studies have compared wire guided localization (WGL), which has been for years the gold standard for non-palpable breast lesions' localization, with more modern techniques. Scientific evidence supports the efficacy of the new "wire-free" techniques, which appear to be comparable to the WGL in terms of safe surgical resection, while overcoming limitations associated with logistic difficulties and patient discomfort. There is still limited data in literature on the comparative effectiveness of these modern techniques, and there is no strong evidence that one is superior to the others. In particular, no randomized trials of comparison between ROLL and magnetic seed localization are currently available. The aim of this randomized study is to compare ROLL with magnetic seed to assess their efficacy for non-palpable breast lesions' localization.