Efficacy and Safety of VB10.16 Alone or in Combination With Atezolizumab in Patients With Advanced Cervical Cancer.
This is a multi-center study in patients with recurrent or metastatic HPV16-positive, PD-L1 positive cervical cancer who has progressed during or after treatment with the first-line standard of care (pembrolizumab with chemotherapy with/without bevacizumab).

The trial is designed to investigate VB10.16 alone or in combination with the immune checkpoint inhibitor, atezolizumab.

The trial consist of 2 parts: the first part which investigates VB10.16 + placebo versus VB10.16 + atezolizumab. Approximately 30 patients will be included in each group. The goal of this part is to evaluate which of the two treatments is the best.

The second part of the study will select the best treatment from part 1 and investigate the safety and efficacy of additional 70 patients.
HPV-Related Cervical Carcinoma|HPV-Related Malignancy|Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: VB10.16|DRUG: Atezolizumab Injection [Tecentriq]|DRUG: Placebo
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of patients who have either confirmed CR or confirmed PR as best overall response per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR)., Up to 1 year
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of patients who have either confirmed CR or confirmed PR as best overall response per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator., Up to approximately 2 year|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR. DOR is defined as time from the date of first documented response of confirmed CR or PR to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occur first., Up to approximately 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by the investigator. DOR is defined as time from the date of first documented response of confirmed CR or PR to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occur first., Up to approximately 2 years|Time to Response (TTR), Time to response (TTR) based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR. TTR is defined as the time from VB10.16 treatment start date to the date of first documented response of either confirmed CR or confirmed PR., Up to approximately 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR. DCR is defined as the proportion of patients who have either confirmed CR, confirmed PR, or SD as best overall response., Up to approximately 2 years|Duration of Disease Control (DODC), Duration of disease control (DODC) based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR. DODC is defined as time from the date of first documented response of confirmed CR, confirmed PR or SD to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by BICR. PFS is defined as the time from the VB10.16 treatment start date to the date of the first documented progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by the investigator. PFS is defined as the time from the VB10.16 treatment start date to the date of the first documented progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from VB10.16 treatment start date to the date of death from any cause., Up to approximately 2 years|Minimal Response, Proportion of participants with tumor shrinkage ≥10.0% to \<30% assessed by BICR., Up to approximately 2 years|Proportion of participants who are Progression-free, Proportion of participants who are progression-free and alive based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR., 26 weeks|Proportion of participants who are Progression-free, Proportion of participants who are progression-free and alive based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR., 52 weeks|Proportion of participants who are Progression-free, Proportion of participants who are progression-free and alive based upon RECIST v1.1 assessed by BICR., 104 weeks|Proportion of participants who are alive., Proportion of participants who are alive., 26 weeks|Proportion of participants who are alive., Proportion of participants who are alive., 52 weeks|Proportion of participants who are alive., Proportion of participants who are alive., 104 weeks|Molecular Response, Proportion of participants with molecular response defined as ≥30% decrease from baseline in HPV16 ctDNA., Up to week 52|Molecular Response, Proportion of participants with molecular response defined as ≥50% decrease from baseline in HPV16 ctDNA., Up to week 52|Proportion of participants with treatment emergent adverse events, Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) by severity grade., Up to week 104|Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent serious adverse events, Proportion of participants with treatment-emergent serious adverse events, Up to week 104|Proportion of participants with drug related toxicity, Proportion of participants with drug-related toxicity of CTCAE grade ≥3, Up to week 104|Proportion of participants with discontinuation, Proportion of participants discontinuing treatment due to an adverse reaction., Up to week 104
This is a two-arm randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 selection trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of VB10.16 alone or in combination with atezolizumab in patients with HPV16-positive, PD-L1-positive, recurrent or metastatic cervical cancer who are refractory to pembrolizumab with chemotherapy with/without bevacizumab. A selection design with a margin of practical equivalence will be implemented to monitor efficacy of the two experimental arms (VB10.16 + atezolizumab vs. VB10.16 + placebo).

The trial consist of 2 parts: the first part which investigates VB10.16 + placebo versus VB10.16 + atezolizumab. Approximately 30 patients will be included in each group. The goal of this part is to evaluate which of the two treatments is the superior.

The second part of the study will select the superior treatment from part 1 and investigate the safety and efficacy of additional 70 patients.