Pilot Investigation of Behavioral Alternatives to Indoor Tanning
The goal of this research is to develop and test the feasibility of an intervention that stimulates uptake of healthy alternatives to tanning by providing free access to them for a limited time. Free access gives participants a low-risk opportunity to try something new that is consistent with their motivations. Free access also allows them to experience the reinforcing properties of the alternatives which could prime continued use after the free trial period. The objective of the present study is to determine the feasibility and short-term efficacy of providing free alternatives to indoor tanners in an effort to "nudge" them to switch from indoor tanning to healthy alternatives.
Skin Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Airbrush|BEHAVIORAL: Airbrush Plus|BEHAVIORAL: Delayed Airbrush
Satisfaction, A measure of satisfaction will be assessed for each alternative visit on a scale of 1-10 immediately after each activity is completed. Visits occur between baseline and 12 months of participation. Timing of visits depend on which condition is assigned., up to 12 months|Effort of alternatives, Perceived effort of alternatives will be discussed in a focus group setting., 6-month follow-up|Recruitment rate, Total randomized and total screened out., baseline|Retention, % sessions complete and total withdrawn from study, 12 month follow-up
abstinence, the percent of participants who abstained from indoor tanning., 2-month follow-up|abstinence, the percent of participants who abstained from indoor tanning., 3-month follow-up|abstinence, the percent of participants who abstained from indoor tanning., 6-month follow-up|abstinence, the percent of participants who abstained from indoor tanning., 12-month follow-up
Cost of indoor tanning, Total amount spent on tanning since the previous assessment., 2-month follow-up|Cost of indoor tanning, Total amount spent on tanning since the previous assessment., 3-month follow-up|Cost of indoor tanning, Total amount spent on tanning since the previous assessment., 6-month follow-up|Cost of indoor tanning, Total amount spent on tanning since the previous assessment., 12-month follow-up|Stress Level, Perceived Stress Scale, 2-month follow-up|Stress Level, Perceived Stress Scale, 3-month follow-up|Stress Level, Perceived Stress Scale, 6-month follow-up|Stress Level, Perceived Stress Scale, 12-month follow-up|Attitudes, Indoor Tanning Attitude Scale and the same scale modified for each of the alternatives, 3-month follow-up|Attitudes, Indoor Tanning Attitude Scale and the same scale modified for each of the alternatives, 6-month follow-up|Attitudes, Indoor Tanning Attitude Scale and the same scale modified for each of the alternatives, 12-month follow-up|Tanning Dependence, modified CAGE, 2-month follow-up|Tanning Dependence, modified CAGE, 3-month follow-up|Tanning Dependence, modified CAGE, 6-month follow-up|Tanning Dependence, modified CAGE, 12-month follow-up
Melanoma is the second most common cancer diagnosed in young women and is responsible for nearly 8,000 US deaths per year. Exposure to ultraviolet radiation (UVR) increases risk for melanoma. The International Agency for Research on Cancer assigned indoor tanning (IT; use of tanning beds or booths), as a class 1 carcinogen joining arsenic, asbestos, and mustard gas. Unfortunately, interventions educating tanners about the risks have not been very effective. Many tanners are more motivated by the immediate consequences of tanning than the delayed consequence of possibly getting cancer. Research shows the primary motivation for indoor tanning is to improve physical appearance, but a secondary motivation is stress reduction. Behavioral economics theory suggests that the rate of a behavior depends on 1) the reinforcing value of that behavior relative to alternatives, 2) the cost of engaging in the behavior relative to alternatives, and 3) the availability of the behavior relative to alternatives. The purpose of the present study is to determine whether exposure to healthy alternatives changes the behavior of indoor tanners. The investigators will randomize tanners to conditions differing in physical appearance and stress reduction alternatives to determine whether they can get their motivational needs met in healthier ways.