FCI in Post-operative Low Grade Gliomas
The aim of this pilot study is to explore the utility of a new imaging technique, called Field Cycling Imaging (FCI), in postoperative low grade gliomas.

The main question it aims to answer is if FCI can differentiate subtypes of low grade gliomas. Participants will have one FCI scan.
Glioma
DEVICE: Field Cycling Imaging (FCI)
Differentiation of sub-types of low grade glioma assessed by Field Cycling Imaging (FCI) T1 dispersion profiles, Validation of FCI T1 dispersion profiles as a non-invasive technology to differentiate sub-types of low grade glioma., At baseline
Standard clinical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is the mainstay of diagnosis in brain lesions. It is a powerful imaging technique for the non-invasive investigation of the brain and has been an incredibly successful technology since its commercialisation in the 1980s largely due to its excellent spatial resolution and ability to distinguish multiple tissues in multiple planes. When exogenous contrast agents are used, MRI can demonstrate the breakdown of the blood-brain barrier and provide additional physiological information.

However, standard MRI has limitations in determining the subtypes of tumours, which originate from different cells and therefore contain differing types of proteins. The aim of this project is to establish if there is a difference in the relaxometry (i.e., loss of MRI signal over time) characteristics of different brain lesions using Field Cycling Imaging (FCI), which is a new technology being developed at the University of Aberdeen.

FCI combines the use of a moderately high magnetic field with the ability to probe low magnetic fields so that one can preserve image resolution while also exploiting the high contrast present at low magnetic fields. This provides quantitative data on the molecular dynamics in the tissues, completely non-invasively.

For this study, the research team will use FCI to try to establish if there is a difference in the relaxometry characteristics of different low-grade gliomas. Ten patients with postoperative low grade glioma will be included. Each participant will be asked to undergo one FCI scan only. FCI images will be acquired on dedicated equipment, specifically built for the purpose of imaging human volunteers and patients. Participants will carry on receiving their routine clinical care before and after their scan.