Hyperpolarized Pyruvate Injection in Subjects With Prostate Cancer
Current imaging options do not assess prostate cancer well. This study will combine two magnetic resonance imaging modalities, MRI and MRSI, in order to determine the utility to physicians and patients with prostate cancer in making treatment decisions and seeing how well various types of treatment work. Hyperpolarized pyruvate (13C) is an investigational product that may enhance the imaging capability of MRI and MRSI. Hyperpolarized pyruvate will be injected into the body to determine how it is metabolized and how it's metabolism can be assessed using MR imaging.

The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and metabolism of hyperpolarized pyruvate in humans, and how this can be used to increase the effectiveness of MR imaging with regards to patient care.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Hyperpolarized Pyruvate (13C) injection
Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., Assessment of the occurrence of clinically significant changes in safety variables from baseline. Safety endpoints include monitoring for the occurrence of treatment-emergent AEs. Monitoring will occur to evaluate for dose-limiting toxicity.

Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as any toxicity greater than or equal to grade 2, 3 or 4, attributable to the imaging agent and occurring within 7 days after administration. The maximum tolerated dose will be the dose level at which \<33% DLT occurs., 7 days
to determine the time course and imaging window that provides the best signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the presence of hyperpolarized pyruvate (13C)., The optimum 13C imaging window for maximizing lactate SNR will be determined as the period of time after injection in which hyperpolarized lactate reaches a maximal plateau in the prostate. This plateau results from opposing processes of lactate production from pyruvate and T1 decay (for pre-clinical studies this plateau occurred approximately between 35 and 55 seconds).|To determine the kinetics and prostate metabolism of hyperpolarized pyruvate (13C), For the subjects receiving 3-D 13C spectroscopic imaging (the second 3 subjects per dose cohort as well as the expansion cohorts), a fast 13C MRSI sequence will be used to acquire data from the prostate at a time defined by the kinetic studies (approximately 40 seconds after intravenous administration of hyperpolarized pyruvate).
This is a phase 1 clinical study of an investigational medicinal product (IMP), hyperpolarized Pyruvate (13C) Injection. The study includes the acquisition of magnetic resonance (MR) data and will be performed in men with prostate cancer and intact prostates.

A standard dose-escalation design will be used; initially, 6 subjects will receive IMP at each dose level. As data on both the dynamics of arrival of the IMP and potential imaging efficacy are needed at each dose level, requiring the use of separate MR acquisition sequences, a modified 3+3 design will be applied in each dose cohort. The first 3 subjects will undergo dynamic 13C imaging to define the kinetics of delivery and metabolism of IMP, and the second 3 subjects will undergo 13C MR spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) to obtain 3-dimensional (3-D) spatial information about metabolism of IMP in regions of the prostate with and without cancer involvement.

After the apparent maximum tolerated dose (MTD) has been established, there will be an expansion of the 3-D imaging cohort to 6 subjects (9 subjects in total at this dose level) to obtain additional information regarding safety at the MTD. If \>2 subjects from this cohort of 9 subjects experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), the next lower dose will be defined as the MTD. At the dose level with the highest contrast to noise ratio (dose level less than or equal to the MTD) there will be an expansion of the imaging cohort to include another 15 subjects for a total of 18 subjects who undergo 13C 3-D scanning at this dose, to obtain exploratory information concerning the time course and SNR (signal to noise ratio) of the presence of hyperpolarized \[1 13C\] pyruvate and its metabolites in regions of cancer and benign prostate tissues. The information provided by these data will be used to develop the MR imaging protocol for future clinical trials that will seek to address the sensitivity and specificity of the technology.