A Novel Therapy for Breast Cancer Survivors With Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause
The purpose of this study is to determine whether platelet rich plasma (PRP) injections to the vulva and vagina will improve symptoms of genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) in breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer|Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause
BIOLOGICAL: Platelet-rich plasma (PRP)
Change in GSM symptoms as measured by vulvovaginal symptom questionnaire (VSQ)., The VSQ is a 21-question survey that specifically asks about GSM symptoms and their impact on quality of life and sexual function. Vaginal and vulvar symptoms will be self-reported using validated VSQ modified to 4-point Likert scores. VSQ consists of a series of questions, each of which is rated as 0 (never), 1(rarely), 2(sometimes), 3 (frequently). Lower scores indicate better health. Each question is analyzed separately; there is no overall score reported., Baseline, up to 31 weeks
Change in Vaginal health index (VHI) Score, VHI assesses post menopausal symptoms such as dryness, burning, and irritation. Each component is scored on a scale of 1 (worst) to 5 (best). Lower scores indicate more severe atrophy., Baseline, up to 31 weeks|Change in validated female sexual function index (FSFI), Change in validated female sexual function index (FSFI) is determined by the participant response to the female sexual function index (FSFI) questionnaire. The FSFI is a questionnaire competed by the participant and is designed to measure sexual functioning by assessing six areas of sexual function: desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction, and pain. Scores range from 2 to 36. Higher scores indicate better sexual function., Baseline, up to 31 weeks|Change in sexual-related distress (FSDS-R)., Change in validated female sexual distress is determined by participant response to the female sexual distress survey-revised (FSDS-R). The FSDS-R is a self reported questionnaire that asks participants to rate distress related to low sexual desire. Responses to the items on the Likert-type scale consist of never (0), rarely (1), sometimes (2), often (3), or always (4). The lowest score that can be obtained from the FSDS-R is "0" and the highest score is "52". Higher scores indicate higher levels of sexual distress., Baseline, up to 31 weeks
The purpose of this study is to determine whether platelet rich plasma (PRP) injections to the vulva and vagina will improve symptoms of genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM) in breast cancer patients.