A Phase II Trial of Camrelizumab in Combination With Apatinib and Eribulin in Patients With Advanced TNBC
This is a phase II, open-labeled, multi-centered,single-arm, Investigator-initiated clinical trial of camrelizumab (an anti-PD-1 antibody) in combination with apatinib (a VEGFR2 TKI) and eribulin mesylate in patients with advanced triple-negative breast cancer. We will enroll 46 subjects (Simons two stage design). This study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of camrelizumab combined with apatinib and eribulin in the treatment of advanced TNBC.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Eribulin
Overall response rate (ORR), The propotion of subjects with CR or PR., from the first drug administration up to the first occurrence of progression or death (up to 24 months)
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Adverse events/serious adverse events, from the first drug administration to within 90 days for the last dose|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The propotion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD., from the first drug administration up to the first occurrence of progression or death(up to 24 months)|DOR, Duration of response, from the first drug administration up to the first occurrence of progression or death(up to 24 months)|PFS, Progression-Free-Survival, from the first drug administration up to the first occurrence of progression or death (up to 24 months)|One year-OS rate, One year-Overall survival rate, 12 months after the first drug administration|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), The propotion of subjects with CR, PR, or SD for \>=6 months during the study., from the first drug administration up to the first occurrence of progression or death(up to 24 months)|TTR, Time to response, from the first drug administration up to one year|Frequencies of Biomarkers, Biomarkers (including tumor/stromal PD-L1, stromal PD-1, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and tumor-infiltrating B cells, eg), pre-treatment, up to 24 months
This a phase II, open-labeled, multi-centered, single-arm, investigator-initiated clinical trial to assess the efficacy and safety of camrelizumab combination with apatinib and eribulin in female patients age of 18 to 70 with advanced TNBC, and previously treated with at least one line of systemic therapy in the advanced setting. Prior therapy (adjuvant/neoadjuvant/advanced) must have included an anthracycline and a taxane. The number of patients to be included is 46 patients (Simons two stage design). The primary objective is to assess the overall response rate (ORR). All enrolled patients will be treated with camrelizumab 200mg (iv. 3mg/kg for patient whose weight is below 50kg) on day 1 of each 21-day cycle, and apatinib 250mg daily (po, d1-d21), in combination with eribulin mesylate at 1.4 mg/m2 (iv.) on day 1 and day 8 of every 21-day cycle.