A Study of an Experimental Chemotherapy Combination to Treat Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether LY2181308 in combination with docetaxel is safe and effective treatment for hormone refractory prostate cancer patients.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: LY2181308 sodium|DRUG: Prednisone
Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Participants With Hormone Refractory Prostate Cancer (HRPC) Administered LY2181308 Sodium Plus Docetaxel Compared to Docetaxel Alone, PFS is defined as the time from date of first dose to the first observation of progression of disease (PD) or death due to any cause. PD was determined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. PD is ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions and/or a new lesion. For participants who had no PD or death, PFS was censored at their last contact. Participants were still followed for PFS after they stopped receiving study drug., Baseline to measured progressive disease or death due to any cause up to 44.68 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Safety), Data are presented as number of participants who experienced serious adverse events or all other nonserious adverse events during the study including the 30-day follow-up period. A summary of serious adverse events and other nonserious adverse events is located in the Reported Adverse Event section. The participants received maximum 24 cycles of treatment (1cycle = 3 weeks). Safety data were collected up to 24 cycles plus 30 days of follow-up for a total up to 19 months., First treatment dose up to 19 months
Adverse Event Profile, Data presented are the number of participants with all treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), discontinuations due to SAEs and AEs, and deaths that occurred in this study that were assessed by investigators as possibly related to study drug. The participants received maximum 24 cycles of treatment (1cycle = 3 weeks). Safety data were collected up to 24 cycles plus 30 days of follow-up for a total up to 19 months., First treatment dose up to 19 months|Pharmacokinetics of Docetaxel: Area Under the Concentration Time Curve From Time Zero to Infinity (AUC0-infinity), Predose up to 8 hours postdose in Cycle 1|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Kinetics: Percentage of Participants With PSA Response (Response Rate), PSA response was defined as a post-baseline PSA level decline of at least 50% relative to the baseline value. Response rate calculated as 100\*n/N where n=the number of participants with responses and N=the total number of participants treated., Baseline, 18 months|Estimate Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from date of first treatment to the date of death due to any cause. For participants who were alive, overall survival was censored at their last contact. Participants were still followed for overall survival after they stopped receiving study drug., First treatment to death due to any cause up to 45.54 months|Estimate Duration of Overall Response, The duration of response \[complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)\] was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause. CR or PR is classified by the investigators according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines. CR is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. For participants who had no progression or death, the duration of response was censored at their last contact., Time of response to time of measured progressive disease up to 41.00 months|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response or Partial Response (Overall Response Rate), Overall response rate was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Objective response rate is calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants treated multiplied by 100., Baseline to measured progressive disease up to 41.00 months|Change From Baseline to Day 21 in Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor(G-CSF) (Assess Biomarker Responses), G-CSF \[international units per milliliter (IU/mL)\] was used to estimate biomarker responses and is presented as the percentage change from baseline., Baseline, 21 days|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate Cancer (FACT-P) Total Score at 3 Months (Participant Reported Outcomes), The FACT-P is a 39-item participant-rated questionnaire which assesses physical well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items), emotional well-being (6 items), functional well-being (7 items), and additional prostate cancer specific concerns (12 items). All items are scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total FACT-P score ranges from 0-156, with higher scores representing a better quality of life with fewer symptoms., 3 months|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Total Score at 3 Months (Evaluate Clinical Symptoms), The total FACT-G is the sum of 4 subscale scores on the FACT-Prostate Cancer (FACT-P) participant-rated questionnaire representing general cancer symptoms: physical well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items), emotional well-being (6 items), and functional well-being (7 items). All items are scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total FACT-G score ranges from 0-108, with higher scores representing a better quality of life with fewer symptoms., 3 months
Number of Participants Who Died Due to Progressive Disease During the 30 Days Following Discontinuation From Study Treatment, Study treatment discontinuation up to 30 days post study treatment discontinuation
The primary purpose of this study is to determine whether LY2181308 in combination with docetaxel is safe and effective treatment for hormone refractory prostate cancer patients.