Immunogenicity and Safety Study of NBP615 in Healthy Female
This was a randomized, double-blind, active-controlled, phase I/II clinical trial to enroll 200 healthy female including 80 healthy adult aged 19 to 26 years and 120 adolescents aged 9 to 13 years.
Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: NBP615|BIOLOGICAL: Gardasil
Geometric mean titer measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay(ELISA), geometric mean titer against anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18 for each treatment group, 4 weeks after the vaccination|seroconversion rate measured by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay(ELISA), proportion of subjects who seroconverted from seronegative at baseline to seropositive at post vaccination for anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18, 4 weeks after the vaccination|Geometric mean titer measured by pseudovirion-based neutralization assay(PBNA), geometric mean titer against anti-HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18 for each treatment, 4 weeks after the vaccination|Incidence rate of Solicited Adverse Event, Solicited local/systemic adverse event after vaccination, 7 days after the vaccination
In order to confirm the safety, 80 healthy adult were enrolled first. Eligible subjects were randomized into 1:1 ratio to receive three doses of either test vaccine (NPB615) or comparator vaccine (Gardasil). The safety of the test vaccine (NBP615) was confirmed by 2nd vaccination in adult subjects. After that, enrolment of 120 adolescent subjects proceeded. Eligible subjects who previously agreed to participate in the study were screened and only those subjects who met the inclusion/exclusion criteria were randomized in to 1:1 to receive two doses of test vaccine (NBP615) or comparator (Gardasil pre-filled syringe). 0.5 ml Intramuscular injection at were given at each vaccination and two blood sample, pre vaccine and post vaccine 4 weeks after completion of vaccine were collected to assess the immunogenicity of NBP615 and Gardasil, comparator vaccine. Solicited adverse events occurred up to 7 days after each dose of the investigational product were collected in the diary card. Unsolicited adverse events occurred up to 28 days after each dose of the investigational product were collated in the diary card. Serious adverse events were collected during the entire study period. In addition to this safety data was collected through the study period by active contact with the study participants by doing home visit or by telephone contact.