Cisplatin, Carboplatin and Etoposide or Temozolomide and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Gastrointestinal Tract or Pancreas That Is Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well temozolomide and capecitabine work compared to standard treatment with cisplatin or carboplatin and etoposide in treating patients with neuroendocrine carcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract or pancreas that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, capecitabine, cisplatin, carboplatin and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Certain types of neuroendocrine carcinomas may respond better to treatments other than the current standard treatment of cisplatin and etoposide. It is not yet known whether temozolomide and capecitabine may work better than cisplatin or carboplatin and etoposide in treating patients with this type of neuroendocrine carcinoma, called non-small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma.
Gastric Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Intestinal Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Temozolomide
PFS, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used for time-to-event distribution. PFS by arm will be compared using one-sided stratified log-rank tests. Stratified Cox?s proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios., Time from randomization to documented progression or death without progression, assessed up to 1 year
Incidence of toxicity, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, 90% confidence intervals will be provided., Up to 30 days after last dose of protocol therapy|OS, Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used for time-to-event distribution. OS by arm will be compared using one-sided stratified log-rank tests. Stratified Cox?s proportional hazards models will be used to estimate hazard ratios., Time from randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Response rate (complete response or partial response) by RECIST 1.1, Analyzed using a Fisher?s exact test at a one-sided significance level of 0.10., Up to 5 years
Ki-67 as a continuous measure assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC), Will evaluate the interaction, if any, between Ki-67 as a continuous measure and treatment. Cox regression of logistic regression, as appropriate, will be used to identify whether the treatment effect varies by Ki-67 for PFS, OS, and RR., Baseline|Ki-67 measured centrally, Concordance between Ki-67 measured centrally versus registering institutions? pathology assessments will be investigated and reported. Intra-class correlation will be calculated to assess agreement amongst the two continuous measures., Baseline|Ki-67 measured with registering institutions? pathology assessments, Concordance between Ki-67 measured centrally versus registering institutions? pathology assessments will be investigated and reported. Intra-class correlation will be calculated to assess agreement amongst the two continuous measures., Baseline|Optimal cutoff value in Ki-67 that defines patients with prolonged OS assessed by IHC, Receiver operating characteristics analysis will be performed to first determine the optimal cutoff value in Ki-67 that defines patients with prolonged OS. For the series of Ki-67 values observed in the data, Youden?s index will be calculated and with the highest index the threshold that minimizes the false positive and false negative rates for best detecting prolonged OS will be identified. Optimal cutoff values of Ki-67 with respect to response to temozolomide and capecitabine, positive octreotide scans, and negative PET scans will also be determined in a similar manner., Baseline|Prognostic significance of poorly differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, Will assess the prognostic significance of well differentiated versus poorly differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in relationship to survival and response to treatment in a similar manner, via Cox proportional hazard models for time to event endpoint and logistic regression for objective response., Baseline|Prognostic significance of well differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors, Will assess the prognostic significance of well differentiated versus poorly differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in relationship to survival and response to treatment in a similar manner, via Cox proportional hazard models for time to event endpoint and logistic regression for objective response., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the progression free survival (PFS) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide versus the PFS of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate (RR) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide versus the RR of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

II. To assess the overall survival (OS) of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide versus the OS of temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

III. To evaluate the toxicities associated with the combination of temozolomide and capecitabine and the combination of platinum (cisplatin or carboplatin) and etoposide, respectively, in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of each treatment regimen on PFS, RR and OS based on marker of proliferation Ki-67 index in patients with advanced G3 non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine carcinomas. (Laboratory) II. To assess the prognostic significance of well differentiated versus poorly differentiated non-small cell gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in relationship to survival and response to treatment. (Laboratory) III. To assess the agreement in Ki-67 status between that reported by institutional pathologist and that reported by central pathology review. (Laboratory)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 and temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 10-14. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) on days 1-3 or carboplatin IV on day 1. Patients also receive etoposide IV on days 1-3. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.