Long-Term Follow-Up in Women With Early Breast Cancer Three Years of More Post Primary Treatment
This study evaluates whether there are pre-treatment factors such as patient characteristics, specific breast cancer type, specific treatments, toxicities, or adverse events during treatment that may impact the quality of life and function, 3 years or more after the treatment, in cancer-free subjects.

There will be 2 groups. Cohort A: Women who participated in previous studies namely NCT02167932, NCT02328313, and NCT03761706, will be re-contacted and consent for this study activities. Cohort B: Women with breast cancer, who did not receive chemotherapy, will be consented to be included in the study, and their electronic medical data will be used.

Furthermore, the long-term effects of treatment and a biomarker of aging cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A,p16INK4a) and relation will be assessed.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Recall Patient Reported Outcomes|BEHAVIORAL: Health Behavior Questionnaire (HBQ)30 Patient Reported Outcomes|BEHAVIORAL: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Patient Reported Outcomes|BEHAVIORAL: Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) Patient Reported Outcomes|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes PROMIS Cognitive Function (Short Form 8a)|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes Functional Assessment of Cancer-Gynecology Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-NTX-12)|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes PROMIS|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes FACT-Endocrine Symptoms|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes Penn Arthralgia Aging Survey|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Reported Outcomes PRO-CTCAE (patient-reported CTCAE)|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: p16 tumor suppressor gene
Change in Functional Well-being, Change in Functional Well-being will be measured by FACT-G Functional Well-bein in participants who received chemotherapy (Cohort A).

Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) is a quality of life and function measure developed and validated over 20 years ago that has been used in hundreds of cancer studies worldwide. It consists of four well-being domains -- physical, social/family, emotional, and functional. The FACT-G (Version 4) is a 27-item instrument that is formatted for self-administration and uses a 5-point Likert-type scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). The recall period is "during the past 7 days". It takes 6-8 minutes for an average patient to complete., At least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy
Comparison of Functional well-being- Cohort B, Comparison of Functional well-being will be measured as a comparison of FACT-G Functional Well-being scores of participants who received chemotherapy (Cohort A)and participant who did not receive chemotherapy (Cohort B).

Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) is a quality of life and function measure developed and validated over 20 years ago that has been used in hundreds of cancer studies worldwide. It consists of four well-being domains -- physical, social/family, emotional, and functional. The FACT-G (Version 4) is a 27-item instrument that is formatted for self-administration and uses a 5-point Likert-type scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). The recall period is "during the past 7 days". It takes 6-8 minutes for an average patient to complete., At least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported cognition-Cohort A, Changes in self-reported cognition will be assessed using PROMIS Cognitive Function (Short Form 8a), between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort A group (participants who received chemotherapy).

PROMIS Cognitive Function (Short Form 8a) This measure includes 8 items on a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from very often/several times a day = 1 to never = 5, with higher scores indicating greater perceived loss of cognitive function., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported cognition- Cohort B, Changes in self-reported cognition will be assessed using PROMIS Cognitive Function (Short Form 8a), between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort B group (participants did not receive chemotherapy).

PROMIS Cognitive Function (Short Form 8a) This measure includes 8 items on a 5-point Likert-type scale ranging from very often/several times a day = 1 to never = 5, with higher scores indicating greater perceived loss of cognitive function., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported peripheral neuropathy-Cohort A, Changes in self-reported peripheral neuropathy will be assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer-Gynecology Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-NTX-12), between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort A group (participants who received chemotherapy).

FACT/GOG-NTX-12 is a questionnaire that includes 12 items inquiring about symptoms in the past 7 days (0=not at all to 4=very much) pertaining to numbness or tingling in hands/feet, discomfort in hands/feet, joint pain or muscle cramps, weakness all over, trouble hearing, ringing/buzzing in ears, buttoning buttons, trouble feeling the shape of small objects in hands, trouble walking, and pain in hands/feet in cold temperatures. The increasing score reflects worse neuropathy., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported peripheral neuropathy-Cohort B, Changes in self-reported peripheral neuropathy will be assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer-Gynecology Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-NTX-12), between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort B group (participants did not receive chemotherapy).

FACT/GOG-NTX-12 is a questionnaire that includes 12 items inquiring about symptoms in the past 7 days (0=not at all to 4=very much) pertaining to numbness or tingling in hands/feet, discomfort in hands/feet, joint pain or muscle cramps, weakness all over, trouble hearing, ringing/buzzing in ears, buttoning buttons, trouble feeling the shape of small objects in hands, trouble walking, and pain in hands/feet in cold temperatures. The increasing score reflects worse neuropathy., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported Fatigue-Cohort A, Changes in self-reported Fatigue will be measured using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort A group (participants who received chemotherapy).

Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (TFACIT-F) is a 13-item scale that uses a 5-point Likert-type scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). The recall period is "during the past 7 days"., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy|Changes in self-reported Fatigue-Cohort B, Changes in self-reported Fatigue will be measured using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) between pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy in the Cohort B group (participants did not receive chemotherapy).

Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue (TFACIT-F) is a 13-item scale that uses a 5-point Likert-type scale (0=not at all, 1=a little bit, 2=somewhat, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). The recall period is "during the past 7 days"., Pre-chemotherapy and at least 3 years after completion of chemotherapy
This study evaluates whether there are pre-treatment factors such as patient characteristics, specific breast cancer type, specific treatments, toxicities, or adverse events during treatment that may impact the quality of life and function, 3 years or more after the treatment, in cancer-free subjects.

There will be 2 groups. Cohort A: Women who participated in previous studies namely NCT02167932, NCT02328313, and NCT03761706, will be re-contacted and consent for this study activities. Cohort B: Women with breast cancer, who did not receive chemotherapy, will be consented to be included in the study, and their electronic medical data will be used.

Furthermore, the long-term effects of treatment and a biomarker of aging cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A,p16INK4a) and relation will be assessed.