Regorafenib and Pembrolizumab in Treating Participants With Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase I/II studies the side effects and best dose of regorafenib when given together with pembrolizumab in treating participants with colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as regorafenib, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving regorafenib and pembrolizumab may work better at treating colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Regorafenib
Dose limiting toxicity (DLTs) (Phase I), Will be evaluated according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03. All DLTs will be listed by dose level., At the end of Course 1 (each course is 21 days)|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase II), PFS will be calculated from the start of treatment (day 1 of cycle 1) to the first observation of disease progression or death whichever comes first, or to the latest follow up. Kaplan Meier curves will be used for PFS plot. Medians and probabilities of PFS at 3 and 6 months and their 95% CI confidence intervals will be given., Up to 30 months after study entry|Overall survival (OS), OS will be calculated from the start of treatment (day 1 or cycle 1) to death from any cause. Kaplan Meier curves will be used to OS plot. Medians and probabilities at 3 and 6 months and their 95%CI confidence intervals will be given., Up to 30 months after study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety of the combination and identification of the recommended dose (RD) for combination therapy. (Phase I) II. To evaluate preliminary efficacy and tolerability of the combination RD of regorafenib and pembrolizumab. (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. The associations between biomarkers and clinical outcome will be investigated.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of regorafenib followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and regorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up periodically.