A Study Evaluating the Efficacy and Safety of Vismodegib (GDC-0449, Hedgehog Pathway Inhibitor) in Patients With Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma
This was a Phase II, single-arm, two-cohort multicenter clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of vismodegib (GDC-0449) in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma. All patients received vismodegib until evidence of progression, intolerable toxicities most probably attributable to vismodegib, or withdrawal from the study.
Basal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Vismodegib 150 mg
Objective Response (OR) Determined by the Independent Review Facility, OR=complete (CR) or partial response (PR). Metastatic-CR:Disappearance of all targets. PR:≥30% decreased sum of longest diameter (SLD) of targets compared to baseline (B). Locally advanced-Response=No progressive disease (PD) and ≥30% decreased SLD from baseline (radiography \[R\]) or ≥30% decreased SLD from B (externally visible dimension \[EVD\]) or completely resolved ulceration. CR:Response with no residual BCC on tumor biopsy (otherwise response was PR). PD:Any of ≥20% increased SLD from nadir (R or EVD), new ulceration, new lesions (R or physical exam) or non-target lesion progression by R., From study initiation (enrollment of first patient) through 9 months following the first treatment of the last enrolled patient (clinical cutoff date of 26 November 2010), up to 90 weeks
Duration of Objective Response (OR) Determined by the Independent Review Facility, Duration of OR was defined as the time from the initial CR or PR to the earliest documented disease progression (PD) or death. Metastatic BCC - PD: ≥ 20% increased sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of targets from nadir, or 1 or more new lesions. Locally advanced BCC - PD: any of: (1) ≥ 20% increased SLD from nadir (radiography or externally visible dimension); (2) new ulceration; (3) new lesions (radiography or physical exam); (4) progression of non-target lesions by radiography., From study initiation (enrollment of first patient) through 9 months following the first treatment of the last enrolled patient (clinical cutoff date of 26 November 2010), up to 90 weeks|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Determined by the Independent Review Facility, PFS was defined as the time from start of treatment to the earliest documented disease progression (PD) or death. Metastatic BCC - PD: ≥ 20% increased sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of targets from nadir, or 1 or more new lesions. Locally advanced BCC - PD: any of: (1) ≥ 20% increased SLD from nadir (radiography or externally visible dimension); (2) new ulceration; (3) new lesions (radiography or physical exam); (4) progression of non-target lesions by radiography., From study initiation (enrollment of first patient) through 9 months following the first treatment of the last enrolled patient (clinical cutoff date of 26 November 2010), up to 90 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the initial dose of vismodegib until death from any cause., From study initiation (enrollment of first patient) through 9 months following the first treatment of the last enrolled patient (clinical cutoff date of 26 November 2010), up to 90 weeks|Change From Baseline in Short Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey Scores, The SF-36 Health Survey (Version 2) uses patient-reported symptoms on 8 subscales to assess health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The Physical Component Summary (PCS) score summarizes the subscales Physical Functioning, Role-Physical, Bodily Pain, and General Health. The Mental Component Summary (MCS) score summarizes the subscales Vitality, Social Functioning, Role-Emotional, and Mental Health. Each score was scaled from 0 to 100. A positive change score indicates better HRQoL., Baseline, Week 12, Week 24, and at the end of the study or early termination visit, up to 90 weeks|Percentage of Patients With Absence of Residual Basal Cell Carcinoma (BCC) in Patients With Locally Advanced BCC, In patients with locally advanced BCC, the histopathological effect of vismodegib was determined in tissue biopsies obtained at baseline and following vismodegib treatment. Reported are the percentage of patients with pathology confirmed BCC in baseline biopsy who had an absence of residual BCC post-baseline as assessed by an independent pathological review., From baseline through end of the study, up to 90 weeks
This was a Phase II, single-arm, two-cohort multicenter clinical trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of vismodegib (GDC-0449) in patients with advanced basal cell carcinoma. All patients received vismodegib until evidence of progression, intolerable toxicities most probably attributable to vismodegib, or withdrawal from the study.