Combination Chemotherapy Followed By Peripheral Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors or High-Risk Medulloblastoma
This randomized phase III trial is studying two different combination chemotherapy regimens to compare how well they work in treating young patients with newly diagnosed supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors or high-risk medulloblastoma when given before additional intense chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell rescue. It is not yet known which combination chemotherapy regimen is more effective when given before a peripheral stem cell transplant in treating supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors or medulloblastoma.
Anaplastic Medulloblastoma|Medulloblastoma|Supratentorial Embryonal Tumor, Not Otherwise Specified|Untreated Childhood Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor
PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Methotrexate|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Thiotepa|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Number of Patients Who Have Either a Complete Response (CR) Rate or No Complete Response Rate, At the end of consolidation, the number of evaluable patients treated with intensive chemotherapy with methotrexate who achieved CR or not will be compared to those who achieved CR or not after treated with the same intensive chemotherapy without methotrexate. The CR rates between these two groups will be compared at a significance level of 0.1 using one-sided Chi-square test. Complete Response (CR) requires: CR for target lesions: disappearance of all target lesions, CR for non-target lesions: disappearance of all non-target lesions and no new lesions. No CR is any response not fitting the definition of CR., At the end of consolidation treatment
Number of Participants With Molecular Sub-types of MB, CNS-PNETs/EBTs Represented in the ACNS0334 Cohort, The number of patients will be reported for this analysis by Molecular Sub-types of MB, CNS-PNETs/EBTs, At baseline|Percentage of Participants With Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS was defined as time from enrollment to the occurrence of first event (disease progression/relapse, secondary malignancy, death from any cause) or date of last contact for patients who are event-free. The percentage of participants with EFS and 90% confidence interval were provided. The difference in incidence for the two treatment regimens were compared using a one-sided log-rank test with a significance level of 0.1., Baseline to up to 5 years|Patterns of Failure, The patterns of failure for relapse/disease progression will be provided for patients treated with/without methotrexate drug in three categories, namely local, distant, and both local and distant. The number of patients with each type of failure will be listed per arm. The two groups will be compared to determine if the pattern of failure distribution is different between the two arms using Fisher exact test., Baseline to up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants With Any Acute Adverse Events, Event is defined as the first occurrence of any acute toxicity. Estimates will be obtained using life-table methods. Patients who have progression or recurrence of disease will be censored in this analysis. Difference in incidence for the two treatment regimens will be compared using log-rank test., Beginning of treatment to the end of consolidation|Number of Participants With Acute Hearing Loss and No Acute Hearing Loss, Per protocol, hearing was assessed pretreatment and at regular specified intervals during treatment and off therapy, using DPOAE, audiogram or Brainstem Evoked Auditory. Per CTCAE V4.0 grade 3 Hearing impaired is defined as follows; Pediatric (on a 1,2,3,4, 6 and 8 kHz audiogram): hearing loss sufficient to indicate therapeutic intervention, including hearing aids, threshold shift \>20 dB at 3 kHz and above in at least one ear, additional speech-language related services as indicated. Per CTCAE V4.0 grade 4 Hearing impaired is defined as follows; Pediatric Audiologic indication for cochlear implant and additional speech-language related services as indicated., Beginning of treatment to the end of consolidation|Number of Participants With Chronic Primary Hypothyroidism/Subclinical Compensatory HypothyroidismHypothyroidism/Subclinical Compensatory Hypothyroidism, Thyroid function was assessed as per ACNS0334 Endocrine Guidelines. "Normal" and "Abnormal" are defined at each institution by the laboratory standards where the blood tests are run. Primary Hypothyroidism/Subclinical Compensatory Hypothyroidism is defined as patients with Free T4 level less than "Institutional" Normal or equal to "Institutional" Normal with TSH level greater than "Institutional" Normal., Off-treatment up to 9 years|Number of Participants With Chronic Central Hypothyroidism, Thyroid function was assessed as per ACNS0334 Endocrine Guidelines. "Normal" and "Abnormal" are defined at each institution by the laboratory standards where the blood tests are run. Central Hypothyroidism is defined as Free T4 level less than "Institutional" Normal with TSH less than or equal to "Institutional" Normal., Off-treatment up to 9 years|Number of Participants With Chronic Low Somatomedin C, Low Somatomedin C is defined as patients with somatomedin C value less than institutional normal. As numbers are too small, descriptive statistics such as number will be reported for this analysis. Growth hormone function was assessed as per ACNS0334 Endocrine Guidelines. Low Somatomedin C levels are defined at each institution by the laboratory standards where the blood tests are run., Off-treatment up to 9 years|Number of Participants With Chronic Diabetes Insipidus, The number of patients who had "Diabetes Insipidus" and on DDAVP will be reported for this analysis due to small numbers.., Beginning of off-treatment to up to 9 years|Number of Participants With Secondary Malignancies, The number of patients who had secondary malignancy will be reported for this analysis due to small numbers., Off-treatment up to 9 years|Number of Participants With Chronic/Late Hearing Loss and No Chronic/Late Hearing Loss, The number of patients who are reported to have abnormal hearing, graded according to CTCAE 4.0 or not, with onset while on therapy or when off therapy which persisted after off therapy will be reported and will be compared using Fisher exact test., Off-treatment up to 9 years|Rates of Gastrointestinal Toxicities, Rates of gastrointestinal toxicities reported as Adverse Events during therapy for each cycle will be summarized using standard descriptive methods (such as number of patients). The difference in number of patients with gastrointestinal toxicities between the two treatment regimens will be compared using a Chi-square test., Beginning of treatment to the end of consolidation|Rates of Nutritional Toxicities, Rates of nutritional toxicities reported as Adverse Events during therapy for each cycle will be summarized using standard descriptive methods (such as number of patients). The difference in number of patients with nutritional toxicities between the two treatment regimens will be compared using a Chi-square test., Beginning of treatment to the end of consolidation|Median/Range of Patients for Total Quality of Life (QOL) Score, Intelligence Quotient (IQ) and Processing Speed Index (PSI)., Three tools are used to assess intelligence (IQ) depending on age. The range of IQ scores is 40-160 (mean=100, SD=15); range for the Processing Speed Index (PSI)=45-155. Higher scores represent better functioning. (1) Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence-4th Edition (WPPSI-IV) is used for ages 2.5 to 6 years. Bug Search and Cancellation subtests are summed to calculate PSI. (2) Wechsler Intelligence Scales for Children-5th Edition (WISC-V) is used for ages 6 - 16 years. Symbol Search and Coding subtests are summed to calculate PSI. (3) Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scales-4th Edition (WAIS-IV) is used for ages 16 and older. Symbol Search and Coding subtests are summed to calculate PSI.

The Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Version 4 (PedsQL) measures health-related quality of life (QOL). Parents complete the measure for children ages 2-17, and patients \> 18 complete a self-report version. Total scores range from 0-100, with higher scores representing better QOL., 60 months (+/- 3 months)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if treatment of infants with high risk primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNET) central nervous system (CNS) tumors with intensive chemotherapy plus high-dose methotrexate and peripheral blood stem cell rescue results in a higher complete response rate then the same regimen without methotrexate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether biologic characterization of these tumors will refine therapeutic stratification separating atypical teratoid rhabdoid tumors (AT/RT) from primitive neuroectodermal tumors (PNETs) and possibly identifying other markers of value for stratification within the group of PNETs.

II. To determine if event free survival (EFS) and patterns of failure differ between the methotrexate arm versus the arm without methotrexate.

III. To compare the acute, chronic and late effects of these two very intensive regimens, especially as to the tolerance of the same consolidation regimen following the differing induction regimens.

IV. To compare the gastrointestinal and nutritional toxicities of these intense regimens.

V. To describe and compare the quality of life outcomes and neuropsychological effects of these intense systemic therapies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms

INDUCTION THERAPY:

ARM I: Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, and 15; etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 1-3; cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 2; cisplatin IV over 6 hours on day 3; and filgrastim (G-CSF) IV or subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 4 and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, and 15; high-dose methotrexate IV over 4 hours on day 1; and leucovorin calcium IV or orally (PO) every 6 hours beginning on day 2 and continuing until methotrexate levels are in a safe range. Once methotrexate levels are in a safe range, patients then receive etoposide IV over 1 hour on approximately days 4, 5, and 6, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on approximately days 4 and 5, and cisplatin IV over 6 hours on approximately day 6. Patients also receive G-CSF IV or SC beginning 24 hours after the completion of chemotherapy and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

In both arms, patients with stable disease or partial response after induction therapy proceed to second-look surgery followed by consolidation therapy. Patients with a complete response after induction therapy proceed directly to consolidation therapy.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY: Beginning no more than 6 weeks after completion of induction therapy, patients receive consolidation therapy comprising carboplatin IV over 2 hours and thiotepa IV over 2 hours on days 1 and 2 and G-CSF IV or SC beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover. Patients also receive autologous peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) IV on day 4. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically for 4 years and then annually thereafter.