An Individualized Online Home-Based Exercise Program for Improving Symptoms in Disadvantaged Gynecologic Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial tests an individualized online home-based exercise program in disadvantaged gynecologic cancer survivors and its impact on gut microbiome (the bacteria and microorganisms that live in the digestive system) and symptoms such as pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, depression, and cognitive impairment. These symptoms can significantly reduce the quality of life (QoL) and survival rate in this cancer population. Thus, promoting physical activity among cancer survivors with low SES may help mitigate these severe symptoms. Using online platforms such as Zoom can help participants access an individualized exercise program that meets their specific needs to engage in physical activity and decrease their symptom burden. Home-based exercise, by providing self-chosen time and location and low costs, can address some barriers to physical activity for cancer survivors with low SES. An individualized online home-based exercise program may be feasible, and may improve symptoms and quality of life in disadvantaged gynecologic cancer survivors.
Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm
OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Functional Assessment|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Supportive Care
Attrition rates (Feasibility), Feasibility will be assessed by calculating attrition and adherence rates, identifying reasons for refusal, and evaluating the completeness of the data. We will consider the intervention to have low attrition and high adherence if \>80% of participants remain enrolled and complete the study, respectively., At 12 weeks|Adherence rates (Feasibility), Feasibility will be assessed by calculating attrition and adherence rates, identifying reasons for refusal, and evaluating the completeness of the data. We will consider the intervention to have low attrition and high adherence if \> 80% of participants remain enrolled and complete the study, respectively., At 12 weeks|Intervention acceptability, Will be evaluated with a survey to assess participants' perceptions of the acceptability of the study procedures. A response rate of \> 80% will be considered high acceptability. Descriptive statistics will be calculated using SPSS and R software., Up to 12 weeks|Gut microbiome, Gut microbiota composition will be evaluated using collected stool samples. The preliminary efficacy of the intervention on gut microbiome and psychoneurological symptoms (PNS) will be compared using a paired t-test., From baseline to 12 weeks|Psychoneurological symptoms, Will be assessed using the Fatigue Short Form, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Emotional Distress-Depression and Anxiety Short Form, Pain Interference Short Form, PROMIS Cognitive Function Short Form, PROMIS Sleep Disturbance Short Form, the PROMIS gastrointestinal (GI) constipation and diarrhea Short Forms. The preliminary efficacy of the intervention on gut microbiome and PNS will be compared using a paired t-test., From baseline to 12 weeks
Quality of life, Quality of life will be assessed using the Short Form-8 questionnaire. The preliminary efficacy of the intervention on quality life will be compared using a paired t-test., Up to 12 weeks|Rapid Eating Assessment for Participants, Rapid Eating Assessment for Participants will be used to evaluate their diet. Diet will be assessed to control this variable for measuring gut microbiome., Up to 12 weeks|Stress, Stress level will be measured using PSS. The preliminary efficacy of the intervention on stress will be compared using a paired t-test., Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the feasibility and acceptability of an individualized home-based exercise program in gynecologic cancer survivors with low SES.

II. To test the effect of the program on gut microbiome and psychoneurological symptoms in gynecologic cancer survivors with low SES.

OUTLINE:

Participants meet with a certified exercise trainer and complete a functional capacity assessment using a treadmill or 6-minute walk test. Participants then complete an individualized online home-based exercise intervention via Zoom consisting of progressive, moderate-intensity walking corresponding to the rate of perceived exertion (RPE) scale and receive social support over 30 minutes twice a week (BIW) for 12 weeks.