Study of MK-8353 in Combination With Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Advanced Malignancies (MK-8353-013)
This study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of MK-8353 when administered in combination with pembrolizumab (MK-3475). There are two parts in this study: Part 1 will be dose escalation and confirmation, and Part 2 will be a cohort expansion. In Part 1, the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of MK-8353 in combination with a fixed dose of pembrolizumab in participants with advanced malignancies will be identified and confirmed. Participants will be initially enrolled to receive MK-8353 at 350 mg twice a day (BID) in combination with pembrolizumab at a fixed dose of 200 mg on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle (Q3W) for up to 24 months of treatment. In Part 2, participants with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) that is microsatellite stable (i.e., non-microsatellite instability-high/deficient mismatch repair \[non-MSI-H/dMMR\]) who received at least one and up to five prior lines of therapy will be enrolled at the RP2D in the expansion cohort to further evaluate safety and efficacy.
Neoplasms|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: MK-8353|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), Number of participants who experienced an AE was defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, disease, or worsening of preexisting condition temporally associated with study therapy and irrespective of causality to study treatment, Up to 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Drug Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a study intervention. The number of participants who discontinued treatment due to an AE was assessed., Up to 24 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLT was defined as a treatment-related adverse event (AE) including the following: Grade (Gr) 4 nonhematologic toxicity (not laboratory), Gr 4 hematologic toxicity lasting ≥7 days, except thrombocytopenia or Gr 4 thrombocytopenia of any duration or Gr 3 thrombocytopenia associated with clinically significant bleeding, Gr 3 non-hematological AE with the exception of fatigue lasting \>3 days despite optimal supportive care, any Gr 3 or Gr 4 nonhematologic laboratory value if medical intervention is required to treat the subject, or abnormality leads to hospitalization or abnormality persists for \>1 week, Gr 3 or Gr 4 febrile neutropenia, prolonged delay (\>2 weeks) in initiating Cycle 2 due to treatment-related toxicity, any treatment-related toxicity that causes the subject to discontinue treatment during Cycle 1, missing \>25% of MK-8353 doses as a result of drug-related AE(s) during the first cycle, Gr 5 toxicity., Cycle 1 (Arms A, B & C: Up to 21 days)
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by the Investigator, ORR was defined as the percentage of the participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters). The ORR per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by Investigator was presented., Up to 24 months|Percent Change in Cancer Antigen 125 (CA-125), CA-125 was the tumour biomarker used to test cancer. Disease progression is indicated by CA-125 tumor marker elevation., Cycle 1-8 Day 1, and end of treatment/ safety follow-up (30 days after the last dose). Each cycle was 21 days.|Percent Change in Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA), CEA was the tumour biomarker used to test cancer. Disease progression is indicated by CEA tumor marker elevation., Cycle 1-9 Day 1, and end of treatment/ safety follow-up (30 days after the last dose). Each cycle was 21 days|Percent Change in Carbohydrate Antigen (CA19-9), CA19-9 was the tumour biomarker used to test cancer. Disease progression is indicated by CA19-9 tumor marker elevation, Cycle 1-7 Day 1, and end of treatment/ safety follow-up (30 days after the last dose). Each cycle was 21 days.
This study will evaluate the safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy of MK-8353 when administered in combination with pembrolizumab (MK-3475). There are two parts in this study: Part 1 will be dose escalation and confirmation, and Part 2 will be a cohort expansion. In Part 1, the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of MK-8353 in combination with a fixed dose of pembrolizumab in participants with advanced malignancies will be identified and confirmed. Participants will be initially enrolled to receive MK-8353 at 350 mg twice a day (BID) in combination with pembrolizumab at a fixed dose of 200 mg on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle (Q3W) for up to 24 months of treatment. In Part 2, participants with advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) that is microsatellite stable (i.e., non-microsatellite instability-high/deficient mismatch repair \[non-MSI-H/dMMR\]) who received at least one and up to five prior lines of therapy will be enrolled at the RP2D in the expansion cohort to further evaluate safety and efficacy.