A Phase I Trial of Vandetanib (AZD6474) and Selumetinib (AZD6244) for Solid Tumours Including Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (VanSel-1)
The purpose of this study is to determine whether using two drugs together called vandetanib and selumetinib is effective in the treatment of cancer. The first part of this study will include patients with any solid tumour and the second part of this study will include only patients with non small cell lung cancer. The four main aims of this clinical study are to find out:

* If the two drugs can be given safely to patients when given together.
* The maximum dose that can be given safely to patients.
* More about the potential side effects of the drugs and how they can be managed.
* What happens to vandetanib and selumetinib inside the body.
Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib|DRUG: Vandetanib, Selumetinib
Number of Serious Adverse Events, Non-serious Adverse Events and Treatment Emergent Adverse Events., Number of serious adverse events, non-serious adverse events and treatment emergent adverse events., Safety data was collected from the date of written informed consent and continued until 28 days after the final administration of vandetanib and selumetinib, an average (mean) of 164 days (approximately 5.4 months).|Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) Within Each Cohort., Number of DLTs within each cohort., DLTs occurring in the first Cycle (up to Day 42).
Dose Escalation Cohorts Only: PK Parameter Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration of Vandetanib., Maximum observed plasma concentration of vandetanib post treatment with vandetanib alone and following the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib., 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post dose on Day 4. 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Days 15 and 29.|Dose Escalation Cohorts Only: PK Parameter Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration of Selumetinib., Maximum observed plasma concentration of selumetinib post treatment with the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib., 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Days 15 and 29.|Dose Escalation Cohorts Only: PK Parameter Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve (0-24 Hours) of Vandetanib., Area under the plasma concentration time curve (0-24 hours) of vandetanib post treatment with vandetanib alone and following the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib., 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post dose on Day 4. 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6, 10 and 24 hours post dose on Days 15 and 29.|Dose Escalation Cohorts Only: PK Parameter Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve (0-12 Hours) of Selumetinib., Area under the plasma concentration time curve (0-12 hours) of selumetinib post treatment with the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib. This was extrapolated from the sampling data up to 10 hours to allow comparison with literature data., 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6 and 10 hours post dose on Days 15 and 29.|Dose Escalation Cohorts Only: PK Parameter Area Under the Plasma Concentration Time Curve (0-12 Hours) of N-desmethyl Metabolite of Selumetinib., Area under the plasma concentration time curve (0-12 hours) of N-desmethyl metabolite of selumetinib following the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib. This was extrapolated from the sampling data up to 10 hours to allow comparison with literature data., 0 hours (pre dose) and at 0.5, 2, 4, 6 and 10 hours post dose on Days 15 and 29.|Expansion Cohort Only: Progression Free Survival (PFS) of Patients With NSCLC After Treatment With the Combination of Vandetanib and Selumetinib., PFS by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours Criteria (RECIST v1.0). Per RECIST for target lesions and assessed by computerised tomography (CT), progressive disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum while on trial, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 10 and 18 weeks from date of first dose of vandetanib.|Expansion Cohort Only: One Year Survival of Patients With NSCLC After Treatment With the Combination of Vandetanib and Selumetinib., Number of patients alive at one year., 1 year from date of first dose of vandetanib.|Expansion Cohort Only: Tumour Metabolism in Patients With NSCLC Using Positron Emission Tomography Response Criteria in Solid Tumours (PERCIST) Criteria., Tumour metabolism using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (\[18F\]FDG-PET) computerised tomography (CT) imaging pre and post treatment with vandetanib alone and following the combination of vandetanib and selumetinib. These were assessed and reported according to PERCIST criteria., Baseline, Day 12, Day 42.
The purpose of this Phase I study is to establish a safety and toxicity profile of combining two study drugs; vandetanib, a VEGFR (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor) and EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) inhibitor, with selumetinib a MEK (Mitogen Activated Kinase) inhibitor.

This is the first time the drugs have been used together. These types of drugs have shown an effect in non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

The study is in two parts; the dose escalation phase and the expansion phase.

In the dose escalation phase, 42-50 patients will receive different doses of vandetanib and increasing doses of selumetinib to establish a safe dose to recommend for the next stage of the study. Patients with any solid tumour will be eligible.

In the expansion phase, up to 30 patients will receive the dose recommended in the previous phase. Only patients with NSCLC will be eligible for this part of the study.

The expansion phase will look at further evaluating the safety of the drug combination and the anti-tumour activity. Patients in this cohort will be requested to also consent to have additional imaging assessments and optional tumour biopsies.

Study treatment is administered orally; vandetanib tablets once daily and selumetinib capsules once daily (OD)/twice daily (BD). Cycle 1 is 42 days long. Subsequent cycles are 28 days in length. Patients will receive a total of 6 cycles of the combination treatment. If the patient has not progressed after six cycles, they may be treated for further cycles following approval from the sponsor.