Dose Escalating Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Patupilone, q3w, in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The study objective is to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose, safety and efficacy of patupilone in patients with NSCLC who have progressed after prior chemotherapy.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Patupilone
Phase I: Number of Total Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT) During Dose Escalation to Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD was defined as the highest dose of patupilone administered every three weeks (q3w) where not more than one out of six patients experienced a DLT using a standard 3+3 design. Dose escalation started at 6.5 mg/m\^2 until MTD in steps of 0.5 mg/m\^2 until 12 mg/m\^2, then in steps of 1 mg/m\^2 till 13.0 mg/m\^2. DLTs were assessed during cycle 1. During this time frame, no more than one DLT occurred in any of the explored dose levels up to 13 mg/m\^2, thus, the MTD as defined by the protocol was not reached in this study., Cycle 1 (21 days)|Phase II: Number of Participants With Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Overall response is the number of participants who had a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) based on local investigator's assessment of RECIST criteria. Per RECIST: CR, all detectable tumor has disappeared; PR, a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions (TLs) taking as a reference the baseline sum, no worsening of non-TLs, and no new lesions; Progressive disease (PD), a \>=20% increase in TLs, clearly worsening of non-TLs, or emergence of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD), small changes that do not meet previously given criteria., At baseline, then every second cycle (approximately every 6 weeks), until disease progression or discontinuation. Average 18 weeks.
Number of Participants With Best Overall Response-Phase I, This was defined as the number of participants whose best overall response was CR or PR by RECIST. Per RECIST: CR, all detectable tumor has disappeared; PR, a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions (TLs) taking as a reference the baseline sum, no worsening of non-TLs, and no new lesions; Progressive disease (PD), a \>=20% increase in TLs, clearly worsening of non-TLs, or emergence of new lesions; Stable Disease (SD), small changes that do not meet previously given criteria., Best achieved overall response according to RECIST from start of study until study discontinuation. Imaging was assessed every second cycle (ie. approximately every 6 weeks) until disease progression or discontinuation. Average 18 weeks|Overall Survival Time-Phase I and Phase II, Overall survival (OS) time was measured from the start of study drug to the date of death due to any cause. If a patient was not known to have died, survival was censored at the date of last contact. Data was collected post treatment every 3 months until approximately 70% of patients have reached the survival endpoint (Phase I + Phase II)., From start of study drug to date of death due to any cause. Follow-up after treatment discontinuation approximately every 3 months until approximately 70% of participants have reached the survival endpoint. Average 9.75 months|Time to Progression (TTP)-Phase I and Phase II, Time to progression was measured from the start of study drug to the date of first documented disease progression by RECIST, discontinuation due to disease progression, or death from underlying cancer, whichever event occurred first. If a patient had not progressed by RECIST, discontinued due to disease progression, or died from underlying cancer, TTP was censored at the time of last adequate tumor assessment. However, if a patient took any new cancer therapy prior to PD or death, then TTP was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment prior to the start date of new cancer therapy., From baseline, then every second cycle (i.e. approximately every 6 weeks), until disease progression or discontinuation from study. Average 18 weeks|Duration of Stable Disease-Phase I and Phase II, Duration of stable disease (CR, PR, or SD) by RECIST was defined as the time from start of study drug to the date of first documented disease progression or discontinuation due to disease progression, or death from underlying cancer, whichever event occured first., Imaging was assessed every second cycle (i.e. approximately every 6 weeks), until disease progression or discontinuation from treatment . Average 18 weeks|Time to Overall Response -Phase I and Phase II, Time to overall response (CR or PR) measured by RECIST was the time between study start until date of first documented response (CR or PR)., From baseline, then every second cycle (i.e. approximately every 6 weeks), until disease progression or discontinuation from study. Average 18 weeks|Duration of Overall Response -Phase I and Phase II, Duration of overall response (CR or PR) measured by RECIST was measured from the first documented CR or PR to the date of first documented disease progression or discontinuation due to disease progression, or death from underlying cancer, whichever event occured first., Duration of response according to RECIST from start of study until study discontinuation. Duration of response was assessed every second cycle ( i.e. approximately every 6 weeks) until disease progression or discontinuation from study. Average 18 weeks
The study objective is to evaluate the maximum tolerated dose, safety and efficacy of patupilone in patients with NSCLC who have progressed after prior chemotherapy.