STEP AND GO: A Study of Technology-based Exercise Promotion
The purpose of the study is to test an intervention that uses a mobile game to encourage increased physical activity among adults.
Cardiovascular Disease|Obesity|Cancer|Diabetes
BEHAVIORAL: Game-based intervention|DEVICE: Smartphone
Change in Physical Activity From Baseline to 12 Weeks, Minutes of physical activity measured over a 7 day period. Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks
Change in Physical Fitness From Baseline to 12 Weeks, Maximal treadmill test to measure fitness (operationalized as the amount of oxygen used by the body during maximal effort). Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Body Fat Percentage From Baseline to 12 Weeks, We will use dual x-ray absorptiometry to measure body fat percentage. Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Blood Pressure From Baseline to 12 Weeks, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure will be measured using standard methods. Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Weight From Baseline to 12 Weeks, We will measure weight using a calibrated scale. Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks|Change in Motivation From Baseline to 12 Weeks, We will measure intrinsic motivation using the intrinsic regulation subscale from the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2. This measure uses a scale from 0 (not true for me) to 4 (very true for me). Positive changes indicate increases in intrinsic motivation over time. Baseline values were carried forward for participants lost to followup., Baseline to 12 weeks
Number of Participants Who Drop Out of the Study From Baseline to 12 Weeks, We will investigate the number of participants who drop out of the intervention group in comparison to the control group and to norms for similar studies, 12 weeks|Acceptability, Acceptability will be self-reported using a variety of items taken from previous studies of physical activity interventions and usability, 12 weeks|Frequency of App Use Over 12 Weeks, Based on objective measures taken from individual game accounts, we will determine the discrete number of uses of the game app, 12 weeks|Number of Counseling Calls Completed From Baseline to 12 Weeks, Based on counselor logs, we will determine the number of counseling phone calls completed for each participant, 12 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, We will inquire about potential adverse events during counseling calls and assessment visits. Discrete events will be summed, and the number of participants with events will be summed., 12 weeks
Physical activity reduces cardiometabolic risk factors. Unfortunately, a majority of adults do not meet activity recommendations. Though walking is a preferred method for activity with proven effectiveness, motivating sustained adherence to activity goals is difficult. "Gamification" using technology-based tools holds promise for motivating increased adherence to physical activity goals. Gamification occurs when elements from video games (such as leaderboards, badges, and progression through a virtual narrative) are integrated into non-game applications. Game elements may motivate faster, longer, and/or more frequent walking by making walking and self-monitoring more enjoyable. In the proposed research the investigators seek to test the feasibility and acceptability of a technology-based intervention that "gamifies" physical activity using technology. The investigators will randomize 40 inactive overweight adults (20 women, aged 18 - 69) to either an intervention group or a wait-list control. (Note: 10 additional participants will be recruited for a pre-pilot one-arm test of the intervention to ensure that the mobile devices, cellular service, game, etc. are working correctly.) The intervention will consist primarily of provision of a mobile device loaded with a narrative-based walking application ("app"). Participants will be instructed to use the app to achieve activity goals increasing from 60 to 150 or more minutes per week. The app uses global positioning systems and accelerometry to track exercise duration and intensity. Investigators will call participants weekly for brief counseling and technical support. The intervention will last 12 weeks. Primary outcomes are process measures of feasibility and acceptability, including attrition, reasons for drop-out, adherence to use of the app, exposure to calls, and any adverse events. The investigators will also compare behavioral (physical activity), weight-related (weight, body composition), and health outcomes (fitness, blood pressure) in the intervention group to the wait-list control. Finally, theory-based intermediate variables, such as self-efficacy, intrinsic motivation, and self-regulation, will also be investigated. This study will provide crucial information regarding the promise of gamified apps and will lay a foundation for a larger research program in technology-based cardiovascular health promotion.