An Investigational Scan (hpMRI) for Monitoring Treatment Response in Patients With Thyroid Cancer and Other Malignancies of the Head and Neck Undergoing Radiation Therapy and/or Systemic Therapy
This trial investigates whether hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging (hpMRI) can predict treatment response in patients with thyroid cancer and other malignancies of the head and neck undergoing radiation therapy and/or receiving systemic therapy before surgery. An hpMRI is like a standard MRI but involves the use of an imaging contrast agent called hyperpolarized 13-C-pyruvate. Diagnostic procedures, such as hpMRI, may predict a patient's response to treatment and may help plan the best treatment.
Thyroid Gland Carcinoma
DRUG: Hyperpolarized Carbon C 13 Pyruvate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Metabolic imaging data from hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging (hpMRI) methods, To measure metabolic imaging data or information derived from hyperpolarized pyruvate MRI (hpMRI) that can be used to identify an early indication of response to therapy in patients with thyroid cancer. Specifically, we measure the kPL-the apparent rate constant for conversion of HP pyruvate into lactate-after one week of treatment compared to baseline measurements acquired prior to start of therapy. The kPL will be calculated from dynamic images of HP pyruvate and its metabolites. The kPL values will be calculated for each tumor and its adjacent tissue by a radiologist and physicist in conjunction using region of interest analysis to identify the margins of the tumor and surrounding normal tissue., 1 year
Early metabolic changes, To assess early metabolic changes in response to nonsurgical therapy, including standard-of-care fractionated XRT and/or systemic therapy. The imaging biomarker for tumor metabolism, kPL, will be calculated from dynamic images of HP pyruvate and its metabolites., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain pilot metabolic imaging data from hyperpolarized magnetic resonance imaging (hpMRI) methods in patients with thyroid tumors or other malignancies of the head and neck receiving radiation therapy (XRT) and/or systemic therapy (e.g., target therapy, checkpoint inhibitors).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess early metabolic changes in response to nonsurgical therapy, including standard-of-care fractionated XRT and/or systemic therapy.

OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Healthy volunteers undergo MRI over 30 minutes.

ARM II: Patients with thyroid cancer and other malignancies of the head and neck undergo hpMRI over 30 minutes at baseline, and at 1 week after the initiation of treatment. During the scan, patients also receive hyperpolarized 13-C-pyruvate intravenously (IV) over 30 seconds and may receive a standard MRI contrast agent at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study intervention, thyroid cancer and other malignancies of the head and neck patients are followed up at 1 day.