Exercise Intervention for Bone Tumor Patients
The proGait-study is a two-arm exercise intervention study for AYA-patients with lower extremity tumor endoprosthesis in the follow-up care. This clinical trial will investigate the effects of an 8-week personalized multi-modal exercise intervention of lower extremity muscles on gait quality in adolescents and young adults with cancer diagnosis beginning at least 12 months after endoprosthesis implantation.
Bone Sarcoma
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise therapy|OTHER: Information
Gait Profile Score, Marker based 3D gait analysis is performed on a 15m runway and recorded at 120Hz with 8 cameras from different projection angles around the runway (Vicon, Oxford, UK). Gait Profile Score is based on the averaged RMS differences in lower body kinematics (Pelvis tilt ant/post, Pelvis tilt up/down, Pelvis internal rotation/external rotation, Hip joint flexion/extension, Hip joint adduction/abduction, Hip joint internal rotation/external rotation, Knee flexion/extension, Ankle joint Dorsiflexion/Plantarflexion, Foot opening angle Internal rotation/External rotation) of subjects and kinematic reference data from a healthy population during a time normalized gait cycle. A lower GPS would indicate less deviation from a healthy populations gait pattern and thus indicate a better outcome., 8 weeks
Functional Mobility, Functional Mobility Assessment score (points, score range 0 - 70, higher score = better outcome) between both study arms from T0 to T1, 8 weeks|Subjective functional outcome, Change in Musculoskeletal Tumor Society Score (questionnaire score, score range 0 - 30, higher score = better outcome) between both study arms, 8 weeks|Subjective functional measure, Change in Toronto Extremity Salvage Score(questionnaire score, score range 0 - 100, higher score = better outcome) between both study arms, 8 weeks|Subjective Quality of Life Adults, Change in Quality of Life (QLQ-C30 questionnaire score from 0 - 100) between both study arms, 8 weeks|Subjective Quality of Life Adolescents, Change in Quality of Life (PedsQL cancer module, questionnaire score from 0 - 100) between both study arms, 8 weeks|Fatigue Adults, Change in Fatigue (EORTC QLQ Fatigue questionnaire range 0 - 100, higher score = worse outcome) between both study arms, 8 weeks|Range of motion, Change in affected knee range of motion (angular degree °) assessed with goniometry between both study arms, 8 weeks|Gait kinematics, Changes in lower body gait kinematics between both study arms from T0 to T1 by assessing the Gait Deviation Index (GDI), measure of difference between subjects and a healthy control dataset of lower body kinematics. A GDI of 100 indicates a subject whose gait is at least as close to the healthy average as that of a randomly selected healthy individual. Thus, a GDI of 100 or higher indicates the absence of gait pathology. Every 10 points that the GDI falls below 100 corresponds one standard deviation away from the healthy populations mean., 8 weeks|Fatigue Adolescents, Change in Fatigue (PedsQL fatigue questionnaire score, range 0 - 100, higher score = worse outcome), 8 weeks
The main objective of the proGait-study is to investigate the effects of an 8-week personalized, partially supervised exercise program for lower extremity muscles on gait kinematics of adolescents and young adults, who are in follow-up care after cancer treatment and at least 12 months after endoprosthesis implantation. This randomized controlled trial will include n=20-30 patients. Patients will be randomly assigned to the intervention or control group. Patients in the intervention group will perform two supervised exercise sessions in week one and two. In the following weeks, they will perform in a mix of supervised and unsupervised exercise sessions to introduce the patients into independent exercise. Both groups receive recommendations for individual lower extremity exercise. Secondary aims of this interventional study are to evaluate functional mobility, knee range of motion and patient-reported outcomes including QoL and fatigue.