A Phase I Study Of Pazopanib With Either Erlotinib Or Pemetrexed In Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, two-arm, Phase I, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pazopanib in combination with erlotinib (Arm A) or pazopanib in combination with pemetrexed (Arm B) in patients with advanced solid tumors. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 (in each arm) to receive escalating doses of pazopanib and erlotinib or pazopanib and pemetrexed. Dose escalation schemas for each study arm are described in the protocol. For each arm, the MTD regimen will be defined as the highest dose combination of the agents where no more than one out of six patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity. Six to twelve additional patients in each arm will be studied with the MTD regimen to evaluate toxicity and pharmacokinetics. In arm A (erlotinib), a run-in phase with each drug separately will allow an evaluation of pharmacokinetics with each drug separately and also for the two drugs in combination. This will allow an assessment of potential drug-drug interactions. Pharmacokinetic endpoints will be AUC, Cmax, tmax and t1/2 of pazopanib, erlotinib, and pemetrexed, as well as pemetrexed clearance before and after administration of pazopanib in the extension cohort of Arm B. Antitumor activity will be assessed using RECIST criteria.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
DRUG: pazopanib|DRUG: erlotinib|DRUG: pemetrexed
MTD regimen for each combination regimen in each arm of the study as determined by an evaluation of AEs and changes in laboratory values. The MTD = highest dosing regimen that results in dose limiting toxicity in <= 1 of 6 patients., Through a minimum of two cycles of therapy for each subject
Pharmacokinetic endpoints will be AUC, Cmax, tmax, and t1/2 of pazopanib, erlotinib, and pemetrexed and clearance of pemetrexed., Through a minimum of two cycles of therapy for each subject|Tumor response using RECIST criteria., Through a minimum of two cycles of therapy for each subject|Levels of circulating cytokine and angiogenic factors (CAF) biomarkers (such as IL-2, IL-10, VEGF, sVEGFR-2) in plasma will be determined.|Pharmacogenetics Endpoint: Genetic variants in candidate genes in the host DNA will be evaluated.
This is an open-label, two-arm, Phase I, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pazopanib in combination with erlotinib (Arm A) or pazopanib in combination with pemetrexed (Arm B) in patients with advanced solid tumors. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 (in each arm) to receive escalating doses of pazopanib and erlotinib or pazopanib and pemetrexed. Dose escalation schemas for each study arm are described in the protocol. For each arm, the MTD regimen will be defined as the highest dose combination of the agents where no more than one out of six patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity. Six to twelve additional patients in each arm will be studied with the MTD regimen to evaluate toxicity and pharmacokinetics. In arm A (erlotinib), a run-in phase with each drug separately will allow an evaluation of pharmacokinetics with each drug separately and also for the two drugs in combination. This will allow an assessment of potential drug-drug interactions. Pharmacokinetic endpoints will be AUC, Cmax, tmax and t1/2 of pazopanib, erlotinib, and pemetrexed, as well as pemetrexed clearance before and after administration of pazopanib in the extension cohort of Arm B. Antitumor activity will be assessed using RECIST criteria.