Evaluation of Anti-PD-1 Therapy by Monitoring T Cell Responses in Melanoma, Lung and Other Cancer Types
This study explores the role of T cells in monitoring disease status and response during anti-PD-1/PD-L1 treatment in patients with melanoma, lung and other cancer types. Measuring levels of specific targets such as Bim and soluble PD-L1 during therapy may help track treatment resistance and clinical outcomes. This information may also help researchers determine why some people with melanoma, lung and other cancer types respond to PD-1/PD-L1 treatment and others do not.
Clinical Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v8|Locally Advanced Lung Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Locally Advanced Melanoma|Metastatic Lung Carcinoma|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Melanoma|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Role of Bim for monitoring disease status during anti-PD-1 therapy, Will be assessed by serial measurements of Bim levels in tumor-reactive CD8+ T cells from the peripheral blood of patients with advanced cancer undergoing therapy with an anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody and correlate them with clinical outcome., Up to 10 samples: at baseline; 6 weeks after initiation of therapy; subsequently at each radiographic tumor assessment (starting at approx. 9-12 weeks) including at confirmed disease progression.|Mechanisms of resistance to anti-PD-1 blockade, Will be assessed by reviewing blood samples to determine whether high sPD-L1 levels are associated with higher Bim levels in CD11ahigh PD-1+CD8+ T cells and decreased response to single-agent anti-PD1 blocking antibody in patients with cancer., Up to 10 samples: at baseline; 6 weeks after initiation of therapy; subsequently at each radiographic tumor assessment (starting at approx. 9-12 weeks) including at confirmed disease progression.|Quantify and modulate levels of NKG7 mRNA in CD8+ T cells, CD8+ T cells will be isolated from the peripheral blood of patients with advanced cancer, and messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) will be isolated. Qualitative and quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) assays will be performed on these samples in order to determine the levels of six different mRNA splice variants of NKG7. Results will be compared to clinical outcome., Up to 10 samples: at baseline; 6 weeks after initiation of therapy; subsequently at each radiographic tumor assessment (starting at approx. 9-12 weeks) including at confirmed disease progression.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the role of Bim for monitoring disease status during anti-PD-1 therapy.

II. Identify the mechanisms of resistance to anti-PD-1 blockade. III. Quantify and modulate levels of NKG7 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) in CD8+ T cells.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients also undergo optional stool sample collection and have their medical records reviewed on study. In addition, patients provide previously-collected tissue sample, if available.