Neratinib and Capmatinib Combination (Phase Ib/II) in Metastatic Breast Cancer and Inflammatory Breast Cancer Patients With Abnormal HER-family and c-Met Pathway Activity as Measured by the CELsignia Signaling Analysis Test
This study is to learn if the combination therapy of capmatinib and neritinib can help to control metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer. Researchers also want to find the highest tolerable dose of the combination therapy of capmatinib and neritinib that can be used in this study drug combinations. The safety of this drug combination and the CELsignia MP test methodology will also be studied.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Neratinib|DRUG: Capmatinib
To Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose for Use in the Phase II Portion of the Trial, This phase of the study uses the Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN) design with a 3+3 run-in to identify the maximum tolerable dose (MTD). Patients are treated in cohorts of 3 with a maximum of 27 participants. Starting with Neratinib PO dose level 1 (120 mg for Dose 1-7, then 160 mg) combined with Capmatinib PO level 1 (400 mg), with up to 12 patients per dose. The target toxicity rate for the MTD is 25%., Cycle1 and 2, total 56 days|To Determine Overall Response Rate, The overall response rate (ORR) for patients treated at the MTD in Phase II was assessed. ORR was defined as the proportion of patients who achieved a partial response or complete response as their best response. All tumor responses were evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria and measured using the QIAC system., Up to 3 years
To Further Characterize the Safety and Tolerability of Neratinib + Capmatinib, Adverse events (AEs) graded using CTCAE version 5.0: ≥ Grade 2 for non-hematological and ≥ Grade 3 for hematological AEs observed after the first protocol intervention for phase II patients., Up to 3 years|To Determine Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate (CBR) is defined as the proportion of patients achieving complete response, partial response, or stable disease for ≥24 weeks, was summarized by frequency and percentage with Wilson 95% confidence intervals, overall and by dose level., Up to 27 months|To Determine the Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response (DOR) is defined as the period from the date of the first occurrence of a CR or PR until the first date that progressive disease or death is documented., Up to 27 months|To Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time between date of treatment start to the date of documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, Up to 27 months|To Determine 2 Year Overall Survival (OS), The proportion of patients in the study who are alive 2 years after enrollment on to the study, 2 years after enrollment
This is an open-label, phase Ib/II study of neratinib plus Capmatinib in patients with metastatic breast cancer and patients with metastatic IBC.

Phase 1b - Dose Escalation of Neratinib with Capmatinib

This phase of the study will employ the Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design with the 3+3 design run-in, to find the MTD. The BOIN design is implemented in a simple way similar to the traditional 3+3 design, but is more flexible and possesses superior operating characteristics that are comparable to those of the more complex model-based designs, such as the continual reassessment method (CRM). The maximum sample size for dose escalation is 18. Patients are treated in cohorts of 3, beginning with Neratinib PO dose level 1 (120 mg, Dose 1-7, 160 mg, through end of treatment, see Table 2) in combination with Capmatinib PO level 1 (400 mg, see Table 3), with a maximum of 12 patients per dose. The target toxicity rate for the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) is 25%.

Phase II

Phase II will be a prospective, open label, interventional study for patients with previously treated HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer or metastatic inflammatory breast cancer. Subjects receive Capmatinib in combination with Neratinib (including an AI for patients with ER+/HER2- breast cancer). The MTD determined during Phase 1b will be used.

This portion of the trial will be conducted to assess the overall response rate (ORR) for patients treated at the MTD. The target ORR will be 25%, with unacceptable ORR as 5%. We assess the ORR using the Bayesian optimal phase 2 (BOP2) design (Zhou, Lee and Yuan, 2017).

Up to an additional 29 evaluable subjects with measurable disease will be enrolled. An interim analysis will be performed when the number of enrolled patients reaches 15.