Phase 3 Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of Batoclimab as Induction and Maintenance Therapy in Adult Participants With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
The purpose of this 4-period study is to confirm the efficacy and safety of batoclimab in participants with gMG. In Period 1, participants will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive batoclimab 680 milligrams (mg) subcutaneously (SC) once a week (QW) or 340 mg SC QW or placebo. The primary efficacy endpoint will be assessed by change in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living (MG- ADL) score in acetylcholine receptor antibody seropositive (AChRAb+) participants. In Period 2, participants previously treated with batoclimab will be re-randomized to stay on batoclimab (340 mg SC QW or 340 mg SC every two weeks) or receive placebo treatment. The secondary endpoint of maintenance of efficacy will be assessed by change in the MG- ADL score in AChRAb+ participants. Participants demonstrating a response to batoclimab during either Period 1 or 2 may enter the long-term extension (Period 3). Participants who complete Period 3 are eligible to participate in Period 4 (Optional Long-Term extension) according to their treatment assignment in Period 3.
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Batoclimab 680 mg SC weekly|DRUG: Batoclimab 340 mg SC weekly|DRUG: Matching Placebo SC|DRUG: Batoclimab 340 mg SC bi-weekly
Change from Baseline in Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) score in acetylcholine receptor (AChR) Ab seropositive (AChRAb+) participants, MG-ADL is an 8-item, participant-reported questionnaire that assesses gMG symptoms and their effects on activities of daily living. Each item is assessed on a 4-point scale where a score of 0 represents normal function and a score of 3 represents loss of ability to perform that function. Total score ranges from 0 to 24, with higher scores indicating greater functional impairment and disability., Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12
Change from Baseline in Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) score in AChRAb+ participants, QMG is clinician-reported assessment to evaluate muscle weakness in participants with MG. The QMG consists of 13 items ranging from 0 to 3 with 3 being the most severe. Total score ranges from 0 to 39, with higher scores representing greater impairment., Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12|Change from Baseline in MG-ADL score for AChRAb+ randomized withdrawal participants, Baseline (Week 12) to Week 24|Percentage of AChRAb+ participants with greater than equal to (>=) 3-point improvement in QMG score, Up to Week 12|Percentage of AChRAb+ participants achieving MG-ADL score of 0 or 1 by Week 12, Up to Week 12|Change from Baseline in MG-ADL score in AChRAB- (AChRAB negative) participants, Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12|Percentage of Participants with Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who has either been administered a study drug or has undergone study procedures., Up to 76 Weeks|Percentage of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Sign Measurements, Vital signs, including systolic and diastolic blood pressures, pulse rate, respiratory rate, and temperature will be obtained and recorded at specified timepoints. All vital sign measures will be obtained with the participant in the supine position and having rested for at least 5 minutes., Up to 76 Weeks|Number of Participants with Clinically Significant Changes in Laboratory Results, Blood samples will be collected at specified timepoints for the analysis of laboratory parameters including clinical chemistry, hematology and urinalysis., Up to 76 Weeks|Percentage of participants with clinical laboratory-related TEAEs or treatment emergent laboratory abnormalities., Up to 76 Weeks
The purpose of this 4-period study is to confirm the efficacy and safety of batoclimab in participants with gMG. In Period 1, participants will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive batoclimab 680 milligrams (mg) subcutaneously (SC) once a week (QW) or 340 mg SC QW or placebo. The primary efficacy endpoint will be assessed by change in the myasthenia gravis activities of daily living (MG- ADL) score in acetylcholine receptor antibody seropositive (AChRAb+) participants. In Period 2, participants previously treated with batoclimab will be re-randomized to stay on batoclimab (340 mg SC QW or 340 mg SC every two weeks) or receive placebo treatment. The secondary endpoint of maintenance of efficacy will be assessed by change in the MG- ADL score in AChRAb+ participants. Participants demonstrating a response to batoclimab during either Period 1 or 2 may enter the long-term extension (Period 3). Participants who complete Period 3 are eligible to participate in Period 4 (Optional Long-Term extension) according to their treatment assignment in Period 3.