Avidination for RadionuclideTHerapy in Nonpalpable Breast Cancer
This is an interventional, open-label, non comparative phase 2 trial enrolling patients with nonpalpable breast cancer
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Avidin-biotin-Dota-90Y
Safety of avidin-biotin-Dota-90Y, The primary endpoint is the local toxicity evaluated according to Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) scale. According to the RTOG scale grades range from 0 to 5, where 0 represents no change over baseline and 5 represents any toxicity which causes death., 4-7 weeks|Safety of avidin-biotin-Dota-90Y, The primary endpoint is the systemic toxicity evaluated according to NCI-CTCAE (The U.S. National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 5.0, 4-7 weeks|Anti-tumor activity of avidin-biotin-Dota-90Y, The co-primary endpoint is the evaluation of the complete pathological response rate, defined as the absence of residual invasive and in situ cancer or DCIS (ductal carcinoma in situ), on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the complete resected breast specimen and of all sampled regional lymph nodes (i.e., ypT0 ypN0 in the current AJCC staging system)., 4-7 weeks
Dose-response, Serial PET (positron emission computed tomography)/CT (computerized tomography) scan will be performed at defined time intervals after radiopharmaceutical administration. The number of PET/CT scans depends on the presence of wash-out documented by the whole body image acquired with SPECT/CT scanner. A dedicated software will be used to segment the region of interest, to quantify the activity inside the target region, and to estimate the number of disintegrations, that is the input data for absorbed dose calculation. For the tumor absorbed dose calculation, the spherical volume approximation is used with a uniform activity distribution. The tumor mass is estimated from the CT scan.

From the computed data, a detailed report relative to absorbed dose to the tumor and neighboring organs treated with avidin-biotin-DOTA-90Y will be prepared, in order to provide a dose-response relationship for toxicity avoidance., 48-72 hours after injection|Biodistribution, The whole-body image will be used to evaluate 90Y biodistribution in the body and to verify that the injected activity is really localized in the breast tissue. In this case, the treatment can be considered as locoregional, with the uptake concentrated in a limited region of the breast, without the involvement of other organs. To evaluate the assumption of a localized uptake in the tumor lesion, the patients will undergo just one PET/ CT scan., 1-3 hours after injection
Nonpalpable breast lesions (NPBLs) represent approximately 30% of the overall tumoral breast lesions undergoing surgery. The Vacuum-Assisted Breast Biopsy (VABB) is a device for needle breast biopsy usefully applied in NPBL. The procedure is highly effective for the diagnosis of NPBLs, with minimal negative effects. The specimen volume obtained through this procedure is great enough to replace the diagnostic surgical excisional biopsy and frozen section intraoperative examination. Biopsies obtained through this method sometimes allow the complete excision of the lesion, representing a valid alternative to the excisional biopsy in case of benign lesion less than 15 mm in size.

After VABB procedure about 10-30% of patients have a complete removal of the neoplastic lesion. About 30% of patients are disease free after surgery because the lesion has been totally removed through diagnostic VABB procedure. The rationale of this project is to treat residual microscopic disease through a radionuclide therapy. Our idea is to administer, following VABB procedure, an avidin-biotin-DOTA-90Y (where DOTA stands for 1,4,7,10-tetra-azacyclododecane-N,N',N'',N'''-tetraacetic acid and Y stands for yttrium) compound into the lesion site in order to eliminate residual tumour cells. The ARTHE approach should increase the rate of disease free cases after excisional biopsy.

The primary objective of this open-label phase I trial is to evaluate the safety of avidin-biotin-DOTA-90Y combination in patients with nonpalpable breast cancer undergoing Vacuum-Assisted- Breast- Biopsy (VABB). The co-primary objective is the evaluation of the preliminary anti-tumor activity of the treatment. The secondary objective is to evaluate the dosimetry and biodistribution of avidin-biotin-DOTA-90Y after loco-regional injection under ultrasound guidance.

ARTHE procedure consists of the ultrasound guided injection of Avidin into the breast tissue corresponding to VABB site followed by an injection of Biotin-DOTA-90Y. The injected Biotin-DOTA-90Y will be in a range 28-126 MBq (megabecquerel) (0.2- 0.3 mL, specific activity of 3.7 GBq/mg) (gigabequerel/milligrams). The investigators will inject 6-10 mg of avidin in a volume of 0.3-0.5 mL, followed by biotin-DOTA-90Y immediately after avidin injection.

The hypothesis that a treatment with avidin-biotin-DOTA-90Y is able to destroy residual cancer cells after VABB will be verified by surgery.

The duration of ARTHE procedure is 3 days, including dosimetry evaluation. Patients will receive conservative surgical treatment (4-7 weeks from ARTHE treatment).