Long-Term Safety of Lutetium (177Lu) Vipivotide Tetraxetan in Participants With Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this post-marketing study is to further characterize the long-term outcome of known or potential risks of lutetium (177Lu) vipivotide tetraxetan also known as \[177Lu\]Lu-PSMA-617 or 177Lu-PSMA-617 and hereinafter referred to as AAA617. The study also seeks to further characterize (as possible) any other AAA617 causally related serious adverse event(s) in the long-term in adults with prostate cancer who received at least one dose of AAA617 from interventional, Phase I-IV Novartis sponsored clinical trials.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: AAA617
Number and percentage of participants with selected Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Selected adverse events (AEs) include xerostomia, xerophtalmia, myelosupression, renal toxicity and second primary malignancy and their complication. Only SAEs considered causally related to previous treatment with AAA617 will be considered., every visit up to 10 years after 1st dose of AAA617 received in parent treatment study
Number and percentage of participants who have died, The number and percentage of participants who die during the long-term follow-up will be summarized., every visit up to 10 years after 1st dose of AAA617 received in parent treatment study|Absorbed radiation dose in kidney or other selected organs and number of AEs, Correlation between absorbed radiation dose in kidney or selected organs and safety of AAA617 for participants with dosimetry estimates collected in the parent treatment study., every visit up to 10 years after 1st dose of AAA617 received in parent treatment study
This is a global, prospective, multi-center, long-term follow-up (LTFU) safety study of adult participants with prostate cancer that have received at least one dose of AAA617 from interventional, Phase I-IV Novartis sponsored clinical trials.

There will be no study treatment administered to participants in this study. Participants will have visits every 6-8 months for monitoring of selected AEs and laboratory parameters. The study periods include a Baseline and Follow-up Period (up to 10 years after first dose of AAA617 in parent treatment study).

Participants should enroll into the LTFU study after parent treatment study requirements are fulfilled (refer to the parent treatment study protocol for requirements, including any additional requirements after participant enters this LTFU safety study).

The schedule of activities for this LTFU study is designed to start from date of informed consent for this LTFU study. Participants should be followed every 6 to 8 months for up to a total of 10 years starting from first dose of AAA617 in the parent treatment study. Participants entering the LTFU study will have already completed a variable portion of the required 10-year follow-up within the parent treatment study. The specific number of visits required in this LTFU study will depend upon the time of enrollment into this LTFU study following the first dose of AAA617 in the parent treatment study.

The total number of participants to be enrolled and the duration of this LTFU study will depend upon the total number treated in the parent treatment studies and their duration.