Vaccine Therapy in Preventing Cervical Cancer in Patients With Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
Vaccines made from antigens may make the body build an immune response to kill abnormal cervical cells and may be effective in preventing cervical cancer. Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of vaccine therapy in preventing cervical cancer in patients who have cervical intraepithelial neoplasia
Cervical Cancer|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 3|Human Papilloma Virus Infection
BIOLOGICAL: HspE7|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Complete histologic regression of all CIN 3 lesions, Fisher's exact test (and if feasible, Chi-Square test) will be conducted to see if the probability of responding in the investigational arm is significantly different from the controls actively accrued to this study. The conditional distribution used in Fisher's exact test will be used to calculate a 90% confidence interval for the odds ratio of observing a response in the investigational arm to the control arm., Up to 3 years|Frequency and severity of adverse events assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of SGN-00101, in terms of complete histologic regression, in patients with grade III cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.

II. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine change in lesion size in these patients after treatment with this drug.

II. Compare histologic response before and after treatment with this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive SGN-00101 subcutaneously once on weeks 1, 4, and 8 in the absence of disease progression.

Arm II: Patients receive standard care.

At week 15, all patients undergo large loop excision of the transformation zone under colposcopy.

Patients are followed at 19 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28-84 patients (14-42 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 12-48 months.