Palbociclib and Endocrine Therapy for LObular Breast Cancer Preoperative Study (PELOPS)
This research study is evaluating how well Breast Cancer responds to preoperative treatment with Endocrine treatment in combination with a drug called Palbociclib or Endocrine treatment alone as possible treatments for Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Endocrine Therapy
Difference in Anti-proliferative Activity of Patients Given Letrozole Versus Tamoxifen During the Window Phase, Log fold change in anti-proliferative activity of Letrozole versus Tamoxifen within cohorts of hormone receptor positive breast cancer for patients with invasive lobular and ductal carcinoma during the window phase. Higher absolute value indicates larger change in the anti-proliferative activity, baseline to day 15|Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) of Patients Given Endocrine Therapy Plus Palbociclib and of Endocrine Therapy Alone During the Treatment Phase, Residual Cancer Burden index (RCB) between hormone receptor positive invasive breast cancer patients given endocrine therapy plus palbociclib (Arm C) and endocrine therapy alone (Arm D). RCB score is used to assess the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients and is in a scale of 0 to infinity. Higher RCB score indicates more tumor burden remaining, thus worse outcome., day 15 to 24 weeks
Odds Ratio of Achieving Cell Cycle Arrest at the End of Window Phase, Odds Ratio of Achieving Cell Cycle Arrest at the end of Window Phase in hormone receptor positive invasive breast cancer patients given Tamoxifen vs Letrozole. Cell cycle arrest is defined to be percentage of Ki67\<2.7, baseline to day 15|Change in RCB Index Between Arm C and Arm D During the Treatment Phase, The estimate of RCB index change for patients who receive both endocrine and Palbociclib instead of endocrine alone, but have the same lymph node status, tumor size and menopausal status. RCB score is used to assess the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients and is in a scale of 0 to infinity. Higher RCB score indicates more tumor burden remaining, thus worse outcome., day 15 to 24 weeks|Number of Participants With RCB Response in Arm C and Arm D During the Treatment Phase, RCB response is defined as RCB-0 or RCB-I; RCB not response is defined as RCB-II or RCB-III Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) considers residual disease in the tumor bed and lymph nodes after NAC, generating a continuous score which is then grouped into four categories: RCB-0, RCB-I, RCB-II and RCB-III. Higher RCB group reflects more tumor burden remaining, thus worse outcome, day 15 to 24 weeks|Percentage of Participants With Clinical Response in Arm C and Arm D in the Treatment Phase, Percentage of Participants with Clinical Response in Arm C and Arm D in Breast cancer patients diagnosed with hormone receptor positive invasive breast cancer; Clinical response rate is defined as the number of partial and complete responses after preoperative endocrine therapy plus palbociclib (Arm C) and of endocrine therapy alone (Arm D), day 15 to 24 weeks
This is an open label phase II neoadjuvant clinical trial of Palbociclib in combination with endocrine therapy for hormone receptor positive early-stage breast cancer. The planned sample size is 180 participants. The study includes a "window treatment" phase followed by a treatment phase. In the window phase, participants will be treated with a two-week course of tamoxifen (Arm A) or letrozole (Arm B). In the treatment phase participants will be randomized to receive endocrine therapy in combination with palbociclib (Arm C) or endocrine therapy alone (Arm D) for a total duration of 24 weeks. Premenopausal patients with either invasive lobular or ductal carcinoma will be eligible to enroll directly into the treatment phase of the study. The study has two co-primary objectives: 1) To evaluate the difference in anti-proliferative activity of letrozole versus tamoxifen measured by changes in Ki67 from baseline to research biopsy (day 15) within cohorts of hormone receptor positive breast cancer for patients with invasive lobular and ductal carcinoma. 2) To evaluate the pathologic complete response (pCR) of endocrine therapy plus palbociclib and of endocrine therapy alone in breast cancer patients diagnosed with hormone receptor positive invasive breast cancer.