A Study of Enzalutamide Re-treatment in Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer After Docetaxel and/or Cabazitaxel Treatment
The purpose of the study was to understand if there is benefit in treatment with a medicine called enzalutamide in the re-treatment setting. Patients must have been previously treated with enzalutamide in the pre-chemotherapy setting for a minimum of 8 months and have disease progressed, followed by docetaxel and/or cabazitaxel for at least 4 cycles.
Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide
Radiographic Progression Free Survival (rPFS), Radiographic PFS (rPFS) was defined as the time from first dose to the radiographic disease progression (PD), or death on study, whichever occurred first. Radiological PD was defined by either soft tissue tumor progression defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, or bone progression defined by the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 2 (PCWG2). Bone progression per PCWG2 was defined as a minimum of two new lesions. Progression on bone scans at time points before or at week 9 required a confirmatory scan performed six or more weeks later, where it should have demonstrated at least 2 additional new lesions (PCWG2) compared to the week 9 scan. rPFS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methodology to account for censored outcomes (i.e., no observation of rPFS event within the study follow-up period)., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the date of death due to any cause minus the date of first dose + 1., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)|Time to Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression, The time to PSA progression was defined as the PSA progression date minus the date of first dose + 1. PSA progression was defined as a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 ng/mL above the nadir (lowest PSA value observed postbaseline or the baseline value for participants who did not have a decline in PSA postbaseline values) in PSA levels, and which was confirmed by a second consecutive value obtained at least 3 or more weeks later (i.e., a confirmed rising trend) (PCWG2 criteria). The date of PSA progression was the first date the PSA progression was observed. Time to PSA progression was estimated via Kaplan-Meier methodology with censoring defined by the time of the last available PSA measure., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)|Number of Participants With PSA Response, PSA response was defined for the three following categories: PSA30 response: a maximum decline of ≥ 30% from baseline at any post baseline time point; PSA50 response: a maximum decline of ≥ 50% from baseline at any post baseline time point; PSA90 response: a maximum decline of ≥ 90% from baseline at any post baseline time point., From baseline up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)|Number of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response was defined as the best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST 1.1. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)|Time to First Use of a Subsequent Antineoplastic Therapy, Time to start of other antineoplastic therapy was defined as the date of the first systemic antineoplastic therapy minus the date of the first dose of study drug + 1., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Safety was assessed by adverse events (AEs), which included abnormalities identified during a medical test (e.g. laboratory tests, vital signs, electrocardiogram, etc.) if the abnormality induced clinical signs or symptoms, needed active intervention, interruption or discontinuation of study medication or was clinically significant. A serious AE (SAE) was an event resulting in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity or congenital anomaly or birth defect, was life-threatening, required or prolonged hospitalization or was considered medically important. Disease progression was not to be reported as an AE, and clinical signs and symptoms due to disease progression were collected as AEs., From first dose of study drug up to date of last evaluation of 15 March 2017 (approximately 17 months)
Participants received treatment with open-label enzalutamide, until radiographic or clinical progression (such as pathological fracture, cord compression, worsened pain requiring radiation therapy, or opioid analgesic dose increase or initiation), or unacceptable toxicity. Participants were to be allowed to continue enzalutamide until the next treatment was initiated. If another non-cytotoxic, non-investigational, antineoplastic agent was initiated after protocol-defined progression had been determined, enzalutamide was to be continued as long as the participant was tolerating enzalutamide and continued androgen deprivation therapy. Participants were to have a safety follow-up visit approximately 30 days following the last dose of study drug or prior to the initiation of a subsequent anti-cancer drug or investigational agent, whichever occurred first. Disease progression and survival were to be followed every 12 weeks for a maximum of 3 years from first dose. The study should have ended when the last participant has been followed for 1 year from the date of first dose, but the study was terminated and results up to the last date of evaluation (15 March 2017) are reflected in this disclosure.