Direct Tumor Microinjection and FDG-PET in Testing Drug Sensitivity in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Stage IV Breast Cancer
This pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of direct tumor microinjection and fludeoxyglucose F-18 positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in testing drug sensitivity in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, or stage IV breast cancer that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Injecting tiny amounts of anti-cancer drugs directly into tumors on the skin or in lymph nodes and diagnostic procedures, such as FDG-PET, may help to show which drugs work better in treating patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, or breast cancer.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Breast Carcinoma|Recurrent Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Breast Carcinoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Mycosis Fungoides|Refractory Nodal Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Belinostat|DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Copanlisib Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab|DRUG: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Romidepsin|OTHER: Saline|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Incidence of drug sensitivity as measured by injection site skin reaction, Skin reactions will be assessed using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) active version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and will consist of any grade 3 or higher treatment-related pain, skin or subcutaneous tissue disorders. Incidence rates of skin reactions will be estimated by the number of patients with reactions divided by the total number of evaluable patients per disease type. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true incidence rate will be calculated., Up to 3 months
Feasibility, For Cohort I (Arms A \& B) and Cohort II (Arm D): The study will be determined to be feasible if at least 70% of the enrolled patients complete the injection and response evaluation. The feasibility rate will be estimated by the number of patients completed divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true feasibility rate will be calculated. For Cohort II (Arm C): The feasibility rate will be evaluated for the device regarding whether the device will be able to target the affected lymph nodes in at least 50% of the time. The feasibility rate will be estimated by the number of patients completed divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true feasibility rate will be calculated., Up to 3 months|Nodal disease response rate, Defined as a decrease in standardized uptake value (SUV) uptake by 25% at site of injection. Will be estimated by the number of injection sites with responses divided by the total number of injected sites. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 5 days post injection|Cutaneous response rate based upon the modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool score, Will be estimated by the number of injection sites with responses divided by the total number of injected sites. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true overall response rate will be calculated., Up to 7 days post injection|Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated using the CTEP active version of the CTCAE. The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns., Up to 3 months
Apoptosis in response to intratumoral injection, Will assess using morphology (evidence of necrosis), measurement by immunohistochemistry of Ki67 (a marker of cell proliferation) and cleaved Caspace-3., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the safety of in vivo in host drug sensitivity testing in patients with breast cancer and patients with lymphoma (nodal, extranodal masses, or cutaneous lesions).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of in vivo in host drug sensitivity testing in this patient population.

II. To identify targeted therapies with potential activity in relapsed lymphoma and metastatic breast cancer.

III. To evaluate the adverse event profile within each patient population.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess for apoptosis in response to intratumoral injection using known biomarkers (e.g., by morphology, Ki-67, caspace-3 assay as a marker of early apoptosis).

II. To evaluate intratumoral biomarkers, intratumoral cell populations, and distribution, identify potential biomarkers that correlate with response to therapy based on individual therapies.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo FDG-PET and receive saline intralesionally on day 1. Patients also receive up to five additional injections of gemcitabine hydrochloride, romidepsin, belinostat, carfilzomib, copanlisib hydrochloride, nivolumab, trastuzumab, daratumumab, obinutuzumab, pembrolizumab, or rituximab intralesionally per investigator on day 1. Beginning 5 days later, patients with nodal/extranodal mass undergo restaging FDG-PET and biopsy (if clinically feasible). Within 3-7 days, patients with cutaneous disease undergo restaging photography and biopsy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.