Tandem Melphalan and Autolog. SCT in MM Patients 60 to 70 Years of Age With and Without Induction Chemotherapy
Patients 60 to 70 years of age with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma were prospectively randomized between 4 cycles of anthracycline/dexamethasone-based induction chemotherapy (A1) or only 2 x 4 days of dexamethasone (A2). A reference arm included patients who could not be randomized (B). Tandem melphalan 140 mg/m² (MEL140) with autologous transplantation was scheduled for all patients.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Anthracycline/dexamethasone-based induction chemotherapy|DRUG: Dexamethasone for control of symptoms|DRUG: Tumor-reduction chemotherapy and stem cell mobilization|PROCEDURE: Stem cell apheresis|DRUG: Tandem high-dose chemotherapy (melphalan)|PROCEDURE: Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Event free survival, Calculated according to the method of Kaplan and Meier, From randomization to 10 years follow up
Overall survival, Calculated according to the method of Kaplan and Meier, From randomization to 10 years follow up|Rate of remission (Evaluation of the overall response rate), Evaluation of the overall response rate. Overall repose is defined as complete response + partial response. The definition of remission followed the criteria of Bladé., After last therapy to at least 6 weeks thereafter|Quality of remission (Evaluation of the best response), Evaluation of the best response. Response is evaluated after induction therapy, tumor-reduction chemotherapy and stem cell mobilization and each high-dose chemotherapy. The definition of remission followed the criteria of Bladé., After last therapy to at least 6 weeks thereafter|Short and long time toxicity according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Examination of the maximum grade of toxicity according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), From randomization until 2 years after last therapy|Cytogenetic examination (Univariate analysis according to the method of Kaplan and Meier. Multivariate analysis according to the method of Cox´s proportional hazards regression analysis.), Examination of cytogenetic abnormalities wich are of major importance to define longer or shorter survival. Univariate analysis according to the method of Kaplan and Meier. Multivariate analysis according to the method of Cox´s proportional hazards regression analysis., From randomization to 10 years follow up
In arm A1, patients received 4 cycles of conventional induction therapy with anthracycline/dexamethasone-based regimens. Specified in the protocol were vincristine/doxorubicin/dexamethasone (VAD), idarubicin/dexamethasone (ID) and cyclophosphamide/doxorubicin/dexamethasone (CAD). In arm A2, patients were planned to receive only dexamethasone 40 mg orally on days 1-4 and 8-11 for symptom control before stem cell mobilization. For the patients in arm B, a maximum of 6 cycles of induction chemotherapy was allowed. Following this, the treatment was identical for all patients. For stem cell mobilization, an age-adjusted IEV-regimen with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) was recommended. The target dose for stem cell collection was 6 x 10E+6 CD34 (cluster of differentiation 34)-positive cells/kg (2 transplants and one back-up). The standard dose for each transplantation was 2 x 10E+6 CD34-positive cells/kg. High-dose melphalan at a total dose of 140 mg/m² (MEL140) was given in two doses of 70 mg/m² on days -3 and -2. Stem cell transplantation (SCT) was performed on day 0. A second MEL140 course was planned two months after the first. Regular bisphosphonate treatment was recommended.