Post-Mastectomy Shoulder Pain And Lymphedema Responses To Ga-As Laser Versus Microcurrent Electrical Stimulation
the aim of this study is to investigate the effect of GA-AS laser versus microcurrent on post-mastectomy shoulder pain and lymphedema.
Post Mastectomy Lymphedema
OTHER: Ga-As Laser|OTHER: Microcurrent Electrical Stimulation|OTHER: traditional therapy
pain intensity, pain intensity will be measured by visual analogue scale, up to twelve weeks|Lymphedema volume, lymphedema volume will be measured by measuring the circumference of each segment of the limb between two consecutive circumferences as a truncated zone. The volume of the segment was calculated as V=h(C12 +C1C2+C22 )/12π, where V is the volume of the segment, C1 and C2 are the circumferences at the ends of the segment, and h is the distance between them (segment length), up to twelve weeks
Breast cancer is extremely rare before the age of 25. It reaches a high incidence in the decade from 40 to 50 and continuous to increase in the frequency into old age. Mastectomy is the traditional approach to remove the entire breast once the diagnosis was confirmed. The most common cancers are lung cancer in men and breast cancer in women, however despite the large numbers of people affected by cancer there is very little literature on the role of physiotherapists in cancer care. After mastectomy and the accompanying excision or radiation of adjacent axillary lymph nodes a patient is at risk of developing upper extremity lymphedema, shoulder pain and loss of shoulder motion.low-level laser light waves penetrate deeply into the skin, they optimize the immune responses of our blood. This has both anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects. It is a scientific fact that light transmitted to the blood in this way has positive effects throughout the whole body, supplying vital oxygen and energy to every cell .Electrical stimulation is based on the fact that human body has an endogenous bioelectric system that enhances healing of bone fracture, soft tissue lesions and decreasing post-operative pain. The external current may serve to mimic the failed natural bioelectric currents, so that post-operative pain can be inhibited. It was reported that microcurrent electrical neuromuscular stimulation (MENS) is better in enhancing cellular physiology processes than other current of higher amplitude, microcurrent is effective in the management of open wounds, inflammation and pain. sixty patients will be randomly allocated to three groups; first one will receive laser+ traditional therapy, second one will receive microcurrent + traditional therapy and third one will receive traditional therapy three times a week for three months.