Dexmedetomidine Alleviates Postoperative Delirium After Brain Tumor Resections
Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common complication, and the incidence rate is about 25% in non cardiac surgery. Previous studies have reported that the total incidence of neurological pod ranged from 10% to 22%. Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is an a-2 adrenergic agonist for sedation. This kind of drug has little effect on respiratory function, is easy to wake up and has analgesic effect. It is a commonly used perioperative adjuvant drug. However, for neurosurgical patients with brain tumors, the role of DEX in POD is not clear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of DEX on POD in neurosurgical brain tumor surgery.
Dexmedetomidine|Postoperative Delirium
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine|DRUG: 0.9% saline
The incidence of postoperative delirium, Postoperative delirium is assessed by the combination of the Richmond Anxiety Scale (RASS) and the Confusion assessment method for intensive care unit (CAM-ICU) or the 3-minute diagnostic interview for CAM (3D-CAM) as applicable.

Delirium consists of four main characteristics: acute onset of a change in mental status or a fluctuating level of consciousness, inattention, disorganized thinking and an altered level of consciousness. The patient was diagnosed as delirious if both the first and second features were present, and either the third or fourth was present.

In the ICU, the delirium assessment was performed in two steps. The arousal level was first assessed by RASS. If the patient was not responsive to verbal stimuli (i.e. RASS score ≤-4), the remaining delirium assessment was aborted, and the patient was recorded as comatose. When the RASS score was greater than or equal to 3, delirium was evaluated using the CAM-ICU. Patients in general ward were evaluated by 3D-CAM., postoperative 5 day
Pain score, Numerical Rating Scales, ranging from 0 to 10 points, with 10 representing the worst imaginable pain., within 5 days after surgery|Sleep quality, Quality of sleep was assessed by the Richards Campbell sleep questionnaire (RCSQ) and with a 0-100-mm visual analog scale, with higher scores indicating better sleep quality., within 3 days after surgery|Quality of recovery from surgery, Postoperative quality of recovery was assessed through the Quality of Recovery 15 item, 1 day after surgery|Intraoperative cardiovascular event., Including: hypotension was defined as systolic blood pressure \<95 mm Hg or less than 30% below baseline; hypertension was defined as systolic blood pressure \> 180 mm Hg or more than 30% above baseline; bradycardia was defined by heart rate \<40 bpm, and tachycardia was defined by heart rate \>100 bpm., From the study drug infusion to the end of surgery.
Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common complication, and the incidence rate is about 25% in non cardiac surgery. Previous studies have reported that the total incidence of neurological pod ranged from 10% to 22%. Dexmedetomidine (DEX) is an a-2 adrenergic agonist for sedation. This kind of drug has little effect on respiratory function, is easy to wake up and has analgesic effect. It is a commonly used perioperative adjuvant drug. However, for neurosurgical patients with brain tumors, the role of DEX in POD is not clear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of DEX on POD in neurosurgical brain tumor surgery.