Combined Simvastatin and Albumin Paclitaxel in Treating ES-SCLC Patients Relapsed From 1st Chemotherapy
This Phase II study was designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of albumin paclitaxel in combination with simvastatin compared with treatment with albumin paclitaxel alone in ES-SCLC patients relapsed from first-line chemotherapy. Participants will be divided in a 1:1 ratio to receive either albumin paclitaxel (4 cycles) + simvastatin (10 months) or albumin paclitaxel (4 cycles) until progressive disease (PD) as assessed by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or symptomatic deterioration.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Albumin Paclitaxel|DRUG: Simvastatin
Disease control rate (DCR), To assess disease control rate (DCR) after treatment., 6 weeks
Overall response rate (ORR), To assess best overall response rate (ORR) after treatment., 6 weeks|Progression-free survival (PFS), To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) treated with paclitaxel + simvastatin or with paclitaxel alone., 12 weeks|Overall survival (OS), To estimate overall survival (OS) of patients with ES-SCLC., 24 weeks|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events (AE) as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, To evaluate the toxicity profile., 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To assess disease control rate (DCR) after treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To assess best overall response rate (ORR) after treatment. II.To evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with extensive stage-small cell lung cancer (ES-SCLC) treated with albumin paclitaxel + simvastatin or with albumin paclitaxel alone.

III.To estimate overall survival (OS) of patients with ES-SCLC. IV. To evaluate the toxicity profile of albumin paclitaxel + simvastatin.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I.To evaluate biomarkers correlatives. II.To explore the mechanism of albumin paclitaxel + simvastatin in the treatment of chemotherapy-resistant participants with ES-SCLC.

OUTLINE: Patients are divided into two arms. ARM A: Participants received intravenous infusions of albumin paclitaxel 260 milligrams per square meter (mg/m\^2) on Day 1 of every 21-day cycle in combination with oral simvastatin (20mg daily) until persistent radiographic PD as assessed by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or symptomatic deterioration.

ARM B:Participants received intravenous infusions of albumin paclitaxel 260 mg/m\^2 alone on Day 1 of every 21-day cycle until persistent radiographic PD, symptomatic deterioration, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor.