Molecular Imaging of Gastric Cancer Metastatic Lymph Nodes with 99mTc-3PRGD2 Probe.
Surgical lymph node dissection is the key to advanced gastric cancer. In recent years, after the overall implementation of standard D2 dissection, lymph node dissection for gastric cancer began to explore the direction of D1+ again. Current clinical studies of gastric cancer lymph node dissection based on intraoperative fluorescence navigation show that non-tumor specific lymph node fluorescence navigation surgery can only increase the total number of lymph nodes detected and ensure the completion of the dissection but not the accuracy. The sensitivity and specificity of the tracer metastatic lymph nodes are 56.3% (410/728), respectively. Specificity 46.1% (2669/5785). Tumor specific tracing of positive lymph nodes is the key to achieve accurate lymph node dissection for gastric cancer. Although tumor specific tracers are developing rapidly and related clinical studies are gradually being carried out, there are few reports on specific clinical studies on lymph node metastasis, suggesting that lymph node tracing is still a difficult problem. Previous basic studies have suggested that integrins play an important molecular biological role in the process of tumor lymph node metastasis. In the early stage, 99mTc3PRGD2 SPECT-CT showed good lymph node imaging effect in lung cancer and breast cancer, and 99mTc-oncoFAPI PET-CT also showed good lymph node imaging effect in gastric cancer. Therefore, this study aims to explore the application prospect of 99mTc3PRGD2 and other probes in molecular imaging of gastric cancer metastatic lymph nodes and guidance of lymph node dissection and tracer, so as to accumulate preliminary clinical data for exploring corresponding fluorescent probes for intraoperative tracer of gastric cancer lymph nodes.
Stomach Neoplasm|Lymph Node Metastasis|RADIONUCLIDE IMAGING
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 99mTc-3PRGD2 Spect-CT scan
Sensitivity and specificity of 99mTc-3PRGD2 SPECT-CT imaging of metastatic lymph nodes in gastric cancer., the sensitivity and specificity were determined according to pathological finding after operation.
Surgical lymph node dissection is the key to advanced gastric cancer. In recent years, after the overall implementation of standard D2 dissection, lymph node dissection for gastric cancer began to explore the direction of D1+ again. Current clinical studies of gastric cancer lymph node dissection based on intraoperative fluorescence navigation show that non-tumor specific lymph node fluorescence navigation surgery can only increase the total number of lymph nodes detected and ensure the completion of the dissection but not the accuracy. The sensitivity and specificity of the tracer metastatic lymph nodes are 56.3% (410/728), respectively. Specificity 46.1% (2669/5785). Tumor specific tracing of positive lymph nodes is the key to achieve accurate lymph node dissection for gastric cancer. Although tumor specific tracers are developing rapidly and related clinical studies are gradually being carried out, there are few reports on specific clinical studies on lymph node metastasis, suggesting that lymph node tracing is still a difficult problem. Previous basic studies have suggested that integrins play an important molecular biological role in the process of tumor lymph node metastasis. In the early stage, 99mTc3PRGD2 SPECT-CT showed good lymph node imaging effect in lung cancer and breast cancer, and 99mTc-oncoFAPI PET-CT also showed good lymph node imaging effect in gastric cancer. Therefore, this study aims to explore the application prospect of 99mTc3PRGD2 and other probes in molecular imaging of gastric cancer metastatic lymph nodes and guidance of lymph node dissection and tracer, so as to accumulate preliminary clinical data for exploring corresponding fluorescent probes for intraoperative tracer of gastric cancer lymph nodes.