Perioperative Chemotherapy With Bevacizumab for Colorectal Carcinomatosis French Part of the Main Bev-IP Study
Selected patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) from colorectal cancer (CRC) benefit from cytoreductive surgery (CRS) combined with intraperitoneal chemoperfusion (IPC). However, even after optimal cytoreduction, systemic and locoregional recurrence are common. Perioperative chemotherapy with bevacizumab (BEV) may improve the outcome of these patients. The BEV-IP study is a phase II, single-arm, open-label study aimed at patients with colorectal or appendiceal adenocarcinoma with synchronous or metachronous PC. This study evaluates whether perioperative chemotherapy including BEV in combination with CRS and oxaliplatin-based IPC results in acceptable morbidity and mortality (primary composite endpoint). Secondary endpoints are treatment completion rate, chemotherapy-related toxicity, pathological response, progression free survival, and overall survival.
Colorectal Carcinomatosis
PROCEDURE: Cytoreductive surgery combined with HIPEC|DRUG: bevacizumab and HIPEC (Oxaliplatin 360 mg/m2).
Number of participants with treatment related Adverse events grade IIIb or higher grade as assessed by Dindo-Clavien classification, Major morbidity (grade IIIb or higher grade complication according to Dindo-Clavien classification), Until 3 months after surgery and intraperitoneal chemotherapy
Number of participants with treatement related Adverse events less than grade IIIb as assessed by Dindo-Clavien classification, Minor morbidity (less than grade IIIb complication according to Dindo-Clavien classification)., Until 3 months after surgery and intraperitoneal chemotherapy|Potential chemotherapy related morbidity, Adverse events will be described using MedDRA terms (version 18.0) and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 5.0), During the first 60 postoperative days|Overall survival, calculated from date of surgery until death, 24 months after finishing the adjuvant chemotherapy|Progression free survival, Time interval between date of surgery and disease progression or death, 24 months after finishing the adjuvant chemotherapy|Pathological gross response of peritoneal tumour deposits to neoadjuvant combination chemotherapy with bevacizumab, Scored with a 3 level regression scale, Day 1 after termination of the cytoreductive surgery|Quality of life assessment, Using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaires, 24 months after finishing the adjuvant chemotherapy|Treatment completion rate, Percentage of patients receiving all planned courses, Day 1 after termination of adjuvant chemotherapy|Quality of life assessment, Using SF 36 questionnaires, 24 months after finishing the adjuvant chemotherapy
Selected patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) from colorectal cancer (CRC) benefit from cytoreductive surgery (CRS) combined with intraperitoneal chemoperfusion (IPC). However, even after optimal cytoreduction, systemic and locoregional recurrence are common. Perioperative chemotherapy with bevacizumab (BEV) may improve the outcome of these patients. The BEV-IP study is a phase II, single-arm, open-label study aimed at patients with colorectal or appendiceal adenocarcinoma with synchronous or metachronous PC. This study evaluates whether perioperative chemotherapy including BEV in combination with CRS and oxaliplatin-based IPC results in acceptable morbidity and mortality (primary composite endpoint). Secondary endpoints are treatment completion rate, chemotherapy-related toxicity, pathological response, progression free survival, and overall survival.