Proton Beam Therapy to Treat Esophageal Cancer
Assess progression-free survival and overall survival of proton beam therapy (PBT) for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer, and to assess patient-reported outcomes of PBT for esophageal cancer at 6 months following chemoradiation and physician-reported toxicity of PBT for esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Adenocarcinoma Of Esophagus
RADIATION: Proton beam therapy
Progression-free survival, Assess progression-free survival (PFS) of PBT for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer.

PFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier estimate., 5 years|Overall survival, Assess overall survival (OS) of PBT for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer.

OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier estimate., 5 years|Progression-free survival, Assess progression-free survival (PFS) of PBT for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer.

PFS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier estimate., 2 years|Overall survival, Assess overall survival (OS) of PBT for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer.

OS will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier estimate., 2 years
Patient-reported outcomes of PBT for esophageal cancer at 12 months following chemoradiation., We will calculate descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, etc.) for all QOL data (EQ-5D, SF-12) in addition to other PROs (depressive symptoms, social support) at each evaluation period. Univariate tests will explore the associations among QOL and PROs using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Fisher's exact test for correlation. Changes over time in QOL and PROs will be analyzed utilizing repeated-measures modeling techniques (repeated measures analysis of covariance)., 1 year|Quality of life, Patient-reported outcomes of proton beam therapy (PBT) for esophageal cancer at 6 months following chemoradiation

We will calculate descriptive statistics (mean, standard deviation, etc.) for all QOL data (EQ-5D, SF-12) in addition to other PROs (depressive symptoms, social support) at each evaluation period. Univariate tests will explore the associations among QOL and PROs using analysis of variance (ANOVA) and Fisher's exact test for correlation. Changes over time in QOL and PROs will be analyzed utilizing repeated-measures modeling techniques (repeated measures analysis of covariance)., 6 months|Toxicity, We will compare the proportion of ≥Grade 3 gastrointestinal or pulmonary toxicity events against historical controls utilizing Binomial tests for proportion., 1 year
Assess progression-free survival and overall survival of proton beam therapy (PBT) for patients with resectable vs. unresectable esophageal cancer, and to assess patient-reported outcomes of PBT for esophageal cancer at 6 months following chemoradiation and physician-reported toxicity of PBT for esophageal cancer.