Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) for Treatment of Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD)
RATIONALE: Mycophenolate mofetil added to immunosuppressive treatment regimens may be effective in treating newly diagnosed chronic graft-versus-host disease caused by stem cell transplantation. It is not yet known whether immunosuppressive treatment regimens are more effective with or without mycophenolate mofetil in treating chronic graft-versus-host disease.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying whether the addition of mycophenolate mofetil improves the efficacy of immunosuppressive treatment regimens in patients with newly diagnosed chronic graft-versus-host disease.
Cancer
DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: placebo
Cure of Chronic GVHD Without Resorting to Secondary Systemic Therapy, Withdrawal of all systemic immunosuppressive treatment after resolution of chronic GVHD, before death or onset of recurrent malignancy, 2 years
Definitive Absence of Efficacy Success, Administration of secondary systemic therapy for chronic GVHD, death during primary therapy, or onset of recurrent malignancy or bronchiolitis obliterans during primary therapy, 2 years|Open Label Systemic Treatment Because of Inadequate Response to Primary Therapy, Administration of any systemic therapy other than the immunosuppressive agents used for initial treatment, because of persistent or progressive chronic graft-versus-host disease, 2 years|Bronchiolitis Obliterans, Development of bronchiolitis obliterans during treatment, within 4 years|Recurrent Malignancy, Development of recurrent malignancy after enrollment in the study, within 4 years|Non-relapse Mortality, Death without prior development of recurrent malignancy, within 4 years|Death or Recurrent Malignancy, Death due to any cause or development of recurrent malignancy at any time after enrollment, within 4 years|Death, Death from any cause after enrollment in the study, within 4 years|Withdrawal of Prednisone, Withdrawal of treatment with prednisone after improvement or resolution of chronic GVHD, within 4 years|End of Systemic Treatment, Withdrawal of all immunosuppressive treatment without recurrent malignancy, within 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the efficacy of immunosuppressive treatment regimens with vs without mycophenolate mofetil in patients with newly diagnosed chronic graft-vs-host disease.
* Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, prospective, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to organ involvement of chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) (single organ vs multiple organs) and transplant center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

All patients receive usual therapy for chronic GVHD comprising oral prednisone twice daily and oral cyclosporine, oral tacrolimus or oral sirolimus twice daily until 2 weeks after the first evidence of improvement of symptoms of chronic GVHD.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral mycophenolate mofetil twice daily.
* Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily. In both arms administration of the study drug continues for 3 months after completion of prednisone and cyclosporine, tacrolimus or sirolimus in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline and then every 3 months.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 3-5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 230 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 3 years.