Phase II Trial of FOLFOX6, Bevacizumab and Cetuximab in Patients With Colorectal Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab and cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of colorectal cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving combination chemotherapy together with bevacizumab and cetuximab may kill more tumor cells. This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy together with bevacizumab and cetuximab works in treating patients with stage IV colorectal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Adenocarcinoma of the Rectum|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Signet Ring Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: fluorouracil
Severe Adverse Event (SAE) Rate, The primary objective is to evaluate safety in all treated patients specifically the rate of serious adverse events which were defined as grade 5 events, grade 4 hemorrhage or thrombosis or bowel perforation, The duration of the study|Progression Free Survival Rate, From randomization to the first documented disease progression
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, feasibility of administration, response rates and progression free survival among chemotherapy naïve patients with advanced colorectal cancer treated with FOLFOX6 plus bevacizumab and cetuximab (FBC).

II. To determine the survival of patients with advanced colorectal cancer treated with FBC.

III. To determine the safety of the current regimen in selected patients who have had prior MoAb therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1 in weeks 1-8. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, and leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours on days 1 and 2 of weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7. Courses repeat every 8 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed for survival.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40-67 patients will be accrued for this study.