Biomarkers in Tumor Tissue Samples From Patients With Newly Diagnosed Neuroblastoma or Ganglioneuroblastoma
This research trial studies biomarkers in tumor tissue samples from patients with newly diagnosed neuroblastoma or ganglioneuroblastoma. Studying samples of tumor tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors identify and learn more about biomarkers related to cancer.
Ganglioneuroblastoma|Localized Resectable Neuroblastoma|Localized Unresectable Neuroblastoma|Regional Neuroblastoma|Stage 4 Neuroblastoma|Stage 4S Neuroblastoma
OTHER: Cytology Specimen Collection Procedure|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Factors currently used for risk-group assignment (DNA content, MYCN copy number, and tumor histology), Life tables, Kaplan-Meier survival curves, log-rank tests, and Cox regression will be used to explore the relationship of laboratory variables to outcome., Up to 3 years|Prevalence of 1p, 11q, 14q, and 17q allelic status, These biological variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN amplification, INSS stage, age, ploidy, and histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome., Up to 3 years|MYCN copy number by quantitative PCR, These biological variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN amplification, INSS stage, age, ploidy, and histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome., Up to 3 years|Expression pattern of neurotrophin-related genes in diagnostic neuroblastoma tumors, These biological variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN amplification, INSS stage, age, ploidy, and histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome., Up to 3 years|Presence of rare tumor cells in biological specimens by RT-PCR, These biological variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN amplification, INSS stage, age, ploidy, and histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome., Up to 3 years|Database of the known biologic prognostic factors for patients on therapeutic studies, During the testing for treatment effect in Phase III trials, the biologic prognostic factors may be needed for adjustment in the Cox regression model-building process., Up to 3 years
MYCN status per tumor, Cross tabulations of MYCN status per tumor versus MYCN status per blood will be generated, the percentage concordant and the percentage discordant will be calculated, and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses will be performed. Kaplan-Meier curves of MYCN status per blood will be generated, and a logrank test comparison performed. The prognostic ability of MYCN status per tumor versus MYCN status per blood will be tested in a multivariable Cox model., Up to 3 years|MYCN status per blood, Cross tabulations of MYCN status per tumor versus MYCN status per blood will be generated, the percentage concordant and the percentage discordant will be calculated, and ROC analyses will be performed. Kaplan-Meier curves of MYCN status per blood will be generated, and a logrank test comparison performed. The prognostic ability of MYCN status per tumor versus MYCN status per blood will be tested in a multivariable Cox model., Up to 3 years|Incidence of OMA, Descriptive analysis will be performed., Up to 3 years|Incidence of spinal cord compression, Descriptive analysis will be performed., Up to 3 years|Presentation with multifocal primary tumors, Descriptive analysis will be performed., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To prospectively analyze the factors that are currently used for risk-group assignment (v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene neuroblastoma derived homolog \[MYCN\] copy number by fluorescent in situ hybridization \[FISH\], deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] content by flow cytometry, and tumor histology using the International Neuroblastoma Pathologic Classification System) in neuroblastoma tumors at the time of diagnosis.

II. To maintain a reference bank containing clinically and genetically characterized frozen tumor tissue, tumor DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA), histology slides and paraffin blocks, neuroblastoma-derived cell lines, patient serum and paired normal DNA obtained at the time of diagnosis, at the time of second-look surgery and at the time of relapse for future research studies.

III. To prospectively analyze 1p, 11q, 14q and 17q allelic status, MYCN copy number by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR); and the expression pattern of neurotrophin-related genes in diagnostic neuroblastoma tumors, and assay for the presence of rare tumor cells in biological specimens by reverse transcription (RT)-PCR; these biological variables will be analyzed for independent clinical significance compared to MYCN amplification, International Neuroblastoma Staging System (INSS) stage, age, ploidy, and histologic variables in predicting either response to treatment or outcome.

IV. To build a database of the known biologic prognostic factors for patients on therapeutic studies.

V. To serve as a Registry for neuroblastoma patients whose tumors demonstrate clinical and genetic features defined as ?Low Risk? for treatment failure in the absence of adjuvant therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To prospectively analyze the concordance between detection of MYCN amplification in tumor samples and quantitative detection of MYCN DNA in serum, and to analyze the prognostic significance of MYCN amplification as detected in serum samples.

II. To build a database that includes information regarding the presentation and natural history of neuroblastoma-associated health problems including but not limited to opsoclonus myoclonus ataxia (OMA) and/or spinal cord compression.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of blood, tissue, and bone marrow samples for analysis via RT-PCR, quantitative PCR, flow cytometry, and FISH.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.