Functional Evaluation After Breast Reconstruction With a Minimally Invasive Latissimus Dorsi Flap Following Radical Surgery for Breast Cancer.
This study will quantify the muscle function after breast reconstruction using a minimally invasive latissimus dorsi flap.

The proposed measures (clinical, isokinetic, electrophysiology, function and quality of life questionnaires) allow a precise, multidisciplinary, objective evaluation of the capacity of the latissimus dorsi muscle before surgery, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after surgery. A function deficit is expected (decreased moment of adduction and internal rotation) 3 months after surgery and a return to the preoperative state 6 months and 12 months after surgery.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgery for unilateral breast reconstruction
Measurement of the muscular moment, Measurement of the muscular moment of shoulder adduction preoperatively and at 3 months on an isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex®, New York, USA) at an adduction speed of 60 degrees per second during a maximal voluntary contraction, During the 12 months post operation
Evaluation of muscle moments, Evaluation of muscle moments, isokinetic measurements, performed on an isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex®, New York, USA) at different speeds (isometric, 30, 60 and 120 degrees per second) of adduction and internal rotation after flap surgery minimally invasive latissimus dorsi (measurements before surgery, at 3, 6 and 12 months), During the 12 months post operation|Comparison of muscular moments, Comparison of muscular moments on the operated and "healthy" sides at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. Perfomed on an isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex®, New York, USA) at different speeds (isometric, 30, 60 and 120 degrees per second) of adduction and internal rotation after flap surgery minimally invasive latissimus dorsi, During the 12 months post operation|Calculation of adduction deficit, Calculation of adduction deficit is defined as a relative difference of more than 5% compared to the measurement taken preoperatively. Patients who completed at least one physiotherapy session post-surgery and before 3 months will be compared to the others., During the 12 months post operation|Measurement of surface electromyographic activity, Measurement of surface electromyographic activity (sEMG) of the latissimus dorsi, teres major and pectoralis major muscles is measured before surgery, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-surgery, During the 12 months post operation|Functional clinical impact and quality of life, Functional clinical impact and quality of life is evaluated by DASH questionnaire. These questionnaire will be administrated before surgery, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-surgery.

The DASH self-questionnaire is an upper limb function assessment scale. It offers the ability to perform 23 activities, the severity of the symptoms and optional sports or instrumental and professional activity., During the 12 months post operation|Functional clinical impact and quality of life, Functional clinical impact and quality of life is evaluated by BREAST-Q questionnaire. These questionnaire will be administrated before surgery, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months post-surgery.

The BREAST-Q questionnaire is a self-administered quality of life questionnaire assessing satisfaction after breast reconstruction., During the 12 months post operation
This study will quantify the muscle function after breast reconstruction using a minimally invasive latissimus dorsi flap.

The proposed measures (clinical, isokinetic, electrophysiology, function and quality of life questionnaires) allow a precise, multidisciplinary, objective evaluation of the capacity of the latissimus dorsi muscle before surgery, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months after surgery. A function deficit is expected (decreased moment of adduction and internal rotation) 3 months after surgery and a return to the preoperative state 6 months and 12 months after surgery.