Memory and Attention Adaptation Training-Geriatrics (MAAT-G)
Cancer-related cognitive dysfunction (CRCD) affects up to 75% of patients receiving chemotherapy and older adults are at greater risk of developing CRCD, which can negatively affect their functional independence and quality of life. Memory and Attention Adaptation Training (MAAT) is a promising treatment for CRCD that improves perceived cognition in younger cancer survivors, but needs to be adapted for older adults to address their unique needs. The proposed study will adapt MAAT for older adults using feedback from key stakeholders (older adults with cancer and their caregivers), and test usability of the intervention.
Cancer-related Problem/Condition|Cognitive Impairment
BEHAVIORAL: MAAT-G
System Usability Scale (SUS), The System Usability Scale is a metric to evaluate the usability of the intervention (Patients) and is scored 0 (minimum) to 100 (maximum). Higher scores indicate greater usability. A mean score \>68 is consisted with optimal usability., Post-Intervention (up to 2 weeks)|Experience Interview, Semi-structured interview with patients and caregivers about experience with MAAT-G. (Patients and caregivers) Qualitative Analysis of transcripts from participant/caregiver interviews will be analyzed for themes on intervention benefit and barriers and facilitators., Post-Intervention (up to 2 weeks)
Cancer-related cognitive dysfunction (CRCD) is a significant problem, affecting up to 75% of patients receiving chemotherapy. Older adults are at greater risk of developing CRCD which can negatively affect their functional independence and quality of life. Memory and Attention Adaptation Training (MAAT) is a promising tool that improves perceived cognition in younger cancer survivors with CRCD. For older adults with cancer, MAAT could be delivered alongside chemotherapy to mitigate the development of CRCD (when risk is highest) and CRCD-related effects on functional independence for older adults. However, MAAT will require adaptation to meet the unique needs of older adults to optimize usability and efficacy for this population. The overarching goal of this project is to adapt MAAT for older adults using input from patient and caregiver stakeholders (phase I), and subsequently gather data on the preliminary effects of the adapted MAAT (MAAT-Geriatrics \[G\]) on perceived cognition, objective cognitive measures and functional independence. The provided details pertain to Phase I of the study, which will focus on the adaptation process and usability testing.