Docetaxel and Carboplatin With or Without Trastuzumab Before Surgery in Treating Women With Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel and carboplatin, use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. It is not yet known whether docetaxel and carboplatin are more effective with or without trastuzumab in treating breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving docetaxel together with carboplatin and trastuzumab before surgery works compared to docetaxel and carboplatin alone before surgery in treating women with locally advanced breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab
Evaluate the Objective Response Rate of Patients Treated With Taxotere/Carboplatin With or Without Herceptin Preoperatively., Objective response rate of patients treated with Taxotere/carboplatin with or without Herceptin preoperatively. Objective response equals the combination of complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and marginal response (MR).

Tumor size was assessed by (1) physical examination, (2) mammography and (3) MRI. 5 response groups: complete response (CR), partial response (PR), marginal response (MR), stable disease (SD) \& disease progression (DP). Pathologic response assigned into 2 groups: pCR and non-pCR. pCR-no evidence of residual invasive disease in specimen., 5 years
Clinical Tumor Response by Physical Exam and Imaging Studies, 5 years|Tumor Response Assessment, Measured by physical examination compared to breast mammography and MRI assessment, 5 years|Clinico-histologic Predictors of pCR (Pathologic Complete Response), 5 years|Pathologic Nodal Status, According to Primary Tumor Response Pathologic lymph node status N0 Axillary and other nearby lymph nodes do not have cancer (when looked at under a microscope) N1 Micrometastases (very small clusters of cancer) OR 1-3 axillary lymph nodes have cancer AND/OR Internal mammary nodes have tiny amounts of cancer found on sentinel node biopsy N2 4-9 axillary lymph nodes have cancer OR Internal mammary nodes have cancer, but axillary lymph nodes do not have cancer N3 10 or more axillary lymph nodes have cancer OR Infraclavicular (under the clavicle) nodes have cancer OR Internal mammary nodes have cancer plus 1 or more axillary lymph nodes have cancer OR 4 or more axillary lymph nodes have cancer plus internal mammary nodes have cancer or micrometastases found on sentinel node biopsy OR Supraclavicular (above the clavicle) nodes have cancer, 5 years
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel and carboplatin, use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. It is not yet known whether docetaxel and carboplatin are more effective with or without trastuzumab in treating breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving docetaxel together with carboplatin and trastuzumab before surgery works compared to docetaxel and carboplatin alone before surgery in treating women with locally advanced breast cancer.