A Study to Evaluate the Tolerability, Safety, and PK of AST-201 in Patients With GPC3-positive Advanced Solid Tumors
This is the first in human trial clinical study of AST-201 in patients with GPC3-positive advanced solid tumors. This study aims to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic properties, and preliminary efficacy of AST-201 across various tumor types.
Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Liver Neoplasms
DRUG: AST-201
Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), 4 weeks
Pharmacokinetics (PK), Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Cycle 1, Days 1-2 (cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetics (PK), Time to Reach Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax), Cycle 1, Days 1-2 (cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetics (PK), Area Under the Curve (AUC), Cycle 1, Days 1-2 (cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetics (PK), Clearance Rate, Cycle 1, Days 1-2 (cycle is 28 days)|Pharmacokinetics (PK), Half-Life (t1/2), Cycle 1, Days 1-2 (cycle is 28 days)|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of subjects with the best overall response (BOR) assessed as complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). ORR assessed by the Investigator and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the proportion of subjects with the BOR assessed as CR, PR, or stable disease (SD). DCR assessed by the Investigator and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Duration of Response (DOR) is defined as the period from the initial assessment date confirming CR or PR to disease progression (PD) or death. DOR assessed by the Investigator and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Time to Progression (TTP) is defined as the period from the initial administration of the investigational product (IP) to disease progression (PD). TTP assessed by the Investigator and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the period from the initial administration of the IP to disease progression (PD) or death. PFS assessed by the Investigator and evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.|Preliminary Antitumor Efficacy, Overall Survival(OS) is defined as the period from the initial administration of the IP to death., Baseline through the end of each 28-day cycle, up to 6 months.
AST-201 is a novel aptamer drug conjugate (ApDC) investigational agent with demonstrated preclinical efficacy in GPC3-positive tumor models. This Phase 1 clinical study aims to investigate the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of AST-201, targeting GPC3-positive advanced solid tumors. The study consists of two parts: Phase 1a and Phase 1b.

In Phase 1a, AST-201 will be administered in a dose escalating manner across cohorts of patients to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D). In this dose-escalation phase, patients will receive AST-201 as a single agent, with safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles assessed. In Phase 1b, patients will receive AST-201 at the RP2D across specific GPC3-positive tumor types to further explore safety and efficacy. This expansion phase focuses on assessing anti-tumor efficacy and overall safety in a broader patient population. Data collected from this study will support future clinical development of AST-201 in GPC3-positive advanced solid tumors.