Letermovir for the Prevention of Cytomegalovirus Reactivation in Patients With Hematological Malignancies Treated With Alemtuzumab
This phase II trial studies how well letermovir works for the prevention of cytomegalovirus reactivation in patients with hematological malignancies treated with alemtuzumab. Patients receiving treatment with alemtuzumab may experience cytomegalovirus reactivation. Letermovir may block cytomegalovirus replication and prevent infection.
B-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma|Primary Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Sezary Syndrome|T-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Letermovir
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) Reactivation, Defined as the proportion of patients who experience CMV reactivation (CMV deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\] by real time polymerase chain reaction \> 500 IU/mL) during prophylaxis period among all patients who receive \>= 90% of planned letermovir doses. The rate will be provided with 95% binomial confidence interval., During prophylaxis treatment (3 months after last dose of alemtuzumab)
Number of Participants With Adverse Events Grade 3 or Above, Adverse event data will be described and graded per the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 guidelines. The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns, especially for grade 3 or above adverse events. To assess tolerability, will also capture the proportion of patients who go off treatment due to adverse events., Up to 30 days post treatment, an average of 5 months|Development of CMV Disease, Clinically significant CMV reactivation be determined per the Disease Definitions Working Group of the Cytomegalovirus Drug Development Forum., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated with the method of Kaplan-Meier (KM), where KM curves will be drawn to aid with visualization and estimates provided with 95% confidence intervals., From trial enrollment to the occurrence of progression and death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be estimated with the method of KM, where KM curves will be drawn to aid with visualization and estimates provided with 95% confidence intervals., From trial enrollment to the occurrence of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Genotyping of Mutations in CMV Terminase Complex Genes, CMV DNA sequence analysis to be performed only in subjects with CMV reactivation. Resistance to letermovir will be monitored by retrospective genotypic analysis of the CMV terminase genes in CMV DNA extracts from selected plasma samples collected at the time of diagnosed CMV reactivation. Samples will be analyzed by standard population sequencing technology through an established contract laboratory with validated protocols in place., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the rate of cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation in patients treated with letermovir at 3 months after completion of alemtuzumab therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the tolerability of letermovir in combination with alemtuzumab.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of letermovir for the prevention of clinically significant CMV disease.

III. To estimate the progression free survival of patients in the study population.

IV. To estimate the overall survival of patients in the study population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate mechanisms of antiviral resistance in letermovir prophylaxis failures.

OUTLINE:

Beginning within 7 days of the first administration of standard alemtuzumab, patients receive letermovir orally (PO) (or intravenously \[IV\] over 1 hour if patient is unable to take PO for an extended period of time) daily on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 3 months after the last dose of alemtuzumab in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.