Retro-Auricular Single-Site Endoscopic to Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma
The goal of this non randomized control clinical research study is to compare the cosmetic outcomes and efficiacy of retro-auricular single-site endoscopic thyroid lobectomy and central lymph node dissection against conventional resection.
Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: retro-auricular single-site endoscopic thyroidectomy|PROCEDURE: traditional open surgery thyroidectomy
postoperative cosmetic satisfaction scores, The cosmetic satisfaction score(CSS) was defined as the sum of the scores on questions about the scar. Q1 and Q2 was using a verbal response scale from 1 to 5 (corresponding to decreasing satisfaction). The other four questions, each on a scale of 0 to 3 (again of decreasing satisfaction)., 3 months from surgery
postoperative Vancouver Scar Scale, The Vancouver Scar Scale(VSS) is used for scar assessment. It has six domains: vascularity, pigmentation, pliability, height, pain and itchiness. The maximum score for the sum of the domain scores is 18, which corresponds to the worst scar, while 0 indicates normal skin., 3 months from surgery|postoperative Vancouver Scar Scale, The Vancouver Scar Scale(VSS) is used for scar assessment. It has six domains: vascularity, pigmentation, pliability, height, pain and itchiness. The maximum score for the sum of the domain scores is 18, which corresponds to the worst scar, while 0 indicates normal skin., 1 month from surgery|Intra-operative, peri-operative, post-operative clinicopathologic characteristics, Baseline clinicopathologic characteristics of patients, 1 week from surgery|postoperative cosmetic satisfaction scores, The cosmetic satisfaction score(CSS) was defined as the sum of the scores on questions about the scar. Q1 and Q2 was using a verbal response scale from 1 to 5 (corresponding to decreasing satisfaction). The other four questions, each on a scale of 0 to 3 (again of decreasing satisfaction)., 1 month from surgery
The goal of this non randomized control clinical research study is to compare the cosmetic outcomes and efficiacy of retro-auricular single-site endoscopic thyroid lobectomy and central lymph node dissection against conventional resection.