Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Versus Conventional Radiotherapy in Medically-Inoperable Non-Small Lung Cancer Patients
A multi-centre randomized controlled open-label trial in medically inoperable patients with biopsy-proven early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Eligible and consenting patients will be randomly allocated to receive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) or conventional radiotherapy (CRT) in a 2:1 ratio. Radiotherapy will be administered as soon as possible following randomization and subjects will be followed for 5 years post-randomization for cancer recurrence, toxicity and survival. The primary outcome is local control (LC). The trial will be conducted at 16-20 clinical centres throughout Canada.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT)|RADIATION: Conventional Radiotherapy (CRT)
Local Control, Local control is the absence of local recurrence during the study period. This is the time from randomization to primary tumour failure or marginal failure., 5 years
Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Alive subjects will be censored on the date of last follow-up., 5 years|Disease-Free Survival, Disease-Free Survival is defined as the time from randomization to the earliest recurrence of disease or to death attributed to lung cancer., 5 years|Event-Free Survival, Event-Free Survival is defined as the time from randomization to the earliest documented recurrent disease or death from any cause., 5 years|Lung Cancer-Specific Survival, Lung Cancer-Specific Survival is defined as the time from randomization to death attributable to lung cancer, 5 years|Radiation Treatment-Related Death, Radiation Treatment-Related Death is defined as death occurring between 1 to 12 months following treatment, and caused directly by radiation toxicity attributed to either catastrophic hemorrhage or to severe radiation pneumonitis leading to death, 1 to 12 months|Toxicity, Acute Toxicity will be assessed at 3 months post-randomization and includes fatigue, dyspnea and esophagitis. Late toxicity will be assessed beyond 3 months and up to 5 years and includes radiation pneumonitis, chest wall pain and rib fracture., 5 years|Quality of Life, Impact on quality of life will be assessed with the European Organization for Research in Treatment of Cancer and the Lung Cancer-specific Module 13 questionnaires., 2 years|Cost-Utility, Cost-Utility will be assessed using the European Quality of Life questionnaire in conjunction with the overall survival results, 3 years
A multi-centre randomized controlled open-label trial in medically inoperable patients with biopsy-proven early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Eligible and consenting patients will be randomly allocated to receive stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) or conventional radiotherapy (CRT) in a 2:1 ratio. Radiotherapy will be administered as soon as possible following randomization and subjects will be followed for 5 years post-randomization for cancer recurrence, toxicity and survival. The primary outcome is local control (LC). The trial will be conducted at 16-20 clinical centres throughout Canada.