PAveMenT: Palbociclib and Avelumab in Metastatic AR+ Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This clinical study is aiming to determine the safest doses and schedule for the combination of two drugs named palbociclib and avelumab.

The study will also be investigating how effective the combination is for a subgroup of breast cancer patients whose cancer expresses the androgen receptor (AR) but not the oestrogen (hormone) or HER2 receptors. Palbociclib is a drug used in routine care for hormone-receptor (HR) positive and HER2 negative advanced breast cancer, the most common subtype of breast cancer.

It is possible that the combination of palbociclib and avelumab will be a more effective cancer treatment than each drug separately, but this is unknown and this study is needed to establish the best dosage and schedule of each drug as well as how effective the combination is.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Locally Advanced Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|ER+ Breast Cancer|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Avelumab
Part A: Determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of palbociclib plus avelumab in advanced breast cancer, Define MTD of palbociclib delivered in combination with avelumab, 18 month recruitment period|Part B: Determine the confirmed objective response rate of AR+ TNBC patients treated with palbociclib plus avelumab, Response rate assessed by RECIST 1.1 by local radiology review, Up to 24 month recruitment period
Determine the clinical benefit rate (CR/PR/SD for a minimum of 24 weeks) in AR+ TNBC patients treated with palbociclib plus avelumab, Clinical benefit rate (response or stable disease lasting at least 24 weeks), assessed by RECIST 1.1 by local radiology review., Total 42 month recruitment period|Determine the median PFS in AR+ TNBC patients treated with palbociclib plus avelumab, Progression-free survival, calculated from day 1 of study treatment to the date of radiological disease progression or death from any cause., Total 42 month recruitment period|Assess the safety and tolerability of palbociclib plus avelumab by recording adverse events until 30 days after the last dose of either study treatment, Overall safety and tolerability of palbociclib with avelumab. Toxicity will be assessed by CTCAE (version 5) every 4 weeks during study treatment. Adverse events, including serious adverse events, will be recorded until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment with palbociclib or avelumab., Total 42 month recruitment period|Assess overall survival in both parts A & B, Overall survival, calculated from day 1 of study treatment to the date of death from any cause., Total 42 month recruitment period
RR in patients with PAM50 luminal archival primary tumours compared to PAM50 non luminal as a potential alternative companion diagnostic, Objective response rate in PAM50 luminal tumours compared to PAM50 non-luminal tumours, Total 42 month recruitment period|Determine the RR in patients with PD-L1 positive compared to PDL-1 negative tumours, Objective response rate in PDL-1 positive compared to PDL-1 negative tumours, Total 42 month recruitment period|Determine the RR in patients with high versus low mutational load, Objective response rate in high mutational load tumours compared to low mutational load tumours, Total 42 month recruitment period|Determine the RR in patients with high tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the baseline and on-treatment biopsy compared to low TILs., Objective response rate in high TILs tumours compared to low TILs tumours at baseline and at D15, Total 42 month recruitment period|Investigate the significance of ctDNA suppression as a potential biomarker on palbociclib run-in for patients with trackable ctDNA mutations., Exploratory assessment of ctDNA suppression as a potential biomarker of response. Described as the proportion of patients with any suppression among the patients with the best overall response of CR or PR and the non-responders SD or PD patients the 95% CI will be reported as appropriate., Total 42 month recruitment period|Investigate changes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in patients receiving avelumab and palbociclib and the relationship with treatment response, Exploratory assessment of tumour reactive PBMC changes between baseline, D15 and D43., Total 42 month recruitment period|Investigate changes in T-cell and T-cell receptor clonality in patients receiving avelumab and palbociclib and the relationship with treatment response, Exploratory assessment of dynamic changes in T-cell clonality and T-cell receptor clonality between baseline and D15 and disease progression, Total 42 month recruitment period|Evaluate potential biomarkers of sensitivity and resistance to the combination including RB1 mutations, PIK3CA mutations and loss of PTEN expression., Exploratory assessment of biomarkers of response in baseline tumour biopsy, and of acquired resistance in progression biopsies and plasma DNA., Total 42 month recruitment period
This is a phase Ib study designed to confirm the safety and evaluate the efficacy of palbociclib combined with avelumab in AR positive TNBC. It is a multi-centre study design (it will run at several hospitals in the UK).

Palbociclib inhibits two proteins involved in cell growth called cyclin dependent kinase 4 and cyclin dependent kinase 6 (CDK4/6). Inhibiting CDK4/6 stops cells, such as cancer cells, from dividing and multiplying further. Palbociclib is currently approved for the treatment of metastatic HR positive HER2 negative breast cancer, based on good results from large clinical trials. Laboratory studies have shown that palbociclib might be also useful in some patients with triple negative breast cancer, an aggressive subtype of breast cancer that does not express the hormone receptors or HER2 receptor, but only if the cancer is positive for the androgen-receptor (AR).

Avelumab is an immunotherapy drug which does not destroy cancer cells, but tries to stimulate the body's immune system to do this. Avelumab has been tested in a number of different types of tumours including breast cancer, but although approved for use in the USA, it is not currently an approved standard treatment in the UK. The combination of both drugs has never been tested in humans before.

Recruitment to Part A will be conducted only at the Royal Marsden Hospital and Part A of the study will establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and optimal schedule of the combination in any suitable patients with advanced breast cancer. Once this dose schedule has been confirmed, the chosen dose level will be recruited to, aiming to include 27 patients with AR positive TNBC (Part B).Part B will recruit at up to 8 high volume centres. The androgen receptor is not routinely tested for in hospital laboratories, so patients with advanced triple negative breast cancer who are interested in taking part in the study will be asked to provide consent for previously taken cancer samples/biopsies to be sent to the Royal Marsden for testing, to see if the cancer expresses the androgen receptor, which would make participants potentially eligible for part B of the study. Approximately 20% of triple negative breast cancers express AR. This phase of the study will include important translational work using new cancer samples (biopsies) and blood samples to investigate potential "biomarkers" -predictors of efficacy and resistance to the combination.

In Part A of the study, patients with previously treated, advanced breast cancer will have an ECG (heart trace) a CT scan of the body and potentially an MRI scan of the brain and a bone scan (depending upon where the breast cancer is known to have spread to) as well as blood tests to determine if participants are suitable for the study.

During the study participants will receive daily palbociclib tablets and intravenous infusions of avelumab every two weeks. Participants will be monitored with regular blood tests and repeat CT scans every 8 weeks. At whatever time point the treatment stops working, the patient will stop treatment and will be asked to have further blood tests one month later as well as a check up with the study doctor.

In Part B of the study, patients with triple negative histology and positive androgen receptor status tested at the Royal Marsden will be required to have a cancer biopsy before participants start treatment on the study. LIke in Part A, participants will also have an ECG (heart trace)a CT scan of the body and potentially an MRI scan of the brain and a bone scan (depending upon where the breast cancer is known to have spread to) as well as blood tests to determine if participants are suitable for the study. During the study participants will receive daily palbociclib tablets and intravenous infusions of avelumab every two weeks. Participants will be monitored with regular blood tests and check-ups with the study doctor and repeat CT scans every 8 weeks as well as additional blood tests for research. After 3 weeks of treatment, the patient may have a further tumour biopsy, which is optional. At whatever timepoint the treatment stops working, the patient will stop treatment and will be asked to have further blood tests and a further biopsy. Participants will also have a check-up with the study doctor and blood tests one month later.

A maximum of 45 breast cancer patients will be enrolled; up to 18 patients in part A and 27 patients with AR+ triple negative breast cancer in part B.