Brentuximab Vedotin or Crizotinib and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage II-IV Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma
This partially randomized phase II trial studies how well brentuximab vedotin or crizotinib and combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage II-IV anaplastic large cell lymphoma. Brentuximab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, called brentuximab, linked to a toxic agent called vedotin. Brentuximab attaches to CD30 positive cancer cells in targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. Crizotinib and methotrexate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether brentuximab vedotin and combination chemotherapy is more effective than crizotinib and combination chemotherapy in treating anaplastic large cell lymphoma.
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, ALK-Positive|Ann Arbor Stage II Noncutaneous Childhood Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage III Noncutaneous Childhood Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IV Noncutaneous Childhood Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Crizotinib|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Methotrexate
Occurrence of Grade 3+ Non-hematologic Adverse Events, Will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Toxicities will be summarized by individual toxicity counts separated by arm., Up to 60 months|Event Free Survival (EFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the 2-year EFS for each of the treatment regimens., Time from study entry until progressive disease, relapse, or death, assessed up to 2 years
Prognostic Significance of Minimal Residual Disease, Analyzed by estimating the 2-year EFS of negative MRD and positive MRD by arm. Minimal disease was performed using serial assessments of the t(2;5)(p23;q35) NPM-ALK fusion transcript using quantitative RT-PCR. Quantitative RT-PCR was performed by extracting total RNA from peripheral blood specimens. Peripheral blood samples were obtained at baseline, on day 1 of cycle 1, and on day 1 of cycle 2. The normalized copy numbers (NCN) were expressed as copy numbers of NPM-ALK per 104 copies of ABL. Minimal disease (MDD) was defined as \>10 NCN at baseline., Baseline up to progressive disease, relapse, or death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the tolerability of brentuximab vedotin given in combination with standard chemotherapy (anaplastic large cell lymphoma \[ALCL\]99) and to determine the tolerability of crizotinib given in combination with chemotherapy (ALCL99).

II. To estimate the event free survival (EFS) of Arm brentuximab vedotin (BV) and Arm crizotinib (CZ) and contrast these to historical control data.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prognostic significance of minimal disseminated disease (MDD) at diagnosis and minimal residual disease (MRD) as measured by real-time (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in peripheral blood.

OUTLINE: Patients with body surface area (BSA) \< 0.9 m\^2 were non-randomly assigned to Arm BV while it was open and were not eligible for the trial while Arm BV was closed. Patients with BSA \>= 0.9 m\^2 were randomly assigned 1:1 to Arm BV or Arm CZ while both were open and were non-randomly assigned to the open arm while only one of the two arms was open.

ARM BV:

COURSE A (CYCLES 1, 3, AND 5): Patients receive brentuximab vedotin (1.8 mg/dg/dose - Max dose 180 mg) intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1, dexamethasone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or IV on days 1-5, ifosfamide IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5, methotrexate IV over 3 hours on day 1, cytarabine IV over 1-30 minutes every 12 hours for 4 doses on days 4 and 5, and etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 4 and 5.

COURSE B (CYCLES 2, 4, AND 6): Patients receive brentuximab vedotin (1.8 mg/dg/dose - Max dose 180 mg), dexamethasone, and methotrexate as in Arm BV, Course A. Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 4 and 5.

ARM CZ:

COURSE A (CYCLES 1, 3, AND 5): Patients receive crizotinib (165 mg/m\^2) PO BID on days 1-21 and dexamethasone, ifosfamide, methotrexate, cytarabine, and etoposide as in Arm BV, Course A.

COURSE B (CYCLES 2, 4, AND 6): Patients receive crizotinib (165 mg/m\^2) PO BID as in Arm CZ, Course A and dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and doxorubicin hydrochloride as in Arm BV, Course B.

In all arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months.