Community Interventions in Non-medical Settings to Increase Informed Decision Making for Prostate Cancer Screening
The purpose of this study is to develop and evaluate a computer-based decision aid (DA) for use by men considering prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening for prostate cancer. Major medical organizations recommend that men discuss the risks and benefits of this test with their physician before making the decision. This educational, interactive DA will help them prepare for that discussion.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Computer Assisted Decision making tool
Percentage of Patients Who Were Ready to Make a Decision or Were Undecided, Readiness to make a decision based on Stage of Decision-Making Scale (O'Connor A et al, 2008) with five responses ranging from "I haven't thought about it before" to "I have made a decision, and I am not likely to change my mind." Men were classified as having "decided" if they stated either that they had made a decision, but were willing to reconsider, or if they responded that they had made a decision but were unlikely to change their mind. Those "undecided" reported that they had not thought about the decision, or were uncertain., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months|Percentage of Correct Responses in Assessing Mens' Recognition of the Prostate-specific Antigen Test and Knowledge Related to Prostate-cancer Topics., Recognition of test based upon a standard single item and 14 validated questions assessed knowledge of prostate cancer prevalence, risk factors, screening modalities, diagnostic procedures, and treatment-related complications., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months|Mean and Standard Error of a Scale Used to Assess Men's Confidence Level in Making Decisions Related to Prostate Cancer Screening., The confidence in ability to participate in decision making to the extent desired using the 11-item Decision Self-Efficacy Scale was assessed. Respondents were asked to reflect on their confidence level about various aspects of the decision-making process, with response options of "very confident" (score = 4) to "not at all confident" (score = 0). Scores were summed, divided by 11, and multiplied by 25, to arrive at a range of scores from 0 (no self-efficacy) to 100 (higher self-efficacy)., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months|Percentage of Consistency Between Screening Preference and Personal Values Relevant to the Screening Decision, Items were developed to assess the personal importance or relative worth of the advantages and limitations of screening based on focus group themes and published literature. Some to the themes include: importance of information, accuracy of test, potential side effects of treatment., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months
Percentage of Men Who Have Active Decision-making, Collaborative Decision-making, or Passive Decision-making Styles, Assessed through the Control Preferences Scale (Degner LF et al, 1997). Individuals were assessed who should make medical decisions. The active decision-making category included responses where men made the final decision on their own or after considering their doctor's opinions. The collaborative decision-making category included responses where men and their doctors shared the responsibility for the decision. The passive decision-making category included responses where the doctors made the final decision after considering a man's input or that the doctor made the final decision., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months|Mean and Standard Error of a Scale to Measure Decisional Conflict, Measured through the Decisional Conflict Scale (O'Connor AM et al, 2003) by rating statements related to decision making and responding on a five-point scale ranging from "strongly agree' to "strongly disagree". Scales were standardized from 0 (no conflict) to 100 (extreme conflict)., Assessed at baseline and follow-up, up to 10 months
Prostate cancer (CaP) is a formidable public health problem in the US and in industrialized countries worldwide. Methods for primary prevention of CaP are unknown. As a result, early detection has become a mainstay of cancer control efforts. However, there is considerable controversy regarding the efficacy of screening in reducing disease-specific mortality. In light of this uncertainty, major medical organizations, including the National Cancer Institute, currently recommend that men discuss the pros and cons of CaP screening and make individualized screening decisions with their health care providers. However, because of constraints on time during medical encounters, it is not always feasible for providers to engage in in-depth discussions regarding the complexities of this issue. Therefore, interventions to promote informed decision-making (IDM) outside of clinical settings are needed.

In this study, we propose to: (1) develop an interactive computer-based decision aid (DA) to promote IDM for CaP screening; and (2) conduct a randomized controlled worksite trial to evaluate the impact the DA intervention on employed men's ability to make informed decisions regarding CaP. This work is designed to be responsive to recent calls for IDM interventions in community settings among diverse populations. If successful, our findings could validate the effectiveness of DAs to promote IDM for CaP and serve as a model for widespread dissemination, thus improving quality of care.