The Impact of the Oncotype DX® Breast Cancer Assay on Treatment Decisions in a Canadian Population
The main goal of this study is to characterize whether the results of the Oncotype DX® assay affect the physician's treatment recommendations for the adjuvant treatment of women with ER-positive (ER+), early breast cancer (EBC) with 1-3 positive lymph nodes who are potential candidates for chemotherapy, but for whom the benefits of chemotherapy may be uncertain.
Hormone Receptor Positive Malignant Neoplasm of Breast
OTHER: Questionnaires, Oncotype Dx Assay
Change in physicians' treatment recommendations, 2-4 weeks
Change in patient's treatment preference and level of confidence in treatment plan, 2-4 weeks|Change in physicians' level of confidence in the treatment recommendation, 2-4 weeks|Specific chemotherapy and/or hormone therapy regimen received by patient, Assessment of actual adjuvant treatment given to patient after Oncotype DX results available, 4-8 weeks
The Oncotype DX assay has been commercially available in the U.S. since 2004 as a tool to aid a physician's treatment recommendation for a breast cancer patient. While the Oncotype DX assay is currently reimbursed by the Ontario Health Ministry for node-negative EBC, it is not reimbursed for node-positive (N+) patients although the assay has been shown to be both prognostic and predictive of chemotherapy benefit for patients with N+ disease.

The goal of this study is to characterize how the results of the Oncotype DX® assay impact the decision making processes of physicians and patients in a large academic medical center in Ontario by evaluating recommendations for adjuvant therapy within a population of ER+, N+ EBC patients with 1 to 3 positive lymph nodes for whom the benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy is not certain.

Upon consent, the patient will be assigned an ID number. The physician will discuss the patient's treatment alternatives prior to ordering the Oncotype DX assay. After discussion with the patient, the physician will complete a baseline questionnaire indicating the therapeutic strategy he/she would recommend to the patient based upon the available clinical and pathologic data. In addition, the patient will also complete a baseline questionnaire indicating her treatment preference, based on the previous discussion with the physician.

The Oncotype DX assay will be ordered after receipt of the Registration and Confirmation of Eligibility Form and assignment of patient study number. Once the results of the Oncotype DX assay are available, the physician will discuss the results with the patient. Both the physician and the patient will complete separate follow-up post-assay questionnaires after the results of the Oncotype DX assay are known and shared with the patient.

One last form completed by a study manager or coordinator after a treatment plan has been initiated will register the actual treatment administered to the patient.