Irinotecan/Cisplatin With or Without Simvastatin in Chemo-naive Patients With Extensive Disease-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of Simvastatin and Irinotecan/Cisplatin chemotherapy with Irinotecan/Cisplatin chemotherapy alone in Extensive disease-small cell lung cancer.
Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: IP chemotherapy|DRUG: IP chemotherapy plus simvastatin
1-year survival rate, Survival time will be calculated from the date of study treatment start to the date of death.( or date last seen ) Follow - up visits are conducted every 8 weeks to obtain meaningful data on time- to event variables. Assessment will continue until death or 12 months after treatment., every 8 weeks
Tumor Response rate, The response rate will be determined by the number of patients with complete and partial responses according to RECIST criteria 1.1, every 2 cycles or 6 weeks|Progression free survival, Progression free survival will be calculated from the date of study treatment start to the first objective documentation of progressive disease or to the date of death, whichever occurs first., every 2 cycles or 6 weeks.|Toxicity profile, Safety will be evaluated by the frequency, severity, and relationship of adverse event graded by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0 that occur during the treatment and follow up periods., every 3 weeks
Statins (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors) have been used to treat hypercholesterolemia. Besides the lipid lowering effects, they also act as anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer agents. Recently the investigators demonstrated a synergistic cytotoxicity between Simvastatin and Irinotecan in human lung cancer cells. Simvastatin enhances Irinotecan-induced apoptosis by inhibition of proteasome activity. All of these additional actions may counteract harmful effects of smoking-induced chronic inflammation. These properties together with a high safety profile have made Statins more attractive drug for small cell lung cancer (SCLC), the highly smoking-related cancer.

Given the promising preclinical anti-tumor and anti-inflammatory effects of Simvastatin in SCLC, recently the investigators conducted a phase II study of Simvastatin and Irinotecan/Cisplatin (IP) chemotherapy in chemo-naïve- patients with Extensive disease-small cell lung cancer (ED-SCLC). The 1-year survival rate was 39.3%. The median overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) was 11.0 months and 6.1 months, respectively. Overall relative risk (RR) was 75%. The most common toxicity was neutropenia (67%). The efficacy was significantly associated with smoking-status. Compared with never-smokers, ever-smokers had higher RR (40% v 78%, P=0.01) and longer PFS (2.5 months v 6.4 months, P=0.018) and showed a trend toward improved OS (9.0 months v 11.2 months, P=0.095). The effect of smoking on survival was apparent when subdividing ever smokers according to pack-years (PY). Ever-smokers who smoked \> 65 PY showed significantly longer OS compared to ever-smokers who smoked \<= 65 PY or never-smokers (20.6 months v 10.6 months v 9.0 months, log-rank P=0.032). In multivariate analysis, PY \> 65 was predictive for longer survival (hazard ratio) HR=0.377 \[95% CI (confidence interval), 0.157-0.905\]). These findings suggest that the addition of Simvastatin to Irinotecan and Cisplatin improved efficacy in ever-smokers with ED-SCLC. The survival benefit of this combination seems apparent in heavy-smokers.