Total Neoadjuvant Induction and Consolidation CapeOX Plus IMRT With Capecitabine for MRI Defined High-risk Rectal Cancer
This study is designed to test the efficacy and safety of total neoadjuvant induction and consolidation CapeOX plus neoadjuvant intensity modulated radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine for MRI defined high-risk rectal cancer.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Intensity modulated radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Total mesorectal excision
Major adverse events, Adverse events will be graded using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, 3 years
Disease-free survival (DFS), The 3-year DFS will be defined as the percentage of patients alive without local recurrence or distant metastasis of disease at 3 years measured from the date of the administration of treatment., 3 years|Pathological downstaging rate, The pathological result for each patient will be compared with MRI pre-stage and re-stage and downstaging rate will be recorded., 1 year|Compliance rate with neoadjuvant treatment schedule, To measure the compliance rate to the total neoadjuvant treatment schedule., 1 year|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), EORTC QLQ-C30 (Aaronson et al., 1993). The questionnaire assesses health status and quality of life of cancer patients using 30 items grouped in one global scale, five multi-item functioning scales, three symptom scales and six single symptom items.

The items are scored on a four-point Likert scale with higher scores indicating a better level of functioning or a higher level of symptoms. The validity and reliability of the Mandarin versions of the questionnaire have been established., Time0: before neoadjuvant treatment; Time1: at 4 months after the completion of neoadjuvant radiation; Time2: 12 months after Time1; Time3: 24 months after Time1; Time4: 36 months after Time1|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Colorectal Cancer Module 29 (EORTC QLQ-CR29), EORTC QLQ-CR29 (Whistance et al., 2009). The questionnaire measures health-related quality of life in patients with colorectal cancer, using 29 items grouped in four functional scale and 18 symptom scale.

The items are scored on a four-point Likert scale with higher scores indicating a better level of functioning or a higher level of symptoms. The validity and reliability of the Mandarin versions of the questionnaire have been established., Time0: before neoadjuvant treatment; Time1: at 4 months after the completion of neoadjuvant radiation; Time2: 12 months after Time1; Time3: 24 months after Time1; Time4: 36 months after Time1
This phase II trial is studying the efficacy and safety of total neoadjuvant treatment for MRI defined high-risk locally advanced rectal cancer.

MRI imaging features as mrT3c/T3d/T4a/T4b, threatening circumferential resection margin, mrN2 disease or extramural vascular invasion are defined as high-risk factor and proved to associated with unfavorable oncological outcome, especially for distant metastasis. Induction and consolidation chemotherapy plus radiation may increase both systemic and local control. Total neoadjuvant treatment schedule also has advantages as improved patient tolerance, early closure of defunctioning ileostomy etc.

In this study, patients with MRI defined high-risk rectal cancer will receive 3 cycles induction CapeOX, intensity modulated radiotherapy with concurrent capecitabine and 2 cycles consolidation CapeOX and Total mesorectal excision.

The induction chemotherapy related G3-4 toxicity occurred in 42% of patients in GCR-3 trial (23% during RT, 19% during induction chemotherapy). It is hypothesized that the neoadjuvant chemotherapy related G3-4 toxicity rate of the present regimen will be lower than 25% (10% during IMRT, 15% during induction/consolidation chemotherapy). A sample size of 67 achieves 80% power to detect a difference (△P =17%, P1=25%, P0=42%) using a one-sided binomial test. (α= 0.05). If the number of G3-4 toxic event is 21 or less, the hypothesis that P1\>= 42% is rejected. About 10 % loss to follow-up was anticipated, so an additional eight patients will be recruited. The study requires 75 subjects in all.