Study of the Contribution of Mutant p53/YAP Proteins to Therapy Resistance in Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
Multicenter, non-interventional, retrospective/prospective study of a biological nature, on patients affected by head and neck tumors, for which the collection and use of tissue samples is planned for the study of the mutational profile, the transcriptional profile and the proteomic profile.
Head and Neck Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: Culture of organoids
Organoids cultures, Fresh tissue samples collected from surgery at the reference centers will be selected by the pathologist, and stored at 4°C in special media at the reference laboratories. These samples will be evaluated by means of viabilityassays with ATPlite, the ability to form colonies and apoptosis assays (by FACS). For organoids, the response to treatment will be performed by macroscopic analysis, evaluating the size and number of organoids before and after treatment., 60 months
The study aims to characterize molecular networks governed by the mutated protein p53 with a relevant role in the development of local recurrence in head and neck tumors HNSCC, in order to identify the main actors involved in resistance to current therapy and try to develop new more effective therapeutic strategies for head and neck tumors.

Furthermore, the existence of a significant relationship between the time of onset of recurrence and the deregulation of the identified molecular networks will be studied.

This study will therefore allow to:

1. Identify networks associated with the presence of mutation in the TP53 gene relevant in the development of relapse, comparing the tissues of the primary tumor to the respective tissue of the relapse of patients affected by head and neck cancer, by:

   1. expression profiles of coding and non-coding RNAs (retrospective cohort)
   2. mutational profile by NGS (retrospective cohort)
   3. Single cell RNA-sequencing (SC-RNAseq) on samples belonging to the prospective cohort
2. Characterize the molecular mechanisms underlying TP53-dependent networks with a key role in resistance to therapy, using resistance cell systems and in organoid cultures derived from head and neck tumors HNSCC (PDO) (prospective cohort).
3. Identify the best treatment combinations able to target the networks identified as associated with resistance (prospective cohort).
4. To evaluate the response of treatments in vivo using a syngeneic model of head and neck tumors HNSCC (MOC model).