Assessment of Efficacy and Safety in Patients With Non-cancer-related Pain and Opioid-induced Constipation
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of NKTR-118 treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with non-cancer-related pain, including those patients that have inadequate response to laxative therapy (LIR).
Opioid-Induced Constipation (OIC)
DRUG: NKTR-118|DRUG: NKTR-118|DRUG: Placebo
Response (Responder/Non-responder) to Study Drug During Weeks 1 to 12, Responder was defined as having at least 3 spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs)/week with at least 1 SBM/week increase over baseline for at least 9 out of the 12 treatment weeks and 3 out of the last 4 treatment weeks during the double-blind treatment period. An SBM is a bowel movement occurring 24 hours or more since the last use of rescue medication., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)
Response (Responder/Non-responder) to Study Drug in the LIR Subgroup During Weeks 1 to 12, Responder is defined as having at least 3 SBMs/week, with at least 1 SBM/week increase over baseline for at least 9 out of 12 weeks and at least 3 out of the last 4 weeks., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Time (in Hours) to First Post-dose Laxation Without the Use of Rescue Laxatives Within the Previous 24 Hours, 12 weeks|Change From Baseline in Mean Number of Days Per Week With at Least 1 SBM During Weeks 1 to 12, 12 weeks|Change From Baseline in Degree of Straining, A single-item straining question was asked via the eDiary: "How much did you strain during your bowel movement?" Patients responded on a 5 point Likert scale: 1=Not at all; 2=A little bit; 3=A moderate amount; 4=A great deal; 5=An extreme amount. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Stool Consistency (Bristol Stool Scale), Patients rated stool consistency through completion of the BSS after each BM. The 7 stool types are: 1. Separate hard lumps, like nuts (hard to pass); 2. Sausage-shaped, but lumpy; 3. Like sausage, but with cracks on its surface; 4. Like a sausage or snake, smooth and soft; 5. Soft blobs with clear cut edges (passed easily); 6. Fluffy pieces with ragged edges, a mushy stool; 7. Watery, no solid pieces. A positive change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Percent Numbers of Days With a CSBM (Complete Spontaneous Bowel Movement), A single-item question on the completeness of evacuation, developed and validated through 1:1 interviews with OIC patients, was asked via the eDiary: "Did you feel like your bowels were completely empty after the bowel movement?" Patients provided a yes or a no response. A positive change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Mean Spontaneous Bowel Movements/Week, The number of spontaneous bowel movements/week was determined from the patient's eDiary., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Time (in Hours) to First Post-dose Laxation Without the Use of Rescue Laxatives Within the Previous 24 Hours in the Laxative Inadequate Response (LIR) Subgroup, Time to first post-dose laxation without the use of rescue laxatives within the last 24 hours was calculated in hours as: Date/Time of first post-dose laxation without rescue - First dose date/time., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Patient Assessment of Constipation Symptoms Questionnaire (PAC-SYM), The PAC-SYM questionnaire is a 12-item questionnaire that evaluates the severity of symptoms of constipation in 3 domains (stool, rectal, and abdominal symptoms) on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (absent) to 4 (very severe) in the 2 weeks (14 days) prior to assessment. Each domain score is the mean of the non-missing items for that domain. The total score is the mean of all non-missing items (ie, symptoms). The range of the domain or total score is 0 (response is 'absent' for each item) to 4 (response is 'very severe' for each item). A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)|Change From Baseline in Patient Assessment of Constipation Quality of Life (PAC-QOL) Satisfaction Domain, The PAC-QOL scale is a 28-item self-report instrument designed to evaluate the burden of constipation on patients' everyday functioning and well-being in the 2 weeks (14 days) prior to assessment. Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely). The instrument can be used to generate an overall score, but is also reported to assess 4 specific constipation-related domains including: 1) Worries and concerns (11 items), 2) Physical discomfort (4 items), 3) Psychosocial discomfort (8 items), and 4) Satisfaction (5 items). Each domain score is the mean of the non-missing items for that domain. The total score is the mean of all non-missing items. The range of the domain or total score is 0 (response is 'not at all' for each item) to 4 (response is 'extremely' for each item). A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (Week 1) to end of treatment (Week 12)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect and safety of NKTR-118 treatment of opioid-induced constipation in patients with non-cancer-related pain, including those patients that have inadequate response to laxative therapy (LIR).