BLAST MRD AML-1: BLockade of PD-1 Added to Standard Therapy to Target Measurable Residual Disease in Acute Myeloid Leukemia 1- A Randomized Phase 2 Study of Anti-PD-1 Pembrolizumab in Combination With Intensive Chemotherapy as Frontline Therapy in Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well cytarabine and idarubicin or daunorubicin with or without pembrolizumab work in treating patients with newly-diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Chemotherapy drugs, such as cytarabine, idarubicin, and daunorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving induction chemotherapy with pembrolizumab may work better than induction chemotherapy alone in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Post Cytotoxic Therapy|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Daunorubicin Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Idarubicin Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Punch Biopsy
Rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) negative - complete response (CR)/complete remission with incomplete recovery (CRi), MRD will be assessed by multicolor flow cytometry at a central laboratory as an integral biomarker., At time of count recovery after first cycle of consolidation therapy with chemotherapy and pembrolizumab|Rate of MRD-negative CR, At end of induction therapy|Rate of MRD-negative CR, At end of consolidation
Rate of CR/CRi, Will be defined per European LeukemiaNet 2017., At time of count recovery after induction therapy with chemotherapy and pembrolizumab|MRD negativity, At day 14|Rates of complete remission with partial recovery count and hematologic improvement to red blood cells and platelets, Up to end of maintenance|Percentage of patients with MRD-CR using a MRD cutoff of 0.01%, At time of count recovery after first cycle of consolidation therapy|Event-free survival, From randomization to failure to achieve CR/CRi, relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Relapse-free survival (RFS), Median RFS will be estimated with Kaplan-Meier curves with 95% confidence interval calculated based on the Brookmeyer-Crowley method, From first documentation of CR/CRi to either disease relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Duration of response (DOR), Median DOR will be estimated with Kaplan-Meier curves with 95% confidence interval calculated based on the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., From first CR to the date of the first documented relapse or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 35 days from start of treatment
MRD assessment, Will be assessed by duplex sequencing. Library preparation, sequencing, and analysis will be performed with TwinStrand's optimized workflow, and TwinStrand's bioinformatics core will perform all analyses related to assay output., Up to end of consolidation|MRD detection, Will compare duplex sequencing and multiparameter flow cytometry for MRD detection. McNemar's Chi-squared test for paired samples (regular duplex sequencing versus multiparameter flow cytometry and ultra-deep duplex sequencing versus multiparameter flow cytometry) will be used to compare the MRD measures., Up to end of consolidation|Immune cell subsets, Will assess immune cell subsets and correlate with response to combine chemotherapy and anti PD-1 directed therapy using mass cytometry. All data will be analyzed and graphs generated using the DVS Cytobank software (Cytobank). Will also measure CD47 levels on leukemic blasts prior to and after chemotherapy and pembrolizumab application to see whether CD47 expression levels correlate with responders versus non-responders and whether expression levels change at different times of therapy. Statistical analyses of the frequency of CD8 positive (+), CD4+, Foxp3 T regulatory cells (Tregs), CD8+/Foxp3+ Tregs, central memory effector (TCM)/ memory cells that re-express CD45RA (TEMRA), effector memory (TEM)/TEMRA, the percentage of Ki67 and GzmB in PD-1+, Eomes+ CD8 T-cells to compare changes over time from baseline to several time-points will be performed by using mixed effects modeling with a Benjamini-Hochberg correction to control for false discovery rates., At time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|PD-1 and PD-L1 expression, An association of clinical response with the expression of PD-L1 acute myeloid leukemia bone marrow cells will be assessed by a Pearson Chi-square test on a 2 x 2 table of frequencies. The dependent variable will be defined as response (yes versus no), and quantitative immunofluorescence categories (negative versus positive) will be the independent variables. Will also monitor the dynamic change of PD-L1 expression over the course of treatment and its correlation with clinical response. Longitudinal measurements of PD-L1 will be examined using mixed-effects modeling., At time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|Genomic deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of tumor cells, Will use massively parallel sequencing technology to sequence the genomic DNA of tumor cells (leukemic bone marrow) and normal cells (germline) obtained from patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Mutational load by whole-exome sequencing will be correlated with clinic-pathological parameters such as response to treatment, survival and immune infiltrating profile, and T cell repertoire diversity and clonality., Baseline|Protein signatures, Will investigate protein signatures associated with response and efficacy using the Olink inflammation biomarker panel., At time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|Ribonucleic acid (RNA) integrity of formalin fixed paraffin-embedded RNA, Will be assessed using either the Agilent 4200 TapeStation and High Sensitivity RNA ScreenTape or the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer and RNA 6000 Pico Chip. Either method will employ the region analysis method to determine the percentage of RNA in the sample that is \> 200 nt for each sample to be processed., Up to time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing, Will perform high-throughput sequencing of the TCR V beta CDR3 regions on ﬂow cytometrically sorted T-cell subsets to assess the effect of immunotherapy on the diversity of the T-cell repertoire and assess for correlation to clinical outcomes. TCR diversity and clonality will be calculated using a software by Adaptive Technologies. T-cell repertoire diversity and clonality will be correlated with clinic-pathological parameters such as response to treatment, survival, and immune infiltrating profile, as well as genomic profiles (total mutation burden, non-synonymous mutation burden, predicted neoantigen burden, clonal mutation burden and clonal predicted neoantigen burden). TCR profile generated from treatment-refractory tumors at the time of disease progression will be compared to data from pre-treatment tumor samples to explore the TCR repertoire evolution of these tumors under therapeutic pressure., Up to time of relapse, assessed up to 3 years|Gut microbiome, Analysis of microbiome communities will be performed in R. Pairwise differences in temporal variability across body sites will be made using Mann-Whitney U test, whereas pairwise differences among response groups performed using Student's t-test. Correlation between microbial/metabolome changes with immune-checkpoint expression and kinetics of immune cell subset recovery and programming in the standard of care and experimental arm will be evaluated. As a marker of mucosal immunity, changes in immune cell content within stool samples in patients that experience colitis or gastrointestinal graft versus host disease will be compared to suitable controls., At time of post-consolidation cycle 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the percentage of patients with minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission (CR) (MRD-CR), or with minimal residual disease (MRD) negative complete remission with incomplete recovery (CRi) (MRD-CRi) as measured by flow cytometry at the end of first cycle of consolidation therapy with chemotherapy + pembrolizumab (MK-3475) and compare between the two study arms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the rate of complete remission (CR)/complete remission with incomplete count recovery (CRi) as defined per European Leukemia Net 2017 response criteria at time of count recovery after induction therapy with chemotherapy + pembrolizumab (MK-3475) (Dohner et al., 2017).

II. Rates of complete remission with partial recovery count (CRh) and hematologic improvement (HI) to red blood cells and platelets.

III. Assess the rates of MRD negativity at day 14, MRD-negative CR at end of induction therapy and MRD negative CR after last consolidation cycle.

IV. Assess event free survival (EFS), measured from randomization to failure to achieve CR/CRi, relapse or death from any cause, and relapse free survival (RFS), calculated as the time from first documentation of CR/CRi to either disease relapse or death from any cause.

V. Assess the duration of response (DOR, defined as the time from first CR/CRi to the date of the first documented relapse or death, whichever occurs first) and overall survival (OS), defined as time from randomization to death from any cause.

VI. Assess safety endpoints including proportion of patients who develop severe toxicity as defined in the protocol.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. MRD assessment by duplex sequencing (DS) and comparing DS and multiparameter flow cytometry for MRD detection as an exploratory biomarker.

II. Assessment of immune-checkpoint expression and dynamic change of immune cell subsets in response to the combination of checkpoint-inhibition and backbone combination in acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

III. High-throughput sequencing of the T-cell receptor (TCR) Vb CDR3 regions on ﬂow cytometrically sorted t-cell subsets to assess the effect of immunotherapy on the diversity of the t-cell repertoire and assess for correlation to clinical outcomes.

IV. Investigation of protein signatures and ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures associated with response and efficacy using O-link cytokine panel and RNA-sequencing (seq), respectively.

V. Determination of mutational load by whole exome sequencing to assess for correlation with clinical outcomes, immune infiltrating profile, and T cell repertoire diversity and clonality.

VI. Correlate gut microbiome at baseline and changes in the microbiome with clinical response, both in standard chemotherapy and immunotherapy/chemotherapy therapy settings.

VII. MRD assessment using duplex sequencing strategy for circulating cell-free tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and correlation with long-term outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

INDUCTION PHASE:

ARM I: Patients receive cytarabine via continuous intravenous (IV) infusion on days 1-7 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-3 of a 28-35 day cycle. Patients who have evidence of residual leukemia receive cytarabine via continuous IV infusion over days 1-5 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2 for an additional cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning day 8, patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a CR or a CRi may undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) per physician discretion or continue to consolidation therapy.

ARM II: Patients receive cytarabine via continuous IV infusion on days 1-7 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-3 of a 28-35 day cycle. Patients who have evidence of residual leukemia receive cytarabine via continuous IV infusion over days 1-5 and idarubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes or daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2 for an additional cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a CR or a CRi may undergo HSCT per physician discretion or continue to consolidation therapy.

CONSOLIDATION THERAPY:

ARM I: Within 4 weeks of remission status documentation, patients receive high-dose cytarabine (HiDAC) IV over 1-3 hours every 10-12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 for a total of 6 doses and pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles with HiDAC repeat every 28-42 days and cycles with pembrolizumab repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who remain in CR or CRi receive up to 3 additional cycles of HiDAC and pembrolizumab in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity and continue to maintenance therapy.

ARM II: Within 4 weeks of remission status documentation, patients receive HiDAC IV over 1-3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 3, and 5 for a total of 6 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who remain in CR or CRi receive up to 3 additional cycles of HiDAC in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY:

ARM I: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 25-40 minutes. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients also undergo a skin punch biopsy during screening and undergo bone marrow biopsy and aspiration, collection of blood samples, and echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening and on study. Patients may optionally undergo computed tomography (CT) scan during screening.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 months for up to 5 years. Patients who undergo HSCT are also followed up at 100 days post-transplant.