BKM120 as Second-line Therapy for Advanced Endometrial Cancer
This is a prospective multi-center, open-label, single arm, Phase II study to investigate the safety and efficacy of BKM120 in patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma whose disease progressed on or after a first-line antineoplastic treatment. Patients will receive BKM120 orally at a dose of 100 mg/day. Availability of tumor specimen (either archival tissue or a fixed fresh biopsy) is mandatory for assessment of the PI3K (Phosphatidylinositol 3 Kinase (PI3K) pathway activation status.
Advanced Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: BKM120
Best Overall Response Rate (BORR) According to PI3K Activation Pathway Status, BOR was determined based on investigator assessment of overall lesion response using RECIST criteria guidelines. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 24 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to PI3K Activation Pathway Status, PFS is defined as the time from start of treatment to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not had an event, PFS will be censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 24 months|Overall Survival (OS) According to PI3K Activation Pathway Status, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from start of treatment to the date of death due to any cause. If a patient is not known to have died, survival was censored at the last date of contact. From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 months, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 months
This is a prospective multi-center, open-label, single arm, Phase II study to investigate the safety and efficacy of BKM120 in patients with advanced endometrial carcinoma whose disease progressed on or after a first-line antineoplastic treatment. Patients will receive BKM120 orally at a dose of 100 mg/day. Availability of tumor specimen (either archival tissue or a fixed fresh biopsy) is mandatory for assessment of the PI3K (Phosphatidylinositol 3 Kinase (PI3K) pathway activation status.