CompassHER2-pCR: Decreasing Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer Patients After Pre-surgery Chemo and Targeted Therapy
This trial studies how well paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab work in eliminating further chemotherapy after surgery in patients with HER2-positive stage II-IIIa breast cancer who have no cancer remaining at surgery (either in the breast or underarm lymph nodes) after pre-operative chemotherapy and HER2-targeted therapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Trastuzumab and pertuzumab are both a form of "targeted therapy" because they work by attaching themselves to specific molecules (receptors) on the surface of tumor cells, known as HER2 receptors. When these drugs attach to HER2 receptors, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the tumor cell may be marked for destruction by the body's immune system. Giving paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab may enable fewer chemotherapy drugs to be given without compromising patient outcomes compared to the usual treatment.
Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Docetaxel|PROCEDURE: Lumpectomy|PROCEDURE: Mastectomy|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Pertuzumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab Emtansine
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), Events include recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast tumor, recurrence of locoregional invasive breast tumor, and distant recurrence. Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and estrogen receptor (ER) status. Greenwood method will be used to estimate the 95% confidence interval for 3-year rate., Up to 3 years after end of treatment
Invasive disease-free survival (IDFS), Events include recurrence of ipsilateral invasive breast tumor, recurrence of locoregional invasive breast tumor, distant recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, and second primary non-breast invasive cancer (other than squamous or basal cell skin cancer). Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., Up to 3 years after the end of treatment|Distant disease-free survival (DDFS), Events include distant recurrence and second primary non-breast invasive cancer (other than squamous or basal cell skin cancer). Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., Up to 3 years after the end of treatment|Distant relapse-free survival (DRFS), Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., U to 3 years after the end of treatment|Recurrence-free interval (RFI), Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., Up to 3 years after the end of treatment|Overall survival (OS), Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., From date of surgery until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years after the end of treatment|Event-free survival (EFS), Survival curve estimated using Kaplan-Meier method in the overall analysis population and by pretreatment clinical stage and ER status. The analysis will be descriptive and there will be no statistical test., Up to 3 years after the end of treatment|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. All treatment-emergent and baseline adverse events and hematological/biochemical toxicities based on laboratory measurements, as well as drug related AEs, will be summarized by NCI CTCAE v5.0 worst grade. The incidence of deaths and treatment-emergent serious adverse events (defined as number of patients experiencing the AE divided by all treated patients) will be summarized using binominal proportions and binomial exact 95% confidence intervals. The incidence of adverse events leading to discontinuation of protocol therapy will be summarized and listed as well., Up to 1 week after cycle 4 (all patients) and/or up to cycle 13 post-surgery (Arm A only) (each cycle is 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if 3-year recurrence-free survival (RFS) is greater than 92% among clinical stages II or IIIa patients with HER2-positive breast cancer who achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) (ypT0/is ypN0) after preoperative therapy with 12 weeks of a taxane, trastuzumab (or Food and Drug Administration \[FDA\] approved biosimilar) and pertuzumab (THP x 12).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine 3-year IDFS (invasive disease-free survival), DDFS (distant disease-free survival), DRFS (distant relapse-free survival), RFI (recurrence-free interval), OS (overall survival) and breast cancer-specific survival in patients who achieve pCR (and by pretreatment clinical stage). (Secondary Clinical Objective) II. To determine 3-year EFS (event-free survival) in all patients from time of study registration. (Secondary Clinical Objective) III. To evaluate safety and tolerability for all patients during the pre-operative phase and for patients who attain pCR and de-escalate therapy (Arm A) until the completion of post-surgery protocol assigned therapy (i.e. until the end of trastuzumab and pertuzumab \[HP\] therapy). (Secondary Clinical Objective) IV. To evaluate the association of estrogen receptor (ER) status in the untreated primary tumor with pathologic response and with long-term survival outcomes (including RFS, EFS, IDFS, DDFS, DRFS, RFI, OS, and breast cancer-specific survival). (Secondary Correlative Objective) V. To evaluate the associations of detection of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in the blood at baseline with pCR. (Secondary Correlative Objective) VI. To evaluate the association of detection of CTCs in the blood at baseline, after 3 weeks of THP, after 12 weeks of THP (before surgery), after surgery before any additional therapy, and after completion of HER2-targeted therapy with RFS in patients who achieve pCR or not. (Secondary Correlative Objective)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine 3-year RFS, IDFS (invasive disease-free survival), DDFS (distant disease-free survival), DRFS (distant relapse-free survival), RFI (recurrence-free interval), OS (overall survival) and breast cancer-specific survival in patients who do not achieve pCR (and by pretreatment clinical stage). (Exploratory Clinical Objective) II. To determine the pathologic response to THP neoadjuvant therapy, as assessed by residual cancer burden (RCB). (Exploratory Clinical Objective) III. To determine the association between residual cancer burden (RCB) and all described standardized definitions for efficacy end points (STEEP) criteria outcomes. (Exploratory Clinical Objective) IV. To determine the false negative rate (FNR) of limited staging procedures (defined as sentinel lymph node biopsy \[SLNB\] plus removal of clipped node) in patients who undergo such procedures with a planned axillary lymph node dissection (ALND). (Exploratory Clinical Objective) V. To determine axillary pCR rates as a function of the burden of disease at presentation as determined on pre-treatment ultrasound (US) and the axillary staging technique (SLNB plus ensuring removal of clipped node versus ALND). (Exploratory Clinical Objective) VI. To evaluate the associations between plasma tumor cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) tumor-specific mutations (baseline and after therapy) with pathologic response and long-term outcomes (including RFS, EFS, IDFS, DDFS, DRFS, RFI, OS, and breast cancer-specific survival). (Exploratory Correlative Objective) VII. To evaluate the associations between tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and immune activation gene signatures in the baseline tumor with pathologic response and long-term outcomes (including RFS, EFS, IDFS, DDFS, DRFS, RFI, OS and breast cancer-specific survival). (Exploratory Correlative Objective) VIII. To determine the frequency of change in intrinsic subtype between pretreatment tumor specimen and residual disease at the time of surgery. (Exploratory Correlative Objective) IX. To evaluate the associations between DNA copy number, DNA mutations, ribonucleic acid (RNA) expression and protein expression in the baseline tumor and changes from baseline to post-THP therapy with pathologic response and long-term outcomes (including RFS, EFS, IDFS, DDFS, DRFS, RFI, OS, and breast cancer-specific survival). (Exploratory Correlative Objective)

OUTLINE:

PRE-OPERATIVE/NEOADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients receive either paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8 and 15, or docetaxel IV on day 1 at the discretion of the treating oncologist. Patients also receive trastuzumab IV on day 1 or days 1, 8, and 15, and pertuzumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SURGERY: Within 42 days after last dose of neoadjuvant therapy, patients undergo standard of care lumpectomy and/or mastectomy.

POST-OPERATIVE/ADJUVANT THERAPY: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients with pCR after surgery receive trastuzumab and pertuzumab IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also undergo standard of care radiation therapy and receive hormone therapy if appropriate.

ARM B: Patients with remaining tumor after surgery receive standard of care trastuzumab emtansine for 14 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive additional standard of care chemotherapy, as well as hormone therapy if appropriate.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2-5 years, then annually for 5-15 years from date of surgery.