ADSTILADRIN (=INSTILADRIN) in Patients With High-Grade, Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) Unresponsive Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC)
Previous multi-dose Phase I and Phase II clinical studies have demonstrated that ADSTILADRIN is a safe and effective treatment for BCG-refractory and recurrent NMIBC. This Phase III study is designed to expand those observations using a high dose of ADSTILADRIN in patients that are "BCG Unresponsive" which refers to patients with high-grade NMIBC who are unlikely to benefit from and should not receive further intravesical BCG.
Superficial Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ADSTILADRIN
Number of Patients With a Complete Response Rate Based on Patients With Carcinoma in Situ (CIS), With or Without Concomitant High-grade Ta or T1 Papillary Disease., A patient in the CIS cohort was judged to have achieved CR where urine cytology was reported as normal, atypical, degenerative, reactive, inflammatory, or nonspecific AND cystoscopy was reported as normal or with findings that did not include evidence of low-grade or high-grade recurrence. Bladder biopsy, if performed (not mandatory), demonstrated an absence of low-grade or high-grade recurrence., 12 Months
Durability of Complete Response in Patients With CIS (With or Without Concomitant Ta or T1 Papillary Disease) Who Achieve a Complete Response., Durability of complete response (CR) was defined as the time from first observed CR to the documented treatment failure. Patients without treatment failure were censored at the last disease assessment not showing treatment failure, where treatment failure was defined as high-grade disease recurrence, disease progression, or death, whichever occurred earlier., Up to 57 months|Rate of Event-free Survival, Where Event-free Survival is Defined as High-grade Recurrence Free (HGRF) Survival in Patients With High-grade Ta or T1 Disease (Without Concomitant CIS), Complete response rate will be measured by determining the number of patients without recurrence of high-grade disease using results from urine cytology, cystoscopy, and biopsy of the bladder. Incidence of HGRF survival at Months 3, 6, 9, and 12, and every 3 months up to Month 24, and then at Months 36, 48, and 57., up to 57 months|Durability of High-grade-recurrence-free Survival in Patients With High-grade Ta or T1 Papillary Disease (With or Without Concomitant CIS), HGRF survival was defined as the time from the first dose to the first recurrence of high-grade disease (including muscle-invasive disease progression and death due to any cause). Patients without high-grade disease recurrence were censored at the last disease assessment not showing high-grade disease recurrence., Up to 57 months|Incidence of Cystectomy at 12 Months, 2 Years and 5 Years, The incidence of cystectomy is described as the proportion of patients undergoing radical cystectomy for any reason after the first dose, within 12 months, 2 years and 5 years., 60 Months|Overall Survival Rate in All Patients, Overall survival rate was defined as the time from the first dose to death due to any cause. Patients who were still alive were censored at the last date the patient was known to be alive. Overall survival rate is a Kaplan-Meier estimate of the survivor function at each specific time point. The 95% CI is calculated using the Greenwood's formula with a log-log transformation. Percentage is calculated using the number of patients in the column heading as the denominator., 60 Months|Anti-adenoviral Antibody Levels for Correlation to Response Rate, Measurement of anti-adenoviral antibody levels at each dosing period, withdrawal, and at 12 months were done. A patient was considered to have a positive immunogenic response in anti-adenoviral antibodies if a post-baseline titration demonstrated a greater than a 2-fold dilution increase from baseline.

The table represent data at any time during the 12 months period, which means that the patients were included in the Yes group if they at any measurement during the trial had a 2-fold dilution increase from baseline., 12 Months|Safety of ADSTILADRIN, The type, incidence, relatedness and severity of treatment emergent adverse events of ADSTILADRIN as assessed by NCI-CTCAE V4.03 were monitored., 60 Months|Durability of Response During the Long-term Follow-up Period., Durability will be measured by determining the number of patients without recurrence of high-grade disease using results from urine cytology, cystoscopy, and biopsy of the bladder if clinically indicated., Up to 60 Months
Recombinant IFN alpha2b has pleiotropic effects that contribute to antitumor activity in Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC). ADSTILADRIN is a non-replicating adenovirus vector harboring the human IFN alpha2b gene. When combined with the excipient Syn3, intravesical administration of the rAd-IFN results in transduction of the virus into the epithelial cell lining in the bladder. The IFN alpha2b gene is incorporated into the cellular DNA resulting in the synthesis and expression of large amounts of IFN alpha2b protein. Clinical studies have confirmed that IFN alpha2b protein can be measured in the urine of patients treated with ADSTILADRIN within 24 hours after dosing.