Emapalumab Prevention of CAR-T Cell Associated Toxicities
This research study involves assessing the impact of emapalumab as preventative management of CAR-T related cytokine release syndrome in participants with Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL).

The research study involves the following study interventions:

* Fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (Lymphodepleting Chemotherapy)
* Axicabtagene Ciloleucel
* Emapalumab
Large B-cell Lymphoma|Relapsed Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Primary Mediastinal Large B-cell Lymphoma|High-grade B-cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Emapalumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|DRUG: Axicabtagene Ciloleucel
Incidence of grade 2+ CRS per ASTCT, Assessed using American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT). All participants will be monitored and assessed for grade 2+ cytokine release syndrome (CRS) for 24 months after post treatment., Day -1 to 24 months post treatment
Rate and severity of ICANS as per ASTCT, Assessed using American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT). The rate and severity of immune cell associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) within the first 30 days of infusion., 30 days|Objective response rate (ORR), The incidence of either a complete response or a partial response by Lugano. All subjects that do not meet the criteria for an objective response by the analysis data cutoff date will be considered non-responders., Day -1 to 24 months post treatment
Duration of response (DOR), Among subject who experience an objective response the date of their first objective response to disease progression per Lugano or death regardless of cause. Subjects not meeting the criteria for progression or death by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date and their response will be noted as ongoing., From First Objective Response until date of first documented disease progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months post treatment|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The time from the axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion date to the date of disease progression per Lugano or death from any cause. Subjects not meeting the criteria for progression by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date., From Day 0 until date of first documented disease progression or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months post treatment|Overall survival (OS), The time from axicabtagene ciloleucel infusion to the date of death. Subjects who have not died by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last contact date., From Day 0 until documented date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months post treatment
This is a phase 2 multi-center, open label study that is evaluating the safety and efficacy of emapalumab in preventing toxicities associated with axicabtagene ciloleucel in subjects with second- or third-line large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

A phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved emapalumab for the participants specific disease, but it has been approved for other uses.

The U.S. FDA has approved axicabtagene ciloleucel for the participants specific disease.

This research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment including collection of T cells (leukapheresis), lymphodepleting chemotherapy, treatment with emapalumab and axicabtagene ciloleucel, and follow-up evaluations.

Once study treatment is completed, the participants will be followed for up to 24 months.

It is expected that about 28 people will take part in this research study.