DIetary REstriction as an Adjunct to Neoadjuvant ChemoTherapy for HER2 Negative Breast Cancer
Preclinical studies provide strong support for the concept that fasting evokes resistance to multiple forms of stress. Fasting reduces plasma levels of growth factors and modulates intracellular nutrient sensing systems, thereby diverting energy from growth to maintenance. Accordingly, the currently available preclinical evidence suggests that short-term fasting protects normal cells against the perils of chemotherapy. In contrast, cancer cells are not protected, as a result of their self-sufficiency in growth signals. This phenomenon is termed Differential Stress Resistance (DSR). DSR reduces the severity of toxic side-effects of chemotherapy and interestingly, it simultaneously renders cancer cells more vulnerable to chemotherapeutics. Importantly, extensive preclinical evidence and preliminary clinical data indicate that a specifically designed very low calorie, low amino acid substitution diet ("Fasting Mimicking Diet, FMD") has effects on cancer therapy that are very similar to those of fasting. This study aims to evaluate the impact of the FMD on tolerance to and efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with stage II or III breast cancer.
Fasting Mimicking Diet|Breast Cancer|Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy|Pathological Complete Response
OTHER: Fasting mimicking diet
The percentage of patients with grade III/IV toxicity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (NCI CTCAE) v4.03., Phase II, 2 years|The percentage of pCR., Phase III, 4 years
Clinical response measured by MRI (RECIST1.1) after 4 cycles chemotherapy., 4 years|Grade I/II side effects of chemotherapy according to NCI CTCAE v4.03., 4 years|Metabolic (Glucose, insulin, insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGF-BP3), free thyroxin (FT4), triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH)) and inflammatory response (CRP) to chemotherapy., 4 years|DNA damage, apoptosis, immunology and nutrient sensing system activity in the tumor., 5 years|Patient's quality of life (using EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-BR23 questionnaires), burden of therapy noted by a visual analogue scale (VAS) (Distress Thermometer) and differences of Illness Perceptions (B-IPQ)., 4 years|Long term efficacy of treatment (DFS, OS)., 4years|Hormone receptor percentage, Ki67 and immunologic tumor profile and tumor/stroma ratio as predictive biomarker, 4 years|SNPs used as biomarker to predict treatment outcome., 5 years
Protein profiles and cytokines used as biomarker to predict treatment outcome, 4 years|Quantification of chemotherapy-induced DNA damage in leukocytes (with γ-H2AX modification and comet assay)., 3years|Quantification of nutrient sensing system gene expression (with western blot)., 3 years
Preclinical studies provide strong support for the concept that fasting evokes resistance to multiple forms of stress. Fasting reduces plasma levels of growth factors and modulates intracellular nutrient sensing systems, thereby diverting energy from growth to maintenance. Accordingly, the currently available preclinical evidence suggests that short-term fasting protects normal cells against the perils of chemotherapy. In contrast, cancer cells are not protected, as a result of their self-sufficiency in growth signals. This phenomenon is termed Differential Stress Resistance (DSR). DSR reduces the severity of toxic side-effects of chemotherapy and interestingly, it simultaneously renders cancer cells more vulnerable to chemotherapeutics. Importantly, extensive preclinical evidence and preliminary clinical data indicate that a specifically designed very low calorie, low amino acid substitution diet ("Fasting Mimicking Diet, FMD") has effects on cancer therapy that are very similar to those of fasting. This study aims to evaluate the impact of the FMD on tolerance to and efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in women with stage II or III breast cancer.