Risk Adapted Beacopp Regimen for Standard and High Risk Hodgkin Lymphoma
.This study is trying to address change of chemotherapy dosage according to individual patient response to initial cycles of chemotherapy in order to reduce cumulative dose of chemotherapy.The study includes patients with early unfavorable and advanced hodgkin lymphoma. Patients with low risk were started with standard beacopp and only high risk patients were started with escalated beacopp.Following 2 cycles of therapy the patients were reassessed.Based on scintigraphy results decision was made regarding further therapylative chemotherapy for early responders and maximize dose intensity for late responders.
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodular Sclerosis|Mixed Cellularity|Lymphocyte Depletion|Lymphocyte Rich
PROCEDURE: interim therapy scintigraphy study gallium scan or PET/CT|PROCEDURE: "interim gallium or PET/CT"
Patients were eligible if they had early unfavorable disease or patients who presented with stage III or IV disease .Pt assigned to receive 6 cycles of Bleomycin Etoposide, Doxorubicin, Cyclophosphamide Procarbazine, Prednisone (BEACOPP) or increased dose BEACOPP. (IDB). Patient with Stage I or II with ³4 sites of disease, age ³50, ESR³50 "B" symptoms lymphocyte depleted histology "E" site, or bulky disease were defined as early unfavorable disease and were given standard BEACOPP (SB). Those with I, II B or bulky disease or Stage III, IV were defined according the IPS. Increased dose BEACOPP (IDB) cycles of therapy was initiated only to patients with IPS of 3 or more risk factors (high risk) Standard BEACOPP (SB) cycles were initiated to those with a score of 0-2 (standard risk). All patients had baseline GA67 or hybrid PET\\CT scan at diagnosis and post first cycle for gallium scan or second cycle for hybrid PET\\CT. Upon the scan results therapy was planned and given for addition of 4 cycles. Those with negative scan received cycles of SB as of the third cycle. Dose was reduced to level I to III if patient was hospitalized due to fever and neutropenia of 5 days or longer or pt had an episode of sepsis with unstable vital signs.

Patient with residual uptake interpreted as positive scan had additional cycles of IDB for a total of 6 cycles