NT-I7 for Kaposi Sarcoma in Patients With or Without HIV
This phase I trial studies the best dose and effects of NT-I7 in treating Kaposi sarcoma in patients with or without HIV. NT-I7 works by using a patient's immune system to fight cancer. It is made in a laboratory and is used to boost, direct, or restore the body's natural defenses against cancer. NT-I7 may work better in treating Kaposi sarcoma.
AIDS-Related Kaposi Sarcoma|HIV Infection|Kaposi Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Efineptakin alfa
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, Measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after last dose of NT-I7, approximately 31 weeks total
Objective Response Rate (ORR)., Defined as the proportion of participants who achieved Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) according to modified Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Clinical Trials Group Criteria (ACTG) criteria., 12 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Measured in participants who obtain a partial response or better and defined as time from the best response within the first 36 weeks of therapy until disease progression or censoring. Kaplan Meier survival estimates constructed for each of these survival endpoints with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), for up to 1 year following initiation of treatment in all participants., Up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from administration of the first dose of NT-I7 until disease progression or death or censoring. Kaplan Meier survival estimates will be constructed for each of these survival endpoints with 95% CIs, for up to 1 year following initiation of treatment in all participants., Assessed up to 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), From administration of the first dose of NT-I7 until death or censoring. Kaplan Meier survival estimates will be constructed for each of these survival endpoints with 95% CIs., Assessed up to 1 year following initiation of treatment|Effect of NT-I7 on Kinetics of Absolute Lymphocyte Counts (ALC) in Blood, For analysis of circulating lymphocytes, we will describe fold-change (median and range) in blood ALC. Fold change from baseline is defined as the ratio of the value at the visit to that at baseline., From pre-administration to each time point following first administration (1, 4, and 9 weeks)|Effect of NT-I7 on Kinetics of CD4+ T Cells in Blood., Described by fold-change (median and range) in blood CD4+ T cells. Fold change from baseline is defined as the ratio of the value at the visit to that at baseline., From pre-administration to each time point following first administration (1, 4, and 9 weeks)|Effect of NT-I7 on Kinetics of CD8+ T Cells in Blood., Described by fold-change (median and range) in blood CD8+ T cells. Fold change from baseline is defined as the ratio of the value at the visit to that at baseline., From pre-administration to each time point following first administration (1, 4, and 9 weeks)
Immunogenicity of NT-I7, The proportion of participants developing neutralizing antibodies will be summarized., Up to 12 months after last dose of NT-I7
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive efineptakin alfa intramuscularly (IM) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 9 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 30 (+/- 7 days) and then every 12 weeks for 12 months.