Platelet Rich Plasma During Radical Prostatectomy
Can platelet rich plasma applied to nerve bundles at time of surgery help the nerve bundles heal? Subjects undergoing a Radical Prostatectomy who meet study inclusion/exclusion criteria will be consented to receive an intraoperative application of platelet-rich plasma, made from their own blood at the time of surgery, for application onto their neurovascular bundles in an effort to improve the healing process. Subjects will be followed for an additional 18 months to determine the efficacy and safety of this procedure.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Autologous Platelet-Rich Plasma|DEVICE: Angel Concentrated Platelet Rich Plasma System
Safety of Using Platelet Rich Plasma (PRP) on the Neurovascular Bundle (NVB), Assessed by the number of subjects experiencing serious adverse events (SAEs) after treatment with PRP following nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy, 18 months
Change in Sexual Function Using International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5), The IIEF-5 (International Index of Erectile Function) is used for diagnosis of erectile dysfunction (ED). The IIEF-5, also knows as the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM), is a 5-question survey designed to assess the presence and severity of ED over the past 6 months. Questions are answered on a scale of 1-5. A score of 21 or lower is often considered indicative of ED. The IIEF-5 classifies ED into five categories based on scores: severe (5-7), moderate (8-11), mild to moderate (12-16), mild (17-21), and no ED (22-25)., Baseline; every 3 months up to 18 months.|Change in Urinary Function (UF) Using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), The Urinary Function (UF) section of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index composite (EPIC) questionnaire consists of 7 questions evaluating urinary habits over the past 4 weeks. To assess change in UF over time, evaluation focused on response to question 5 (number of pads or adult diapers used to control leakage), with normal urinary continence defined as a response of "none" per protocol. Responses are recorded on a scale of 0-3 where 0=None, 1=1 pad per day; 2=2 pads per day; and 3=3 or more pads per day., Baseline; 3 months; 6 months; 9 months; 12 months; 18 months
Can platelet rich plasma applied to nerve bundles at time of surgery help the nerve bundles heal? Subjects undergoing a Radical Prostatectomy who meet study inclusion/exclusion criteria will be consented to receive an intraoperative application of platelet-rich plasma, made from their own blood at the time of surgery, for application onto their neurovascular bundles in an effort to improve the healing process. Subjects will be followed for an additional 18 months to determine the efficacy and safety of this procedure.