Efficacy and Acceptability of Thermal Ablation in the Treatment of Cervical Neoplasia
Longitudinal study in two referral centers in Morocco to evaluate the effectiveness, the acceptability and safety of thermal ablation in the treatment of cervical neoplasia.
Cervical Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Treatment of cervical neoplasia by thermal ablation
Cure rate based on colposcopy and histology assessment, Cure rate is assessed after 1 year of treatment by colposcopy. Persistent or recurrent lesions are treated by thermal ablation, excision or hysterectomy according to the lesion size and characteristics., 1 year
Acceptability of thermal ablation in terms of adverse events, Information on adverse events are collected immediately after the treatment, at the 6-week visit (short-term adverse events) and at the 12-month visit. Any minor and moderate complications are inquired., 1 year|Acceptability of thermal ablation in terms of satisfaction level, Acceptability of thermal ablation is also measured by the satisfaction levelusing a nine-level Likert scale (from 1. Very unsatisfied to 9. Verysatisfied), through administration of a questionnaire just after treatment., Within one hour after procedure|Safety of TA in terms of major adverse events, Information on adverse events are collected immediately after the treatment, at the 6-week visit (short-term adverse events) and at the 12-month visit. Any major complications (i.e. necessitating hospitalization) were inquired., 1 year
The study population consisted of women with a positive Visual Inspection with Acetic Acid (VIA) screening test referred for ablative treatment. A total of 119 women with lesions eligible to ablative treatment were counselled and treated by thermal ablation. Informed consent was signed by each participant. Just after treatment, the patients were inquired about the level of pain during the procedure, and their level of satisfaction with the treatment. The women were followed-up at 6 weeks for any complication and re-assessed by colposcopy and biopsy at 12 months for any persistent or recurrent lesion and for any adverse event.