Carfilzomib and TGR-1202 in Treatment of R/R Lymphoma
This is an open label, phase I/II, dose-escalation study in the initial phase I followed by a phase II.

The primary objective of the phase I is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of the combinations of TGR-1202 and carfilzomib in participants with relapsed and refractory (R/R) non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). The safety and toxicity of this combination will be evaluated throughout the entire study.

If the combination of TGR-1202 and carfilzomib is found to be feasible and an MTD is established, the phase II part of the study will be initiated.

Phase II will consist of a 2-stage design of the combination of TGR-1202 and carfilzomib for participants with R/R NHL.
Hodgkin Disease|Lymphoma, Non-hodgkin
DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: TGR-1202
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase 1) - TGR-1202 Only, The highest dose of the study treatment that does not cause unacceptable side effects., 9 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (Phase 2), Defined as best response (complete response and partial response) by 4 cycles., 9 months
Dysregulated c-Myc is associated with resistance to chemotherapy and poor survival in aggressive lymphomas. Novel strategies that target this biology could markedly improve the outcome of these participants. To date no drugs that directly target Myc have been approved for cancer treatment. Recent results by Deng et al. (Blood. 2017 Jan 5. PMID: 27784673) described a highly synergistic regimen discovered in preclinical models, through combining TGR-1202, an investigational drug that inhibits PI3K delta, and carfilzomib, a drug approved by the FDA for multiple myeloma. Importantly, the combination of TGR-1202 and carfilzomib acts by potently silencing the translation of c-Myc and inducing apoptosis in many cell lines and primary lymphoma cells representing broad histological subtypes of lymphoma. These results suggest that TGR-1202 and carfilzomib may be highly effective in relapsed and refractory lymphoma where c-Myc plays a key pathological role.