Fentanyl Buccal Tablet or Morphine for Exertional Dyspnea in Cancer Patients
This phase II trial studies fentanyl buccal tablet or morphine to see how well it works compared to a placebo in controlling shortness of breath during or after physical activity in cancer patients. Fentanyl sublingual tablet and morphine are opioids normally used to control pain that may also help to prevent or control shortness of breath during or after physical activity in cancer patients.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Fentanyl Citrate Buccal Tablet|DRUG: Morphine|OTHER: Physical Performance Testing|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in modified Borg scale dyspnea intensity before and after the Shuttle Walk Test (SWT), Will first determine whether the three treatment groups are different; if so, will test the three pairwise comparisons with intention-to-treat analyses. Repeated-measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be implemented using linear mixed effects models with the difference in intervention period SWT modified Borg scale dyspnea intensity before and after SWT as the response variable and the treatment group and observation period SWT measures as predictor variables., Days 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19
SWT distance, Will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19|Dyspnea unpleasantness, Will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19|Daily dyspnea intensity and unpleasantness, Will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 1-19|Personalized daily activity, Will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 1-4, 6-7, 9-11, 13-14, and 16-18|Oxygen cost diagram, Will be analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 1-19|Symptom burden Questionnaires, Will be measured by the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System and analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 1-19|Quality of life Questionnaires, Will be measured by the EuroQol-5 Dimension-5 Level Questionnaire and analyzed using linear mixed effects models similar to the primary analysis., Days 1-19|Neurocognitive function, Will perform paired t-test or ANOVA if the data are normally distributed and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test or Kruskal-Wallis if the data are non-normal., Up to day 19|Addictive potential, Will be measured by the Drug Effects Questionnaire. Will perform paired t-test or ANOVA if the data are normally distributed and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test or Kruskal-Wallis if the data are non-normal., Up to day 19|Frequency, severity, and interference of adverse effects, Will be measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE). Will perform paired t-test or ANOVA if the data are normally distributed and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test or Kruskal-Wallis if the data are non-normal., Up to day 19|Total opioid dose, Will perform paired t-test or ANOVA if the data are normally distributed and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test or Kruskal-Wallis if the data are non-normal., Up to day 19|Number of rescue doses per day, Will perform paired t-test or ANOVA if the data are normally distributed and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test or Kruskal-Wallis if the data are non-normal., Up to day 19|Dyspnea severity and functional impairment, Will be measured using the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) dyspnea instruments., Day 1, 5, 12, 19
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the effect of prophylactic fentanyl buccal tablet (FBT), morphine sulfate, and placebo on the increase in the intensity of exertional dyspnea (0-10 point modified Borg scale) measured before versus at the end of a shuttle walk test (SWT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the effects of prophylactic FBT, morphine sulfate, and placebo on SWT distance and dyspnea unpleasantness, average daily dyspnea (intensity and unpleasantness, oxygen cost diagram), personalized daily activity (ability to complete activity), personalized dyspnea response, symptom burden (Edmonton Symptom Assessment System \[ESAS\]), quality of life (EuroQol-5 Dimension-5 Level \[EQ-5D-5L\]), and dyspnea severity and functional impairment based on the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) dyspnea instruments.

II. To explore the effects of prophylactic FBT, morphine sulfate, and placebo on neurocognitive function, addictive potential (Drug Effects Questionnaire), adverse effects (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\], Patient-Reported Outcomes version of CTCAE \[PRO-CTCAE\]), and pattern of opioid use.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 groups.

GROUP I: Patients complete shuttle walk test on days 1, 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19. Patients also receive FBT sublingually daily on days 6-19.

GROUP II: Patients complete shuttle walk test on days 1, 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19. Patients also receive morphine orally (PO) daily on days 6-19.

GROUP III: Patients complete shuttle walk test on days 1, 5, 8, 12, 15, and 19. Patients also receive placebo (sublingually or PO) daily on days 6-19.