Ixabepilone in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Recurrent Squamous Cell Cancer of the Head and Neck
Randomized phase II trial to study the effectiveness of ixabepilone in treating patients who have metastatic or recurrent head and neck cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage IVA Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: ixabepilone|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate, assessed using RECIST criteria, 95% confidence interval will be computed., Up to 5 years
Time to progression, From the date of entry on the study to the appearance of new metastatic lesions or objective tumor progression, assessed up to 5 years|Grade 3 of 4 hematologic toxicity, Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate and toxicity of BMS-247550 given in two dosing schedules in taxane-naïve and taxane-exposed patients.

II. To provide information about the response rate and toxicity of BMS-247550 given in two dosing schedules.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure surviving expression and correlate with the therapeutic responsiveness to BMS-247550.

II. To determine the changes in tumor vascular density and endothelial cell apoptosis in response to therapy and the correlation of these changes to outcome.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to prior taxane therapy (yes vs no) and ECOG performance status (0 vs 1). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Arm II: Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

In both arms, patients achieving complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses past CR if a minimum of 6 courses have been administered.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.