Low Glycemic Load Diet in Patients With Stage I-III Colon Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the feasibility of a low glycemic load diet in patients with stage I-III colon cancer. A low glycemic load diet includes foods that have low scores on the glycemic index. The glycemic index is a scale that measures how much a certain carbohydrate causes a person's blood sugar to rise. A low glycemic load diet may help decrease the chance of cancer coming back and improve the survival in patients with colon cancer.
Stage I Colon Cancer|Stage II Colon Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer|Stage I Rectal Cancer|Stage II Rectal Cancer|Stage III Rectal Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|BEHAVIORAL: Standard Dietary Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Intensified Dietary Intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Low glycemic load|BEHAVIORAL: Medium Glycemic Load
Individual patient compliance, defined by following assigned target glycemic load index >= 75% of the time between weeks 4 and 12, This compliance rate will be determined through conducting a 24 hour telephone recall, every 2 weeks at random and calculating the glycemic load. For each dose cohort, the number and percentage of patients who are compliant will be summarized, with 90% confidence interval that accounts for the two-stage design., Up to week 12
Food acceptability score, Results of the acceptability survey will be tabulated and described (the questions use a 7 point likert scale), separately for each cohort., Up to 12 weeks|Hours of nutritionist time per week, The median number of hours will be calculated based on time spent with each patient, separately for each cohort., Up to 12 weeks
Change in serum levels of glycosylated hemoglobin, Separately for each cohort, serum levels will be summarized descriptively and graphically across the follow-up period. Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used to compare baseline vs. post-intervention levels of all biomarkers. Changes in biomarkers will be correlated with dietary glycemic index (GI) using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients, across the follow-up period., Baseline to up to 12 weeks|Change in BMI, Separately for each cohort, BMI levels will be summarized descriptively and graphically across the follow-up period., Baseline to up to 12 weeks|Change in serum levels of markers of lipid metabolism, Separately for each cohort, serum levels will be summarized descriptively and graphically across the follow-up period. Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used to compare baseline vs. post-intervention levels of all biomarkers. Changes in biomarkers will be correlated with dietary GI using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients, across the follow-up period., Baseline to up to 12 weeks|Change in serum levels of proteins affected by carbohydrate metabolism, Separately for each cohort, serum levels will be summarized descriptively and graphically across the follow-up period. Paired t-tests or Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used to compare baseline vs. post-intervention levels of all biomarkers. Changes in biomarkers will be correlated with dietary GI using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficients, across the follow-up period., Baseline to up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of following a low or medium glycemic load diet in patients with stage I-III (local-regional) colon cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine patient-reported acceptability of diet. II. To determine nutritionist resources utilized. III. To evaluate the effect of lowering dietary glycemic load on body mass index (BMI), lipid metabolism and pro-oncogenic intermediaries of cellular metabolism.

OUTLINE: Patients are sequentially enrolled in 1 of 4 possible cohorts as needed based on the feasibility of the prior cohort.

COHORT 1: Patients follow a low glycemic load diet with standard dietary intervention (contact with nutritionist in person every 2 weeks with phone contact on the alternating weeks) for 12 weeks.

COHORT 2: Patients follow a low glycemic load diet with intensified dietary intervention (contact with nutritionist in person every week) for 12 weeks.

COHORT 3: Patients follow a medium glycemic load diet with standard dietary intervention for 12 weeks.

COHORT 4: Patients follow a medium glycemic load diet with intensified dietary intervention for 12 weeks.