Quantitative MRI and Outcomes of Liver Resection
The present observational study aims to assess the benefit of this quantitative multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in clinical practice, to quantify future liver remnant performance, and to accurately predict the risk of liver failure after major hepatectomy, among patients undergoing major liver resection.

The main questions to be answered are:

* Can multiparametric MRI predict the postoperative liver function?
* Can multiparametric MRI predict the postoperative liver-specific complications as well as mortality? With ethical approval and fully informed consent, patients being considered for major liver resection will undergo clinical assessment, blood sampling, and multiparametric MRI before surgery. For the primary outcome, 33 participants will be needed to detect a minimum correlation coefficient of 0.2 with 5% significance and 80% power.
Liver Cancer|Liver Failure|Bile Leak|Liver Metastases
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Multiparametric MRI scan of the liver
Predicting the posthepatectomy liver failure after major liver resection, Correlation between future liver remnant performance (combined measure of liver volume, PDFF, and cT1) and posthepatectomy liver failure after major liver resection, 90 days postoperative|Predicting the posthepatectomy biliary leakage after major liver resection, Correlation between future liver remnant performance (combined measure of liver volume, PDFF, and cT1) and posthepatectomy biliary leakage after major liver resection, 90 days postoperative|Predicting the posthepatectomy hemorrhage after major liver resection, Correlation between future liver remnant performance (combined measure of liver volume, PDFF, and cT1) and posthepatectomy hemorrhage after major liver resection, 90 days postoperative
Correlation between remnant liver function after major liver resection and incidence of major complications, Correlation between future liver remnant performance (combined measure of liver volume, PDFF, and cT1) and major complications according to Clavien-Dindo classification (\>IIIA) after major liver resection, 90 days postoperative|Correlation between remnant liver function after major liver resection and postoperative mortality, Correlation between future liver remnant performance (combined measure of liver volume, PDFF, and cT1) and mortality according to Clavien-Dindo classification (\>IIIA) after major liver resection, 90 days postoperative
In patients being considered for major liver resection, volumetric and functional evaluation of the future liver remnant should ideally be combined to reduce the risk of posthepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) and other adverse outcomes. Quantitative multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can measure liver health by assessing parenchyma fibrosis and inflammation. This has shown promising results in predicting postoperative liver performance. The current study aims to assess the benefit of this MRI-based technology in clinical practice, to quantify future liver remnant performance, and to accurately predict the risk of liver failure after major hepatectomy.

Prospective observational clinical study in a single hepatobiliary surgery center. With ethical approval and fully informed consent, patients being considered for major liver resection will undergo clinical assessment, blood sampling, and multiparametric MRI before surgery. Postoperative liver function and complications will be reported for 90 days after surgery. Preoperative MRI assessment scores and postoperative outcomes will be correlated to determine whether multiparametric MRI scans can accurately predict the risk of postoperative liver-specific complications (primary endpoint) as well as postoperative liver function, surgery-specific complications, the overall complication rate, quality of hospital care, and length of stay. For the primary outcome, 33 participants will be needed to detect a minimum correlation coefficient of 0.2 with 5% significance and 80% power. This study will include 33 patients and results are expected in 2024. If successful, this investigation will support the use of quantitative multiparametric MRI to guide surgical decision-making. This will represent a non-invasive, diagnostic, volumetric, and segmental functional test for the preoperative workup of patients being considered for major hepatectomy.