Durvalumab and Tremelimumab With Platinum-based Chemotherapy in Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma (ICC)
This pilot trial will be used to assess the activity, safety and feasibility of doublet immunotherapy and platinum-based chemotherapy in resectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma with high risk features. The hypothesis is that the combination of durvalumab/MEDI4736 and tremelimumab (doublet immunotherapy) with platinum-based chemotherapy (gemcitabine and cisplatin) will yield an objective of 52% and improve complete resection rates in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. This will facilitate margin negative resection and ultimately reduce recurrence rates and improve survival. Carrying out this trial in the neoadjuvant setting potentially allows improved overall survival and also provides an opportunity for discovery of biomarkers that may predict response to therapy.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Novel combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy
Objective Response Rate, We will obtain computerized tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to assess the response to the intervention agents. We are interested in determining the percentage of patients who achieve a complete response or partial response (complete response plus partial response equals to objective response) when treated with intervention agents., Assessments will occur after 2 cycles (6 weeks) of receiving treatment and after 4 cycles (12 weeks) of receiving treatment or before surgical resection, whichever happens first.
The Percentage of Participants That Complete Preoperative Therapy, We will assess the percentage of patients who receive all 4 cycles of preoperative therapy, Baseline through 16 weeks of treatment|Determine the Safety of the Combination of Intervention Agents by Assessing the Percentage of Patients Who Experience Dose Limiting Toxicities or Develop Adverse Reactions, Adverse reactions will be monitored and documented based on the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The percentage of patients who experience different grades of adverse events will be assessed, Baseline through 16 weeks of treatment|Determine Changes in the Tumor mRNA Gene Expression Pattern, Phenotype of Circulating Cytotoxic T Cells, and Changes in Circulating Markers of Immunogenic Cell Death Following Treatment With Intervention Agents, We will compare the differences in the patterns between the responders and the non responders., Baseline through 24 months
All enrolled participants will receive the study intervention. Patients will receive up to 4 cycles of interventional agents prior to surgical resection. They will undergo imaging scans after the 2nd and 4th cycle (before surgery) of intervention agents. The short interval of scans (6 weeks) allows investigators to identify non responders. These patients may be encouraged to come off study and be treated based on the treating oncologist's choice. Since the investigational agents include 'standard of care' agents, a good argument can be made that these patients would not have benefitted from standard therapy only. Patients with at least stable disease after the 2nd treatment cycle will proceed with study interventions. However, patients with radiologic progression but who remain clinically stable may be allowed to continue treatment if the patient elects to, pending confirmation of progression and after a discussion between the investigator and sponsor-investigator.