Multi-modality Evaluation of Flow Rate, Pressure and Size of Spine Epidural Venous Plexus
Vertebra is one of the most common site of metastatic disease, which may cause severe pain or neurological deficit. Debulking surgery usually has better local control and survival benefit as compared with decompression or radiotherapy. However, debulking surgery often accompany with massive blood loss, which may cause hemorrhagic shock or death. The major bleeding point during operation including tumor parenchyma, arteries that are difficult to ligate, and epidural venous plexus. Vascularity of tumor parenchyma had been associated with increased intraoperative blood loss, on the other hand, there is a lack in the literature regarding to evaluation of the size, flow and pressure of epidural venous plexus, and their changes after embolization.
Neoplasms|Spine Tumor|Venous Hypertension
PROCEDURE: Epidural veins pressure and flow measurement
Epidural venous pressure, Epidural venous pressure measured with pressure wire after reach the targeted location, before embolization and after embolization during the embolization procedure., During the embolization intervention.|Epidural venous flow rate., Epidural venous flow rate measured with fluoroscopy after reach the targeted location, before embolization and after embolization during the embolization procedure., During the embolization intervention.
Size of epidural venous plexus., Measuring the size of epidural venous plexus with fluoroscopy after reach the targeted location, before embolization and after embolization during the embolization procedure., During the embolization intervention.
Vertebra is one of the most common site of metastatic disease, which may cause severe pain or neurological deficit. Debulking surgery usually has better local control and survival benefit as compared with decompression or radiotherapy. However, debulking surgery often accompany with massive blood loss, which may cause hemorrhagic shock or death. The major bleeding point during operation including tumor parenchyma, arteries that are difficult to ligate, and epidural venous plexus. Vascularity of tumor parenchyma had been associated with increased intraoperative blood loss, on the other hand, there is a lack in the literature regarding to evaluation of the size, flow and pressure of epidural venous plexus, and their changes after embolization.