Efficacy and Safety of Endoscopic Ultrasound Guided Fine-needle Injection of Dendritic Cells Vaccination Into Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
Pancreatic cancer is the second most frequent gastrointestinal malignancy. The overall survival is dismal. Especially for advanced pancreatic cancer, the conventional approaches are typically not curative and provide only minor increases in survivals in most cases. Dendritic cells (DCs) are powerful antigen-presenting cells (APCs) that play a pivotal role in the initiation, programming, and regulation of tumor-specific immune responses. Isolated DCs loaded with tumor antigen ex vivo and administered as a cellular vaccine have been found to induce protective and therapeutic anti-tumor immunity in experimental animals. Some clinical trials of DC vaccination for cancer patients have shown the induction of anti-tumor immune responses and tumor regression. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is an established technique for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle direct injection of dendritic cells vaccination into pancreatic tumors may be a promising treatment modality.Therefore, The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle injection of DCs vaccination into advanced pancreatic cancer
Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: EUS-guided fine-needle injection of DCs vaccinations
pancreatic tumor response rates, six months
survival rates, six month
Pancreatic cancer is the second most frequent gastrointestinal malignancy. The overall survival is dismal. Especially for advanced pancreatic cancer, the conventional approaches are typically not curative and provide only minor increases in survivals in most cases. Dendritic cells (DCs) are powerful antigen-presenting cells (APCs) that play a pivotal role in the initiation, programming, and regulation of tumor-specific immune responses. Isolated DCs loaded with tumor antigen ex vivo and administered as a cellular vaccine have been found to induce protective and therapeutic anti-tumor immunity in experimental animals. Some clinical trials of DC vaccination for cancer patients have shown the induction of anti-tumor immune responses and tumor regression. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is an established technique for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle direct injection of dendritic cells vaccination into pancreatic tumors may be a promising treatment modality.Therefore, The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of endoscopic ultrasound guided fine-needle injection of DCs vaccination into advanced pancreatic cancer