Pharmacist-led Transitions of Care in the Outpatient Oncology Infusion Center for Patients With Solid Tumor
This trial studies how well pharmacist-led transitions of care works in the outpatient oncology infusion center for patients with solid tumor. Having a pharmacist in the outpatient oncology infusion center may help to identify and correct medical related problems and improve overall patient and staff satisfaction. Patients receiving education may benefit from gaining a better understanding of their antineoplastic therapy. Understanding the side effects associated with the therapy may also help patients better be prepared to manage any adverse effects they may experience.
Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Medical Chart Review|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Number of medical related problem (MRP)s identified by the pharmacist through retrospective chart reviews (Phase I), MRPs will be assigned to a specific category and the total number of MRPs in each category will be recorded. Categories include but are not limited to: incorrect dose, therapeutic duplication, drug not indicated, drug interaction, monitoring recommendation, drug allergy, or potential for adverse event., Up to 1 year|Percent of MRPs corrected as a result of the clinical oncology pharmacist services (Phase II), In phase 2 (prospective) MRPs will also be recorded and categorized, but in addition the outcomes relating to each MRP pharmacist intervention will be recorded. MRPs found by the pharmacist will be communicated to the patient's oncologist or primary care provider, and the pharmacist will follow-up to see if changes were made., Up to 1 year
Patient and provider satisfaction with the pharmacist-led education, The survey results will help determine the need for a clinical oncology pharmacist in the outpatient infusion center. Satisfaction will be assessed using a Likert-scale survey. Scale ranges from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree)., Up to 1 year
Estimate of Cost avoidance utilizing pharmacy services, In order to determine cost avoidance the type of interventions made and the time associated with each intervention will be recorded. The cost per intervention will be calculated by multiplying the pharmacist salary in minutes by the time for each intervention. The intervention types will be assigned cost avoidance values based on previous literature and these will be used to determine the cost benefit for the interventions made during the study period., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To demonstrate the effectiveness of a clinical oncology pharmacist in the outpatient infusion center through education, and the identification and correction of medication related problem (MRP)s.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate overall patient and staff satisfaction with the added clinical oncology pharmacy education.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimate the cost avoidance utilizing the pharmacy services provided in the prospective trial.

OUTLINE:

PHASE I: Patients' medical records are reviewed.

PHASE II: Patients receive pharmacist-led education on antineoplastic therapies including what to expect during infusion, general drug facts, common adverse effects, side effect management, and when to contact provider.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.