IMAAGEN: Impact of Abiraterone Acetate in Prostate-Specific Antigen
The purpose of this study is to show that abiraterone acetate plus prednisone added to the current standard of care, gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) decreases prostate specific antigen (PSA) and prolongs the time until it is evident that the cancer has grown. Additionally, safety information about abiraterone acetate in combination with prednisone will be collected. This will include looking at what side effects occur, how often they occur, and for how long they last.
Prostate Cancer|Prostatic Neoplasm
DRUG: abiraterone acetate in combination with prednisone
Percentage of Participants With Greater Than or Equal to (>=) 50 Percent (%) Reduction in Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) During the Core Study, Percentage of participants with greater than or equal to 50 percent decrease in PSA levels was assessed., End of core study visit (Approximately at Month 6)
Time to Radiographic Evidence of Disease Progression (TTRP), Time to radiographic evidence of disease progression is defined as the time interval from the date of enrollment (Day 1) to the date of disease progression. A participant was considered as progressed by bone scan if: 1) The appearance of greater than or equal to (\>=) 2 new lesions, and, following the first assessment, a confirmatory scan performed 6 or more weeks later that shows a minimum of 2 or more additional new lesions, 2) If \>=2 new lesions are seen on scans following the first assessment, the confirmation is still required after 6 weeks; however, 2 addition lesions are not required to confirm progression, and 3) The date of progression is the date of the first scan that shows the changes., Maximum up to Month 30.5|Time to Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Progression, Time to PSA progression is defined as the time interval from the date of enrollment (Day 1) to the date of first evidence of PSA progression. A participant was considered to have a PSA progression if the PSA level had a 25 percent (%) or greater increase and an absolute increase of 2 nanogram (ng)/milliliter (mL) or more, which is confirmed by a second value obtained in 3 or more weeks., Maximum up to Month 30.5|Percentage of Participants With Greater Than or Equal to (>=) 50 Percent (%) Reduction in Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Levels After 3 Cycles of Treatment, Percentage of participants with greater than or equal to 50 percent decrease in PSA levels was assessed. Decrease in PSA levels represented improvement., End of Cycle 3 (Approximately Month 3)
This is a Phase 2, prospective, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study of abiraterone acetate plus prednisone in men with non-metastatic, castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) who have a rising PSA despite castrate levels of testosterone. The study consists of Screening Phase (up to 4 weeks), Core Study Treatment Phase (comprised of six 28-day cycles), a Pre-metastatic Disease Follow-up Phase, an Optional Drug Holiday Phase; and a 30-day Safety Follow-up Visit. Each treatment cycle will last 28 days. Participating participants will receive study agents (Abiraterone acetate 1000 mg/day plus prednisone 5 mg/day, orally) continually during the study. If the partcipants elects to participate in the Optional Drug Holiday Phase, participants will discontinue abiraterone acetate plus prednisone and ADT. Participants will have the option to return to study medication during the first year of the Optional Drug Holiday Phase if there is evidence of rising PSA but no metastasis based on study imaging. If participants do no elect to participate, they will continue with the core study treatment as per protocol. The study will end when all participated participants have disease progression or end of the 2-year period (if participants participated in the Optional Drug Holiday Phase). Participants will be required to return to the study site 30 days after receiving the last dose of abiraterone acetate for safety follow-up.