Palliative Dose Escalated Radiation for Painful Non-Spine Bone Metastases and Painful Non-Bone Metas
The investigators hypothesize that with dose escalation to 40-50 Gy in ten fractions, the complete pain response rate at one month can be increased to 40-50% in painful non-spinal bone metastases. Additionally, the investigators hypothesize that utilizing a fractionation scheme with an escalated biologically equivalent dose (BED) will result in a higher proportion of participants responding to treatment, and will also lead to more durable responses. Furthermore, the investigators hypothesize that with dose escalation to 40-50 Gy in ten fractions, the complete pain response rate at one month can be increased to 35-45% in painful non-bone metastases
Neoplasm Metastases|Metastases, Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: EXTERNAL BEAM RADIATION
Safety as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events, Number of participants experiencing adverse effects grade three or higher, as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Effects version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0), One month
Severity as assessed by number of participants experiencing toxicity and adverse events, This study will utilize the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) Version 5.0 for toxicity and Adverse Event reporting, One month
Pain as assessed by number of participants experiencing pain response, will be measured according to the international consensus guidelines on palliative RT13.

Pain assessment will be based on scores in Numerical Rating Pain Scale (NRPS), Visual analog scale (VAS) and Opioid analgesic use (an oral morphine equivalent dose (OMED)) in mg.

Complete response is defined as a pain score of 0 on a scale from 0 to 10 and without an increase in OMED medication use.

Partial response is defined as a decline of ≥2 points in pain score without analgesic increase or a decline in use of OMED of at least 25% or more from baseline without an increase in pain.

Pain progression (PP) is an increase of ≥2 points without a change in OMED use or an increase of 25% or more in OMED compared with baseline with the pain score stable or one point above baseline., One month|Quality-of-life (QOL) as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). Using the 16 item scale, Quality-of-life (QOL) instruments specific to participants with bone metastases or to those receiving palliative care have been developed in recent years. The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) have shown excellent reliability and validity in assessing participants with bone metastases fourteen. BPI will be used for QOL assessment at baseline and one month after treatment.The BPI scale defines pain as follows:

Worst Pain Score: 1 - 4 = Mild Pain. Worst Pain Score: 5 - 6 = Moderate Pain. Worst Pain Score: 7 - 10 = Severe Pain., One month
The purpose of this study is to prospectively evaluate dose escalation and pain response in patients with painful non-spinal bone metastases and painful non-bone metastases treated with radiation therapy.

Primary Objective:

To evaluate improvement of complete pain response rate in painful non-spine bone metastases and painful non-bone metastases with dose escalated radiation using a ten fraction radiation regimen

Secondary Objectives:

To evaluate best pain response To evaluate mean pain scores To evaluate the duration of pain response To evaluate the changes in quality-of-life following radiation To evaluate the rates of retreatment with radiation secondary to disease or symptom progression To evaluate treatment related toxicity