Oral Pooled Fecal Microbiotherapy (MaaT033) Concomitant to Cemiplimab Versus Best Investigator's Choice in Patients With Resistance to Treatment Due to Antibiotics Uptake With Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The goal of IMMUNOLIFE2 is to circumvent the primary resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) medication, like Cemiplimab, observed in patients with advanced non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) following antibiotics uptake due to intestinal disbiosys. Using oral pooled fecal microbiotherapy (MaaT033) would restore the intestinal microbiota and circumvent the resistance to ICI such as Cemiplimab. The main questions it aims to answer is if MaaT033 in combination with Cemiplimab provide a better disease control rate for these patients compared to today's best investigator's choice as a comparator.

Patients will receive either:

* Take MaaT033 for a week before every cycle of Cemiplimab, who will be administered in hospital care every 3 weeks for 6 months, then Cemiplimab alone.
* Receive control treatment, which is best investigator's choice.
NSCLC (Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer)
DRUG: MaaT033 capsule|DRUG: Cemiplimab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatine|DRUG: Pemetrexed (Alimta)|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Vinorelbine i.v. 25 mg/m²|DRUG: Vinorelbine oral
Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of patients who have not shown disease progression regarding complete response, partial response, stable disease as per RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Confirmation of response must be demonstrated with an assessment 4-8 weeks from the initial response assessment., At 12 weeks and confirmation 4-8 weeks from the initial response assessment.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of patients who have not shown disease progression regarding complete response and partial response as per RECIST 1.1 criteria., At 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 60 months.|Progression free survival (PFS), The PFS is defined as the time from random assignment to the progression, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., At 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 60 months.|Overall survival (OS), The OS is defined as the time from random assignment to the date of death due to any cause, or to the date of censoring at the last time the subject was known to be alive., At 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 60 months.|Duration of response, The DoR is defined as the time from the first confirmed patient response (CR or PR) to disease progression (or death from any cause)., At 12 months, 24 months, 36 months and 60 months.|Incidence of AEs, Incidence of AEs will be summarized using the National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (NCI-CTCAE) v5.0. Safety parameters include all SAEs or non-serious adverse events (AEs) and deaths graded using the NCI-CTCAE v5.0 (Common Terminology Criteria for AEs)., At end of study, 60 months.
IMMUNOLIFE2 is a randomized Phase II clinical trial multicenter aiming at circumventing primary resistance to ICI observed in patients with advanced NSCLC following ATB uptake in the harmful window using FMT strategy (oral pooled fecal microbiotherapy MaaT033) concomitant to CB. Hence the IMMUNOLIFE2 trial described here is exploring the possibility of an improvement of DCR to CB in patients with ICI resistance due to ATB-induced gut dysbiosis. This will be an outstanding opportunity to explore a therapeutic strategy to surpass ATB mediated resistance but for any cause of intestinal dysbiosis that compromise anti-PD1-based therapy efficacy.