Feasibility of Total Neoadjuvant Treatment With HYPErthermia in Patients With High-risk Extremity and Trunk Soft Tissue Sarcoma (TNT-HYPE)
Soft tissue sarcomas (STSs) are rare cancers with a 5-year survival rate of 60%, and there is no standard treatment for high-risk extremity and trunk STSs (eSTS). A phase III trial suggests that adding moderate regional hyperthermia (HT) to anthracycline-based chemotherapy, followed by surgery and radiotherapy (RT), can improve 10-year overall survival by 10%. This trial aims to optimize treatment by combining the most effective regimens from chemotherapy, HT, RT, and surgery, and will evaluate the feasibility of this new total neoadjuvant treatment (TNT) approach.
Sarcoma,Soft Tissue
DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Ifosfamide|DRUG: Dacarbazine|OTHER: Hyperthermia|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Protocol feasibility rate, PFR defined as percentage of patients who are able to finish the following planned trial treatment parts according to protocol, End of treatment approx. 20 weeks after registration
Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS defined as

* time from registration until local or distant relapse,
* or, if tumor has not been operated, time from registration until progression according to RECIST v1.1,
* or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., From the date of registration until the date of local or distant relapse, progressive disease according to RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years after registration
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR assessed by the independent response reviewer and defined as proportion of patients achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST v1.1 during trial treatment and before surgery., From the date of registration until the date of progressive disease according to RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years after registration|Pathologic complete response (pCR), pCR rate, assessed by the central pathologist and defined as proportion of patients with ≤ 10% viable cells (equivalent to EORTC-STBSG response grade A-C43) in the resection specimen. pCR rate will be evaluated in resected patients only., End of treatment approx. 20 weeks after registration
Soft tissue sarcomas (STSs) are rare cancers with a 5-year survival rate of only 60%. There is no international standard treatment for high-risk extremity and trunk STSs (eSTS). Current evidence from a phase III trial suggests that adding moderate regional hyperthermia (HT) to anthracycline-based chemotherapy followed by surgery and radiotherapy (RT) can improve survival rates, showing a 10% improvement in 10-year overall survival.

The aim of this trial is to optimize the treatment for this high-risk group. To achieve this, the assumed most effective treatment regimens from each treatment modality (chemotherapy, HT, RT, and surgery) were identified and combined into an optimized treatment protocol. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in this population is not yet broadly accepted as standard of care. Furthermore, this new total neoadjuvant treatment (TNT) approach has not yet been investigated prospectively and in addition, the patients have to get their HT treatment potentially in a hospital distant from their domicile. Therefore, we will evaluate in this trial the feasibility of this new treatment schedule as primary endpoint.

Trial treatment consists of 3 neoadjuvant cycles of doxorubicin with either ifosfamide or dacarbazine (the latter only in case of leiomyosarcoma) combined with HT, followed by RT and surgery. Each chemotherapy cycle will last 3 weeks. Trial treatment will last approximately 20 weeks. After surgery, a follow-up period of 36 months per patient is foreseen.