Pembrolizumab, Bevacizumab, and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies the combination of pembrolizumab, bevacizumab, and low dose oral cyclophosphamide in treating patients with recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab and bevacizumab, may block tumor growth in different ways such as boosting your own immune system to find, recognize and kill tumor cells as well as by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth and nutrition. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as low dose oral cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, as well as by further enhancing your own body's immune response against cancer cells. As these three drugs have all been shown to improve the immune response against cancer cells giving pembrolizumab, bevacizumab, and cyclophosphamide together may work better in treating patients with recurrent ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Ovarian Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Incidence of Adverse Events Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, The highest observed adverse event will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles., Up to 1 year|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, with estimates of median survival and given survival rates will be obtained with 90% confidence intervals., Time from the start of the study treatment until PFS event, assessed up to 1 year after the last subject enrolls
Duration of Overall Survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, with estimates of median survival and given survival rates will be obtained with 90% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year after enrollment of the last subject|An Anti-tumor Immune Response in Circulation and Tumor Tissue, Assessed with immunohistochemistry (IHC), Nannostring, Flow Cytometry and Luminex assay., Up to 1 year|Objective Tumor Response Assessed by Modified RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria, Frequency of response will be summarized with a 90% confidence interval.

An objective response is defined as a CR or PR, while a non-responder is defined as a SD or PD., Up to 6 months after enrollment start of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate improvement in progression-free survival for patients treated with anti-programmed cell death 1 (anti-PD1) pembrolizumab in combination with intravenous (IV) bevacizumab and oral metronomic cyclophosphamide as compared to patients treated with other second line chemotherapeutic agents.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain pilot data on clinical response rates using both Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria and immune related response criteria (irRECIST).

II. To obtain data on changes in tumor microenvironment prior to and subsequent to therapy and, to screen for potential biomarkers to predict clinical benefit.

III. To determine the safety and tolerability of the treatment combination in the study population.

IV. To evaluate overall survival in patients treated with anti-PD1 pembrolizumab in combination with IV bevacizumab and oral metronomic cyclophosphamide.

V. To assess the impact of the combination of anti-PD1 pembrolizumab, IV bevacizumab and oral metronomic cyclophosphamide on anti-tumor immune responses in ovarian cancer.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1 and cyclophosphamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 12 months (or 17 courses) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without evidence of disease progression may continue treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for 1 year, and every 12 weeks and 6 months thereafter.