Donor Lymphocyte Infusion in Treating Patients With Persistent, Relapsed, or Progressing Cancer After Donor Hematopoietic Cell Transplant
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of donor lymphocyte infusion and to see how well it works in treating patients with persistent, relapsed (disease that has returned), or progressing cancer after donor hematopoietic cell transplantation. White blood cells from donors may be able to kill cancer cells in patients with cancer that has come back (recurrent) after a donor hematopoietic cell transplant.
Blast Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Therapeutic Allogeneic Lymphocytes
Safety of DLI Following a Non-myeloablative Transplant, Defined as Incidence of Grade IV Acute GVHD, Percentage of Participants with Grade IV Acute GVHD, 100 days after DLI
Incidence of Graft Rejection, Percentage patients with graft rejection., 100 days after DLI|Incidence of Relapse/Progression, CML New cytogenetic abnormality and/or development of accelerated phase or blast crisis. The criteria for accelerated phase will be defined as unexplained fever \>38.3°C, new clonal cytogenetic abnormalities in addition to a single Ph-positive chromosome, marrow blasts and promyelocytes \>20%.

CMML, AML, ALL \>30% BM blasts w/ deteriorating performance status, or worsening of anemia, neutropenia, or thrombocytopenia.

CLL ≥1 of: Physical exam/imaging studies ≥50% increase or new, circulating lymphocytes by morphology and/or flow cytometry ≥50% increase, and lymph node biopsy w/ Richter's transformation.

NHL \>25% increase in the sum of the products of the perpendicular diameters of marker lesions, or the appearance of new lesions.

MM

≥100% increase of the serum myeloma protein from its lowest level, or reappearance of myeloma peaks that had disappeared w/ treatment; or definite increase in the size or number of plasmacytomas or lytic bone lesions., 1 year after DLI|Incidence of Grade II-IV GVHD in Patients Undergoing DLI Following a Non-myeloablative Transplant, Percentage of Participants with II-IV Acute GVHD, 100 days after DLI|Incidence of Infections in Patients Undergoing DLI Following a Non-myeloablative Transplant, Percentage of Participants with infections., 100 days after DLI|Overall Survival, Percentage patients surviving 1 year post-transplant., 1 year after DLI|Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients with progression-free survival, 1 year after DLI
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) as adoptive immunotherapy for persistent or relapsed malignant diseases in patients after related or unrelated nonmyeloablative transplantation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine disease response, progression free and overall survival, chimerism, grade of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and infections.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo unirradiated DLI over 15-30 minutes on day 0. Patients then undergo restaging on day 28 and may undergo a second DLI after at least 4 weeks if no significant GVHD develops and disease status worsens or after at least 8 weeks if disease status is unchanged and persistent donor T-cells are documented.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.