Comparing Quality of Recovery Between ESPB and IV Lidocaine After Major Breast Cancer Surgery
The erector spinae plane block (ESPB) is gaining popularity as a regional anesthetic technique for major breast cancer surgery. Although there is controversy about its mechanism of action, emerging evidence suggests that clinical analgesia observed after ESPB in breast surgery may be due to rapid and sustained local anesthetic absorption from the injection site. Hence intravenous LA infusion (IVLI) during the perioperative period could offer an effective alternative to invasive ESPB.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: USG ESPB|DRUG: Intravenous Infusion
Quality of Recovery, Quality of Recovery-15: a minimum score of 0 (poor recovery) and a maximum score of 150 (excellent recovery), At 24 hours post surgery|Area under the curve of postoperative pain, Area under the curve of postoperative pain numerical rating score at rest and movement, Over the first 24 hours post surgery
Postoperative opioid consumption, Total postoperative morphine equivalent consumption, At 24 and 48 hour post surgery
Major Breast Cancer Surgery (BCS), including mastectomy or modified radical mastectomy (MRM), is a globally prevalent procedure. Unfortunately, it is associated not only with significant acute postoperative pain but also a high incidence of chronic postsurgical pain (30-50%) . To improve outcomes, regional anesthetic techniques have been explored, including thoracic paravertebral block (TPVB) and ultrasound-guided erector spinae plane block (ESPB). While TPVB is considered the gold standard, it carries potential complications such as pleural puncture and pneumothorax. In contrast, ultrasound-guided (USG) ESPB is gaining popularity due to its technical simplicity and safety. However, controversy surrounds its mechanism of action, particularly the variable cutaneous sensory loss over anterior thoracic dermatomes. An emerging theory suggests that ESPB's clinical analgesia results from rapid and sustained local anesthetic (LA) absorption from the injection site. As an alternative, intravenous LA infusion (IVLI) during the perioperative period may offer equivalent analgesia without the invasiveness of ESPB. IV lidocaine, known for its substantial analgesic properties, persists beyond its typical duration of action, likely through mechanisms beyond sodium channel blockade. Although IV lidocaine has been established as part of multimodal analgesia in various perioperative settings, data specific to major BCS remain scarce. In this prospective, multicenter, randomized, triple-blind trial, the investigators aim to compare quality of recovery (assessed using the validated Quality of Recovery 15 \[QoR15\] score) between USG ESPB and IVLI. The investigator's hypothesis is that the quality of recovery after major breast cancer surgery with IVLI will be comparable to that achieved with USG ESPB.