Pilot Study of Autologous T Lymphocytes With ADCC in Patients With CD20-Positive B-Cell Malignancies
Despite advancement in chemotherapy, radiotherapy and haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), and the recent introduction of more targeted therapies, a substantial proportion of patients with B-cell malignancies, such as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) still succumb to their malignancies. For CLL and low-grade NHL, cure is achievable only with HSCT but such aggressive approach is not justified as the initial therapy for most patients who have indolent disease; when disease has progressed, transplant is either not feasible or ineffective. For high-grade B-cell NHL, the availability of Rituximab has improved disease outcome but treatment failure portends nearly inevitable death from disease or treatment-related complications. Thus, newer, more effective therapies for patients with B-cell malignancies are urgently needed.

The present study translates recent laboratory findings into clinical application. In patients with B-cell malignancies receiving the anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab as standard therapy, the study aims to assess the feasibility and safety, as well as explore the efficacy, of infusing autologous T-lymphocytes engineered to express a CD16-41BB-CD3zeta chimeric receptor which mediates antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity. Receptor expression is achieved by electroporation of mRNA.
B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: T-cell therapy + Rituximab + IL-2
Performance status assessed by age-dependent Performance Scores, Using KARNOFSKY PERFORMANCE STATUS SCALE (Recipient Age ≥ 16 years) and LANSKY PERFORMANCE STATUS SCALE (Recipient Age \< 16 years), One-month (30 days) after the last T cell infusion|Toxicity criteria, Participants will be monitored for toxicity for a period of one-month (30 days) after the last T cell infusion. Monitored toxicities will include the following:

1. grades III-IV allergic reactions related to infusion;
2. grade IV neutropenia lasting greater than 28 days;
3. grade IV infection uncontrolled for greater than 7 days;
4. grade IV other adverse events;
5. treatment-related death (grade V)., One-month (30 days) after the last T cell infusion|Disease response criteria, Response criteria follow those defined by NCCN Guidelines version 4.2011 for CLL and NHL.

For monitoring of treatment response, patients with CLL and NHL will have PET-CT scan at approximately 1 month before and after infusion and at intervals thereafter till progression. Peripheral blood and bone marrow studies (the latter only if bone marrow is involved pre-treatment) will be done to determine levels of residual disease by using established flow cytometric and molecular MRD assays., One-month (30 days) after the last T cell infusion and at intervals thereafter till progression (approximately every 3 months for about a year)|Persistence of CD16+ T cells and impact on B cell function, 1. The in vivo expression of anti-CD16V-BB-zeta on T cells will be monitored by flow cytometry. For this purpose, 10 ml of blood will be taken on Days 0, 1 and every other day after each infusion until infused T cells expressing the receptor become undetectable.
2. Longer term impact on the suppression of B cell function will also be monitored by assaying B cell numbers and immunoglobulin levels., Up to approximately month
Despite advancement in chemotherapy, radiotherapy and haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), and the recent introduction of more targeted therapies, a substantial proportion of patients with B-cell malignancies, such as B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) still succumb to their malignancies. For CLL and low-grade NHL, cure is achievable only with HSCT but such aggressive approach is not justified as the initial therapy for most patients who have indolent disease; when disease has progressed, transplant is either not feasible or ineffective. For high-grade B-cell NHL, the availability of Rituximab has improved disease outcome but treatment failure portends nearly inevitable death from disease or treatment-related complications. Thus, newer, more effective therapies for patients with B-cell malignancies are urgently needed.

The present study translates recent laboratory findings into clinical application. In patients with B-cell malignancies receiving the anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab as standard therapy, the study aims to assess the feasibility and safety, as well as explore the efficacy, of infusing autologous T-lymphocytes engineered to express a CD16-41BB-CD3zeta chimeric receptor which mediates antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity. Receptor expression is achieved by electroporation of mRNA.