Celecoxib and Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer
RATIONALE: Celecoxib and erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for their growth. Celecoxib may also stop the growth of liver cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving celecoxib together with erlotinib and to see how well they work in treating patients with liver cancer.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: celecoxib|DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy
Safety (phase I)|Disease-free survival (phase II)
Maximum tolerated dose (phase I)|Overall survival (phase II)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the safety of adjuvant celecoxib and erlotinib hydrochloride for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) at high risk for recurrence. (phase I)
* Assess disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with adjuvant celecoxib and erlotinib hydrochloride. (phase II)

Secondary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of celecoxib and erlotinib hydrochloride for the phase II portion of this trial. (phase I)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by an open-label, phase II study. Patients are assigned to a treatment according to Child-Pugh class of cirrhosis (class A/noncirrhotic vs class B).

* Phase I: Patients receive oral celecoxib once or twice daily and oral erlotinib hydrochloride once daily. Treatment continues for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of celecoxib and erlotinib hydrochloride until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Separate dose escalations are conducted in the 2 groups according to liver dysfunction.

* Phase II: Patients receive celecoxib and erlotinib hydrochloride as in phase I at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.