Evaluation of the Performance and Safety of Hyalo Gyn® Gel Compared to Placebo in Postmenopausal Breast Cancer Survivors
Eligible patients will be randomized to treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel or placebo, at the dose regimen of 1 application deeply in the vagina every 3 days (i.e. an application is followed by 2 days without application), up to a total of 12 consecutive weeks.

After 12 weeks (i.e. at Visit 3), the following rules will apply for the second 12- week phase of the study:

* In case of resolution of the symptom (the dryness single score is equal to zero), the patient will suspend treatment and will undergo follow-up visits;
* In case of the single score is reduced but still greater than zero: the subject will receive Hyalo Gyn® open-label.
* In case the dryness gets worse the subject can choose whether receive Hyalo Gyn® gel open-label or undergo the follow-up visits. Patients will be allowed to use only water-based lubricants, not containing HA, hormones, or isoflavones, if necessary, only when engaging in sexual activity and specifying the reason for its use (multiple choice answer). The number of lubricant applications, as well as the frequency of the sexual activity, will be recorded weekly in the diary by the patient.
Vulvo Vaginal Atrophy
DEVICE: Hyalo Gyn Vaginal Gel|OTHER: Placebo
Evaluation of the performance of Hyalo Gyn® vaginal gel in the improvement of patient's perception of vulvovaginal dryness associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, after 12 weeks of treatment, compared to placebo., The primary performance endpoint of the investigation will be the change in the vulvovaginal dryness associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, evaluated as the proportion of subjects having a reduction ≥2 points in the Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) dryness score from baseline to 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The vulvovaginal symptom associated with vulvovaginal atrophy (dryness) will be reported on a four-point scale (0 = absent, 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3= severe)., after 12 weeks of treatment
Change from baseline in patient's perception of dryness, irritation/itching, soreness, dysuria, and dyspareunia vulvovaginal symptoms single scores associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, Change from baseline in the vulvovaginal symptoms associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, evaluated by measuring the VRS single score at baseline and at 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. Each vulvovaginal symptom associated with vulvovaginal atrophy (dryness, irritation/itching, soreness, dysuria, dyspareunia) will be reported on a four-point scale (0 = absent, 1= mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe);, After 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Change from baseline in patient's perception of vulvovaginal symptoms global score associated with vulvovaginal atrophy;, Change from baseline in the vulvovaginal symptoms associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, evaluated by measuring the VRS global score at baseline and at 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. Each vulvovaginal symptom associated with vulvovaginal atrophy (dryness, irritation/itching, soreness, dysuria, dyspareunia) will be reported on a four-point scale and the sum of every single score will be calculated (0 = absent,

1= mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe);, After 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Change from baseline of sexual function through Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) questionnaire, Change from baseline in the sexual function, evaluated with the questionnaire FSFI at 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The FSFI questionnaire consists of 19 items (six subscales: desire, arousal, lubrication, orgasm, satisfaction, and pain). Total scores range from 2 to 36, with higher scores reflecting better sexual function (cut-off value = 26.5)., After 4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Change from baseline of sexual function through Female Sexual Distress Scale-Revised (FSDS-R) questionnaire, Change from baseline in the sexual distress, evaluated with the FSDS-R at 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The FSDS-R questionnaire consists of 13 items and items are scored on a five-point rating scale (0 = never; 1 = rarely; 2 = occasionally; 3 = frequently; 4 = always). Total score ranges from 0 to 52, with higher scores indicating greater sexual distress (cut-off value = 11);, After 4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Change from baseline of Vaginal Health Index (VHI);, Change from baseline in vaginal signs associated with vulvovaginal atrophy, evaluated by measuring the average score of VHI at baseline and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The VHI will be calculated assigning a score between 1 to 5 for vaginal moisture, vaginal fluid volume, vaginal elasticity, vaginal pH, and vaginal epithelial integrity on a scale of 1 to 5. The assigned score will vary from 5 to 25. The lower the score, the greater the atrophy (cut-off value = 15)., After 4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0),|Change from baseline of the objective genitourinary atrophy signs (Vaginal Maturation Index (VMI, only after 12 weeks);, Change from baseline of the objective genitourinary atrophy sign VMI, evaluated at baseline and at 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. VMI quantifies the percentages of parabasal, intermediate, and superficial cells by using the formula: VMI = \[1(% superficial cells)\] + \[0.6(% intermediate cells)\] + \[0.2(% parabasal cells)\] (0%-49%, low stimulation of the vaginal epithelium; 50%-64%, moderate stimulation of the vaginal epithelium; 65%-100%, high stimulation of the vaginal epithelium)., After 4, 8 and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0|Change from baseline of the objective genitourinary atrophy sign, vaginal pH, Change from baseline of the objective genitourinary atrophy sign vaginal pH, evaluated by measuring values of vaginal pH at baseline and at 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The pH values will be grouped in a 4-point scale and scored respectively: pH \< 5 (0), 5-5.49 (1), 5.5- 6.49 (2), and more than 6.49 (3), After 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Evaluation of Patient's global assessment (PTGA) of overall satisfaction, PTGA of overall satisfaction, evaluated at 4, 8, and after 12 weeks of treatment with Hyalo Gyn® gel compared to placebo. The patient will be requested to score the overall satisfaction of the treatment on a four-grade scale: 0 = dissatisfied or very dissatisfied, 1 = moderately satisfied or satisfied, 2 = very satisfied, and 3 = greatly satisfied, After 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)|Evaluation of the safety and tolerability of Hyalo Gyn® vaginal gel compared to placebo during the entire course of the study, Safety of the treatment, evaluated at 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment by tracking the number of patient withdrawals and collecting the local and general adverse events that occur during the study, After 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 weeks of treatment from baseline (V0)
This will be a prospective, randomized, controlled, 2-arms, placebo-controlled, double-blind, multicentre clinical investigation. Patients with good compliance and who are voluntary to sign the informed consent will be enrolled in a period time of approximately 6 months. The screened and eligible patients will be randomly assigned in one of the two groups: Group A will receive Hyalo Gyn® and Group B will receive Placebo. Neither the Investigator nor the Patient will be aware of the assigned treatment.

Subjects of both groups will start the treatment with 1 application of Hyalo Gyn® gel or placebo gel, deeply in the vagina every 3 days (i.e. an application is followed by 2 days without application) up to a total of 12 consecutive weeks.

After 12 weeks (i.e. at Visit 3), according to the status of dryness symptom, measured with the VRS dryness score from baseline to 12 weeks, patients will undergo different procedures for the second phase of the study as reported in the brief summary.

Visits at the investigational site will be performed at screening/baseline (V0, Week 0) and every 4 weeks, alternated to telephone contacts by the clinician (V1, Week 4; T1, Week 6; V2, Week 8; T2, Week 10; V3, Week 12) up to the end of the first 12-week phase of the study. Two phone follow-up visits will be performed at Week 16 (T3) and Week 20 (T4), followed by a visit at the investigational site at the end of the second 12-week phase of the study (V4, Week 24). Visit 4 (Week 24) will represent the end of study visit. In case of premature withdrawal from the investigation for whatever reason an "Early termination Visit" will be performed, which will include all assessments foreseen for the final visit (Visit 4, Week 24 ± 5 days).