Customized Neuro-Imaging Referenced Symptom Video for the Reduction of Patient and Caregiver Anxiety Around Radiation Treatment for Brain Tumors
This trial studies whether a customized video intervention can help to reduce anxiety in brain cancer patients undergoing radiation treatment and their caregivers. A customized neuro-imaging referenced symptom video that describes symptoms and side effects specific to the patients' tumor may result in an early and sustained reduction in anxiety and distress during and after radiation treatment, thereby improving quality of life.
Glioblastoma|WHO Grade II Glioma|WHO Grade III Glioma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration|OTHER: Video
Changes in patient S-Anxiety subscale score of the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Using linear mixed models (LMMs) to evaluate the change in STAI between and within groups. The correlation structure over time will be selected using the Bayesian information criterion. Will calculate correlations between reduction in anxiety and improvement in quality of life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Scale-Brain \[FACT- Br\]) and distress (Distress Thermometer). Analysis will focus on the between-group comparison of the changes of the patient S-Anxiety subscale score of the STAI from baseline to 2 weeks and from baseline to 6 weeks in to RT. All tests conducted will use a two-sided 0.05 significance level, without adjusting for multiple testing., From baseline to 2 weeks, 6 weeks and 1 month post-radiation therapy (RT)
Changes in caregiver S-Anxiety subscale score of the STAI and Distress Thermometer score, Analysis will focus on the between-group comparison of the changes of the caregiver S-Anxiety subscale score of the STAI from baseline to 2 weeks and from baseline to 6 weeks in to RT. All tests conducted will use a two-sided .05 significance level, without adjusting for multiple testing., From baseline to 2 and 6 weeks|Change in patient and caregiver S-Anxiety subscale score of the STAI and Distress Thermometer scores, Analysis will be performed by testing for the effects of time, in particular, differences between the average of weeks 2 and 6 during RT and 1 month after RT. All tests conducted will use a two-sided .05 significance level, without adjusting for multiple testing., From baseline to 1 month post-RT|Changes in patient Distress Thermometer score and FACT-Br score, Evaluates the impact between distress and overall quality of life in patients. LMMs will be used to assess the correlations between change in anxiety and change in quality of life, etc., without including time as an independent variable, yet with within-subject correlations still accounted for. For each fixed time point, simple correlations will also be calculated. All tests conducted will use a two-sided .05 significance level, without adjusting for multiple testing., From baseline to 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 1 month post-RT|Patient survey, Evaluates whether neuro-imaging referenced symptom intervention was subjectively helpful in understanding their tumor and treatment symptoms and alleviating their anxiety. Relevant summary statistics will be computed. All tests conducted will use a two-sided .05 significance level, without adjusting for multiple testing., Up to 1 month post-RT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if provision of a neuro-imaging referenced symptom (NIRS) video intervention for patients starting radiotherapy for newly diagnosed primary brain tumors reduces patient anxiety during radiation compared to standard of care information.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if provision of a NIRS video intervention for patients starting radiotherapy for newly diagnosed primary brain tumors reduces caregiver anxiety during radiation compared to standard of care information.

II. To determine if any changes in patient or caregiver anxiety early during radiation are sustained after the completion of radiation.

III. To investigate whether changes in anxiety are associated with changes in quality of life and distress in patients.

IV. To investigate whether patients perceive the NIRS intervention to have been helpful in understanding possible tumor and treatment symptoms.

OUTLINE: Patients and their caregivers are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (NIRS VIDEO): Patients receive standard of care verbal and written education materials. Patients also receive a customized NIRS video which includes a description of each their tumor, functional areas of the brain affected, and possible symptoms from the tumor and radiation treatment based on the neuro-imaging features. Patients and their caregivers watch the video together or separately over 1.5-3 minutes before the end of the first week of radiation treatment. Within 2 weeks after watching the NIRS video, patients complete an optional survey over 5-10 minutes.

ARM II (STANDARD OF CARE EDUCATION): Patients receive standard of care verbal and written education materials.

After completion of radiation treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month.