Comparison of Two Concomitant Administration of RT With Cisplatin in Standard Infusion or Fractional Infusion
The general aim is to compare the cumulative dose of cisplatin administered concomitantly with radiotherapy in reference arm A (cisplatin 100 mg / m2 day 1 every 21 days) and in the experimental arm B (Cisplatin split 25 mg / m2 / J D1 to D4 all 21 days).
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Split Cisplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
cumulative dose of administered cisplatin in each arm, cisplatin dose amount received at each cycle, 36 months after the end of treatment
Frequency of toxicities, Assessment of toxicity in accordance with NCI-CTC-AE 4.03, Every week during treatment and every 3 months after treatment up to 3 years|Maximum Platine Concentration [Cmax],, Blood sample, Cycle 1 before infusion, 90 min, 180 min,210 min, 270 min, 360 min and 420 min after the beginning of infusion in comparator arm and before infusion, 30 min, 45 min,75 min, 135 min, 225 min in experimental arm at Day 1 and Day 4|Area Under the Curve [AUC] of platine, Blood sample, Cycle 1 before infusion, 90 min, 180 min, 210 min, 270 min, 360 min and 420 min after the beginning of infusion in comparator arm and before infusion, 30 min, 45 min, 75 min, 135 min, 225 min in experimental arm at Day 1 and Day 4|Values of Neutrophil Gélatinase-associated Lipocalin (NGAL), Urinary sample, Baseline and 24hour after infusion of cisplatin in comparator arm and 24hour after the last infusion of cisplatin in experimental arm|Doses of radiation, total dose received, 7 weeks after the beginning of radiotherapy|Duration of radiation, Interruption of radiotherapy due to toxicity, 7 weeks after the beginning of radiotherapy|Loco-regional failure rate, Delay between the date of randomisation and the occurrence of a recurrence, 36 months after the end of randomization|overall survival, Delay between the date of randomization and death, 36 months after the end of randomization
The standard treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck locally advanced non-operated or non-operable is a combination of radiotherapy and concomitant chemotherapy. Indeed, the meta-analysis MACH showed for RT / CT associations an absolute survival benefit of 8% compared with radiotherapy alone. Cisplatin delivered optimally, ie at a dose of 100 mg / m2 on day 1, D22 and D43 of radiotherapy is as effective as combinations of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil.

In post operative, treatment of high risk recurrence forms by Cisplatin, concomitantly with radiotherapy, also increases local control and overall survival.

However, it is an association whose toxicity is significant. The usual limiting toxicities were mucositis, dysphagia, nausea and vomiting with malnutrition and biologically kidney failure and myelotoxicity. Only 2/3 of the patients receive 3 cycles of cisplatin initially programmed.

As shown in the RTOG 0129 trial, the number of cycles of cisplatin and thus the cumulative dose of cisplatin administered concurrently with radiation therapy, significantly influences the locoregional control, progression free survival and overall survival.

One method of reducing the toxicity and thereby, increase the cumulative dose, would be to split the administration of cisplatin.

Moreover, the efficacy of Cisplatin, which only the free fraction is active, seems correlated with AUC that peak plasma which would in turn responsible for toxicity. The completion of a pharmacokinetic study comparing the AUC and Cmax obtained with cisplatin 100 mg / m2 and cisplatin fractionated is essential.

Finally, the limiting renal toxicity induced by cisplatin is currently diagnosed using the creatinine clearance. The Neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL) urinary is a new diagnosis and prognosis marker of renal impairment following treatment with cisplatin. However, further studies are needed to validate its clinical utility.