Relationship Between Hypoxia and Endocrine Response in Human Breast Cancer
The aim of our current study was to analyze whether 18F-labeled Fluoromisonidazole (1-(2-nitro-1-imidazolyl)- 2-hydroxy-3-fluoropropane \[18F-FMISO\]) PET/CT and expression of HIF-1-alpha could predict response of primary endocrine therapy in ER-positive breast cancer
Breast Cancer|Hypoxia
OTHER: 18FMISO PET/CT scan|DRUG: Letrozole
Clinical Objective Response, Tumor response was evaluated according to the criteria of the World Health Organization. Clinical tumor progression (PD) was defined as an increase of at least 25% in tumor size; stable disease (SD) as an increase of less than 25% or a reduction of less than 50%; partial response (cPR) as a tumor shrinkage greater than 50%; and complete response (cCR) as the complete disappearance of all clinical signs of disease., 4 months
Pathological Response, Including pathological complete response (pCR or Grade 5),pathological partial response (pPR or Grade 3-4) and pathological non-response (NR or Grade 1-2)., 4 months|Depression of Ki67 score, A biological response of Ki67 depression was tested on a second core needly biopsy on the primary site of the breast cancer after 3 months of primary endocrine therapy. Ki67\>=15% was regarded as a biological resistance to primary endocrine therapy, 3 months
Disease free survival, An early recurrence of the disease during adjuvant endocrine therapy was also regarded as a resistance to endocrine therapy, 5 years
Approximately 30% of ER-positive breast cancer will unfortunately display primary resistance to hormonal therapy, and some may develop acquired resistance to the therapy after initial treatment. Hypoxia is a normal phenomenon in solid tumors that arises, in part, from uncontrolled proliferation and immature blood vessels. Previous studies have demonstrated hypoxia significantly reduced both the growth-promoting effects of estradiol (E2) and the growth-inhibitory effects of an antiestrogen on ER-positive breast cancer cell lines. A recent study comparing neoadjuvant letrozole with letrozole plus metronomic cyclophosphamide found that increased levels of HIF-1a were significantly associated with resistance to treatment. Taken together, these data indicate that hypoxia might be associated with endocrine resistance in breast cancer.

With PET/CT, radiolabeled hypoxia-avid compounds can be applied to evaluate oxygenation status in experimental or human tumors. 18F-labeled fluoromisonidazole (1-\[2-nitro- 1-imidazolyl\]-2-hydroxy-3-fluoropropane \[18F-FMISO\]) PET/CT is the most widely used one in the clinic. Studies have demonstrated an excellent correlation between the 18F-FMISO uptake and oxygenation status of several cancers including breast cancer.

The major aim of our study was to analyze uptake of 18FFMISO as well as the IHC expression of HIF-1-alpha in ER-positive breast cancers, and to predict the clinical, pathological and biological response of primary endocrine therapy.