Neo-Adjuvant Abemaciclib With Fulvestrant in Patients With ER/PR +HER Negative Breast Cancer
This is a phase 2 single-arm, open-label determining efficacy of Neo-adjuvant Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant in subjects with Hormone receptor positive patients with localized non-metastatic breast cancer who develop local recurrence while on adjuvant endocrine therapy with molecular evidence of endocrine resistance.
Breast Neoplasm|Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Percentage of Participants With a Pathological Complete Response, This is defined as the percentage of subjects who achieve a pathological complete response (pCR). A pCR is defined by no evidence of tumor cells in the final surgical specimen., From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.
Overall Response Rate, To assess the overall response rate to the combination of Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant. Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as confirmed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1): Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions. ORR = CR + PR, From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.|Percentage of Participants Who Undergo Breast Conserving Surgery, This is defined as the percentage of subjects who undergo breast conserving surgery after receiving Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant, From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.|Recurrence Disease Free Survival, Recurrence disease free survival will be defined as the time from surgery until patient develops recurrence., Up to 5 years|Percentage of Grade 3-5 Adverse Events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of administering Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant. Toxicity and adverse events are based on the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 5.0., From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.|Percentage Change in Ki 67, Percentage change in the Ki 67 will be evaluated from baseline to the treated specimen after breast surgery, From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.|Preoperative Endocrine Prognostic Index Score, The preoperative endocrine prognostic index (PEPI) Score is a score that is used in clinical trials to assess response to Neo-Adjuvant endocrine therapy. The PEPI score takes into account the tumor and nodal stage, level of ER expression and Ki 67 following neoadjuvant endocrine therapy., From start of study treatment to surgery, on average we expect 6 months.
This is a phase 2 single-arm, open-label determining efficacy of Neo-adjuvant Abemaciclib and Fulvestrant in subjects with Hormone receptor positive patients with localized non-metastatic breast cancer who develop local recurrence while on adjuvant endocrine therapy with molecular evidence of endocrine resistance.