Heparin Versus Normal Saline in Peripherally Inserted Central Catheter Lines
The study team will be performing a study comparing the use of Heparin Flushes vs. Normal Saline Flushes in making sure central lines stay open. The participants will be placed in a group to receive the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW) Standard of Care (control group) for maintaining central lines, or a group to receive Normal Saline Flushes only (experimental group) to keep their central line open. The participants electronic medical record will be reviewed by study team members for the inclusion/exclusion criteria, the participants central line will be assessed by an 11 Blue BMT nurse every 12 hours, and they may be asked questions regarding their medical history during their stay on 11 Blue BMT. If a participant is discharged or transferred off of the 11 Blue BMT unit, they will no longer be included in the study and their central line maintenance will return to the UTSW Standard of Care. Participants in this study may be at risk for central line occlusion (a blood clot) which could require intervention to regain the free flow of fluids and use of the central line. The study team predicts there will be no increase in the rate of line occlusion when using Normal Saline Flushes only to maintain the free flow of fluids through participants central line. The study team also hopes the results of this study will help to improve patient outcomes by decreasing risk of infection, heparin associated complications, and costs.
Cancer
DRUG: Normal Saline Group|DRUG: Heparin Group
Patency, To determine whether or not flushing central lines with normal saline only will maintain free flow through these central lines., Up to Day 7 of enrollment
Infection Rate, To determine whether or not removing Heparin Flushes from PICC line maintenance decreases the risk for central line associated infections, From Day 1 and up to Day 7 of enrollment
The study team will be performing a study comparing the use of Heparin Flushes vs. Normal Saline Flushes in making sure central lines stay open. The participants will be placed in a group to receive the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center (UTSW) Standard of Care (control group) for maintaining central lines, or a group to receive Normal Saline Flushes only (experimental group) to keep their central line open. The participants electronic medical record will be reviewed by study team members for the inclusion/exclusion criteria, the participants central line will be assessed by an 11 Blue BMT nurse every 12 hours, and they may be asked questions regarding their medical history during their stay on 11 Blue BMT. If a participant is discharged or transferred off of the 11 Blue BMT unit, they will no longer be included in the study and their central line maintenance will return to the UTSW Standard of Care. Participants in this study may be at risk for central line occlusion (a blood clot) which could require intervention to regain the free flow of fluids and use of the central line. The study team predicts there will be no increase in the rate of line occlusion when using Normal Saline Flushes only to maintain the free flow of fluids through participants central line. The study team also hopes the results of this study will help to improve patient outcomes by decreasing risk of infection, heparin associated complications, and costs.