PET-Directed Therapy With Pembrolizumab and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new drug pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy, for the treatment of newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma. The chemotherapy regimen is called AVD and includes three drugs: adriamycin, vinblastin, dacarbazine. Pembrolizumab is currently FDA approved for the treatment of some patients with melanoma, lung cancer and head and neck cancer, but has not yet been approved for the treatment of Hodgkins Lymphoma. The AVD regimen of chemotherapy is currently FDA approved for the treatment of newly diagnosed Hodgkin lymphoma, but has not yet been investigated in combination with pembrolizumab for this disease. For patients who have a new diagnosis of Hodgkins Lymphoma, multi-agent chemotherapy is recommended. Also, for patients who do not have a complete response to chemotherapy (meaning there is still evidence of disease on PET scans performed at the end of treatment), radiation is sometimes recommended. Furthermore, the rare patient who relapses after chemotherapy requires treatment with high dose chemotherapy and a transplant.
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lymphocyte-Depleted Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Lymphocyte-Rich Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Mixed Cellularity Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Nodular Sclerosis Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|RADIATION: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Vinblastine Sulfate
Complete Response (CR) With Pembrolizumab Treatment Alone, To assess the primary objective of response rate following PET #2 performed after 3 doses of pembrolizumab. PET response will be assessed using the Lugano Criteria (2014) which recommends the 5 point Deauville score for assessing response. The Deauville five-point scale is an internationally-recommended scale for routine clinical reporting and clinical trials using FDG PET-CT in the initial staging and assessment of treatment response in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL). Patients with a Deauville score of 1-3 will be considered a complete response.

Deauville criteria is defined as follows:

1. No residual uptake
2. Slight uptake, but below blood pool (mediastinum)
3. Uptake above mediastinum, but below or equal to uptake in the liver
4. Uptake slightly to moderately higher than liver
5. Markedly increased uptake or any new lesions

Patients will be evaluable for response assessment if they have received at least one dose of pembrolizumab., After 3 cycles of pembrolizumab (1 cycle = 21 days)
Incidence of Adverse Events, To assess safety and tolerability, all adverse events will be summarized in terms of type, grade, timing and attribution to treatment and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (NCI-CTCAE version 4.03)., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS) for Patients <60, PFS for patients \<60 will be measured., Up to 2 years|PFS for Elderly Patients, PFS for elderly patients will be measured., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS) for Patients <60, OS for patients \<60 will be evaluated., Up to 2 years|OS for Elderly Patients, OS for elderly patients will be evaluated., Up to 2 years|FDG Uptake, Evaluate the extent of FDG uptake by assessing PET scans to determine a Deauville score., Up to 4 weeks after last dose of chemotherapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the percent of patients who achieve a complete response (CR) to single-agent pembrolizumab induction, among patients with classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) using Lugano 2014 criteria., as measured at PET #2.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in combination with chemotherapy in the frontline setting.

II. Determine the three-year progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) for patients \< 60 with early non-bulky disease, and elderly patients (all stages) treated with pembrolizumab with doxorubicin hydrochloride (Adriamycin), (bleomycin), vinblastine sulfate, dacarbazine (A\[B\]VD) in the frontline treatment of patients with cHL.

III. Determine the extent of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) uptake, using a semi-quantitative approach (e.g., Deauville score), after pembrolizumab induction, and after subsequent chemotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize PD-1 pathway specific expression and correlate with response.

II. To characterize serum biomarkers of immune and inflammatory response during treatment.

III. To characterize levels of soluble PD-L1 related to treatment with pembrolizumab.

IV. To characterize T-lymphocyte subset changes to treatment with pembrolizumab.

V. To investigate the prevalence and clinical correlation of chromosome 9p24.1 alterations for this population.

OUTLINE:

INITIATION: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo FDG-PET/computed tomography (CT) scans before the start of pembrolizumab and after 3 courses.

AVD: Within 21 days after final dose of pembrolizumab, patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV, vinblastine sulfate IV, and dacarbazine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo a final FDG-PET/CT scan on day 117-120 or 26-29 of course 2. Patients with stage I/II disease with a CR continue treatment for up to 2 courses. Patients with stage III/IV disease with a CR or age \>= 60 with stage III/IV disease with any response continue treatment for up to 4 courses.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients age \>= 60 with stage III/IV disease who received \< 6 courses of AVD or patients age \>= 60 with DV 4-5 on FDG-PECT/CT scan receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.