Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with kidney cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Pazopanib hydrochloride may also stop the growth of kidney cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Carcinoma of the Collecting Ducts of Bellini|Chromophobe Renal Cell Carcinoma|Kidney Medullary Carcinoma|Kidney Oncocytoma|Metastatic Renal Cell Cancer|Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Renal Cell Carcinoma|Sarcomatoid Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride
Overall Survival Rate at 12 Months, Overall survival rate at 12 months is defined as the percentage of participants who are alive at 12 months., 12 months
Number of Participants Experiencing at Least One Toxicity, Number of participants experiencing at least one toxicity defined as a grade 3 or higher adverse event deemed at least possible related to treatment., Up to 2 years|Progression-free Survival, Kaplan-Meier curve will be used to estimate progression-free survival time. Progression is defined as At least one of the following must be true:a. At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (\< 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to ≥ 1.0 cm short axis during follow-up. b. At least a 20% increase in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the MSD. In addition, the PBSD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm from the MSD., From registration to the earliest date documentation of disease progression or death, assessed up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from study registration to death date., Up to 2 years|Number of Participants With Best Response in the First 2 Cycles, The number of participants with Best tumor response in the first 2 cycles. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the BSD. Progression is defined as At least one of the following must be true:a. At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (\< 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to ≥ 1.0 cm short axis during follow-up. b. At least a 20% increase in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the MSD. In addition, the PBSD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm from the MSD.Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the MSD., Up to 56 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of pazopanib hydrochloride (pazopanib) in non clear cell metastatic renal cell cancer patients as assessed by the overall survival rate at 12 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rates of best tumor response at the end of the first two treatment cycles of pazopanib in non clear cell metastatic renal cell cancer patients.

II. To determine the benefit of pazopanib in increasing progression free survival time.

III. To describe toxicity profile of pazopanib in non clear cell metastatic renal cell cancer patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.