Physical Activity for Advanced Stage Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to understand if a home-based physical activity program can improve symptoms and physical function among patients with advanced stage cancer.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Six Week Physical Activity Intervention|OTHER: Progress Reporting
Rate of Participation Among Eligible Patients, Feasibility and acceptability of a tailored Wii Fit intervention. Hypothesis1.1: 60% of eligible patients will enroll; 1.2: 60% of participants will adhere to their tailored physical activity prescriptions; 1.3: 70% of participants will agree that Wii Fit is easy to use, enjoyable, convenient, and helpful.

Enrollment rate: ratio of number of advanced stage cancer patients enrolled in the study to total number of patients meeting eligibility criteria invited to participate in the study. Adherence rate: ratio of the number of participants who adhere to the tailored Wii Fit prescription (i.e., expend at least 60% of prescribed kilocalories each week) to the total number of participants in the study. Acceptability of and satisfaction with the intervention: ratio of number of participants whose mean scores of Wii Fit and RN Visiting Surveys are equal to or more than 3 on 1-4 Likert-type scale to the total number of participants in the study., 6 weeks per participant
Rate of Positive Response to Participation, Examine changes in outcomes (fatigue, pain, depression, anxiety, sleep quality, physical function, perceived stress, and chronic Hypothalamus-Pituitary-Adrenal (HPA) activation) over 6 weeks among patients who have the intervention. Hypothesis 2.1: There will be positive changes in the outcomes.

Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to compare T1 with T2 scores in fatigue, pain, depression, anxiety, sleep quality, physical function, perceived stress, and hair cortisol. Twenty participants will provide 80% power to detect only large effect sizes (d\>.60), which cannot be anticipated. Because the purposes of this study are to inform future larger studies, the ANOVA will be used to calculate effect sizes (η2) for future power estimations. Because effect size calculation will be the central purpose of the ANOVAs, no adjustment will be made to reduce the possibility of Type 1 errors (p\<.05)., 6 weeks per participant
This program includes use of the Nintendo Wii Fit™Plus (Wii Fit) and home visits by a nurse. The same nurse will attend all of the visits.