Salvage Cryotherapy for Recurrent Prostate Cancer After Radiation Therapy
The main objective of this project is to establish a shared comprehensive and systematic protocol for a multicenter prospective registry of patients undergoing salvage cryoablation of the prostate (SCAP).

Our study hypothesis is that SCAP constitutes an effective and safe approach to treat local prostate cancer recurrence after brachytherapy or external beam radiation therapy (EBRT).
Prostate Cancer|Cryotherapy|Recurrent Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Salvage cryoablation of the prostate (SCAP)
Disease-free rate, absence of disease in follow-up biopsy AND PET/PSMA, 1 year|ADT-free survival, Absence of androgen deprivation therapy need during follow-up, 5 years
Rate of incontinence, Measured by International Consultation on Incontienence Questionnaire short-form (ICIQ-SF), 1 year|Rate of sexual disfunction, Measured by International Index Erectile Function (IIEF-25), 1 year|Effect on urinary symptoms, Measured by International Prostate Symptoms Score (IPSS) and uroflowmetry, 1 year|Biochemical free survival, PSA, 5 years|Metastasis free survival, Metastasis detected in novel imaging modalities, 5 years|Performance of mpMRI and PET-CT for the detection of clinically significant recurrence., Related to the histopathology observed, 1 year|Rate of metastasis detected by PET-CT, Metastais detected, 1 year
Salvage cryoablation of the prostate has been proposed as an alternative to salvage radical prostatectomy, as it has a potentially lower risk of morbidity and equal efficacy. A recent systematic review assessed a total of 32 studies of SCAP (5.513 patients). The overwhelming majority of patients (93%) received whole-gland SCAP. The adjusted pooled analysis for 2-year BCR-free survival for SCAP was 67.49% (95% CI: 61.68-72.81%), and for 5-year BCR-free survival was 50.25% (95% CI: 44.10-56.40%).

Nevertheless, the evidence base relating to the use of SCAP is poor, with significant uncertainties relating to long-term oncological outcomes. One of the main limitations when these studies are analyzed is the lack of information about the histopathology both before starting treatment and at the time of recurrence after cryotherapy. The vast majority only refer to biochemical-free survival as end point, thus limiting interpretation of real oncological performance of this technique. Furthermore, side effects vary widely from study to study and there are uncertainties about the real morbidity associated to cryotherapy in the salvage setting.

Due to this lack of evidence, the EAU 2021 Guidelines recommend that SCAP should only be performed in selected patients in experienced centres as part of a clinical trial or well-designed prospective cohort study.