Carfilzomib, Rituximab and Dexamethasone in Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
Carfilzomib is a drug that has shown anti-tumor activity by inhibiting the proteasome within the cell, which is responsible for degrading or breaking down a wide variety of proteins. Carfilzomib has not been approved by the FDA.

Rituximab and dexamethasone are often used to treat Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia (WM), alone or in combination with other drugs. Combinations with rituximab, dexamethasone and proteasome inhibitors, like carfilzomib, show high levels of activity in WM patients.

In this research study, the investigators are testing the safety and efficacy of Carfilzomib when used along with Rituximab and Dexamethasone as a possible treatment for Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia.
Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Rituximab
Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate= Minor response (\>25%-50% reduction in serum IgM from baseline + Partial Response (\>50-90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline) + Very Good Partial Response (\>90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline) + Complete Response (resolution of all symptoms, normalization of serum IgM with disappearance of IgM paraprotein, resolution of any adenopathy or splenomegaly)., 4 years|Neuropathy Incidence Rate, Number and percentage of participants who experienced neuropathy attributable to CaRD therapy, 3 years|Time to Progression, Progression-free survival is the defined as the time from study entry to disease progression (PD) or death. Patients without PD are censored at the date of last disease evaluation. PD is defined as a greater than 25% increase in serum IgM and 500mg/dL absolute increase from the lowest attained response value as determined by serum electrophoresis, confirmed by at least one other investigation, or progression of clinically significant disease related symptom(s)., 4 years|Major Response Rate, Major Response Rate= Partial Response (\>50-90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline) + Very Good Partial Response (\>90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline) + Complete Response (resolution of all symptoms, normalization of serum IgM with disappearance of IgM paraprotein, resolution of any adenopathy or splenomegaly)., 4 years|Very Good Partial Response and Complete Response Rate, This is the rate of VGPR and CR in patients on CaRD therapy. Very good partial responses are \>90% reduction in serum IgM from baseline. Complete response is defined as having resolution of all symptoms, normalization of serum IgM levels with complete disappearance of IgM paraprotein by immunofixation, and resolution of any adenopathy or splenomegaly., 4 years
If you take part in this research study, you will receive Carfilzomib and dexamethasone as an infusion on Days 1, 2, 8, and 9 for Cycles 1-6. You will then have a Rituximab infusion on Days 2 and 9. Each cycles lasts 21 days. After completing Cycle 6 and if you are eligible, there will be a 2 month break before the maintenance phase is started. During this break, you will have a study visit with a physical exam, blood tests, and a bone marrow biopsy. If you continue to the maintenance phase, you will receive Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone on Days 1 and 2 and Rituximab on Day 2 of Cycles 1-8. Each cycle will continue to last 21 days, but will take place every 2 months. Infusions will last between 2-6 hours.

During all cycles you will have a physical exam and you will be asked questions about your general health and specific questions about any problems that you might be having and any medications you may be taking. Blood tests will also be done at each Cycle visit, and you will complete a questionnaire. Bone marrow and CT scan will only be repeated at physician discretion when appropriate and in order to ensure your response to treatment.