Investigating the Role of Adjuvant Proton Beam Therapy in Patients With Parotid Carcinoma
Proton Beam Therapy (PBT) is an advanced radiotherapy technique. There are two National Health Service (NHS) PBT treatment centres in the UK, one in Manchester and one in London. The NHS is committed to ensuring the best use of this limited resource by investigating which patients will benefit from PBT treatment.

Evaluative Commissioning in Protons (ECIP) is a programme of studies that explore the role of PBT for patients with different types of cancer. They are funded by NHS England. ECIP studies are not randomised studies, which means that all eligible patients will be offered proton therapy. Any patient in the United Kingdom (UK) can be referred, and for patients that need to travel far to their nearest centre, accommodation will be available.

The main benefit of PBT, compared with photon radiotherapy, is the predicted reduction in radiation dose to surrounding healthy tissues. With photon radiotherapy, some radiation passes beyond the target area, affecting healthy tissues and causing side-effects. With PBT, the radiation dose stops within the target area, causing less damage to surrounding tissues, and limiting side effects.

PRONTO is a study within the ECIP programme exploring whether PBT can reduce treatment side effects for patients with salivary gland cancers who need radiotherapy following surgery. Whilst radiotherapy is associated with good cancer control, it commonly causes problematic side-effects such as loss of taste and dry mouth. These can be permanent and can negatively affect someone's quality of life. PRONTO's main aim is to see if PBT can reduce the loss of taste following radiotherapy.

Participants in PRONTO will be closely monitored by the medical team and with questionnaires. The patient experience will be compared to what we would expect with standard photon radiotherapy.
Parotid Cancer
RADIATION: Proton Beam Therapy
Taste dysfunction, Taste dysfunction as recorded on the European Organisation for the Research \& Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Head \& Neck 43 (HN43) patient reported questionnaire.

43 questions with a Likert scale of 1 - 4 Higher score may mean a worse outcome, 12 months
Clinician reported acute and late toxicity using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grades, Using the CTCAE toxicity grade Grades 1 - 5 Higher score may mean a worse outcome, up to 24 months|Clinician reported acute and late toxicity using Late Effects Normal Tissue - Subjective Objective Management Analytic (LENT-SOMA) scale, Using the LENT-SOMA scale A multiple item scoring system composed of four domains; subjective, objective, management and analytic.

Grades 0-4 Higher score may mean a worse outcome, up to 24 months|Clinician reported acute and late toxicity - measurement of hearing changes, Using pure tone audiometry to measure hearing changes Loss of hearing may mean a worse outcome, up to 24 months|Patient reported acute and late toxicity using European Organisation for the Research & Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 module questionnaire, Using the EORTC QLQ-C30 30 questions using a Likert scale of 1-4 Higher score may mean a worse outcome, up to 24 months|Patient reported acute and late toxicity using European Organisation for the Research & Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Head & Neck 43 (HN43) patient reported questionnaire., Using the EORTC HN43 patient reported questionnaire 43 questions using a Likert scale of 1-4 Higher score may mean a worse outcome, up to 24 months|Patient reported acute and late toxicity using University of Washington Quality of Life (UW-QoL) questionnaire, Using the UW-QoL questionnaire Most questions are scored on a Likert scale, 0=worst, 100=best Lower score may mean worse outcomes, up to 24 months|Patient reported acute and late toxicity using Glasgow hearing Aid Benefit Profile (GHABP) questionnaire, Using the GHABP questionnaire Possible values for response options (0=not applicable, 5=cannot manage at all) Higher score may mean worse outcomes, up to 24 months|Loco-regional tumour control, This will be measured as time to recurrence (measured in months from completion of treatment) and location of recurrence (within the primary nodal regional or distant spread), up to 24 months|Overall survival, This will be measured in months from completion of treatment to death, up to 24 months|Patient participation in the study each year, Number of patients referred to and participating in the study annually, up to 24 months|Study completion rates, Review the number of patients completing radiotherapy and the number of patients completing follow up on the study as per protocol., up to 24 months|Oral cavity radiation dose, Patients will be re-planned with photon radiotherapy, the dose distribution differences between the treatment proton plans and photon plans will be recorded in particular the dose to the oral cavity, 12 months
Malignant parotid tumours are uncommon. Whilst 85% of salivary gland tumours originate in the parotid gland, only 20-25% of these are malignant, representing only 3-6% of head and neck cancers. This is about 650 patients/year in the UK.

Standard treatment for local disease is with surgical resection followed by adjuvant radiotherapy for patients with high-risk features. Local control and 5-year survival rates are good, at \>70% and \>80% respectively, but radiotherapy is associated with considerable toxicity. More than 70% of patients receiving photon therapy experience significant dysgeusia (taste loss/alteration). This can be permanent, is associated with weight loss, diminished appetite, dry mouth, and negatively impact on Quality of Life (QoL).

The putative benefit of proton beam radiotherapy (PBT) relates to its characteristic deposition in the body, which limits the radiation dose received by surrounding healthy tissues. We hypothesise that irradiating the post-operative parotid bed with PBT rather than Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT), will reduce the dose delivered to the Organs at Risk (OAR), in particular the oral cavity (OC), leading to a reduction in acute and long term taste loss/alteration. The advantageous physical properties of PBT may also improve other side effects including fatigue, mucositis, nausea \& vomiting and potentially hearing problems, as well as overall QoL.

Radiotherapy planning studies:

Radiation planning studies have repeatedly shown statistically significant reductions in the dose delivered to healthy tissues including: the oral cavity, brainstem, spinal cord, contralateral parotid, ipsilateral and contralateral submandibular glands and ipsilateral temporal lobe. In particular, radiotherapy doses to the oral cavity are significantly reduced, typically to below 10 Gray (Gy). No routinely contoured OAR or region of interest was consistently found to have higher doses planning with protons, although skin dose may be higher.

Clinical Trials:

Whilst there are no randomised control trials comparing protons and photons for this cohort. However, there is some clinical evidence that the use of PBT leads to clinically meaningful improvements in the side effects experienced by patients. One study compared acute toxicities between matched groups receiving either protons or photons, demonstrating statistically significant reductions in dysgeusia, fatigue, mucositis and nausea and vomiting in patients undergoing proton treatment. In other studies, PBT is associated with very low toxicity level, such as less than 30% of patients experiencing any dysgeusia. This compares favourably to photon experience, such as in the phase 3 randomised controlled trial 'A Multicentre Randomised Study of Cochlear Sparing Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy Versus Conventional Radiotherapy in Patients with Parotid Tumours' (COSTAR) where approximately 60% of patients reported dysgeusia in the Head \& Neck 35 (HN35) questionnaire at 1 year. The PRONTO study is powered to identify a clinically meaningful reduction in taste dysfunction of at least 20%.

Whilst late toxicities are also likely under-reported in the retrospective international data, the published literature to date is very reassuring. The mean dose to the ipsilateral temporal lobe is reportedly reduced, and reflected in low levels of subsequent headache, fatigue and/or memory change. Similarly, whilst poorly captured, low levels of hearing dysfunction or otalgia have also been reported following PBT.

There is no rationale at all that cancer outcomes, either local control or overall survival, will be worse with PBT than photon treatment. In studies to date, local control (approximately 95%) and overall survival (89%-96%) has been excellent, and comparative to known photon experience.