Temsirolimus, Temozolomide, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of temsirolimus when given together with temozolomide and radiation therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. Temsirolimus may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving temsirolimus together with temozolomide and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma
OTHER: pharmacological study|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy|RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiation therapy|DRUG: temsirolimus|DRUG: temozolomide
Maximally tolerated dose (MTD), determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0), Up to 24 weeks|Time to treatment related toxicity as assessed by hematologic measures and CTCAE v3.0, From registration to documentation of toxicity, up to 5 years|Time to treatment related toxicity greater than grade 3, assessed by CTCAE v3.0, From registration to documentation of toxicity, up to 5 years|Time to progression, From registration to documentation of progression, up to 5 years|Time to treatment failure, Simple summary statistics will be supplemented with Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and related confidence intervals.The effect of dose and ancillary dichotomized covariates such as gender or age (\<50 years versus 50+ years) will be explored using logrank testing involving one covariate at a time., From registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by patient, up to 5 years|Response to therapy associated with patient outcome, as assessed by automated morphological MRI change detector and physiological MRI techniques, including diffusion-weighted imaging, perfusion-weighted imaging, and chemical shift imaging, Logistic regression and Cox proportional hazards models will be used to determine the association between changes in tumor volume (as assessed by a software package) and tumor response and 12-month survival (logistic regression) and progression-free and overall survival (Cox proportional hazards models)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of temsirolimus when administered with temozolomide in combination with radiotherapy followed by adjuvant temozolomide in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.

II. Assess and describe the adverse events associated with this regimen in these patients.

III. Evaluate the early response to therapy in these patients using an automated morphological MRI change detector and physiological MRI techniques, including diffusion-weighted imaging, perfusion-weighted imaging, and chemical shift imaging.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the inhibition status of mTOR signaling pathways in peripheral blood mononuclear cells in patients treated with this regimen.

II. Identify potential pharmacokinetic interactions between temozolomide and temsirolimus.

III. Correlate, preliminarily, survival, progression-free survival, and response with pre-treatment tumor tissue molecular markers in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of temsirolimus. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP 1: (temsirolimus with radiation and temozolomide) Patients receive temsirolimus IV over 30 minutes once weekly. Beginning 7-10 days later, patients also receive oral temozolomide daily and undergo concurrent 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Patients are evaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy. Patients with stable or responding disease proceed to adjuvant therapy. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of temsirolimus until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

GROUP 2: (radiation and temozolomide) Patients receive oral temozolomide daily and undergo concurrent 3-D conformal radiotherapy or intensity-modulated radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 6 weeks. Patients are evaluated 4-6 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy. Patients with stable or responding disease proceed to adjuvant therapy.

ADJUVANT THERAPY: Beginning 4-6 weeks after the completion of chemoradiotherapy patients receive oral temozolomide on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Some patients undergo blood collection for immune monitoring and translational/pharmacologic studies. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.