Delayed Colorectal Cancer Care During Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) Pandemic (DECOR-19)
To understand and analyse the global impact of COVID-19 on outpatient services, inpatient care, elective surgery, and perioperative colorectal cancer care, a DElayed COloRectal cancer surgery (DECOR-19) survey was conducted in collaboration with numerous international colorectal societies with the objective of obtaining several learning points from the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our colorectal cancer patients which will assist us in the ongoing management of our colorectal cancer patients and to provide us safe oncological pathways for future outbreaks.
Colo-rectal Cancer|Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer|Oncology|Surgery
OTHER: Survey
Predictive power of respondents' and hospitals' demographics on delaying colorectal cancer care across 6 geographical regions, Respondents' and hospitals' demographics include: gender, country of origin, type of hospital (i.e. academic or not), type of unit (general surgery vs. colorectal), no. hospital beds, no. yearly surgeries for colon and rectal cancer, hospital preparedness to the emergency (i.e. fully or partially dedicated or not involved in COVID-19 care), readily availability of external facilities for colorectal cancer surgery, cancer care coordinator, personal protective equipment, status of elective surgery, no. elective colorectal cancer patients needing urgent surgery, any change in the original management plan, no. colorectal cancer patients refusing surgery or being COVID-19 + on surgery or becoming COVID-19 + post-operatively, no. staff members quarantined or relocated in COVID-19 units, MDT meeting suspension, any delay in endoscopy, radiology, oncology, surgery, histopathology., 20 days
To understand and analyse the global impact of COVID-19 on outpatient services, inpatient care, elective surgery, and perioperative colorectal cancer care, a DElayed COloRectal cancer surgery (DECOR-19) survey was conducted in collaboration with numerous international colorectal societies with the objective of obtaining several learning points from the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on our colorectal cancer patients which will assist us in the ongoing management of our colorectal cancer patients and to provide us safe oncological pathways for future outbreaks.