Radiotherapy vs. Trans-Oral Surgery for HPV-Negative Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The goal of this randomized phase II study is a formal comparison of radiotherapy versus trans-oral surgery as the primary treatment of HPV-negative patients with early-stage oropharyngeal carcinoma.
Head and Neck Cancer|Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: Radiation|PROCEDURE: Trans-Oral Surgery (TOS) + Neck Dissection
Disease-Specific Survival, Time from randomization to death from cancer, 5 years
Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death from any cause, 5 years|Progression-Free Survival, Defined as time from randomization to death from any cause, 5 years|Local-Regional Failure, Defined as time from randomization to first local-regional failure (analyzed as cumulative incidence function with death as competing event), 5 years|Distant Failure, Defined as time from randomization to first distant failure or metastasis (analyzed as cumulative incidence function with death as competing event), 5 years|Any Failure, Defined as time from randomization to first local-regional failure or distant failure, whichever occurs first (analyzed as cumulative incidence function with death as competing event), 5 years|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), Baseline to 5 years follow up|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: EORTC QLQ-C30, Baseline to 5 years follow up|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: H\&N35 scale, Baseline to 5 years follow up|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: Voice Handicap Index (VHI-10), Baseline to 5 years follow up|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: Neck Dissection Impairment Index (NDII), Baseline to 5 years follow up|Quality of Life, Quality of Life using the following questionnaire: Patient Neurotoxicity Questionnaire (PNQ), Baseline to 5 years follow up|Toxicity profile of both study arms using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) Version 4, To determine toxicity profile of both study arms using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) Version 4, Randomization until 5 years follow up|Feeding tube rate at 1 year, Measure other functional measurements such as feeding tube rate at 1 year, Baseline to 1 year post treatment|CTCAE Dysphagia Grade, Measure other functional measurements such as CTCAE Dysphagia grade, Baseline to 5 years post treatment
This study is designed as a randomized phase II study. Patients will be randomized between current standard of care treatment (Arm 1) vs. TOS (Arm 2) in a 1:1 ratio. Additionally, patients will be stratified according to T stage (T1 vs. T2); N stage (N0/1 vs. N2/3)

The randomized phase II design is required for three reasons:

1. The randomization will provide an appropriate control group to serve as a comparator for the experimental arm. Historical or contemporaneous non-randomized controls would not be appropriate due to the multitude of biases that could be introduced by patient selection and other confounders.
2. A small sample size will allow for adequate power to assess for progression-free survival, and also an assessment of quality of life, overall survival and toxicity.
3. The results will allow for a decision as to whether a multi-institutional phase III trial is warranted, and inform the design of such a trial.