A Study of the CDX-1307 Vaccine Regimen in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer (The "N-ABLE" Study)
The major purpose of this study is to examine the anti-tumor activity of the CDX-1307 vaccine regimen when it is given before and after bladder cancer surgery. The study will also provide information about the safety of the vaccine regimen when given in combination with chemotherapy, and how it affects the immune systems.
Bladder Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: CDX-1307 Vaccine Regimen|DRUG: Chemotherapy
2 year Recurrence-Free Survival Rate, The 2-year recurrence-free survival rate will be estimated based on the proportion of patients who are classified as alive and without documented disease recurrence at this time point., 2 years following enrollment|Duration of Recurrence-Free Survival, The duration of recurrence-free survival is defined as the number of months from enrollment to the earlier of disease recurrence or death (whatever the cause)., Up-to 4 years after bladder removal surgery (cystectomy)
Tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, The tumor response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy will be evaluated as the proportion of patients who achieve a radiographic response as defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) or a pathologic complete response at cystectomy., At cystectomy (anticipated to be about 4 months post-enrollment)|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the number of months from enrollment to the date of death (whatever the cause)., Up-to 4 years following bladder removal surgery (cystecomy)|Safety / Tolerability, The number and percentage of patients experiencing one or more adverse events will be summarized by relationship to study drug and severity. Separate tabulations will be provided for the neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment phases., Through completion of study treatment (about 1 year post-resection)
CDX-1307 is an experimental vaccine that is designed to generate an immune response against a protein called human chorionic gonadotropin-beta (hCG-β). hCG-β is made by several types of cancers, including bladder cancer, and has been shown to be associated with shorter times to development of metastases and reduced survival in bladder cancer. In this study, it is hoped that administering the CDX-1307 vaccine will cause the body's immune system to attack bladder cancer cells in order to kill them or otherwise keep them from spreading or coming back.

Standard treatment for early stage, muscle invasive bladder cancer includes the administration of chemotherapy to shrink the tumor followed by surgical removal of the bladder (cystectomy).

This study will compare the effect of adding CDX-1307 administration to this standard treatment. CDX-1307 will be given with 3 different immune stimulants to try to increase the immune response against the tumor cells; collectively, this is called the "CDX-1307 vaccine regimen."

Only patients whose tumors make the hCG-β protein will be included in this study. Eligible patients will receive "standard of care" chemotherapy with the CDX-1307 vaccine regimen before surgery, and then CDX-1307 vaccine regimen alone (without chemotherapy) after surgery.