A Study of Liposomal Doxorubicin With or Without Olaratumab (IMC-3G3) in Platinum-Refractory or Resistant Advanced Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine if participants with platinum-refractory or platinum-resistant advanced ovarian cancer have a better outcome when treated with Olaratumab (IMC-3G3) in combination with Liposomal Doxorubicin than when treated with Liposomal Doxorubicin alone.
Ovarian Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Olaratumab|DRUG: liposomal doxorubicin
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the day of randomization to the first evidence of progression as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.0 (RECIST v1.0) criteria or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) is a 20% increase over the smallest sum of target lesions or new lesions. Participants who died without a reported prior disease progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress and were subsequently lost to follow-up had their data censored at the day of last tumor assessment., Randomization to Progressive Disease (PD) or Date of Death (Up to 35 Months)
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from first day of therapy to the date of death from any cause. Participants who were alive at the end of the follow-up period or were lost to follow-up, OS was censored on the last date the participant was known to be alive., First Day of Therapy to Date of Death (Up to 35 Months)|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) [Objective Response Rate (ORR)], The percentage of participants with a best overall response of confirmed CR or PR defined using RECIST v1.0 criteria. CR is the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and normalization of cancer antigen-125 (CA-125) levels. PR is defined as having a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD. The percentage of participants with objective response was calculated as: (number of participants whose best overall response of CR or PR/number of participants treated) \* 100., Randomization to PD (Up to 35 Months)|Median Duration of Response, Duration of response is the interval from the date of initial CR or PR until the first date criteria for PD is met using RECIST v1.0 criteria, or initiation of other (or additional) antitumor therapy is first reported, or death due to any cause. CR is the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and the normalization of tumor marker levels. PR is a ≥30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions without new lesions and progression of non-target lesions. PD is a ≥20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or detection of 1 or more new lesions. Participants who did not relapse were censored on the day of their last tumor assessment., Date of Initial CR or PR to PD (Up to 35 Months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Who Died, Reported are the number of participants with clinically significant events, defined as serious AEs (SAEs) and other non-serious AEs regardless of causality and those who died during treatment and during the 30-day post-dose follow-up. A summary of SAEs and other non-serious AEs regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module of this report., Baseline Up to End of Treatment and 30-day Post-dose Follow-up (Up to 35 Months)|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Olaratumab Antibodies, Participants with Treatment Emergent (TE) anti-olaratumab antibodies were participants with a 4-fold increase (2 dilutions) increase over a positive baseline antibody titer or for a negative baseline titer, a participant with an increase from the baseline to a level of 1:20., Baseline Up to 30-Day Postdose Follow-Up (Up To 35 Months)|PFS of Participants Who Received Olaratumab After Liposomal Doxorubicin Monotherapy (Descriptive Statistics for Safety and Efficacy for Participants Who Continue on Olaratumab Monotherapy Following Disease Progression on Liposomal Doxorubicin Monotherapy), PFS is defined as the time from start of Olaratumab monotherapy to the first evidence of progression as defined by RECIST v1.0 criteria or death from any cause. PD is a 20% increase over the smallest sum of target lesions or new lesions. Participants who died without a reported prior disease progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress and were subsequently lost to follow-up had their data censored at the day of last tumor assessment., From Start of Olaratumab Monotherapy to PD or Date of Death (Up to 20 Weeks)|Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Olaratumab, Prior to and 1 Hour (h) After Olaratumab Infusion in Cycles 1, 2, and 4 and 48 h or 72 h, 144 h, 240 h or 264 h and 336 h Post-dose in Cycles 1 and 4 (28-day Cycles)|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Olaratumab, Prior to and 1 h after Olaratumab Infusion in Cycles 1, 2, and 4 and 48 h or 72 h, 144 h, 240 h or 264 h and 336 h Post-dose in Cycles 1 and 4 (28-day Cycles)|Half-life (t1/2) of Olaratumab, The time it takes to reduce the concentration of Olaratumab in the plasma by 50%., Prior to and 1 h after Olaratumab Infusion in Cycles 1, 2, and 4 and 48 h or 72 h, 144 h, 240 h or 264 h and 336 h Post-dose in Cycles 1 and 4 (28-day Cycles)|Clearance (CL) of Olaratumab, CL is the volume of serum cleared of Olaratumab per unit of time after a single dose of Olaratumab, Prior to and 1 h after Olaratumab Infusion in Cycles 1, 2, and 4 and 48 h or 72 h, 144 h, 240 h or 264 h and 336 h Post-dose in Cycles 1 and 4 (28-day Cycles)|Apparent Volume of Distribution (Vss) of Olaratumab, Vss is an estimate of drug distribution independent of the elimination process and is proportional to the amount of drug in the body versus the drug plasma concentration at steady-state., Prior to and 1 h after Olaratumab Infusion in Cycles 1, 2, and 4 and 48 h or 72 h, 144 h, 240 h or 264 h and 336 h Post-dose in Cycles 1 and 4 (28-day Cycles)|PFS for Participants Who Had Tissue Samples for Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Alpha (PDGFRα) Expression Determined by Immunohistochemistry (IHC) (Association Between PDGFRα Tumor Expression and PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the day of randomization to the first evidence of progression as defined by RECIST v1.0 criteria or death from any cause. PD is a 20% increase over the smallest sum of target lesions or new lesions. Participants who died without a prior disease progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress and were subsequently lost to follow-up had their data censored at the day of last tumor assessment. PDGFRα protein expression at baseline in tumor cells is determined by IHC using H-Scores and a cut point of 0. Participants were considered to have a high relative expression when H-Score is \>0 and a low relative expression when H-Score=0. H-Score was calculated by summing the percentage of cell staining at each intensity multiplied by the weighted intensity of staining. Staining intensity: 0 (no staining), 1+ (weak staining), 2+ (medium staining), 3+ (strongest staining). H-Scores could range from 0-300., Randomization to PD or Date of Death (Up to 130 Weeks)
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) in participants with platinum-refractory or platinum-resistant advanced ovarian cancer when treated with the monoclonal antibody Olaratumab in combination with liposomal doxorubicin versus liposomal doxorubicin alone.