Development of a Cell Free DNA Assay as a Biomarker for Predicting Early Non-response to Therapy in Metastatic Cancer
Accrue samples for the further development and clinical validation of a blood-based cell-free DNA (cfDNA) quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay as a potential biomarker for early non-response to therapy in stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), colorectal cancer (CRC) and breast cancer (BC).
Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood-based cell-free cfDNA qPCR assay
DNA Integrity Index as a predictor of progressive disease in a cohort of metastatic patients (250 Lung Cancer (NSCLC, SCLC), 250 CRC and 250 BC patients as compared to standard RECIST/iRECIST criteria., A total of 750 subjects (250 stage IV Lung Cancer, IV 250 CRC and IV BC) will be enrolled consecutively into the study. Blood specimens will be collected at the initiation of therapy and 12 to 16 days after the initiation of therapy. A course of therapy is defined as chemotherapy, immunotherapy or oral therapy. Standard baseline RECIST or iRECIST will be recorded before the initiation therapy and again at 9-12 weeks. For those patients who are receiving single agent regimen consisting of immunotherapy alone there will be an additional blood draw prior to administration of the second course of therapy. The Integrity Index will be evaluated for predicting early non-response to therapy as compared to standard RECIST/iRECIST results., Six months to accrue patient for initial development
Most anticancer drugs are effective only in subgroups of patients, and our current understanding of tumor biology does not allow us to predict accurately which patient will benefit from a specific therapeutic regimen. The definitive proof of the effectiveness of a therapy is improvement in clinical symptoms and survival. Imaging is generally used to assess therapeutic effects earlier and more objectively. Current response assessment is based primarily on changes in tumor size as measured by CT or other anatomic imaging modalities.

Cadex Genomics has developed an analytically validated cell-free DNA (cfDNA) quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay that utilizes standard qPCR platforms for processing, this test can reliably obtain results from small blood volumes and possesses exceptionally high analytical sensitivity of circulating cfDNA.

The purpose of this study is to accrue samples for the further development and clinical validation of a blood-based cell-free cfDNA qPCR assay as a potential biomarker for early non-response to therapy in stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), colorectal cancer (CRC) and breast cancer (BC).