Clinical Evaluation of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Primary Malignant Sarcomas That Originate in Bone
For bone lesions treated with chemotherapy or targeted therapy, particularly for sarcomas that originate in bones, Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 is spurious because bone lesions are typically located in irregularly shaped bones, are difficult to measure accurately, and usually respond more slowly to treatment than soft tissue lesions. Positron Emission Tomography Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (PERCIST) allows for response to be measured in the absence of anatomic changes through assessment of metabolic activity. It does not, however, account for morphologic changes. This study evaluated whether clinical imaging findings of sarcomas after preoperative chemotherapy correlate with tumor responses by pathological evaluation using the rate of necrosis to develop reliable and quantitative clinical response criteria.
Clinical Response|Histopathological Response|Prognosis
DRUG: first-line chemotherapy
Tumor necrosis rate, We evaluated all surgical resection specimens and were blinded to the clinical status. Upon histopathological examination, the tumor response was assessed on the basis of the presence and extent of necrosis, which was assessed by a combination of gross and microscopic observations. Tumor necrosis was graded as per Picci et al. tumor histopathological response grading (Huvos classification), where grade I is 0% to 49%, grade II is 50% to 89%, grade III is 90% to 99%, and grade IV is 100% necrosis., 2-3 months
We reviewed a total of 190 primary lesions by clinical imaging, including X-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging, and bone scan or PET/CT in patients who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy. All patients had curative surgery of those lesions at Peking University People's Hospital or Peking University Shougang Hospital. Pathological evaluation was completed by determination of the tumor necrosis rate following Huvos' description. We also performed statistical diversity analysis for different pathological groups and generated receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) to define the thresholds to distinguish different pathological groups.