In Situ, Autologous Therapeutic Vaccination Against Solid Cancers With Intratumoral Hiltonol®
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety of sequential intratumoral (IT) plus intramuscular (IM) Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid stabilized with polylysine and carboxymethylcellulose (poly-ICLC, Hiltonol®) for treatment of study subjects with accessible solid tumors, with or without checkpoint blockers. Enrolled study subjects will receive Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®) treatment alone or in combination with anti-PD-1 (Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab or Cemiplimab) or anti-PD-L1 (Atezolizumab or Durvalumab) over 6 months as defined in study treatment described below. MRI or CT imaging will be done per SOC at screening, 3 and 6-month time points.
Melanoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Sarcoma|Non-Melanoma Skin Cancers
BIOLOGICAL: Hiltonol
Evaluate safety of intratumoral (IT) plus intramuscular (IM) Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid stabilized with polylysine and carboxymethylcellulose (poly-ICLC, Hiltonol®) for treatment of patients with accessible solid tumors, with or with, Wk 26 study subject's response will be defined as BOR (CR, PR, SD) or PD., Evaluation of response wk 26|Evaluate therapeutic efficacy assessed by Disease Control (CR, PR, or SD) as defined by the RECIST 1.1 Criteria., Week 26 tumor assessment will be performed, an optional biopsy may be performed., 6 months
Determine whether the study regimen of Poly-ICLC will induce an innate and/or an adaptive, specific anti-tumor T cell immune response in the injected tumor lesion and systemically., Serial blood samples collected at certain time points and processed and used to evaluate humoral and cellular immunity induced by IT and IM polyICLC injections, 26 weeks|Determine the response in injected lesions as defined by change in size at 16 weeks and 26 weeks as assessed by bi-dimensional measurement using RECIST 1.1 criteria., In the present protocol, we propose to induce both innate and adaptive cellular immune mechanisms with IT injections of poly-ICLC (Nierkens, den Brock et al. 2008), 16 weeks and 26 weeks|Determine the response in non-injected tumor lesions, both visceral and non-visceral as defined by change in size at 16 weeks and 26 weeks as assessed by bi- dimensional measurement., Bi-dimensional measurements will be performed on injected and non-injected lesions at the indicated time points in the study calendar., 16 weeks and 26 weeks|Determine progression free survival at 12, 24, and 36 months in treated study subjects., Up to 5 visible deep measureable lesions will be designated as Target Lesions (index lesions), 12, 24 and 36 months|Determine overall survival (OS) in treated study subjects., Survival and disease control/progression-free survival (PFS) will be estimated using Kaplan-Meir curves., Up to 36 months
For purposes of analysis patients enrolled in Stage II of this study will be prospectively identified at initial screening as belonging to statistical Cohorts A, B, or C, which are based on patient status with regard to aPD1/aPDL1 therapy at study entry, (PD, SD, or treatment naïve) per section 11.5. For purposes of this study, patient status is considered to be the primary eligibility variable, although sub analyses will also consider histology and particular checkpoint blocker used when possible. Please see section 12 (Statistical Analysis) for further discussion.

Week 1 Days 1, 3 and 5: Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®) 1 mg (0. 5 ml) IntraTumoral (priming treatment course).

Weeks 2-25:

1. Poly-ICLC (Hiltonol®) 1 mg (0.5 ml) IM twice a week with a 48-72 hour interval between the two injections, AND either:
2. No additional immunotherapy OR
3. ONLY ONE of the following Anti-PD1 or anti-PDL-1 regimens will be administered, per manufacturer's dosing and clinical oncologist's discretion as follows: (Not to be Administered on the same day as Poly-ICLC \[Hiltonol®\])

   * Either Nivolumab (Opdivo), OR
   * Pembrolizumab (Keytruda), OR
   * Atezolizumab (Tecentriq) OR
   * Cemiplimab (Libtayo) OR
   * Durvalumab (Imfinzi)

NOTE: It is recognized that some patients will have already been on anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 at the time of study entry. Such patients will not have their checkpoint blocker therapy interrupted, but will be started on Poly-ICLC on week one, as above

If well tolerated they continue at full dose of 1 mg IM twice weekly through week 25. Anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 per manufacturers package insert begins on week two and continues through week 25 or beyond per standard of care at physician's discretion. After the end of Poly-ICLC treatment at week 25, aPD1 or aPDL1 can be continued at the discretion of the patient and treating physician, per SOC, independent of this protocol.

At week 26 study subjects will be assessed and response determined using the RECIST 1.1 criteria. This will include measurement of accessible lesions as well as CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and extremities or neck to assess for response, using RECIST 1.1. MRI of the brain may also be obtained as part of clinical follow of their disease, if clinically indicated as per standard clinical protocol. Study subject's response will be defined as BOR (CR, PR, SD) or PD. If tumors are present and accessible, biopsies of the injected tumor as well as of a non-targeted/non-injected tumor will also be obtained at week 26.

Study subjects with CR, PR, or SD may be offered an additional treatment cycle depending on study subject's health status, costs and/or drug availability. At week 26 a repeat tumor assessment will be performed, an optional biopsy may be performed.

Follow up Period:

After completion of study treatment, study subjects may be contacted by telephone at least twice over 12 months, or longer with patient consent to inquire on their health status (e.g., alive, remission, progressive disease, on new cancer treatment). Study subjects with an initial tumor response but then long-term recurrence during the follow up period may be offered additional cycles of treatment depending on the study subject's health status, costs and/or drug availability.