Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
This randomized phase II trial studies how well celecoxib works in treating patients with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, a precancerous lesion of the cervix which can develop into cervical cancer. Celecoxib may be effective in preventing the development of cervical cancer in patients who have cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.
Cervical Carcinoma|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 2/3|Stage 0 Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Celecoxib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo
Histologic Regression, Whether or not patients with CIN 2/3 or CIN 3 upon entry experience a complete remission (or partial regression to CIN 1) in the post-treatment excisional biopsy., Post treatment evaluation was done 14 to 18 weeks after treatment randomization|Incidence of Adverse Effects (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Number of participants with a grade of 3 or higher during the treatment period., Assessed every cycle while on treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment
To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in COX-2 in Tissue, Up to 18 weeks|To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in HPV Viral Load in Serum Before and After Treatment, Up to 18 weeks|HPV Viral Load Before and After Treatment, Up to 18 weeks|To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in the Levels of Celecoxib in Serum During Treatment., Up to 18 weeks|Levels of Serum bFGF, Up to 18 weeks|Levels of Serum VEGF, Up to 18 weeks|To Determine the Feasibility of Digital Imaging Using Pathologist's Diagnosis and Diagnostic Technique (Web-based or Standard Method)., Baseline|To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in Proliferation Index (Ki67)., Up to 18 weeks|Proportion of Patients Whose Eligibility Can be Successfully Determined Using the Web-based Review, Baseline|The Number of Quadrants Involving CIN, Up to 18 weeks|To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in Apoptosis Index (TUNEL Assay), Up to 18 weeks|To Examine the Association of Histologic Response in Angiogenisis (VEGF), Up to 18 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of celecoxib to induce complete remission (or partial regression to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1) of CIN 2/3 or CIN 3 as evaluated in the post-treatment excisional biopsy.

II. To determine the toxicity of celecoxib (400 mg once daily) as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events in this patient population of women with CIN 2/3 or CIN 3.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether treatment with celecoxib changes the number of quadrants containing acetowhite lesions as determined through colposcopic examination.

II. To determine the efficacy of celecoxib treatment in changing human papillomavirus (HPV) viral load in cervical cells.

III. To examine the association of histologic response; HPV viral load; lesion size; proliferation index (marker of proliferation Ki-67 \[Ki67\]), apoptosis index (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase (TdT)-mediated dUTP nick end labelin \[TUNEL\] assay), angiogenesis (vascular endothelial growth factor \[VEGF\]), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in tissue; the amount of VEGF and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) in serum before and after treatment; and the amount of celecoxib present in serum during treatment. Cervical cytology karyometry will be assessed as a potential marker for regression IV. To determine the feasibility of digital imaging, web-based review of histopathology in a Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) study.

V. To compare the diagnoses of the web-based review of histopathology with the diagnoses of GOG's standard procedure.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral celecoxib once daily for 14-18 weeks.

ARM II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 14-18 weeks.