Induction Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
Despite developments in the multidisciplinary treatment of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC), such as the introduction of total mesorectal excision (TME) by Heald et al. and the shift from adjuvant to neoadjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy ((C)RT), local and distant recurrence rates remain between 5-10% and 25-40% respectively. Several studies established tumour characteristics with particularly bad prognosis; it was demonstrated that the occurrence of mesorectal fascia involvement (MRF+), grade 4 extramural venous invasion (EMVI), tumour deposits (TD) and enlarged lateral lymph nodes (LLN) lead to high local and distant recurrence rates and decreased survival when compared with LARC without these particularly negative prognostic factors. This type of LARC is described as high risk LARC (hr-LARC). Achieving a resection with clear resection margins (R0) is an important prognostic factor for local (LR) and distant recurrence (DM) as well as survival. With the aim to further reduce the risk of recurrent rectal cancer, to diminish distant metastasis and to improve overall survival for patients with LARC, induction chemotherapy (ICT) became a growing area of research. The addition of ICT has the ability to induce more local tumour downstaging, possibly leading to resectability of previously unresectable tumours, more R0 resections and less extensive surgery. In the case of a complete clinical response, surgery may even be omitted. ICT may also have the potential to eradicate micrometastases. Hence, increased local downstaging and reducing distant metastatic spread may reduce LR and DM rates and improve survival and quality of life. In recent years, the use of ICT was investigated and showed promising results, but little is known about the addition of ICT in patients with high risk LARC. Since these patients have a particularly bad prognosis, both with regard to locoregional and distant failure, a more intensified neoadjuvant treatment with FOLFOXIRI is anticipated to improve short- and long term results.
Rectal Cancer
DRUG: FOLFOXIRI Protocol
The main study parameter is the proportion of patients with a pathological complete response (pCR) and those patients who started a wait and see strategy and have sustained clinical complete response (cCR) at 1 year., The pCR is evaluated by an experienced pathologist. A pCR is defined as the absence of residual tumour cells in the complete resected specimen including all resected regional lymph nodes (ypT0N0). A cCR is defined as the absence of viable tumour tissue based on MRI, evaluated by an experienced radiologist. There is a cCR in case of a sustained clinical response at 1 year after chemoradiotherapy., pCR is determined after surgery directly. There is a cCR in case of a sustained clinical response until at least one year after chemoradiotherapy
3-year and 5-year local recurrence free survival., ocal recurrence is confirmed by either radiological or histopathological examination. A recurrence is registered by the treating physician in the patient's medical file., 3 and 5 year|3-year and 5-year distant metastasis free survival., Distant metastases may be confirmed by either radiological or histopathological examination. Data on distant metastases are registered by the treating physician in the patient's medical file., 3 and 5 year|3-year and 5-year progression free survival., Progression is defined as progression of the primary tumour, local recurrence, distant metastases confirmed by radiological or histopathological examination or death. Data regarding disease progression are registered by the treating physician in the patient's medical file., 3 and 5 year|3-year and 5-year disease free survival., Disease free survival is defined as no confirmed recurrence, distant metastases or death. Disease recurrence is registered by the treating physician in the patient's medical file., 3 and 5 year|3-year and 5-year overall survival., Mortality is registered in the patient's medical file which is linked to the municipal personal records database., 3 and 5 year|Radiological response after induction therapy., Assessment and reporting of all MRI scans is performed according to a standard operating procedure and is registered in the patient file by the radiologist., Directly after induction chemotherapy|Radiological response after chemoradiotherapy., Assessment and reporting of all MRI scans is performed according to a standard operating procedure and is registered in the patient file by the radiologist., 6-8 weeks after chemoradiotherapy|Pathologic response, The pathologic response is graded according to the Mandard grading system. The Mandard grading is registered by the pathologist in the pathology report in the patient's medical file., Directly after surgery|Toxicity related to induction therapy., Systemic related toxicity is graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Toxicity caused by induction therapy will be scored from day one of the first cycle of induction therapy until one month after the last administration of the induction therapy and is registered in the patient's medical file by the treating medical oncologist. Only all non-hematologic NCI-CTCAE grade 3-4 and all NCI-CTCAE ≥4 are registered., During induction chemotherapy|The induction therapy compliance rate., Information on completion of induction therapy is registered by the treating medical oncologist. In all patients in whom a dose reduction is required the reason for dose reduction will be recorded in the patient's medical file., During induction chemotherapy|Toxicity of chemoradiotherapy., Chemoradiotherapy related toxicity is graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Toxicity caused by chemoradiotherapy will be scored from start of radiotherapy until 3 months after the last administration of the radiotherapy and is registered in the patient's medical file by the treating radiation oncologist. Only all non-hematologic NCI-CTCAE grade 3-4 and all NCI-CTCAE ≥4 are registered., During chemoradiotherapy|The compliance rate related to chemoradiotherapy., Information on completion of chemoradiotherapy is registered by the treating radiation oncologist and registered in the patient's medical file. In all patients in whom a dose reduction is required the reason for dose reduction will be recorded in the patient's medical file., During chemoradiotherapy|Number of patients undergoing surgery., This is calculated as a percentage from the total number of patients that were included., immediately after surgery|Type of surgery, including the use of intra-operative radiotherapy., Directly after surgery, information with respect to procedure related characteristics is registered in the surgical report in the patient's medical file by the operating surgeon. Data on intra-operative radiotherapy, if administered, are registered in the patient's medical file by the treating radiation oncologist., During the surgical procedure|Major surgical morbidity rate, Surgical complications are graded according to the Clavien-Dindo grading system. Complications will be scored up to 3 months after surgery and are registered in the patient file by the treating physician., During admission for surgery.|Generic and cancer-specific Quality of life (QoL) assessments during treatment using Quality of life Questionnaires (QLQ), Generic and cancer-specific quality of life assessments are assessed with QLQ-C30, a 4 point scale. Higher scores correspond with a higher response level., At the moment of inclusion, after 3 months and after 12 months.|Generic and cancer-specific Quality of life (QoL) assessments during treatment, Generic and cancer-specific quality of life assessments are assessed with QLQ-CR29, a 4 point scale. Higher scores represent better functioning on functional scales and a higher level of symptoms on the symptom scale., At the moment of inclusion, after 3 months and after 12 months.|Generic and cancer-specific Quality of life (QoL) assessments during treatment, Generic and cancer-specific quality of life assessments are assessed with EQ-5D-5L, a 5 point scale. Higher scores corresponds with a higher level of symptoms on the symptom scale., At the moment of inclusion, after 3 months and after 12 months.|Costs, For the purpose of economic evaluation, the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire is used at inclusion and at 3 and 12 months post-operatively. The questionnaires will be sent either by mail or digitally, according to the patient's preference., At the moment of inclusion, after 3 months and after 12 months.
Despite developments in the multidisciplinary treatment of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC), such as the introduction of total mesorectal excision (TME) by Heald et al. and the shift from adjuvant to neoadjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy ((C)RT), local and distant recurrence rates remain between 5-10% and 25-40% respectively. Several studies established tumour characteristics with particularly bad prognosis; it was demonstrated that the occurrence of mesorectal fascia involvement (MRF+), grade 4 extramural venous invasion (EMVI), tumour deposits (TD) and enlarged lateral lymph nodes (LLN) lead to high local and distant recurrence rates and decreased survival when compared with LARC without these particularly negative prognostic factors. This type of LARC is described as high risk LARC (hr-LARC). Achieving a resection with clear resection margins (R0) is an important prognostic factor for local (LR) and distant recurrence (DM) as well as survival. With the aim to further reduce the risk of recurrent rectal cancer, to diminish distant metastasis and to improve overall survival for patients with LARC, induction chemotherapy (ICT) became a growing area of research. The addition of ICT has the ability to induce more local tumour downstaging, possibly leading to resectability of previously unresectable tumours, more R0 resections and less extensive surgery. In the case of a complete clinical response, surgery may even be omitted. ICT may also have the potential to eradicate micrometastases. Hence, increased local downstaging and reducing distant metastatic spread may reduce LR and DM rates and improve survival and quality of life. In recent years, the use of ICT was investigated and showed promising results, but little is known about the addition of ICT in patients with high risk LARC. Since these patients have a particularly bad prognosis, both with regard to locoregional and distant failure, a more intensified neoadjuvant treatment with FOLFOXIRI is anticipated to improve short- and long term results.