Chaplain-Delivered Compassion Meditation to Improve Quality of Life in Patients Receiving a Stem Cell Transplant
This clinical trial tests whether chaplain-delivered compassion centered spiritual health (CCSH) works to improve quality of life in patients receiving a stem cell transplant. Compassion Centered Spiritual Health (CCSH) is a secularized, research-based mindfulness and compassion meditation program designed to expand and strengthen compassion for self and others. Practices include training in attentional stability and increased emotional awareness, as well as targeted reflections to appreciate one's relationship with self and others. By centering the mind, controlling negative thoughts, and cultivating personal resiliency and an inclusive and more accurate understanding of others, Compassion Centered Spiritual Health (CCSH) may help improve response to stress and reduce inflammation.
Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Spiritual Therapy
Fidelity to Intervention Delivery, Chaplains will deliver between four and eight 30-minute sessions (2-4 times per week) to evaluate the fidelity of implementation (FOI).

Administer the (4 min) Scottish Patient Reported Outcome Measure. The Patient Reported Outcome Measure is an 18-item Likert-scale that assesses how a hospitalized patient felt about the pastoral care visit both during the consult and after it.

The scale will indicate the following range: 5-25, with higher scores indicating more improvement as a result of the chaplain visit and lower scores indicating less improvement as a result of the chaplain visit., 3 months
Number of Sessions Completed, Adherence will be evaluated as the percent of sessions completed by patients and characterized as "low" (\< 70%), "moderate" (70-80%),"high" (\> 80%) adherence., Up to 3 months|Percentage of Cognitive Based Compassion Training, Dosage is quantified as the amount (percentage) of cognitive based compassion training (CBCT) that patients receive. Characterize the modal number of sessions received as well as the range of sessions completed by all patients. From the range, sessions will be categorized of "low" (\<70%), "moderate" (70-80%),"high" (\> 80%) dosage., Up to 3 months|Responsiveness, Evaluate the rate of responsiveness in each session, operationalized as "maximally," "moderately", or "minimally" enthusiastic and attentive during each., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To examine the feasibility, adoption, extent of implementation, and fidelity of chaplain-delivered Compassion Centered Spiritual Health (CCSH).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 4 to 8 sessions (2-4 per week) of Compassion Centered Spiritual Health (CCSH) over 30 minutes with a chaplain while impatient.