Hartmanns Procedure or Abdominoperineal Excision With Intersphincteric Dissection in Rectal Cancer: a Randomized Study
In patients with rectal cancer, an anterior resection with a colo-rectal or colo-anal anastomoses is the gold standard. However, in patients with a weak sphincter and fecal incontinence or in patients with severe co-morbidity and reduced general condition, this operation is not suitable.

In these situations there are two other radical surgical options, Hartmanns procedure and the Abdominoperineal excision that can be performed with intersphincteric dissection to minimise perineal complications.There are no data on which of these procedures that are best suited for these patients with fecal incontinence or severe co-morbidity( at risk for life-threatening anastomotic leak). In this randomized study we intend to compare postoperative complications within 30 days after these two procedures and also late complications and quality of life after one year postoperatively.
Rectal Cancer|Sphincter Ani Incontinence|Other Diagnoses, Comorbidities, and Complications
PROCEDURE: APE with intersphincteric dissection|PROCEDURE: Hartmann´s procedure
Rates ot postoperative surgical complications within 30 days., Perineal and abdominal wound infection, pelvic abscess urinary catheter at discharge etc, 30 days
Peroperative data, time of surgery, bleeding in ml, peroperative complications, type of staplers used, day of surgery|The rate of intraoperative perforations, record perforation of rectum or tumour during surgery, day of surgery|Resection margins, Histopathological report, 2-4 weeks after surgery|Rate of local recurrence, Record local recurrence during follow-up. CT-scan after 1 and 3 years, 3 and 5 years postoperatively|Survival after 3 and 5 years follow-up, overall survival, 3 and 5 years postoperativelly|Postoperative actions, reoperation, interventions(percutaneous drains etc) hospital stay, rehospitalisation, within 30 days|Other postop complications, other infectious, cardio-pulmonary and thromb-embolic complications., 30 days
quality of life between the two methods, QoL protocol according to the QoLiRECT-study (Quality of life rectal cancer study) a study running from Gothenburg, Sweden, Preoperative and one year after surgery|Late complications after surgery, Perineal pain, secretion from the ano-rectal stump, One year postoperativelly
In patients with rectal cancer, an abdominal operation with anterior resection with total mesorectal excision is the gold standard. Colon is anastomosed to the ano-rectum.The potential risks are bad bowel function with fecal incontinence or a lifethreatening anastomotic dehiscence, especially in patients with severe co-morbidity or reduced general condition.Tumours in the low rectum are usually treated with an abdominoperineal resection where the whole anus is radically excised and a permanent colostomy is created.

For patients with incontinence and/or severe comorbidity, Hartmann´s procedure has often been performed. The rectum is resected, the lower part is transected with a stapler and a colostomy is created. During recent years there has been reports on high rates of pelvic abscesses after Hartmann´s. An alternative has been proposed, namely the abdominoperineal excision (APE) with intersphincteric dissection leaving the outer sphincter and levator muscles in place, thus creating a much lesser perineal wound that also tend to heal better when the ano-pelvic muscles are left in place.

There have been some small retrospective studies comparing postoperative complications after Hartmann´s with anterior resections or the classic abdominoperineal excision. These studies are heterogenous and not balanced and no conclusions can be drawn. There are no data on APE with intersphincteric dissection in rectal cancer patients.

There is a need to clarify what procedure is most suited for patients with rectal cancer and fecal incontinence and / or severe comorbidity.

For this patient group we intend to randomize between Hartmann´s procedure and APE with intersphincteric dissection.