Binimetinib Encorafenib Pembrolizumab +/- Stereotactic Radiosurgery in BRAFV600 Melanoma With Brain Metastasis
This study evaluates the addition of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) to the combination of binimetinib + encorafenib + pembrolizumab in the treatment of BRAFⱽ⁶⁰⁰ mutation-positive melanoma with brain metastases (MBM).
Malignant Melanoma|BRAF V600 Mutation|Brain Metastases
RADIATION: Stereotaxic radiosurgery (SRS)|DRUG: Binimetinib Oral Tablet|DRUG: Encorafenib Oral Capsule|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Intracranial (IC) progression-free survival (PFS), Time from randomisation until IC-progressive disease (PD) as evaluated by centralized assessment using modified response evaluation criteria in solid tumours version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), or death, whichever occurs first., From randomisation until IC-PD, or death, whichever occurs first, up to 12 months.
Intracranial-response rate (RR), Percentage of patients with a confirmed IC-complete response (CR) or IC-partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigator using modified RECIST v1.1., From randomisation until IC-CR or IC-PR, up to 60 months.|Intracranial disease control (DC), Percentage of patients with an IC-CR or IC-PR or stable intracranial disease as assessed by the investigator using modified RECIST v1.1., From randomisation until IC-CR or IC-PR or stable intracranial disease, up to 60 months.|Extracranial (EC) response rate, Percentage of patients with a confirmed EC-CR or EC-PR as assessed by the investigator using modified RECIST v1.1., From randomisation until confirmed EC-CR or EC-PR, up to 60 months.|Overall response rate (ORR), Percentage of patients with a confirmed CR or PR as assessed by the investigator using modified RECIST v1.1 to assess IC-response and RECIST v1.1 for EC-response., From randomisation until confirmed CR or PR, up to 60 months.|Duration of intracranial, extracranial, and overall response, Time from first observation of, IC-, EC-, or overall response respectively (i.e. CR or PR), until disease progression (PD) according to modified RECIST v1.1 (intracranial disease) or RECIST v1.1 (extracranial disease) or death, whichever occurs first., Time from first observation of, IC-, EC-, or overall response respectively (i.e. CR or PR), until disease progression (PD), up to 60 months.|Duration of response of treated target lesions, Time from first documented response (i.e. CR or PR) until PD of treated target lesions or death, whichever occurs first., From first documented response (i.e. CR or PR) until PD of treated target lesions or death, whichever occurs first, up to 60 months.|Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from randomisation until IC-PD according to modified RECIST v1.1, EC-PD according to RECIST v1.1, or death, whichever occurs first., From randomisation until IC-PD, EC-PD or death, whichever occurs first, up to 60 months.|Overall survival (OS), Time from randomisation until death due to any cause., From randomisation until death due to any cause, up to 60 months.|Global Quality of Life (HRQOL) - QLQ-C30, This self-reported questionnaire assesses the health-related quality of life of cancer patients in clinical trials.

The questionnaire includes five functional scales (physical, everyday activity, cognitive, emotional, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting), a health/quality of life overall scale, and a number of additional elements assessing common symptoms (including dyspnea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation, and diarrhea), as well as, the perceived financial impact of the disease.

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level., From randomisation until end of treatment, up to 60 months.|Quality of Life (HRQOL) in patients with brain metastases - QLQ-BN20, This EORTC brain cancer specific questionnaire is intended to supplement the QLQ-C30 questionaire.

The QLQ-BN20 contains 20 items organized into four scales (three items each: future uncertainty, visual disorder, motor dysfunction, and communication deficit), and seven single items (headaches, seizures, drowsiness, hair loss, itchy skin, weakness of legs, and bladder control). All items are rated on a four-point Likert-type scale (1 = "not at all," 2 = "a little," 3 = "quite a bit," and 4 = "very much"), and are linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms., From randomisation until end of treatment, up to 60 months.|Cognitive performance, Assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA)., From randomisation until end of treatment, up to 60 months.|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities, Occurrence of adverse events predefined as dose-limiting toxicities in any patient during the safety lead-in phase of the trial, From randomisation until completion of 2 cycles of treatment|Frequency and severity of adverse events, Assessed according to National Cancer Institute - Common terminology criteria for adverse events version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0)., From randomisation until end of treatment, up to 60 months.
This is a Phase 2, randomised, controlled, open-label, multicentric, parallel trial with a safety lead-in phase, to assess the efficacy and safety of adding upfront SRS to binimetinib-encorafenib-pembrolizumab combination therapy in the treatment of BRAFⱽ⁶⁰⁰ mutation-positive MBM.

The study will incorporate a safety lead-in (SLI) phase to assess the tolerability of binimetinib-encorafenib-pembrolizumab combination therapy +/- SRS in the first six patients enrolled. Safety will be assessed by the occurrence of predefined dose limiting toxicity (DLT) events. The safety data will be reviewed by an independent data monitoring committee (IDMC).

The trial plans to enrol 150 patients who will be randomly assigned (1:1) to receive treatment with either:

* Arm A: Encorafenib + binimetinib + pembrolizumab
* Arm B: Upfront stereotactic radiosurgery of all lesions ≥5 mm in diameter (or ≥3 mm if other cerebral metastases \>5 mm); followed by encorafenib + binimetinib + pembrolizumab . The treatment should be started more than 24 hours and less than 8 days (excluded) after the SRS.

Patients will be treated until disease progression. Pembrolizumab will be discontinued after a maximum of 35 administrations. Treatment may also be terminated early at the initiative of either the patient or the investigator for any reason that would be beneficial to the patient

All patients will be followed for a total of 5 years post-randomisation.