Strengthening the Spleen and Reducing Phlegm Method in Improving Radical Resection Rate of Colorectal Cancer
This study will take disease-free survival time and recurrence and metastasis rate as the main evaluation indexes, to evaluate the clinical efficacy of strengthening the spleen and reducing phlegm method in patients with stage II high-risk and stage III colorectal cancer
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Jianpi Huatan dispensing granule
Disease-free survival time, from the date of radical resection of colorectal cancer to the time of recurrence or metastasis., 3 years|Metastasis recurrence rate in 1 year, The ratio of metastasis and recurrence to the patients was observed., 1 year
Traditional Chinese Medicine(TCM )symptom grading table, Effective: after treatment, TCM symptom score decreased by more than 50% compared with that before treatment.

Effective: decrease \< 50% and equal to 30%; Invalid: decrease \< 30%. Note: the formula is: (before treatment - integral after treatment) / before treatment by 100%, 3 months|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal (FACT-C) scale, The FACT-C scale was divided into five grades: none (0), one point (1), some (2), equivalent (3) and very (4). The positive items (i.e. the higher the grade, the better the quality of life.), 3 months|Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale( ESAS ), The scale used digital scoring method, each symptom scoring range of 0-10 points, 0 points for asymptomatic, 10 points for the most serious degree imaginable, patients choose a number to express their subjective feelings, the larger the number indicates the more serious the symptoms. 1\~10 points were divided into 3 degrees, mild, moderate and severe. 1\~3 were mild, 4\~6 were moderate, and 7\~10 were severe, 3months|Metastasis recurrence rate in 2 years, The ratio of metastasis and recurrence to the patients was observed., 2 years|Metastasis recurrence rate in 3 years, The ratio of metastasis and recurrence to the patients was observed., 3 years
The study enrolled 350 patients with stage II high-risk and stage III colorectal cancer who underwent adjuvant chemotherapy (based on a 5-fluorouracil（5-FU） regimen for at least 3 months) and patients who received chemotherapy for less than 3 months. The study will use a large sample, multicenter, randomized, double-blind study. The experimental group was given oral Jianpi Huatan dispensing granule, once a day in the morning and evening, 1 course per 1 month, a total of 3 courses; the control group of oral Chinese medicine formula low dose control granules (including the test group dose 1 /10), 1 time each morning and evening, 1 course per month, for a total of 3 courses.

The patients were followed up once a month during the treatment period and once every 3-6 months after the end of treatment until the patient relapsed, died or the study was over.Some patients in the study will be tested for circulating tumor cells.

Main outcome measures is Disease-free survival time（DFS）and Metastasis recurrence rate in 1 year；Secondary outcome measures：Quality of life score: applied quality of life scale.Metastasis recurrence rate in 2、3years.