Trial of ICM With or Without AZD2281 (Olaparib) in Patients With Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
Patients whose pancreatic cancers have defects in the BRCA/Fanconi DNA repair pathway or other defects in homologous repair will have cancers that respond to olaparib when given in combination with the DNA damaging agents, irinotecan, cisplatin, mitomycin C (ICM).
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Olaparib (for levels 1 and 5)|DRUG: Olaparib (for dose level 2)|DRUG: Mitomycin-C
Number of Participants Who Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity to Determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), 1.Phase I - Assess the safety and toxicities of IC with Olaparib escalating to ICM with Olaparib in patients with locally advanced and metastatic pancreatic cancer and determine the phase 2 dose. The number of subjects who experienced a dose limiting toxicity was assessed.Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as any of the following study drug-related events experienced during Cycle 1:

Thrombocytopenia with platelets \<25,000 x106/l \> 7 days. Grade 4 neutropenia lasting ≥7 days. Grade 3 or 4 febrile neutropenia. Grade 3 or greater non-haematological toxicities; excluding grade 3 diarrhoea, nausea or vomiting despite adequate treatment and grade 3 fatigue, lethargy and GGT elevation.

Delay of \>2 weeks for next scheduled IC/ICM for reasons of toxicity., 2 years
Number of Years From Cycle 1, Day 1 On-Study to Date of Death, The overall survival of subjects with locally advanced and/or metastatic pancreatic cancer treated with Irinotecan, Cisplatin, Olaparib, with escalation to the addition of Mitomycin-C. Survival from cycle 1, day 1 on-study to date of death was assessed., 5 years
The trial is designed to evaluate the role of Parp inhibitor based therapy, combining the most well studied and potent Parp inhibitor currently available with a low-dose combination of DNA damaging agents to optimize the effects of Parp inhibition. To ensure optimal response rates in the trial, to enrich our population for patients likely to achieve the best clinical response to Parp inhibitor based therapy, we will recruit and enroll patients with known BRCA mutations, patients of Jewish ancestry, patients with familial pancreatic cancer, as well as with sporadic pancreatic cancer. We will test patients and their cancers for other inherited or acquired defects in homologous DNA repair. For the phase 1 study, we will enroll up to 30 patients. For the phase 2 component of the study, 100 patients with locally, advanced, unresectable or metastatic pancreatic cancer will be enrolled. An initial phase I analysis will be performed to test the safety of the ICM with Olaparib regimen at the doses we predict will be effective for the phase 2 and ensure that these doses are below the maximum tolerated dose. For this phase 1 we will use a standard 3+3 design and will test the following dose regimens in a 28 day cycle:

Dose level 1: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib (100 mg bid p.o., Day 1 \& Day 8) Dose level 2: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 100 bid p.o. day 1-3, day 8-10 (if this dose is not tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 1) Dose level 3: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 200 bid p.o.day 1-3, day 8-10 (if this dose is not tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 2) Dose level 4: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8) and Olaparib 200 bid p.o. day 1-12 (if this dose is not tolerated, go to Dose 5: Mitomycin + Olaparib Dose level 3)) Dose level 5: Cisplatin/Irinotecan i.v.(day 1, 8), Mitomycin Day 1 (5 mg/m2 IV), along with the established tolerated dose level of Olaparib.

Other intermediate dose schedules of Olaparib may be considered to achieve the most optimal tolerable regimen" If there are DLTs at Dose 1, we will reduce the duration of Olaparib

Note: The Principal Investigator and Astrazeneca decided not to move forward with the Phase II part of the study. Therefore the arms of Irinotecan, Cisplatin, Mitomycin C with Olaparib versus Irinotecan, Cisplatin, Mitomycin C without Olaparib will not be compared.