An Open-label Extension Study of PSMA ADC 2301 in mCRPC
PSMA ADC 2301EXT is an open-label study to further assess the anti-tumor activity as measured by radiographic imaging and biomarkers, safety and tolerability of Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen Antibody Drug Conjugate (PSMA ADC) in subjects with mCRPC. Subjects who have participated in the PSMA ADC 2301 study and who, in the opinion of the Principal Investigator are likely to benefit from continued treatment with PSMA ADC are eligible for the PSMA ADC 2301 extension study. Subjects who are benefiting from treatment may be able to receive up to an additional eight to sixteen doses (every 3 weeks) of PSMA ADC.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: PSMA ADC
Percentage of Participants With Total Serum PSA Response, Total serum PSA (prostate-specific antigen) was measured at baseline and had at least one post-baseline assessment. PSA response was examined at two levels: at least 30% decrease or at least 50% decrease in serum PSA. Response was assessed as the maximum decrease over the extension study. Response was defined as any decrease from baseline of at least 30% or 50%., 25 Weeks|CTC Response, Circulating tumor cells (CTC) response was measured at baseline and had at least one post-baseline assessment. Response was assessed as the maximum decrease over the extension study. Response was defined as any decrease from baseline of at least 50%., 25 weeks|Overall Radiologic Response, Overall radiologic response was measured at baseline and post-baseline. Imaging techniques used at screening were used throughout the study. The preferred imaging techniques include: bone scan, contrast enhanced CT of chest, contrast enhanced CT of pelvis, and contrast enhanced CT of upper \& lower abdomen. Best overall radiologic response (confirmed), target and non-target lesions, was defined as responses in bone, visceral or nodal metastases according to the Modified Response Evaluation Criteria (RECIST 1.1). The best overall radiologic response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking, as reference for progressive disease, the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The subject's best response assignment depended on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria., 25 weeks
PSMA ADC 2301EXT is an open-label study to further assess the anti-tumor activity as measured by radiographic imaging and biomarkers, safety and tolerability of Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen Antibody Drug Conjugate (PSMA ADC) in subjects with mCRPC. Subjects who have participated in the PSMA ADC 2301 study and who, in the opinion of the Principal Investigator are likely to benefit from continued treatment with PSMA ADC are eligible for the PSMA ADC 2301 extension study. Subjects who are benefiting from treatment may be able to receive up to an additional eight to sixteen doses (every 3 weeks) of PSMA ADC.