Genetic Analysis Using Blood or Bone Marrow From Participants With Neuroblastoma or Noncancerous Conditions
This laboratory study is looking at genes in participants with neuroblastoma or noncancerous conditions. Identifying genes related to cancer may help in the study of cancer. It may also help doctors predict who is at risk of developing neuroblastoma.
Localized Resectable Neuroblastoma|Localized Unresectable Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Regional Neuroblastoma|Stage 4 Neuroblastoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Neuroblastoma predisposition genes, Up to 4 years|Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) allele disease association, Up to 4 years|SNP haplotype disease association, Up to 4 years|Validation of SNP allele and haplotype disease association, Up to 4 years|SNP association with phenotypic subsets (i.e., high-risk vs no high-risk disease; MYCN amplification vs no MYCN amplification), Up to 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Perform a whole genome scan for association of neuroblastoma with single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and SNP haplotypes.

II. Identify true disease-associated SNP alleles using a customized genotyping platform enriched for haplotype analyses in an independent sample set.

III. Validate disease-associated SNP alleles and haplotypes in a final independent sample set.

IV. Identify neuroblastoma predisposition genes.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Participants are stratified according to presence of high-risk disease (yes vs no) and MYCN amplification (yes vs no).

DNA samples are derived from participants' banked blood or uninvolved bone marrow. A whole genome scan of DNA samples is employed to identify candidate single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). The candidate SNPs are investigated, using a gene-centric haplotyping approach, to identify 10-20 true disease-associated alleles. The disease-associated alleles are again investigated, using a gene-centric haplotyping approach, to validate 5-10 disease-associated SNPs. SNPs are then analyzed for heritable predisposition.

Patients do not receive the results of the genetic testing. A certificate of confidentiality protecting the identity of research participants in this project has been issued by the Children's Oncology Group.