Identifying Prostate Brachytherapy Seeds Using MRI
This study will look at the feasibility of using a type of Magnetic Resonance Imaging called Susceptibility Weighted Imaging (SWI) to detect your implanted radioactive seeds. Researchers hope that using SWI will eliminate the need to use CT imaging to detect your implanted radioactive seeds.

This study will also see if the MRI seed detection is as effective as current standard practice of seed detection (routine MRI and CT imaging). This technique would be beneficial for brachytherapy without the need to fuse the MRI and CT images, as is done currently.
Prostate Cancer Patients Who Have Brachytherapy Seed Implant
OTHER: MRI Scan
Determine if using the MR scan -(SWI) used to detect the implanted radioactive seeds will reduce registration errors, 6 months|Determine if using the MR scan -(SWI) used to detect the implanted radioactive seeds will reduce planning time for the post-implant plan, 6 months|Determine if using the MR scan -(SWI) used to detect the implanted radioactive seeds will eliminate the CT scan of the patient., 6 months
Compare the differences in MR seed identification using the MR pulse sequence vs. CT images., Our goal is to perfectly match these two modalities with acceptance test of 97%. This technique would be beneficial for LDR (Low Dose Rate) Brachytherapy without need to fuse the CT and MR images and eliminate any image registration uncertainly., 6 months
Compare the prostate dosimetry (V100 and D90) in prostate low dose rate therapy using MR alone with CT/MR fusion., 6 months
This study will look at the feasibility of using a type of Magnetic Resonance Imaging called Susceptibility Weighted Imaging (SWI) to detect your implanted radioactive seeds. Researchers hope that using SWI will eliminate the need to use CT imaging to detect your implanted radioactive seeds.

This study will also see if the MRI seed detection is as effective as current standard practice of seed detection (routine MRI and CT imaging). This technique would be beneficial for brachytherapy without the need to fuse the MRI and CT images, as is done currently.