Testing the Addition of High Dose, Targeted Radiation to the Usual Treatment for Locally-Advanced Inoperable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase III trial compares the effect of adding stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the usual treatment (conventional image guided radiation therapy \[IGRT\] and chemotherapy followed by immunotherapy with durvalumab or osimertinib) versus the usual treatment alone in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) and cannot be treated by surgery (inoperable). SBRT uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method may kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. IGRT is a type of radiation that uses a computer to create a picture of the tumor, to help guide the radiation beam during therapy, making it more accurate and causing less damage to healthy tissue. Usual chemotherapy used in this trial consists of combinations of the following drugs: cisplatin, carboplatin, paclitaxel, nab-paclitaxel, pemetrexed, and etoposide. Cisplatin and carboplatin are in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. Cisplatin works by killing, stopping, or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Carboplatin works in a way similar to the anticancer drug cisplatin but may be better tolerated than cisplatin. Carboplatin works by killing, stopping, or slowing the growth of tumor cells as well. Paclitaxel is in a class of medications called antimicrotubule agents. It works by stopping the growth and spread of tumor cells. Nab-paclitaxel is an albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel which may have fewer side effects and work better than other forms of paclitaxel. Pemetrexed is in a class of medications called antifolate antineoplastic agents. It works by blocking the action of a certain substance in the body that may help tumor cells multiply. Etoposide is in a class of medications known as podophyllotoxin derivatives. It blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair and may kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with durvalumab, may induce changes in the body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Osimertinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of a protein called EGFR that signals cancer cells to multiply. This helps slow or stop the spread of tumor cells. Adding SBRT to the usual treatment of IGRT with chemotherapy and immunotherapy may be more effective at treating patients with locally-advanced non-small cell lung cancer than giving the usual treatment alone.
Locally Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Image Guided Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Overall survival (OS), Non-inferiority (NI) between arm 2 and arm 1 (reference level) will be evaluated by comparing the upper bound of the 95% confidence interval for the hazard ratio to the pre-specified NI margin. NI of arm 2 will be concluded if the upper bound of the confidence interval is equal to, or falls below, the pre-specified margin at the final analysis. When evaluating the NI of arm 2 in OS, a Cox proportional hazards (PH) model stratified by stratification factors will be used to compute the hazard ratio and associated 95% confidence interval (CI). OS rates will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. If the NI of arm 2 in OS is demonstrated, the superiority of arm 1 in OS will be tested at 1-sided significance level of 0.025 using a stratified log-rank test by adjusting for stratification factors., Time between date of randomization and date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 8 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The PFS analysis will be conducted using the same methods and stratification factors as the OS analysis. The superiority of arm 2 in PFS will be tested at 1-sided significance level of 0.025 using a stratified log-rank test by adjusting for stratification factors. In the event that the NI of OS is not established, statistical inference of PFS will be considered exploratory in nature only. A Cox PH model stratified by stratification factors will be used to compute the hazard ratio and associated 95% CI., Time between date of randomization and first date of documented progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 8 years
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1) is defined as the number (%) of patients with at least 1 visit response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and will be based on all randomized patients who have measurable disease. Therefore, data obtained up until progression, or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression, will be included in the assessment of ORR. The ORR will be compared between arm 2 versus arm 1 using a Fisher's exact test. A binary response variable for ORR will be used for the analysis with the categories of CR and PR versus stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD) and inevaluable (NE)., Up to 8 years|Time to progression, Local control also known as time to progression will be defined as freedom from local progression, in which a failure is defined as intrathoracic tumor progression (failure in the lobe of the primary tumor or mediastinal lymph nodes) by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Local control will be analyzed as competing risks data based on cause-specific hazards approaches, where deaths without local failure will be considered as a competing event and analyzed as "censoring" of local failure. The rates at various timepoints (e.g., every 6 months after randomization) and medians of PFS for each arm will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The associated 95% CI will be calculated using Greenwood's formula and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Results from an unstratified analysis will also be provided., Up to 8 years|Time to primary, locoregional, or distant failure, Competing risks analysis will be used to analyze times to primary failure, locoregional failure and distant failure as the first failure. Competing events include primary failure, locoregional failure, distant failure and deaths without any failures. Rates at various timepoints (i.e., every 6 months after randomization) for each arm will be estimated using the cumulative incidence function. The associated 95% CI will be calculated using the Delta method and based on a log-log transformation applied on the estimated cumulative incidence functions. Statistical inferences of the development of each failure between arms will be based on cause-specific hazards using the log-rank test and Cox proportional hazard model. In addition, Gray's test and the Fine-Gray model will also be used to provide statistical inferences between arms based on cumulative incidence functions and subdistribution hazards., Up to 8 years|Changes in pulmonary function, Includes forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) and diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO). Changes in pulmonary function (FEV1 and DLCO) will be summarized with descriptive statistics, and compared with Wilcoxon rank-sum test. The descriptive statistics of changes in FEV1 and diffusion capacity before and after treatment will be reported by treatment arm and by response categories (complete response; partial response; stable disease; progressive disease). Linear regression will be used to model changes with adjustment for treatment arms and possibly other baseline covariates, if applicable. The grade 3-5 NRG Oncology Pulmonary Toxicity Scale for changes will be reported with the frequency and grade by arm. Logistic regression will be used to model the distribution of the NRG Oncology Pulmonary Toxicity Scale by arms with and without adjustment for covariates., From randomization to 6 months or 12 months|Patient reported outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), Adverse events will also be assessed using PRO-CTCAE items. The PRO-CTCAE is a patient-reported outcome measurement system developed to characterize the frequency, severity, and interference of symptomatic treatment toxicities. Items are scored on a Likert scale. For each symptom and each domain (i.e., frequency, severity, and interference), counts and frequencies will be summarized for the worst score experienced by the patient by the treatment arm. In addition, a composite grading algorithm (Basch 2021) will be used to derive a single numerical grade for each adverse event scored using PRO-CTCAE. PRO-CTCAE, the frequency of acute grade \>= 3 patient-reported toxicity will be compared to the corresponding rate of clinician-scored toxicity using a chi-square test or Fisher exact test, as appropriate. Distributions of clinician-reported and patient-reported adverse events will also be compared across study arms., At 3, 12, and 24 months|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Lung (FACT-L) and Trial Outcome Index (TOI), FACT-L and TOI is a measure that sums the functional well-being (FWB - 7 items), physical well-being (PWB - 7), and the lung cancer subscale (LCS - 9 items) of FACT-L. Questionnaire trial outcome index deterioration rates at 3 months and associated 95% confidence interval will be calculated for each treatment group, based on all randomized subjects. In addition, to explore if higher QOL scores will be maintained at 12 and 24 months from the end of radiotherapy as well, longitudinal data analysis will also be performed to characterize the trend of scores over time across the two treatment groups using hierarchical formulation of the linear mixed model. The Clopper-Pearson method will be used for calculating 95% CI. The deterioration rates of each arm will also be compared using Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel Test, stratified by PD-L1 expression and T-stage., At 3, 12, and 24 months|European Quality of Life Five Dimension (EQ-5D) scale, Subjects' overall health state on a visual analog scale (EQ-VAS) at each assessment time point will be summarized using descriptive statistics by treatment group, as randomized. Proportion of subjects reporting problems for the five EQ-5D dimensions at each assessment time point will be summarized by level of problem and by treatment group, as randomized. Percentages will be based on number subjects assessed at assessment time point., At 3, 12, and 24 months|Incidence of adverse events, For each patient, the maximum severity reported will be used in the summaries. Adverse events will be summarized regardless of relationship to protocol treatment as assessed by the investigator. Treatment-related adverse events using National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) will be presented in statistical analysis reports/publications in CTCAE version 5. Adverse event rates will be reported with the frequency and severity (e.g., type, grade, and attribution) by arm., Up to 8 years
Clinical outcomes, Descriptive analyses will be reported, based on corresponding analysis plans within patients who actually receive proton and photon radiotherapy (e.g., per-protocol population), respectively., Up to 8 years|Functional mean lung dose, Collection of 4 dimensional (4D) computed tomography (CT) planning CTs and calculation of radiation dose to regional lung ventilation will be performed among randomized patients with 4D CT planning CTs. To evaluate functional dose metrics, ventilation maps will be registered to the average 4DCT reference frame. Functional dose metrics and standard dose metrics will be calculated and evaluated. Functional mean lung dose will be defined as the mean dose delivered to functional lung. Dose to total lung and dose to functional lung will then be correlated with pulmonary toxicity including grade 2 or higher radiation pneumonitis or any grade 3 or higher cough, dyspnea, hypoxia or respiratory failure. Logistic regression models will be used to explore the correlation between pulmonary toxicity and functional mean lung dose., Up to 8 years|Incidence of toxicities, Descriptive analyses will be reported, based on corresponding analysis plans within patients who actually receive proton and photon radiotherapy (e.g., per-protocol population), respectively., Up to 8 years|Changes in pulmonary function, Descriptive analyses will be reported, based on corresponding analysis plans within patients who actually receive proton and photon radiotherapy (e.g., per-protocol population), respectively., Up to 8 years|Changes in quality of life, Descriptive analyses will be reported, based on corresponding analysis plans within patients who actually receive proton and photon radiotherapy (e.g., per-protocol population), respectively., Up to 8 years|Develop and characterize a machine learning/artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm for radiotherapy planning and/or quality assurance, Assessment will focus on four key areas: tumor volume contouring score, organs-at-risk contouring score, tumor volume dose-volume analysis score, and organs-at-risk dose-volume analysis score. Each area will be scored as per protocol: acceptable variation, unacceptable variation, and not evaluable. Cases deemed not evaluable will be considered as such, regardless of the reviewer. The scores generated by the AI algorithm will be compared with those from radiation oncologists, ensuring the AI algorithm adheres to the contours. The sensitivity of the AI algorithm, indicating its ability to detect deviations from the protocol, will be calculated. The AI algorithm will be refined until its sensitivity exceeds 95%. Inter-rater reliability between the AI algorithm and the radiation oncologists will be assessed using Cohen's κ and concordance and discordance frequencies., Up to 8 years|Treatment effect and confidence intervals by sex, Up to 8 years|Treatment effect and confidence intervals by race, Up to 8 years|Treatment effect and confidence intervals by ethnicity, Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the overall survival in patients with stage II-IIIC inoperable node-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after image guided, motion-managed conventional radiotherapy to the primary tumor and nodal metastases (Arm 1) or after image guided, motion-managed stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the primary tumor followed by conventionally fractionated radiotherapy to nodal metastases (Arm 2) both given with concurrent platinum-based chemotherapy.

II. To compare progression-free survival between the experimental arm (Arm 2) and control arm (Arm 1).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare objective response rate (as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version \[v\] 1.1) between the experimental arm and control arm.

II. To compare the rate of local control between the experimental arm and control arm.

III. To compare patterns of failure (primary, locoregional, or distant) between the experimental arm and control arm.

IV. To compare changes in pulmonary function (forced expiratory volume in 1 second \[FEV1\] and diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide \[DLCO\] assessed at randomization and at 6- and 12- months following completion of radiation therapy) between the experimental arm and control arm.

V. To compare changes in quality of life and patient-reported outcomes assessed from pre-treatment to 3 months following radiation therapy of each treatment arm.

VI. To determine acute and late toxicity profiles of each treatment arm as measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize and compare longitudinal quality of life and patient-reported outcomes of each treatment arm.

II. To collect biospecimens at baseline, after SBRT (for Arm 2 patients), during last 2 weeks of chemoradiation, and after first dose of consolidation therapy, to allow for future analyses.

III. To collect 4-dimensional (4D) computed tomography (CT) planning scans and radiation dose to calculate regional lung ventilation and explore pre-treatment 4D-CT based ventilation to predict pulmonary toxicity.

IV. To characterize clinical outcomes, toxicities and changes in pulmonary function and quality of life among patients receiving proton and photon radiotherapy.

V. To develop and characterize a machine learning/artificial intelligence algorithm for radiotherapy planning and/or quality assurance.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo conventional IGRT and receive usual care chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel intravenously (IV) followed by carboplatin IV weekly (Q7D) during radiotherapy or pemetrexed IV followed by carboplatin IV every 21 days during radiotherapy or etoposide IV on days 1 to 5 and days 29 to 33 followed by cisplatin IV on days 1, 8, 29, and 36 or pemetrexed IV followed by cisplatin IV every 21 days during radiotherapy. Patients then receive consolidation durvalumab IV every 2 or 4 weeks for up to one year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT and/or positron emission tomography (PET)/CT during follow-up.

ARM II: Patients undergo SBRT and conventional IGRT and receive standard-of-care chemotherapy consisting of paclitaxel IV followed by carboplatin IV Q7D during radiotherapy or pemetrexed IV followed by carboplatin IV every 21 days during radiotherapy or etoposide IV on days 1 to 5 and days 29 to 33 followed by cisplatin IV on days 1, 8, 29, and 36 or pemetrexed IV followed by cisplatin IV every 21 days during radiotherapy. Patients then receive consolidation durvalumab IV every 2 or 4 weeks for up to one year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT and/or PET/CT during follow-up.

Patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months during years 2 and 3, and then yearly after that for the duration of the study.