Epidemiologic, Clinical and Genetic Profile of Prostate Cancer in Arab Countries
This protocol is designed to collect a small amount of blood and tissue from individuals with prostate cancer for extraction of DNA (genetic material) for the study of the genetic basis of prostate cancer. The study population will include individuals with known prostate cancer and controls without prostate cancer. The study will be conducted in Doha, Qatar at the Hamad Medical Corporation and Weill Cornell Medical College (Qatar). Individuals in the study population will be of Arab descent from Qatar. In this protocol, researchers will survey epidemiologic factors and medical records of patients with prostate cancer in order to study the clinical characteristics of these individuals. The researchers will collect blood and tissue samples to evaluate the genetic characteristics of individuals with prostate cancer. The researchers will also collect blood samples of individuals without prostate cancer to serve as a control. The goal will be to identify genes that are associated with prostate cancer and gene profiles that are associated with differing prognoses in individuals who have prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes associated with prostate cancer in the Qatari population., 3 years
Use of gene expression profiles to develop molecular signatures of prostate cancer that are associated with clinical/pathological phenotypes (e.g., tumor grade, histology, disease stage, responsiveness to therapy), 3 years
The study population will include individuals with known prostate cancer and controls without prostate cancer. Individuals in the study population will be of Arab descent from Qatar. In this protocol, researchers will survey epidemiologic factors and medical records of patients with prostate cancer in order to study the clinical characteristics of these individuals. The researchers will collect blood and tissue samples to evaluate the genetic characteristics of individuals with prostate cancer. The researchers will also collect blood samples of individuals without prostate cancer to serve as a control. The goal will be to identify genes that are associated with prostate cancer and gene profiles that are associated with differing prognoses in individuals who have prostate cancer.