Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes
RATIONALE: Vaccines made from cancer cells may help the body build an effective immune response to kill abnormal cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well vaccine therapy works in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS).
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
BIOLOGICAL: K562/GM-CSF cell vaccine
Hematologic Response Rate as Assessed by Number of Participants Achieving a Major Hematologic Response, A major hematologic response is defined as any of the following: hemoglobin increase \>= 2 g/dL from baseline; platelet increase \>= 30k/mcL from baseline; or neutrophil increase \>= 100% or \>= 500/mcL from baseline., Baseline, week 21 post-intervention|Cytogenetic Response Rate as Assessed by Number of Participants Achieving a Cytogenetic Response, Cytogenetic response is defined as normalization of pretreatment cytogenetic abnormalities., Week 21
Immune Response Rate as Assessed by Number of Participants Who Exhibit Induced Immune Response to WT-1, Survivin, or Proteinase-3, Immune response to WT-1, survivin, or proteinase-3 as defined by a 30% increase from baseline in cytotoxic T cells measured by Elispot analysis., Baseline, week 21 post-intervention|Combined Immune and Clinical Response Rate, Number of participants who exhibited both an immune response as defined by Outcome 3 and a hematologic or cytogenetic response as defined by Outcomes 1 and 2, respectively., Week 21 post-intervention
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the safety of GM-K562 cell vaccine in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.
* Determine the hematologic and cytogenetic response in patients treated with this vaccine.

Secondary

* Determine if vaccination with GM-K562 cell vaccine can induce an immune response to common myeloid antigens (e.g., Wilms' tumor-1 \[WT-1\], survivin, or proteinase-3), as defined by a 30% increase from baseline in specific cytotoxic T-cells measured by Elispot assay, in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.
* Determine if immune response correlates with any clinical responses (e.g., hematologic response, resolution of cytogenetic abnormalities, or decrease in other parameters, such as WT-1 mRNA levels).

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

Patients receive GM-K562 cell vaccine subcutaneously once in weeks 0, 3, 6, 9, and 17 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood and tissue samples are collected periodically for correlative and biomarker studies. Samples are analyzed by cytogenetic studies, fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), and flow cytometry. Elispot is used to quantify cellular cytotoxic T-cell response to Wilms' tumor-1 (WT-1), survivin, and proteinase 3.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15 patients will be accrued for this study.