GDC-0449 in Treating Young Patients With Medulloblastoma That is Recurrent or Did Not Respond to Previous Treatment
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of GDC-0449 in treating young patients with medulloblastoma that is recurrent or did not respond to previous treatment. GDC-0449 may be effective in treating young patients with medulloblastoma.
Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma
DRUG: vismodegib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Mean steady-state total (protein bound and non-protein bound) GDC-0449 plasma concentrations (Css), 95% confidence interval estimates for 2 doses compared., 21 days|Pharmacokinetics of GDC-0449, including the elimination rate constant and terminal half life, We will study two BSA defined strata., Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment
Tumor responses, Descriptive statistics will be provided describing tumor responses., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimates of the distribution of progression-free survival (PFS) will be constructed., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the safety and pharmacokinetics of a daily dose of hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 using the available formulation in pediatric patients with recurrent or refractory medulloblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document and describe toxicities associated with this drug in these patients.

II. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. III. To document preliminary antitumor activity of this drug in these patients. IV. To document pathologic and genomic methods to identify CNS tumors with activation of the PTCH/SHH pathway.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 once daily on days 1 and 4-28 in course 1 and on days 1-28 in all subsequent courses. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacokinetic studies. Archival tumor tissue samples are collected and analyzed for the expression of genes that activate the SHH (e.g., Gli1, Gli2, SFRP1, ATOH1, and PTCH2) or WNT (e.g., DKK2 and DKK4) cell signal pathways by in situ hybridization and reverse transcriptase real time-PCR.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 90 days.