The Effect of Face-to-face and Online Health Education on Women's Cervical Cancer Knowledge, Health Beliefs and Screening
Aim: The aim of this study is to determine the effect of health education given by two different methods on women's knowledge about HPV, cervical cancer health belief and screening test.

Materials and Methods: The study was conducted in a parallel groups design as a single-blind randomized controlled trial. The sample consisted of 126 healthy participants, 42 in each volunteer group, who were registered at the Martyr Zafer Çalışkan Family Health Center in Ankara between January and July 2023, and met the inclusion criteria. HPV Knowledge scale, Cervical Cancer and pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale and VAS for self-assessment were used in the study. In the study, while the control group received standard care, the face-to-face education group was given health education and brochures through home visits and a reminder interview over the phone; On the other hand, the online training group was given health education and a digital brochure via video call and a reminder meeting was held once. One-way analysis of variance and Kruskal Wallis test were used to compare the data of the three groups after a two-month follow-up, Tukey and Dunn test for multiple comparisons, and Wilcoxon test for in-group comparisons before and after. In addition, two-way analysis of variance and Robust ANOVA were used in group and time comparisons.
Early Detection of Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: face to face health education|BEHAVIORAL: online health education
HPV Knowledge Scale, HPV Knowledge Scale consists of 4 sub-dimensions and 33 items. Participants score between 0-33., 60 days
Cervical Cancer and Pap Smear Test Health Belief Model Scale, Although the scale is graded in a 5-point Likert type, it consists of a total of 35 items. The higher the scores obtained from the scale, the higher the sensitivity, caring and motivation; It means that benefits are perceived high for the perception of benefit, and obstacles are perceived high for the perception of obstacles., 60 days
In this randomized controlled trial, participants were assigned to three groups by the block randomization method and the study was conducted in a single-blind parallel groups design. It was carried out at Martyr Zafer Çalışkan Family Health Center between January 2023 and July 2023. The eligibility of female participants between the ages of 30-65 to participate in the study was evaluated by the researcher. The sample size was calculated based on the rate of cervical cancer screening test in Kurt and Akyüz's study. G Power 3.1.9.2 package program was used in the calculation. Taking into account possible data loss, it was decided to add 30% backup participants. In this context, the sample of the study was calculated as 126 participants, 42 in each group. The patients who volunteered to participate in the study were examined whether they met the inclusion criteria other than the level of drug compliance. Written informed consent was obtained from the participants who met the inclusion criteria and a questionnaire form was applied. Participants were assigned to groups using the block randomization method. No intervention was made in the control group. At the end of the following first week, face-to-face and online training was provided with the participants in the online training group, one-to-one home visits, face-to-face training and video calls. Four weeks later, a brief reminder was made by phone call. At the end of eight weeks, a second questionnaire was applied to all groups.