Small-group, Virtual Program for Improving Symptoms and Distress Related to Hormonal Therapy for Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to explore the feasibility and acceptability of a brief, virtual, group-based cognitive-behavioral intervention for breast cancer survivors taking hormonal therapy. The intervention (STRIDE) aims to alleviate symptoms related to hormonal therapy or breast cancer, optimize medication-taking (i.e., adherence), and reduce distress.
Breast Cancer|Adherence, Medication
OTHER: STRIDE|OTHER: Medication Monitoring Control
Feasibility and Acceptability, The investigators will evaluate program feasibility by examining rates of recruitment (enrollment rate \> 50%), retention (follow-up assessment completion rate \> 70% of all participants who complete baseline) and attendance of program sessions (attendance rate of at least 70% of participants completing at least 4 of 6 sessions \[67%\]).

The investigators will evaluate program acceptability by examining satisfaction scores on the Client Satisfaction Questionnaire (CSQ). The program will be deemed acceptable if \>75% of participants report average satisfaction scores greater than the CSQ's mid-point. The CSQ is scored on a four-point Likert scale with higher scores indicating higher satisfaction., 12 weeks
Group Differences in Mean Medication Adherence Rates to Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy Across the 24-week Study Period, Medication Event Monitoring System (MEMS Caps): Participants will store medication in the MEMS bottles to electronically monitor adjuvant endocrine therapy daily dose and timing of dose administration. Prescribed medication, dose, and timing will be identified in the Electronic Health Record and verified by the patient. Adherence will be calculated as the percentage of medication taken of the total prescribed. A mean medication adherence rate will be calculated in each group to examine differences in adherence rates and changes across the 24-week study period between groups., Mean medication adherence rates over 24 weeks|Changes in Self-Reported Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy Adherence Between Groups on the Medication Adherence Report Scale (MARS-5) From Baseline to 12-weeks Post-baseline, Medication Adherence Report Scale (MARS-5): Changes in self-reported adherence to adjuvant endocrine therapy between groups will be explored using the MARS-5 at 3-months post-baseline. The MARS-5 assesses adherence to treatment and has been used specifically in the context of AET adherence. The scale consists of five items that ask about suboptimal adherence behaviors, such as "I stop taking my adjuvant endocrine therapy medicine for a while." Each item is answered on a scale of 1 (Always) to 5 (Never). Scores range from 5 to 25 points with scores less than 25 defined as low adherence to the medication., Baseline, and post-intervention at 12-weeks post-baseline|Changes in Satisfaction With Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy (AET) Between Groups on the Cancer Therapy Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ) From Baseline to 12-weeks Post-baseline., Cancer Therapy Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ): Changes in self-reported satisfaction with AET will be explored between groups at 12 weeks post-baseline with the Cancer Therapy Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ). The CTSQ is a previously published 21-item measure that evaluates patients' beliefs about the following aspects of medical care: expectations of the effectiveness of cancer therapy, feelings about side effects, oral cancer therapy adherence, satisfaction with cancer therapy, stopping cancer therapy, and reasons for non-adherence. We used the satisfaction with cancer therapy subscale. Each item is scored on a scale of 1 ("Never" or "Very inconvenient") to 5 ("Always" or Very Convenient"). A greater score on this measure indicates greater patient cancer therapy satisfaction. Scores can range from a minimum of 0 to a maximum of 100., Baseline, and post-intervention at 12-weeks post-baseline|Changes in Symptom Distress Between Groups on the Breast Cancer Prevention Trial Symptom Scale (BCPT) From Baseline to 12-weeks Post-baseline, Breast Cancer Prevention Trial Symptom Scale (BCPT): The investigators will examine changes in self-reported symptom distress on the BCPT between groups at 12 weeks post-baseline. The BCPT is a symptom checklist used to document physical and psychological symptoms associated with ET use. The measure includes several clinically-relevant symptom subscales and has been used broadly in previous studies on symptom distress in breast cancer patients. The BCPT asks participants to rate how much they have been bothered by several symptoms over the past week on a scale of 0 (Not at all bothered) to 4 (Extremely bothered). There are 8 subscales: hot flashes, nausea, bladder control, vaginal problems, musculoskeletal pain, cognitive problems, weight problems, and arm problems. For this study, we summed the 8 subscale scores for a total score ranging from 0-72, with higher scores representing greater symptom distress., Baseline and post-intervention at 12 weeks post-baseline
Background: The majority of breast cancer is hormone sensitive and treated with 10 years of adjuvant endocrine therapy (AET) (i.e., tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors) to reduce risk of recurrence and improve survival; however, adherence to AET among breast cancer survivors (BCS) is a challenge, with half of women becoming non-adherent within five years. Difficulty coping with symptoms (e.g., sleep problems, hot flashes, weight gain, fatigue) and psychosocial distress (i.e., depression or anxiety symptoms), and other emotional and logistical factors are major barriers to adherence. There is a dearth of efficacious interventions targeting the needs and adherence challenges of BCS prescribed AET.

Objective: To address this gap, the proposed study, funded by the National Cancer Institute, employs a mixed-methods design to develop and test an evidence-based intervention (STRIDE) to enhance adherence to AET, improve symptom management, and reduce distress in breast cancer survivors.

Specific Aims: The primary aims of this study are: 1) to examine the feasibility and acceptability of a tailored, small-group, virtual intervention (STRIDE) compared to a medication monitoring control for survivors of breast cancer taking AET, and 2) to explore the effects of the STRIDE intervention on adherence to AET, symptom distress, and satisfaction with AET.

Study Design: Phase 1 included (1) semi-structured interviews with BCS on AET (n=30) and intervention development with psychologists and oncology clinicians. The intervention is a a brief, virtual, small-group, cognitive-behavioral intervention that aims to alleviate symptoms and side effects related to hormonal therapy or breast cancer, optimize medication-taking, and reduce emotional distress for breast cancer survivors taking hormonal therapy. Phase 2 will entail a run-in phase (n=5) to evaluate acceptability and further refine the intervention, followed by a randomized controlled pilot trial (n=100) to assess the feasibility of comparing the STRIDE intervention to a medication monitoring control with assessments and adherence monitoring over the course of six months. Participants will be recruited at Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center and three community satellite sites. Eligible participants will be hormone-receptor positive breast cancer survivors prescribed AET who are experiencing distress related to AET (e.g., adherence difficulties, side effects, etc.). This research study involves completing 3 questionnaire batteries at the time of enrollment, 12 weeks, and 24 weeks. The participant will also be asked to store their hormonal therapy pills in a medication bottle provided by the study team throughout the 24 week study period. If the participants are randomized to receive the STRIDE intervention, the participant will have six weekly one-hour virtual (videoconferencing) sessions in small groups with a trained clinician followed by two 15-minute check-in phone calls later in the study.