PD-L1 Antibody Combined With CTLA-4 Antibody for Patients With Advanced Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Who Progressed After Standard Treatment
The study aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-L1 antibody combined with the CTLA-4 antibody in patients with advanced ICC who progressed after standard treatment.
Cholangiocarcinoma, Intrahepatic|PD-L1|CTLA4
DRUG: PD-L1 antibody combined with CTLA-4 antibody
objective response rate (ORR), the objective response rate (ORR) of advanced ICC patients who progressed after standard treatment with PD-L1 antibody SHR-1316 combined with CTLA-4 antibody IBI310, 12 months
Safety: the potential side effects, the potiential side effects, 12 months|overall survival, From the beginning date of combined therapy to the date of death, 18 months|Progression free survival, From the beginning date of combined therapy to disease progresion or death, whichever occurs first, 12 months
The prognosis of unresectable and metastatic intrahepatic biliary tract cancer (ICC) is extremely poor. The median overall survival of first-line gemcitabine and cisplatin for advanced biliary tumors (including ICC) is only 11.7 months. Currently, there is no standard second-line or third-line treatment for advanced ICC, and there is an urgent need to develop new treatment methods to improve patient survival. Chronic inflammation caused by viral infections and bile duct stones is the most common potential risk factor for ICC. The abnormal immune system plays a key role in the occurrence and development of ICC. The immune checkpoint molecules PD-L1 and CTLA-4 are overexpressed in ICC, and they are obviously heterogeneous, so immunotherapy has potential value. Immune checkpoint inhibitors against PD-1/PD-L1 show a good objective remission rate in advanced biliary tumors (including ICC). CTLA-4 inhibitors combined with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors show significant clinical enhancement Role, CTLA-4 inhibitors combined with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have been clinically studied in a number of solid tumors. In this phase II clinical study, we will evaluate the efficacy and safety of PD-L1 monoclonal antibody combined with CTLA-4 monoclonal antibody in patients with advanced ICC who progressed after standard treatment.