Olfactory Training in Improving Sense of Smell After Radiation Therapy in Patients With Paranasal Sinus or Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This randomized phase I trial studies how well olfactory training works in improving sense of smell after radiation therapy in patients with paranasal sinus or nasopharyngeal cancer. Olfactory training may improve smell function after radiation therapy in patients with paranasal sinus or nasopharyngeal cancer.
Stage 0 Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage 0 Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage I Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage I Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage II Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage II Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage IIA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IIB Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage III Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IV Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVA Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVB Paranasal Sinus Cancer|Stage IVC Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVC Paranasal Sinus Cancer
OTHER: Physiologic Testing|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Sham Intervention|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Procedure|OTHER: rose essential oil|OTHER: lemon essential oil|OTHER: clove essential oil|OTHER: eucalyptus essential oil|OTHER: canola oil placebo
Change in olfactory function in patients with paranasal sinus or nasopharyngeal carcinoma after completion of radiation therapy as measured by UPSIT score, T-test or Mann-Whitney U test, where appropriate, will be used for comparing continuous variables, and chi-squared test will be used for comparing categorical variables. Continuous UPSIT score will be summarized using the following statistics: number of subjects, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, median, first quartile, third quartile, minimum, and maximum values. The dependent variable UPSIT score will be either the percent change from baseline or change from baseline in the endpoint. Mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) analysis will be used and the model will included fixed effect terms, Baseline to 12 weeks
Efficacy of olfactory training during radiation therapy as measured by change in UPSIT scores, T-test or Mann-Whitney U test, where appropriate, will be used for comparing continuous variables, and chi-squared test will be used for comparing categorical variables. Continuous UPSIT score will be summarized using the following statistics: number of subjects, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, median, first quartile, third quartile, minimum, and maximum values. The dependent variable UPSIT score will be either the percent change from baseline or change from baseline in the endpoint. Mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) analysis will be used and the model will included fixed effect terms, Baseline|Improvement in quality of life related to olfactory dysfunction as measured by change in the Questionnaire of Olfactory Disorders (QOD) score, Within each subgroup of participants, change in QOD score after olfactory training will be calculated and compared between treatment and control group. Confidence interval (CI) 95% and P value \< 5% will be set as statistical parameters to define if noted difference is significant. Based on previous studies, a change of \>= 1/2 standard deviation of the pre-treatment score would be clinically significant., Baseline to 12 weeks|Severity of olfactory dysfunction after completion of radiation therapy as measured by UPSIT score, T-test or Mann-Whitney U test, where appropriate, will be used for comparing continuous variables, and chi-squared test will be used for comparing categorical variables. Continuous UPSIT score will be summarized using the following statistics: number of subjects, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, median, first quartile, third quartile, minimum, and maximum values. Continuous UPSIT score will be summarized using the following statistics: number of subjects, arithmetic mean, standard deviation, median, first quartile, third quartile, minimum, and maximum values. These statistics will be shown, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of olfactory training on olfactory function in patients with paranasal sinus and nasopharyngeal carcinoma suffering from olfactory loss after radiation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the possible effect of olfactory training on quality of life in patients with paranasal sinus and nasopharyngeal carcinoma suffering from olfactory loss after radiation.

II. To study rate and severity of olfactory dysfunction after radiation therapy in patients with paranasal sinus or nasopharyngeal carcinoma.

III. To evaluate the possible preventive effect of olfactory training on olfactory dysfunction in patients with paranasal sinus and nasopharyngeal carcinoma who will undergo radiation therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Arm I: Patients undergo olfactory training by smelling 4 essential oils in vials (rose, lemon, clove, and eucalyptus) over 15 seconds each, twice daily for 12 weeks.

Arm II: Patients undergo sham training by smelling canola oil in 4 vials over 15 seconds each, twice daily for 12 weeks.