Study of ALXN2050 in Adult Participants With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of ALXN2050 (120 milligrams \[mg\], 180 mg) in participants with generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG).

Safety will be monitored throughout the study.
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis|Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: ALXN2050|DRUG: Placebo
Percentage Of Participants With a Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) Total Score Reduction Of ≥ 2 Points In Any 4 Consecutive Weeks During The First 8 Weeks And Who Did Not Receive Rescue Therapy, The MG-ADL profile is an 8-item participant-reported scale that focuses on relevant symptoms and functional performance of ADL in participants with MG. The 8 items of the MG-ADL questionnaire were derived from symptom-based components of the original 13-item QMG scale to assess disability secondary to ocular (2 items), bulbar (3 items), respiratory (1 item), and gross motor or limb (2 items) impairment related to effects of MG. Each response is graded 0 (normal) to 3 (most severe). The MG-ADL total score was calculated as the sum of the scores of the 8 items and ranges from 0 to 24, with higher scores indicating worse function., Baseline through Week 8
Change From Baseline In Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Total Score At Week 8, The QMG Score for Disease Severity is an objective evaluation of therapy for MG and is based on quantitative testing of sentinel muscle groups. The QMG instrument consists of 13 items: ocular (2 items), facial (1 item), bulbar (2 items), gross motor (6 items), axial (1 item), and respiratory (1 item); each graded 0 to 3, with 3 being the most severe. The QMG total score was calculated as the sum of the scores of the 13 items and ranges from 0 to 39, with higher scores indicating more severe disease. Baseline score at each timepoint as the response variable, treatment group, study visit, and treatment-by-study visit interaction as fixed categorical effects, and baseline QMG total score as a covariate were used to calculate the least square (LS) mean and the standard error., Baseline, Week 8|Change From Baseline In MG-ADL Total Score At Week 8, The MG-ADL profile is an 8-item participant-reported scale that focuses on relevant symptoms and functional performance of ADL in participants with MG. The 8 items of the MG-ADL questionnaire were derived from symptom-based components of the original 13-item QMG scale to assess disability secondary to ocular (2 items), bulbar (3 items), respiratory (1 item), and gross motor or limb (2 items) impairment related to effects of MG. Each response is graded 0 (normal) to 3 (most severe). The MG-ADL total score was calculated as the sum of the scores of the 8 items and ranges from 0 to 24, with higher scores indicating worse function. Baseline score at each timepoint as the response variable, treatment group, study visit, and treatment-by-study visit interaction as fixed categorical effects, and baseline MG-ADL total score as a covariate were used to calculate the LS mean and the standard error., Baseline, Week 8|Change From Baseline In Quality Of Life In Neurological Disorders (Neuro-QoL) Fatigue Score At Week 8, The Neuro-QoL Fatigue questionnaire is a reliable and validated brief 19-item survey of fatigue, completed by the participant. Each item is scored on a scale of 1-5, with 1 indicating "never" and 5 indicating "sometimes". The Neuro-QoL Fatigue score was calculated as the sum of the scores of the 19 items and ranges from 19-95, with higher scores indicating greater fatigue and greater impact of MG on activities. Baseline score at each timepoint as the response variable, treatment group, study visit, and treatment-by-study visit interaction as fixed categorical effects, and baseline Neuro-QoL Fatigue score as a covariate were used to calculate the LS mean and the standard error., Baseline, Week 8
The study consists of a blinded 8-week Primary Evaluation Period (PEP) and a blinded 26-week Extended Treatment Period (ETP). After completion of 34 weeks of treatment, participants will enter an Open-label Extension (OLE) Period for up to 1.5 years.