A Study of Cabazitaxel for Patients With Breast or Lung Cancer and Recurrent or Progressive Brain Metastases - Cabazitaxel for Brain Metastases (CaBaMet)
Patients suffering from histologically or cytologically confirmed stage IV lung or breast cancer with progressive or recurrent brain metastases after prior external beam radiotherapy will receive treatment with cabazitaxel until progression of brain metastases (BM) or unacceptable toxicity.
Breast Cancer|Lung Cancer|Recurrent Brain Metastases|Progressive Brain Metastases
DRUG: Cabazitaxel
Objective tumor response of brain metastases, Objective tumor response of brain metastases (Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or at least a minor response (MR; 25-50% reduction) according to WHO criteria1,2 and Iwamoto3 confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)), approx. 12 month
Overall Survival, Efficacy measure, approx. 12 month|Progression free-survival for brain metastases, Efficacy measure, approx. 12 month|progression-free survival for extracerebral tumor disease, Efficacy measure, approx. 12 month|Time to treatment failure of brain metastases, Efficacy measure, 12 month|Quality of life, Efficacy measure, assessed with EORTC QLQ-C30 and additional module BN20 questionnaire, approx. 12 month|Type, incidence and severity of adverse events, Safety measure, approx. 12 month|Dose reduction or discontinuation of study drug cabazitaxel due to adverse events, Safety measure, approx. 12 month
Cabazitaxel is a new taxane compound that exhibited a broad spectrum of in vivo antitumor activity, not only in docetaxel - sensitive tumor models, but also in tumors models in which docetaxel was poorly or not active. In contrast to other taxanes, cabazitaxel has the ability to cross the blood-brain-barrier. Marked antitumor activity was obtained in nude mice bearing intracranial glioblastomas. Consequently, there is a good rationale to investigate cabazitaxel in patients with breast or lung cancer and recurrent or progressive brain metastases.

The primary object of the study is to measure objective tumor response of brain metastases for patients with breast or lung cancer and recurrent or progressive brain metastases.