Paxalisib (GDC-0084) In Recurrent Or Refractory PCNSL
This research study is studying a drug called Paxalisib (GDC-0084) as a possible treatment for primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL)
Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma of Extranodal Site
DRUG: PAXALISIB
Number of participants with Objective Response Rate (ORR), The Objective Response (ORR) is defined as a complete, unconfirmed complete or partial response as determined by the investigator assessment using IPCG criteria, Up to 24 Months
Number of participants with Durable Objective Response Rate (ORR), Durable ORR will be defined as confirmed objective responses (CR, uCR and PR) by IPCG criteria that are durable for ≥ 6 months, Up to 24 Months|Overall Survival, defined from the date of the 1st dose of paxalisib to the date of death or last follow-up. If a participant is still alive, she/he will be censored on the date of last followup., Up to 24 Months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), defined from the date of 1st dose of paxalisib to the date of progression based on IPCG criteria or death, if progression does not occur. All progressors will be included regardless of whether progression occurs while the participant was taking the study drug or previously discontinued the study drug, up to 24 Months|Number of cumulative treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Incidence of TEAEs, grade 3-5 TEAEs, SAEs (serious adverse events) and TEAEs leading to discontinuation of study treatment., up to 24 Months
This is an open-label, phase 2 study to determine the efficacy of Paxalisib (GDC-0084) in 25 patients with recurrent or refractory primary central nervous system lymphoma (R/R PCNSL.

* The name of the study drug involved in this study is Paxalisib (GDC-0084).
* The research study procedures include: screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.
* It is expected that about 25 participants will take part in this research study for up to 24 months as long as there is no serious side effects and disease progression.

This research study is a Phase 2 clinical trial. Phase 2 clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Paxalisib for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.