Dose De-escalation in Prostate Radiotherapy Using the MRL
The goal of this feasibility study is to learn about dose de-escalation in the treatment of men with intermediate risk prostate cancer.

The main question it aims to answer is the technical feasibility of treating prostate cancer with toxicity-minimising radiotherapy on an Magnetic Resonance Linear Accelerator (MR-linac). It will also examine gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity in the acute and late setting post radiotherapy as well as Prostate-Specific antigen (PSA) control up until 2 years post treatment.

Participants will be treated with radiotherapy to the prostate with which will be given in 30Gy in 5 fractions to the whole prostate and 45Gy in 5 fractions to the dominant lesion.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: De-escalated radiotherapy to be delivered on the Elekta Unity Unity MR-linac
The technical ability to treat prostate cancer with escalated dose to the gross tumour volume tumour and de-escalated dose to the normal prostate the Unity MR-linac., The primary end point is defined by coverage of GTV4mm D90% \>42Gy on the post-treatment imaging., 2 years
Acute toxicity, Physician reported genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) to be taken at baseline and the end of treatment then at 4 and 12 weeks post-treatment.

The higher the grade the worse the toxicity reported. Each domain will be scored individually., 2 years|Late toxicity, Physician reported GU and gastrointestinal (GI) late toxicity (CTCAE) at 1 and 2 years post-treatment.

The CTCAE toxicity will be graded by the physician, with the higher scores equating to worse toxicity. Each domain will be scored individually., 2 years|Patient-reported outcomes, Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) from the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite-26 (EPIC-26), (International prostate symptom score) IPSS, and International Index of Erectile Function-5 (IIEF-5) questionnaires. Patients will be asked to complete these PROMs at 4 and 12 weeks, 6 months, 1 and 2 years post treatment.

EPIC-26 is scored out of 100, with 100 being the best score. IPPS is made of seven questions with lower scores equating to fewer symptoms. IIEF-5 is composed of 5 questions, the highest score of 25 is indicative of severe erectile dysfunction, 2 years|Biochemical control, The trend in PSA will be measured up until two years. An increase in the PSA is suggested of biochemical failure and disease relapse, 2 years
DESTINATION is a single centre phase II non-randomised study in men with intermediate risk localised prostate cancer.

The aim is to establish the technical feasibility of treating prostate cancer with toxicity-minimising radiotherapy on an MR-linac.

20 men will be recruited to take part. All radiotherapy will be delivered on the MR-linac. The whole prostate with no margin will be treated to 30 Gray (Gy) in 5 fractions (i.e. dose to 95% of the Clinical Target Volume prostate should receive 30 Gy (D95%CTVp= 30 Gy)). The dominant lesion (Gross tumour volume (GTV)) as defined on pre-biopsy multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) plus a 4mm intra-prostatic margin (GTV4mm) will be treated to 45 Gy in 5 fractions, providing standard organ at risk (OAR) constraints can be met. If not, then dose coverage of the GTV will be reduced until the OAR constraints are met (i.e. isotoxic dose escalation). OAR constraints will be as per international standard levels, and largely consistent with the PACE B trial.

The primary end point will be assessed once 14 patients have completed their radiotherapy treatment on the MR-Linac. If any of the first 14 patients do not complete all five fractions planned, then recruitment will continue until we have 14 assessable patients. The analysis population for the primary endpoint will be defined as those patients who have completed all five fractions of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) as intended.

If shown to be feasible a total of 20 patients will be recruited to enable a better estimation of the toxicity rates and to further technical proficiency with this technique.