A Phase II Trial of Ridaforolimus and Exemestane, Compared to Ridaforolimus, Dalotuzumab and Exemestane in Participants With Breast Cancer (MK-8669-064)
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of the triplet of ridaforolimus, dalotuzumab and exemestane compared to the combination of ridaforolimus and exemestane in post-menopausal participants with breast cancer. The primary hypothesis of the study is that the triplet of ridaforolimus, dalotuzumab and exemestane will improve progression free survival (PFS) compared to ridaforolimus and exemestane.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Ridaforolimus|DRUG: Dalotuzumab|DRUG: Exemestane
1. Progression-free Survival (PFS) According to Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) Based on Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to progressive disease, or death, whichever occurs first. Response was assessed according to RECIST 1.1 by BICR. According to RECIST 1.1, progressive disease (PD) was defined as a 20% relative increase in the sum of diameters (SOD) of target lesions, taking as reference the nadir SOD and an absolute increase of \>5 mm in the SOD, or the appearance of new lesions. PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and median PFS (95% confidence interval \[CI\]) in weeks was reported for each treatment arm. Per protocol, participants remained on assigned treatment until disease progression. Participants who discontinued study treatment for reasons other than disease progression continued to be assessed by imaging until objective documentation of progression. All participants (including participants who discontinued study treatment) were followed for survival until investigator notification to discontinue., From Day 1 through last post-study efficacy follow-up (up to ~19 months)
Percent Change From Baseline in Sum of Target Lesion Diameters at Week 16, The percent change from baseline to Week 16 in the sum of target lesion diameters as determined by anatomic imaging was defined as the line length (i.e., diameter) for each target lesion identified at baseline summed across all lesions at baseline, and separately at each post-baseline time point. The primary analysis was conducted using a constrained longitudinal data analysis (cLDA) method and target lesion measurements according to the BICR. Percent change from baseline in sum of target lesion diameters at Week 16 was reported for each treatment arm., Baseline, Week 16|3. Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (Objective Response Rate [ORR]) According to Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) Based on Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR)., ORR was defined as the percentage of participants whose best response was complete response (CR; disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must have become normal) or partial response (PR; at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD) according to RECIST 1.1 and based on BICR. ORR was reported for each treatment arm. Per protocol, participants remained on assigned treatment until disease progression. Participants who discontinued study treatment for reasons other than disease progression continued to be assessed by imaging until objective documentation of progression., From Day 1 through last post-study efficacy follow-up (up to ~19 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of analysis were censored at the date last known to be alive. OS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and median OS (95% confidence interval \[CI\]) in weeks was reported for each treatment arm. Per protocol, all participants (including participants who discontinued study treatment) were followed for survival until investigator notification to discontinue., From Day 1 through last post-study efficacy follow-up (up to ~19 months)
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy of the triplet of ridaforolimus, dalotuzumab and exemestane compared to the combination of ridaforolimus and exemestane in post-menopausal participants with breast cancer. The primary hypothesis of the study is that the triplet of ridaforolimus, dalotuzumab and exemestane will improve progression free survival (PFS) compared to ridaforolimus and exemestane.