A Trial of Lenvatinib (E7080) Plus Pembrolizumab in Participants With Selected Solid Tumors
This is an open-label Phase 1b/2 trial of lenvatinib (E7080) plus pembrolizumab in participants with selected solid tumors. Phase 1b will determine and confirm the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for lenvatinib in combination with 200 milligrams (mg) (intravenous \[IV\], every 3 weeks \[Q3W\]) pembrolizumab in participants with selected solid tumors (i.e. non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, urothelial carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, melanoma or leiomyosarcoma). Phase 2 (Expansion) will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination in 7 cohorts at the MTD from Phase 1b (lenvatinib 20 mg/day orally + pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W, IV).
Tumors
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Phase 1b: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Lenvatinib, MTD was confirmed if no more than 3 participants experience dose-limiting toxicities(DLTs)during first 3 weeks (Cycle 1) of treatment.If MTD was not confirmed at dose level,then enrollment was proceeded to next lower dose level.Sponsor and investigators reviewed all participants' safety;clinical data to jointly determine RP2D of combination of treatment.DLT may be any of following: hematological/nonhematological toxicities considered to be at least possibly related to Lenvatinib/pembrolizumab occurring during Cycle 1;Failure to administer greater than or equal to (\>=) 75 percent (%) of planned dosage of lenvatinib as result of treatment-related toxicity during Cycle 1;Who discontinue treatment due to treatment-related toxicity.Greater than 2 week delay in starting Cycle 2 because of treatment-related toxicity,even if toxicity does not meet DLT criteria.Toxicity was evaluated as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03(NCI CTCAE v 4.03)., Cycle 1 (21 days)|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of Lenvatinib, A DLT was defined as any of the following: any of the hematological or nonhematological toxicities considered to be at least possibly related to lenvatinib and/or pembrolizumab occurring during Cycle 1. Failure to administer \>=75% of the planned dosage of lenvatinib as a result of treatment-related toxicity during Cycle 1. Participants who discontinue treatment due to treatment-related toxicity. Greater than 2 week delay in starting Cycle 2 because of a treatment-related toxicity, even if the toxicity does not meet DLT criteria. Toxicity was evaluated as per NCI CTCAE v 4.03., Cycle 1 (21 days)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) Version 1.1 at Week 24, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants whose best overall response (BOR) was immune related complete response (irCR) or immune related partial response (irPR) based on investigator assessment according to irRECIST version 1.1. irCR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) had to be reduced in short axis to less than (\<) 10 millimeter (mm). irPR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Week 24
Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), TEAE: adverse event (AE) emerged during treatment, having been absent at pretreatment or reemerged during treatment, present at pretreatment but stopped before treatment or worsened in severity during treatment relative to pretreatment state, when AE is continuous. AE: any untoward medical occurrence in participant administered an investigational product. TEAEs were based on participants laboratory tests, regular measurement of vital signs, echocardiograms/multigated acquisition scans to assess left ventricular ejection fraction and electrocardiograms parameter values. TESAE: any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death; life threatening condition; required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; a congenital anomaly/birth defect or was medically important due to reasons other than above criteria., From date of first dose up to 30 days after the last dose of study drugs (Up to 74 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants whose BOR was irCR or irPR according to irRECIST version 1.1. irCR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) had to be reduced in short axis to \<10 mm. irPR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From date of first dose of study drug administration until immune related (irPD), development of unacceptable toxicity, participant choice, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow up or discontinuation of this study by the sponsor (up to 73 months)|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from the first dose date to the date of irPD or date of death (whichever occurred first) according to irRECIST version 1.1. irPD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this included the baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression)., From date of first dose of study drug administration to date of irPD or date of death, whichever occurred first (up to 73 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the first dose date to the date of death from any cause., From the first dose until death from any cause, up to 73 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, DCR: percentage of participants with a confirmed irCR, irPR, or ir-stable disease (SD) (duration of irSD greater than or equal to \[\>=\] 5 weeks). DCR was assessed on irRECIST v1.1. irCR: disappearance of all target lesions. All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in their short axis to \<10 mm. irPR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of longest diameter. irSD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for irPR nor sufficient increase to qualify for irPD, taking as reference smallest sum diameters while on study. irPD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., From first dose of the study drug until irPD, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant choice, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow up or discontinuation of this study by the sponsor (up to 73 months)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR of irCR or irPR or irdurable stable disease (irdSD) (duration of irSD \>=23 weeks) \[irCR + irPR + irdSD\] based on irRECIST v1.1. irCR: disappearance of all target lesions. All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in their short axis to \<10 mm. irPR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of longest diameter. irSD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for irPR nor sufficient increase to qualify for irPD, taking as reference smallest sum diameters while on study. irPD: at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., From first dose date until irPD, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant choice, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow up or discontinuation of this study by the sponsor (up to 73 months)|Durable Stable Disease Rate (DSDR) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, Durable SD rate is defined as the percentage of participants whose observed BOR is irSD and the duration of irSD is \>=23 weeks based on irRECIST v1.1., From first dose date until irPD, development of unacceptable toxicity, participant choice, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow up or discontinuation of this study by the sponsor (up to 73 months)|Duration of Objective Response (DOR) Based on irRECIST Version 1.1, DOR: time from date of first observation of response (irPR or irCR) to date of the first observation of progression based on irRECIST 1.1, or date of death, whatever the cause. irCR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. All pathological (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. irPR: at least 30% decrease in sum of diameter (SOD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. irPD was defined as at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in SOD of target lesions, taking as reference smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., First documentation of irCR or irPR until first documentation of progression or death (up to 73 months)|Phase 1b: Plasma Concentrations of Lenvatinib, Observed plasma concentration of Lenvatinib was reported here quantified by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/MS) method., Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-4 hours and 6-10 hours post dose; Cycle 1 Day 15: predose, 0.5-4 hours and 6-10 hours post dose, Cycle 2 Day 1: predose, 2-12 hour postdose and Cycles 3,4,5,6 Day 1 predose (Cycle length =21 days)|Plasma Concentrations of Lenvatinib, Observed plasma concentration of Lenvatinib was reported here quantified by LCMS/MS method., Cycle 1 Day 1: 0.5-4 hours and 6-10 hours post dose; Cycle 1 Day 15: predose, 0.5-4 hours and 6-10 hours post dose, Cycle 2 Day 1: predose, 2-12 hour postdose and Cycles 3,4,5,6 Day 1 predose (Cycle length =21 days):
This is an open-label Phase 1b/2 trial of lenvatinib (E7080) plus pembrolizumab in participants with selected solid tumors. Phase 1b will determine and confirm the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for lenvatinib in combination with 200 milligrams (mg) (intravenous \[IV\], every 3 weeks \[Q3W\]) pembrolizumab in participants with selected solid tumors (i.e. non-small cell lung cancer, renal cell carcinoma, endometrial carcinoma, urothelial carcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, melanoma or leiomyosarcoma). Phase 2 (Expansion) will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination in 7 cohorts at the MTD from Phase 1b (lenvatinib 20 mg/day orally + pembrolizumab 200 mg Q3W, IV).