Development of Diagnostics and Treatment of Urological Cancers
The purpose of the study is to evaluate whether state-of-the-art technologies such and next generation sequencing and drug sensitivity and resistance testing of patient derived tumour tissue can facilitate research translation and improve outcome of urologic cancers.
Prostate Carcinoma|Kidney Cancer|Urothelial Carcinoma|Testicular Cancer|Penile Cancer
OTHER: Personalised treatment
Successful clinical translation, The magnitude of successful clinical translation is measured by the number of times project-derived personalized medicine has impacted patients care by application of novel and existing biomarkers and therapies (e.g. sequencing, DSRT) by 2020, Up to 24 months
Successful pre-clinical translation, Successful pre-clinical translation, the magnitude of which is measured by the number of times project-derived potential druggable targets or able to re-purpose treatment options were identified within the project by 2020., Up to 24 months|Translation of preclinical data into clinically useful data., Translation of preclinical data into clinically useful data. The success of which is measured by the number of times preclinical data (e.g. sequencing, DSRT) was transformed into clinically useful form within 4 weeks from the time the initial sampling of the specimen was done., Up to 24 months|Number of representative cell models developed from clinical samples., Representativeness is based on the genetics of the cell model and the parental tumor, Up to 24 months
Access to high-quality clinical patient material (e.g. tissue of primary tumor and metastasis, plasma and urine) linked to comprehensive registry and clinical data and molecular characterization of the patient material using state-of-the-art technologies (e.g. NGS, transcriptomics, imaging, DSRT) will facilitate a more rapid translation of basic research innovations into clinical care (diagnostics, imaging, therapeutics) and result in improved outcome of patients suffering from urologic cancers ("personalized medicine").

The principal aim of the project is to establish a framework and infrastructure for the systematic collection and interpretation of biological patient samples. Similarly, the investigators aim to establish the format how the related clinical and research data can be made readily accessible for both clinicians and researchers without compromising patient privacy. The key objectives of the project are to facilitate research translation and to improve outcome of urologic cancers.