Correlation Analysis of POD and pNCD in Elderly Patients With Gastrointestinal Neoplasms
This is a prospective cohort study to explore the differences of serum indicators between elderly gastrointestinal neoplasms patients with postoperative delirium (POD) who either develop or do not develop long-term postoperative neurocognitive disorders (pNCD).
Postoperative Delirium|Postoperative Neurocognitive Disorder|Gastrointestinal Surgery
OTHER: no intervention
the changes of blood biomarkers before and after surgery between elderly gastrointestinal neoplasms patients with postoperative delirium (POD) who either develop or do not develop postoperative neurocognitive disorders (pNCD) one month after surgery, Perioperative changes in blood-based biomarkers can reflect the pathophysiological processes of diseases. Current studies indicate that the perioperative levels of blood-based biomarkers may be associated with postoperative neurocognitive disorders in elderly patients. These blood-based biomarkers may provide novel avenues for the early diagnosis, prevention, and improvement of outcomes in elderly patients with postoperative neurocognitive disorders.

The procedures are as follows:

Neurocognitive function assessments were conducted on the enrolled patients within one week before surgery, one month after surgery, and twelve months after surgery, respectively. Whether the patients developed postoperative delirium was evaluated within seven days after surgery. Venous blood was drawn before surgery and within three days after surgery to detect the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), and homocysteine (Hcy)., 2024.5.9-2026.6.1
The purpose of this study is to explore the differences of serum indicators between elderly gastrointestinal neoplasms patients with postoperative delirium (POD) who either develop or do not develop long-term postoperative neurocognitive disorders (pNCD).

Elderly gastrointestinal neoplasms patients aged 65 and above, undergoing surgical operations at Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, were selected. The serum indicators of all patients were measured before surgery, and neurocognitive function of all patients was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) within 1 week before surgery. General patient data such as sex, age, comorbidities, BMI, ASA classification, and MoCA scores were collected. Under routine anesthetic management of the Department of Anesthesiology and Surgical Operations at Xuanwu Hospital, endotracheal intubation general anesthesia was performed. Intraoperative monitoring included heart rate, blood pressure, pulse oximetry, and body temperature, with surgery and anesthesia times, and fluid balance recorded. The serum indicators of all patients were measured after surgery. Within 7 days post-surgery, delirium assessment was conducted using the Confusion Assessment Method (CAM), classifying patients into POD and non-POD groups. For the patients in the POD group, neurocognitive function was assessed at a period of time after surgery to determine the presence of pNCD, further dividing the POD group into pNCD and non-pNCD subgroups. The correlation between POD and pNCD was explored by comparing the changes of serum indicators before and after surgery in the pNCD and non-pNCD subgroups.