Capsular Contracture After PMRT Using Prepectoral Versus Subpectoral Implant-based Breast Reconstruction: PREPER Trial
The purpose of this study is to prospectively compare and analyze the incidence of complications in patients undergoing postmastectomy radiation therapy after breast reconstruction with subpectoral and prepectoral placement of implant. Investigators hypothesized that immediate acellular dermal matrix-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with prepectoral implant placement would result in lower risk of capsular contracture after postmastectomy radiation therapy(PMRT) compared with acellular dermal matrix(ADM)-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with subpectoral implant placement.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Arm I (Prepectoral), Arm II (Subpectoral)
Rate of capsular contracture (grade 3 or higher) (%) by Baker's scale, To compare the frequency of grade 3 or higher contracture development analyzed by using Baker's scale at 6 months after the completion of PMRT., 6 months after the completion of PMRT|Rate of capsular contracture (grade 3 or higher) (%) by 2D shear elastography, To compare the frequency of grade 3 or higher contracture development analyzed by using 2D shear-wave elastography at 6 months after the completion of PMRT., 6 months after the completion of PMRT
Patient reported outcome, 1) To compare the patient reported outcome (PRO) using Breast Q questionnaire (Reconstruction module, each domain has the scale ranges from 0 to 100, higher the better patient reported outcome), 1 year after the completion of PMRT|Rate of capsular contracture (grade 3 or higher) (%) in long term follow up, 1) To compare the rate of Grade 3 or higher capsular contracture at 1 year after the end of PMRT, 1 year after the completion of PMRT
OUTLINE: This is a single center randomized clinical trial. Participant recruitment and enrollment will occur at Gangnam Severance Hospital Breast Cancer Center for 4 years, followed by one year of follow up data collection and analysis.

Arm I (Prepectoral): immediate ADM-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with prepectoral implant placement.

Arm II (Subpectoral): immediate ADM-assisted implant-based breast reconstruction with subpectoral implant placement.

This clinical study is aimed at patients who have been diagnosed with breast cancer and who have undergone a total mastectomy for the therapeutic indication, and who are planning to undergo implant based reconstruction and postmastectomy radiotherapy.

It will be carried out prospectively in a single institution, and the study will be divided into two groups, subpectoral implant and prepectoral implant, according to the reconstruction method.

A total of 96 patients or 48 patients per arm will be recruited. Randomization will be accomplished using randomly permuted blocks, and randomization will be stratified on the basis of reconstruction method. (tissue expander insertion or direct-to-implant)

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year for observation of capsular contracture and patient reported outcomes.