Study of Oral Rucaparib With Other Anticancer Agents in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer Patients (RAMP)
Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Preliminary Efficacy of Oral Rucaparib in Combination with Other Anticancer Agents in Patients with Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Rucaparib|DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Abiraterone
Evaluate the PK of Rucaparib in Combination With Other Anticancer Agents for mCRPC., Cmin of rucaparib and its metabolite. Rucaparib only run-in Cmin includes run-in D6, D7 and Cycle 1 D1. All of these samples were collected following rucaparib monotherapy. Rucaparib and other anticancer agent Combination Cmin includes Cycle 1 (D8, D15, and D22)., 1 week rucaparib only run-in and 1 cycle (28 days) of combination treatment|Incidence of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) in Participants Taking Rucaparib in Combination With Other Anticancer Agents for mCRPC, A DLT is defined according to criteria specified in the protocol and assessed by the investigator, based on toxicity grade (according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0), clinical significance, and possible relationship to the study drug combination. The toxicity cannot be a recognized adverse effect of enzalutamide, abiraterone or prednisone/prednisolone and/or attributable to mCRPC or mCRPC-related processes under investigation., First 2 cycles of rucaparib combination treatment (56 days) for Arm A
Preliminary Overall Confirmed Response Rate (ORR) of Rucaparib in Combination With Other Anticancer Agents for mCRPC., The ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with a documented and confirmed best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per mRECIST v1.1 as assessed by the investigator using local standardized radiological methods e.g. CT, MRI, etc. A complete response (CR) is defined as complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions together with normalization of tumor biomarkers. A partial response (PR) represents at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD with non-progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR. A confirmed CR or PR is a response that is maintained and documented on a subsequent tumor assessment at least 4 weeks after initial response. PSA response per PCWG3 criteria is a confirmed PSA response (≥ 50% decrease from baseline) as reflected by local laboratory measurements., 2 years to complete
Assess the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Preliminary Efficacy of Oral Rucaparib in Combination with Other Anticancer Agents in Patients with Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer