Entospletinib and Obinutuzumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, or Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effect and best dose of entospletinib when giving together with obinutuzumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, or non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back. Entospletinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes need for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as obinutuzumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving entospletinib and obinutuzumab together may work better in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, or non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Anemia|B-Cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Hairy Cell Leukemia|Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Richter Syndrome
DRUG: Entospletinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Entospletinib in Combination With Obinutuzumab, The dose of obinutuzumab remains fixed in standard doses while the dose of entospletinib will be escalated. The starting dose of entospletinib will be 200 mg (twice-daily) and escalated to the second dose level 400 mg (twice-daily). MTD is the dose associated with a total of 6 patients treated with less than 2 dose limiting toxicities (DLT), or a total of 3 patients treated with less than 1 DLT. DLT is defined as 1) grade 3 or higher non-hematological toxicity (except grade 3 nausea, vomiting or diarrhea that was reversible within 72 hours with supportive care; grade 3 infusion-related toxicity; asymptomatic grade 3-4 laboratory abnormalities that are reversible to grade 2 or less within 72 hours; grade 3 tumor lysis syndrome or hyponatremia); 2) grade 4 neutropenia lasting \>7 days or febrile neutropenia; or 3) grade 4 thrombocytopenia/anemia or grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding. The dosage follows the 3+3 traditional escalation rules., Up to 28 days|Complete Response (CR) Defined as the Percentage of Subjects Who Achieve CR, Response for CLL/SLL measured using Modified International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia updating the National Cancer Institute-Working Group 1996 (IWCLL) guidelines. Response for hairy cell leukemia was measured using Consensus resolution: proposed criteria published in Leukemia 1987., Up to 45 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as percentage of participants with complete remission, complete response with incomplete marrow recovery, partial remission and nodular partial response. Response for CLL/SLL measured using Modified International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia updating the National Cancer Institute-Working Group 1996 (IWCLL) guidelines. Response for hairy cell leukemia was measured using Consensus resolution: proposed criteria published in Leukemia 1987., Up to 45 months|Event Free Survival (EFS), Will be summarized descriptively using the Kaplan-Meier estimate. EFS will be censored if entospletinib is discontinued for other reasons (such as drug is no longer available)., The interval between the date of first study treatment and the date of objective signs of disease recurrence, subsequent anti leukemic therapy, or death, whichever is first reported, assessed up to 45 months.|Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. Will be summarized for the safety population separately for phase 1 and phase 2 portions by dose level. All adverse events (AEs) will be coded by system organ class, Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) preferred term, and severity grade using NCI CTCAE (version 4.03)., Up to 45 months
Peripheral Blood B-cell Depletion and Recovery, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Up to 45 months|Pharmacodynamics Parameters of NFkappaB Activation and Expression of Anti-apoptotic Proteins in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) Cells, Pharmacokinetic parameters including peak and trough levels will be determined by noncompartmental method(s) using the pharmacokinetic profile of entospletinib and obinutuzumab., Up to 45 months|Biomarkers (Chromosomal Abnormalities, IGHV Mutational Status, p53 Mutational Status), Will be assessed by IgH somatic hypermutation assay version 2.0. Will associate with response (ORR) to entospletinib (ENTO) in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL., Up to 45 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of entospletinib administered in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), and identify the dose for phase 2 expansion. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy of entospletinib in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL, as measured by complete response (CR) rate. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Objective response rate (ORR, defined as complete remission, complete response with incomplete marrow recovery, partial remission and nodular partial response). (Phase II) II. Event free survival defined as the interval between the date of first study treatment and the date of objective signs of disease recurrence, subsequent anti-leukemic therapy, or death, whichever is first reported. (Phase II) III. Safety and tolerability of entospletinib in combination with obinutuzumab by adverse events (AEs). (Phase II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Peripheral blood B-cell depletion and recovery. II. Pharmacodynamics effects of in vivo administration of entospletinib on NFkappaB activation and expression of anti-apoptotic proteins in CLL cells.

III. Association of established biomarkers (chromosomal abnormalities, immunoglobulin heavy chain \[IGHV\] mutational status, p53 mutational status) with response (ORR and event-free survival \[EFS\]) to entospletinib (ENTO) in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of entospletinib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive entospletinib orally (PO) either once a day (QD) or twice a day (BID) on days -7 to -1 (run-in phase) depending on the assigned dose level. Patients also receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of the first cycle and on day 1 of all subsequent cycles. Treatment with obinutuzumab repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles and daily treatment with entospletinib continues every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months then every 6 months thereafter. In the event of study closure, patients who are receiving study drug at the time of closure will complete an abbreviated End of Treatment (EOT) visit. No additional follow up will occur.