Treatment Response and Prognosis in Glioma Patients: Q Cell and Its Biological Characteristics
The purpose of this study is to determine whether Q cells separated from the glioma sample are determinants in treatment response and prognosis of glioma patients
Glioblastoma|Malignant Glioma
The effect of each single molecular marker of Q cell on progression-free survival, Participating centres collected data and submitted it by Email to the coordinating centre at the Nanfang Glioma Center. 300 patients with glioblastoma will be prospectively enrolled in this study. The unique markers of Q cell which had been screened using the method of genomics and proteomics will be measured and compared with progression-free and overall survival of patients. Regrettably,the markers of Q cell cannot yet be disclosed because of the confidentiality requirement. Progression-free survival (PFS) will be calculated from the day of ﬁrst surgery until tumor progression, death, or end of follow-up. Overall survival (OS) will be calculated from the day of ﬁrst surgery until death or end of follow-up. The effect of each single molecular marker on PFS and OS was investigated using the Cox proportional hazards model., 3-5 days postoperatively|The effect of each single molecular marker of Q cell on overall survival, Participating centres collected data and submitted it by Email to the coordinating centre at the Nanfang Glioma Center. 300 patients with glioblastoma will be prospectively enrolled in this study. The unique markers of Q cell which had been screened using the method of genomics and proteomics will be measured and compared with progression-free and overall survival of patients. Regrettably,the markers of Q cell cannot yet be disclosed because of the confidentiality requirement. Progression-free survival (PFS) will be calculated from the day of ﬁrst surgery until tumor progression, death, or end of follow-up. Overall survival (OS) will be calculated from the day of ﬁrst surgery until death or end of follow-up. The effect of each single molecular marker on PFS and OS was investigated using the Cox proportional hazards model., 3-5 days postoperatively
We will correlate molecular markers of Q cell with other genetic alterations, Other genetic alterations which have been previously reported include isocitrate dehydrogenase mutation, o6-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase methylation, 1p19q co-delation, Tumor Protein 53 (TP53) mutation, histone H3.3 (H3F3A) mutations, etc. The Chi-square test will be used to compare the genotype distribution., 3-5 days postoperatively
The unique markers of Qcell were screened using the method of genomics and

proteomics, then these markers will be qualitatively and quantitatively evaluated in

glioblastoma patients by comparing their relationship with overrall

survival/progression-free survival and treatment response.