Circulating Tumor DNA Based Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Stage II Colon Cancer Patients: the MEDOCC-CrEATE Trial
Patients in the Prospective Dutch ColoRectal Cancer cohort (PLCRC) with non-metastatic colon cancer that gave consent for additional blood withdrawals are enrolled in the observational PLCRC-MEDOCC substudy. In this study, blood is collected before surgery, after surgery and during follow-up. Within PLCRC-MEDOCC, patients with stage II colon cancer that are not considered to have an indication for adjuvant chemotherapy, can be included in the MEDOCC-CrEATE subcohort under the condition that they gave informed consent in PLCRC for biobanking of tissue and for future studies (Trial within Cohorts design).

Patients included in MEDOCC-CrEATE will be randomized 1:1 to the (A) ctDNA-based treatment group versus (B) the standard of care group. A total of 1320 patients will be randomized. Patients randomized to the ctDNA-based treatment group will have their post-surgery samples analysed directly after informed consent for MEDOCC-CrEATE. All patients with detectable ctDNA will be offered adjuvant chemotherapy (3 months CAPOX). Patients with undetectable ctDNA will receive routine follow-up at the surgical department. The aim of this Trial within Cohorts study is to investigate how many patients with detectable ctDNA after surgery start with adjuvant chemotherapy.
Circulating Tumor DNA|Recurrence|Colon Cancer Stage II
OTHER: ctDNA analysis after surgery
Proportion of patients starting with adjuvant chemotherapy after detection of ctDNA in their blood., 8-12 weeks after surgery
Recurrence Rate, Proportion of patients that will experience disease recurrence, 2 and 5 years after surgery|Disease Free Survival rate, Proportion of patients that are alive and free of disease, 2 and 5 years after surgery|Disease-related Overall Survival rate, Proportion of patients that are alive, 5 years after surgery|Time to Recurrence, From date of randomization until the date of recurrence, assessed up to 5 years.|Quality of Life after treatment, Quality of Life (QoL) will be measured using questionnaires that are provided to patients who have given informed consent for the collection of questionnaires within PLCRC.

Comparison of QoL of the ctDNA positive patients in both study arms will be done using repeated measurements methods, including ACT as factor. QoL will also be analysed for the whole population in both arms of the study. Treatment differences at each QoL assessment time point will be compared by means of the Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test., 10 years|Cost-effectiveness of the ctDNA-based treatment, The cost-effectiveness analysis will be carried out from a societal perspective, including both direct health care costs as well as indirect costs from productivity loss. The health outcome measure in the cost-effectiveness analysis will be the total quality adjusted life years (QALY) per group., 5 years after diagnosis
Patients in the Prospective Dutch ColoRectal Cancer cohort (PLCRC) with non-metastatic colon cancer that gave consent for additional blood withdrawals are enrolled in the observational PLCRC-MEDOCC substudy. In this study, blood is collected before surgery, after surgery and during follow-up. Within PLCRC-MEDOCC, patients with stage II colon cancer that are not considered to have an indication for adjuvant chemotherapy, can be included in the MEDOCC-CrEATE subcohort under the condition that they gave informed consent in PLCRC for biobanking of tissue and for future studies (Trial within Cohorts design).

Patients included in MEDOCC-CrEATE will be randomized 1:1 to the (A) ctDNA-based treatment group versus (B) the standard of care group. A total of 1320 patients will be randomized. Patients randomized to the ctDNA-based treatment group will have their post-surgery samples analysed directly after informed consent for MEDOCC-CrEATE. All patients with detectable ctDNA will be offered adjuvant chemotherapy (3 months CAPOX). Patients with undetectable ctDNA will receive routine follow-up at the surgical department. The aim of this Trial within Cohorts study is to investigate how many patients with detectable ctDNA after surgery start with adjuvant chemotherapy.