Tai Chi Effects on Chronic Insomnia in Breast Cancer Survivors: Immune Mechanisms
Breast Cancer is the most common cancer in women. After completion of successful therapy, may behavioral symptoms persist with over 20% of breast cancer survivors reporting chronic insomnia of greater than 6 months duration that fulfils clinical diagnostic criteria with associated functional limitations, decreased quality of life, and possible effects on long-term survival. Behavioral interventions are highly efficacious in the treatment of insomnia and preferred over hypnotic medication when insomnia is chronic. However, insomnia studies conducted in cancer are scarce. The proposed research builds upon program of study that has examined the efficacy of mind-body intervention, Tai Chi Chih (TCC), on health outcomes including sleep impairments. Preliminary studies show that TTC, a slow moving meditation, contributes to improvement in subjective sleep quality, sleep amounts and sleep efficiency. The investigators have further found that sleep, fatigue and proinflammatory cytokine activity are reciprocally related and that TCC decreases the mechanism through TCC carries its effects on sleep outcomes.
Sleep Disorders|Sleep Initiation and Maintenance Disorders|Dyssomnias|Mental Disorders|Nervous System Diseases
BEHAVIORAL: Tai Chi Chih|BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy
Changes in insomnia symptoms as measured by subjective report and objective polysomnography; Changes in daytime impairment secondary to insomnia; Changes in fatigue, depression and mood, and health function, 5 years
Overall Health and Well-being, Changes in sympathovagal function and energy balance; Changes in measures of interpersonal resilience and social functioning; physical activity; cognitive function; mental health, 5 years|Allostatic Load, Measure of metabolic and allostatic load will be assesed with clinical laboratory tests., 5 years|Inflammatory Markers, Changes in measure of proinflammatory cytokines activity;, 5 years
This investigation is a randomized controlled trial that will evaluate the effects of cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and Tai Chi Chih (TCC) on objective and subjective measures of sleep, on mood and fatigue, on health functioning and on two biological parameters, sympathovagal tone and proinflammatory cytokine activity in older adults with insomnia. One hundred breast cancer survivors will be randomly assigned to CBT, or TCC. Patients will be assessed at pre-treatment, during midtreatment, post-treatment, 3-month follow-up and 12-month follow-up. At all 5 assessment periods, indices of sleep quality as measured by sleep diaries and clinical ratings will be obtained along with measures of mood, health functioning, proinflammatory cytokine activity and heart rate variability (HRV). The pre-treatment and post-treatment assessment periods will also include all-night polysomnography along with nocturnal sampling of proinflammatory cytokine activity and HRV tone. Hence, polysomnographic measures of sleep which are coupled with nocturnal measures of cytokines by serial blood sampling will occur at the baseline assessment and again at the post-treatment assessment. During midtreatment and at 3 month follow-up and 12 month follow-up, we will obtain questionnaire ratings of sleep quality along with a single morning sample of cytokine levels.