Study of Pre-surgery Gemcitabine + Hydroxychloroquine (GcHc) in Stage IIb or III Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas
The primary goal of the research study is to determine whether treating pancreatic cancer patients with hydroxychloroquine in combination with gemcitabine before surgery is safe. The secondary goal is to determine if this new treatment regimen can effectively treat pancreatic cancer. This study will test the safety and efficacy of this combination in two parts, or phases.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Number of Participants That Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of Participants at each dose level of HCQ that experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT)., Up to 31 days
Disease-free Survival (DFS), Median number of months of disease-free survival for participants receiving study treatment., Up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS), Median number of months of overall survival for participants receiving study treatment., Up to 35 months|Disease-free Survival (DFS) by Response to HCQ Treatment, Median number of months of disease-free survival in participants who did and did not experience response to HCQ treatment. Patients who had \>51 % increase in their LC3-II staining were classified as having a response to HCQ., Up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS) by Response to HCQ Treatment, Median number of months of overall survival in participants who did and did not experience response to HCQ treatment. Patients who had \>51 % increase in their LC3-II staining were classified as having a response to HCQ., Up to 35 months|R0 Resection Rate, Number of participants that underwent a resection with microscopically margin-negative resection in which no gross or microscopic tumor remains in the primary tumor bed (24) / number of that completed treatment (31), Up to 30 months|Disease-free Survival (DFS) by CA 19-9 Response, Median number of months of disease-free survival for participants who experienced Ca 19-9 (surrogate biomarker) response (either an increase or decrease in Ca 19-9), or no Ca 19-9 response. Per participant increases in Ca 19-9 ranged from \>0 to 225%. Per participant decreases in Ca 19-9 ranged from \>0 to 100%., Up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS) by CA 19-9 Response, Median number of months of overall survival for participants who experienced Ca 19-9 (surrogate biomarker) response (either an increase or decrease in Ca 19-9), or, no Ca 19-9 response. Per participant increases in Ca 19-9 ranged from \>0 to 225%. Per participant decreases in Ca 19-9 ranged from \>0 to 100%., Up to 35 months|Disease-free Survival by p53 Genetic Status, Up to 35 months|Overall Survival (OS) by p53 Mutant Status, Up to 35 months
This is a phase I/II trial designed to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of neoadjuvant oral hydroxychloroquine (Plaquenil®) in combination with FDR gemcitabine in subjects with high risk IIb or III adenocarcinoma of the pancreas. Eligible subjects will be administered hydroxychloroquine orally once or twice daily (depending on dose) in combination with FDR gemcitabine (on days 1 and 15) for 31 days prior to surgical resection. Dose escalations of hydroxychloroquine will proceed using Storer's Up-and-Down algorithm D. Subjects will be monitored for side effects and tolerability of the drug. Pre- and post-treatment PET scans will be the primary means to assess response to therapy. Resected tumors will also be assessed for evidence of inhibition of autophagy as well as histopathologic response and margin negative resection and number of positive lymph nodes.