Providing Speech Therapy Awareness in Private Schools
There has been limited research in the area of speech and language therapy awareness in Pakistan. The study aims to assess the efficacy of providing speech therapy awareness in private schools through a pre-post model. This Quasi experimental study will be a means of reaching out to schools and directly create awareness regarding the field and its scope. Pre-assessment will be carried out and after which a 45 minutes presentation will be conducted face to face or through a webinar as per school directives. The results will be analysed quantitatively and pre-post assessment of the participants will be measured.
Speech and Language Disorder|Speech Therapy|Speech Delay|Swallowing Disorder|Acquired Language Disorders|Developmental Delay Disorder|Stuttering|Hearing Impairment|Head and Neck Cancer
OTHER: Speech-Language Pathology Presentation
Pre-post Questionnaire, A reliable and valid tool will be used for assessment of Knowledge, awareness and practice regarding the speech-language pathology profession and the scope of practice. The tool consists of demographic information, comprising of 45 questions, placed under 3 sections., Same 1 Day
There has been limited research in the area of speech and language therapy awareness in Pakistan. The study aims to assess the efficacy of providing speech therapy awareness in private schools through a pre-post model. the study design is Quasi Experimental study

Sample size: 385. Raosoft Sampling technique: Purposive Sampling Inclusion criteria: Private English medium schools of Islamabad and Rawalpindi. Schools with no speech and language therapists Exclusion criteria: Public Schools and schools who may have visiting or permanent speech therapists on their panel.

Delphi technique will be used for development of a tool for the intervention and to assess the impact of the awareness program.

The teachers will be tested pre and post program and three months after the completion of the program. Three months post they will be a) tested on the same questionnaire b) will determine number of students identified with difficulties c) students referred to a therapist.

Data will be analyzed quantitative means and quantitative data will be analyzed using SPSS