Apatinib for Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer After the Failure of Standard Treatment
We conduct the phase II clinical trial to further explore the efficacy and safety of Apatinib Mesylate in treating recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after the failure of conventional treatments. An exploratory molecular marker analysis will be performed in order to find out the beneficial population of Apatinib Mesylate.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Apatinib Mesylate
Disease control rate, 6 months
Overall survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Time to progression, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Safety evaluation according to the CTCAE4.0 standard, once every 1 cycle assessment, Each follow up vist, assessed up to 12 months|Quality of life using EORTC QLQ C30 - scale, Life quality evaluation using EORTC QLQ C30 - scale，once every 1 cycle assessment, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Quality of life using esophageal special scale QLQ - OES18, Life quality evaluation using esophageal special scale QLQ - OES18, once every 1 cycle assessment, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
Esophageal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumor in China. In Asian countries, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is the main pathological type of esophageal carcinoma. Prognosis of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma is usually poor and surgery is the only radical treatment. Cisplatin (DDP, cisplatin), 5 - Fluorouracil (5 - Fluorouracil, 5 - FU) and taxane are the most adopted chemotherapy agents, with efficacy rates of 33%-40% as first-line treatment for metastatic or recurrent esophageal squamous carcinoma and a median overall survival of 6-10 months. New agents were needed. Apatinib Mesylate is a small molecule VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor. The anti-tumor mechanism of Apatinib is inhibiting angiogenesis in malignancy by inhibiting VEGFR. Apatinib Mesylate was approved by CFDA (China Food and Drug Administration) for the treatment of advanced gastric cancer. In the previous clinical practice, we observed that part of the patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma were resistant to conventional treatments benefited from Apatinib Mesylate. Based on the research situation mentioned above, we decided to conduct a phase II clinical trial to further explore the efficacy and safety of Apatinib Mesylate in treating recurrent or metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after the failure of conventional treatments. An exploratory molecular marker analysis will be performed in order to find out the beneficial population of Apatinib Mesylate.