Icaritin Soft Capsules+TACE+Immunotherapy+Targeted Therapy Versus TACE+Immunotherapy+Targeted Therapy for Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant tumors and the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Surgical resection has always been the best hope for long-term survival of patients with HCC. However, only a few patients have the opportunity to undergo surgery, and more than 70% of HCC patients have lost the opportunity of surgery at the time of diagnosis. The treatment measures for these patients are mainly transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and systemic therapy. In recent years, systemic therapies represented by targeted therapy and immunotherapy have made important progress in the field of liver cancer, improving the survival of patients with advanced unresectable HCC. Icaritin soft capsule is a monomer compound extracted, isolated, purified and enzymatically hydrolyzed from the natural medicinal plant Epimedium. It was approved for marketing on January 10, 2022 for patients with advanced first-line HCC. Icaritin soft capsules have the potential to delay TKI resistance and enhance the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. The aim of this study is to explore whetherIcaritin soft capsules and TACE combined with Immunotherapy and Targeted Therapy can improve the therapeutic effect of advanced HCC, ultimately prolong the survival time of patients, and provide a new treatment direction for patients with advanced HCC.
Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib, Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Icaritin soft capsules|PROCEDURE: TACE
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS refers to the time from subject enrollment to disease progression according the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECISTv1.1) or death, 12 month
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a certain amount and maintain for a certain period of time (6 weeks after first dose of Durvalumab), including CR+PR cases. CR (complete response): disappearance of all target lesions, PR (partial response): reduction of the sum of the length and diameter of the baseline lesions by ≥30%., 6 weeks after the first TACE surgery|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from diagnosis to death from any cause or the last follow-up, 18 months|Duration of Response（DOR）, It refers to the time from the first evaluation of the tumor as CR or PR to the first evaluation as PD or death from any cause, 18 months
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common malignant tumors and the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. Surgical resection has always been the best hope for long-term survival of patients with HCC. However, only a few patients have the opportunity to undergo surgery, and more than 70% of HCC patients have lost the opportunity of surgery at the time of diagnosis. The treatment measures for these patients are mainly transcatheter arterial chemoembolization and systemic therapy. In recent years, systemic therapies represented by targeted therapy and immunotherapy have made important progress in the field of liver cancer, improving the survival of patients with advanced unresectable HCC. Icaritin soft capsule is a monomer compound extracted, isolated, purified and enzymatically hydrolyzed from the natural medicinal plant Epimedium. It was approved for marketing on January 10, 2022 for patients with advanced first-line HCC. Icaritin soft capsules have the potential to delay TKI resistance and enhance the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors. The aim of this study is to explore whetherIcaritin soft capsules and TACE combined with Immunotherapy and Targeted Therapy can improve the therapeutic effect of advanced HCC, ultimately prolong the survival time of patients, and provide a new treatment direction for patients with advanced HCC.