Effectiveness of Bethanechol Chloride and Early Bladder Training for Prevention of Bladder Dysfunction After Radical Hysterectomy in Cervical Cancer Stage IB - IIA
Compare the effectiveness of bethanechol chloride and early bladder training for prevention of bladder dysfunction after radical hysterectomy in cervical cancer stage IB - IIA.
Bladder Dysfunction
DRUG: bethanechol chloride|DEVICE: early bladder training|OTHER: early bladder training and bethanechol chloride|OTHER: no early bladder training and no bethanechol chloride
Duration of retrained urethral catheterization(day) after standard type III radical hysterectomy, 5 days postoperative
Rate of urethral catheter removal at 5 days postoperative, 5 days postoperative|Incidence of urinary tract infection at 28 days postoperative, 28 days postoperative|Volume of postvoid residual urine at 28 days postoperative, 28 days postoperative
Cervical cancer is the third most common cancer in women worldwide, after breast and colorectal cancer. Molecular biology has firmly established a causal relationship between persistent infection with high risk human papilloma virus (HPV) genotypes and cervical cancer.

Cervical cancer stage IB1 and selected IIA 1 lesions without extensive vaginal involvement can be treated with either RH and pelvic lymph node dissection (PLD) or primary chemoradiation.

Bladder dysfunction is the most common complication after radical hysterectomy. The incidence is approximate 10-80 %. Management of bladder dysfunction is continuous urethral catheterization or clean intermittent self-catheterization. Prolonged urethral catheterization may increase the risk of urinary tract infection.

Early postoperative bladder training that consist of a scheduled clamping trans-urethral catheter every 3 h and unclamping trans-urethral catheter 15 min during the entire day.

Bethanechol chloride is a cholinergic drug and may enhance the detrusor muscle contraction, resulting in higher maximum flow rate, and lower postvoid residual urine.

This study was conducted to compare the effectiveness of bethanechol chloride and early bladder training for prevention of bladder dysfunction after radical hysterectomy in cervical cancer stage IB - IIA.