Trametinib + HDM201 in CRC Patients With RAS/RAF Mutant and TP53 Wild-type Advanced/Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Mutant and TP53 Wild-type
Recent preclinical studies suggest that combining MEK and MDM2 inhibition synergize to induce apoptosis in RAS/BRAF-mutant and TP53 wild-type CRC models. In vitro, in RKO cell lines (poorly differentiated colon carcinoma cell line resistant to single agent targeting MDM2 and MEK and BRAF inhibition), the MDM2 plus MEK inhibitor combination generated a synergistic increase in apoptotic index. In vivo, in mice harboring human RKO colon tumor xenografts the combination of MDM2 plus MEK inhibition elicited 93% decreases in tumor volume.

This trial is to conduct a single-center, Phase 1 dose escalation study of trametinib combined with HDM201 (a HDM2 inhibitor) in patients with advanced/metastatic RAS/RAF mutant and TP53 wt CRC.
Colorectal Cancer|Advanced Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: HDM201|DRUG: Trametinib
Part1: Dose Maximum Tolerated, A DLT is defined as occurring during the first 2 cycles of treatment and considered by the Investigator to be clinically significant and related to study drugs HDM201 and/or Trametinib, and including: Non-hematological AE as follows (Grade ≥4 non-laboratory toxicity) Grade ≥3 non-laboratory toxicity lasting \> 7 days despite optimal supportive care; Any Grade ≥3 laboratory value if (Medical intervention is required to treat the patient, or, The abnormality leads to hospitalization, or The abnormality persists for \> 7 days) Hematological AE as follows (Grade 4 toxicity lasting ≥ 7 days, or, Grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia if associated with bleeding and requires platelet transfusion, or Febrile neutropenia Grade 3 or Grade 4) Any Grade 5 related to study drugs.

Any other study drugs related AE considered significant enough to be qualified as DLT in the opinion of the investigators after discussion with the Sponsor., During the first 2 cycles of tratment (1 cycle = 28 days)
Objective response rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) after 8 weeks of treatment will be defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). It will be described on the efficacy-evaluable population, together with its 95% CI. Tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 8 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) after 16 weeks of treatment will be defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). It will be described on the efficacy-evaluable population, together with its 95% CI. Tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 16 weeks|The duration of response (DoR), The duration of response (DoR) will be measured from the time of first documented response (CR or PR as per RECIST 1.1) until the first documented disease progression or death due to underlying cancer, or censored at the date of the last available tumor assessment., 12 months|The clinical benefit rate (CBR), after 8 weeks of treatment will be defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR or Stable disease (SD). It will be described on the efficacy-evaluable population, together with its 95% CI. Tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 8 weeks|The clinical benefit rate (CBR), after 16 weeks of treatment will be defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR or Stable disease (SD). It will be described on the efficacy-evaluable population, together with its 95% CI. Tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST 1.1., 16 weeks|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), will be measured from C1D1 until the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death from any cause. Patients with no event at the time of the analysis will be censored at the date of the last available tumor assessment. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 12 months
This trial is a Phase I dose escalation study aiming to evaluate the safety of a combined treatment associating HDM201 (escalating doses) with Trametinib (fixed dose). This study will utilize sequential and adaptive Bayesian design using the method of Time-to-event Continual Reassessment Method (CRM) to guide dose escalation and estimate the MTD.