Circulating Tumor Cells in High-Risk Prostate Cancer Treated With High-dose Radiotherapy and Hormone Therapy
The detection and quantification of Circulating tumor cells CTCs in peripheral blood of patients with prostate adenocarcinoma may be useful at least for:

Getting a correct stratification of patients with high-risk prostate cancer (PCa).

Set the prognosis at baseline. Evaluate the response to different treatments (predictive value and monitoring).

Establish individualized therapies.
Patients With High-risk Prostate Cancer
Number of Participants With Circulating Tumor Cells in the Peripheral Blood, Initially a cutoff point of \> 1 or more circulating cells per 7.5 mL of blood will be taken as the reference baseline., Basal|Number of Participants With Circulating Tumor Cells in the Peripheral Blood, (Initially a cutoff point of \> 1 or more circulating cells per 7.5 mL of blood will be taken as the reference baseline)., Post-neoadjuvant hormone therapy and prior to radiotherapy|Number of Participants With Circulating Tumor Cells in the Peripheral Blood, (Initially a cutoff point of \> 1 or more circulating cells per 7.5 mL of blood will be taken as the reference baseline)., Post-radiotherapy|Number of Participants With Circulating Tumor Cells in the Peripheral Blood, (Initially a cutoff point of \> 1 or more circulating cells per 7.5 mL of blood will be taken as the reference baseline)., 9 - 12 months post-radiotherapy in cases with positivation after basal visit
Biochemical Failure-free Survival;, Phoenix criteria (PSA Nadir +2 ng/mL), 4 years|Overall Survival, Defined as death due to any cause, 4 years|Metastasis-free Survival, Defined as freedom from distant metastasis, 4 years|Cause Specific Survival, Defined as death caused by prostate cancer, 4 years
Prospective analysis of biologic samples from peripheral blood of 65 patients with localized high-risk PCa (NCCN 2011) treated with RTC-3D-IMRT combined with AD.

Following the sign of the informed consent of the patient, the blood samples will be analyzed for CTCs using an immunomagnetic method based on the CellSearch system (Veridex), in 4 periods of time:

1. prior to any treatment;
2. following AD and prior to RT; and
3. following the end of RT (1-3 months afterwards).
4. six to twelve months following the end of RT in those patients with 0 CTCs in the first determination and positive CTCs in the second or third determination

Comparison between the expression of CTCs in peripheral blood before and following AD and RT will be performed. The quantification of the CTCs obtained in these phases of treatment will be correlated with the treatment results in terms of biochemical failure according to Phoenix definition, distant metastasis rate and overall survival to identify a significant prognostic relationship and to determine the potential effect of the treatment in the number of CTCs Our working group will include 65 patients because the amount is based on routine clinical activity can be safely enrolled in the project development time by the participating centers.