Therapeutic Endoscopic Ultrasound for Gastrointestinal Disorders: A Multicenter Registry Study
The purpose of this retrospective chart-review registry study is to evaluate the safety profile, efficacy profile and cost-effectiveness of the various therapeutic endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) procedures (for benign and malignant gastrointestinal disorders).

1. To assess the clinical and technical success rates of EUS-Guided interventions
2. To document the impact of therapeutic EUS procedures on the management of gastrointestinal disorders including malignancies through cost effective analyses.
3. Compare endoscopic interventions to non-endoscopic interventions for the same clinical indications and evaluate safety and efficacy.
Therapeutic Endoscopic Ultrasound|Advanced Endoscopy|Therapeutic Endoscopy|Interventional Endoscopy|Interventional Endoscopic Ultrasound|Gastro-Intestinal Disorder|Gastrointestinal Disease|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Gastrointestinal Dysfunction|Gastrointestinal Fistula|Gastrointestinal Infection|Gastrointestinal Injury|Pancreatic Disease|Bile Duct Diseases
PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Endoscopic Ultrasound
Efficacy of Procedure, Technical and clinical success rates, Upto 2 years|Safety of procedure, Type, frequency and intensity of adverse events, Upto 2 years
Cost Effectiveness, Total cost associated with procedures, Upto 2 years
Our tertiary-care institution performs clinically-indicated therapeutic Endoscopic Ultrasound (TEUS) guided interventions, including biliary and pancreatic drainage, for both malignant and benign gastrointestinal indications in more than 2000 patients annually.

Procedures such as biliary and/or pancreatic sphincterotomy, stents placement (metallic or plastic) and removal for revision, cysts and pseudocysts drainage are conducted in patients suffering from pancreatico-biliary disorders, gastrointestinal disorders and esophageal disorders.

TEUS procedures are less invasive approach than surgery. Moreover, they can be available to patients who are ineligible for surgery or who have refused more aggressive surgical intervention.

They improve quality of life and extend survival duration.

Currently, there is limited multi-center data on therapeutic endoscopy clinical outcomes and standardized treatment algorithms in western populations. Due to continuing variations in therapeutic EUS procedures, as well as introduction of some TEUS procedure accessories; it is necessary to periodically evaluate the efficacy and safety of specific TEUS procedures and accessories for several indications to check for improved clinical outcomes.

Evaluation of these clinical details would help us compare them to conventional treatment modalities within our current facility and scope of practice; and consequently, help us identify safe and cost-effective treatment techniques, develop treatment algorithms and improve clinical management of patients at RWJMS and other tertiary-care centers.