Intimacy-Enhancing Couples' Intervention for Localized Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Participating in a therapy program may enhance communication and intimacy between men with prostate cancer and their partners.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well therapy enhances communication and intimacy for men with early stage prostate cancer and for their partners.
Prostate Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction and Infertility|Sexuality
OTHER: communication intervention|OTHER: counseling intervention|OTHER: nutrition intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Psychological Functioning, General psychological functioning is assessed by the MHI-38 and the PHQ-9. Cancer-Specific distress is assessed by using the Impact of Events Scale Revised Cancer-Specific concerns is assessed with a 10 item assessment of commonly-experienced problems., 5 years|Relationship Functioning, Relationship satisfaction is assessed using the Dyadic Adjustment Scale, 5 years
Intimacy, General Relationship Intimacy. The Personal Assessment of Intimacy in Relationships Intimacy scale (PAIR) (94) is a 6 item scale assessing emotional closeness. Cancer-specific Relationship Intimacy (95-96) Participants rate the degree to which they felt close to and emotionally intimate with their partner during discussions about the cancer experience., 5 years|Relationship Communication, Perceived self-disclosure. The scale assesses the degree to which they disclose thoughts, information, and feelings about the cancer experience in the past week.

Perceived partner disclosure. The scale assesses the degree to which their partner disclosed thoughts, information, and feelings.

Perceived partner responsiveness. The scale assesses the degree to which the participant felt their partner understood and empathized with their disclosures.Mutual Constructive Communication. This subscale of the Communication Pattern Questionnaire (CPQ) is a 5-item scale that has been adapted.

Holding back. Participants rate the degree to which they held back from talking to their partner about 11 domains of concern.

Demand-Withdraw. The CPQ Demand-Withdraw subscale is a 6-item scale adapted.

Mutual Avoidance. The CPQ Mutual Avoidance subscale is an adapted 6-item scale., 5 years
Aim 1 A. To evaluate the impact of an Intimacy-Enhancing Couples' intervention (IEC) versus a General Health and Wellness Intervention (GHW) and a Usual care control (UC) on patient and partner psychological and relationship outcomes.

B. To determine whether relationship length, pre-intervention relationship satisfaction, and men's pre-intervention masculinity moderate the effects of IEC on couples' psychological and relationship outcomes

Aim 2 A. To evaluate whether IEC has an effect on couples' communication and intimacy when compared with GHW and UC and to determine whether changes in relationship communication and intimacy mediate changes in couples' psychological and relationship outcomes.

Exploratory Aim:

A. To evaluate the impact of IEC versus GHW on physical activity and fruit and vegetable intake as well as each partner's support for the other partner's adoption of greater physical activity and more fruit and vegetable intake.