Clinical Evaluation of Primary Sampling Scatter Correction for Chest Tomosynthesis
This is a study that will evaluate the utility of a scatter reduction technique in reducing dose and increasing the sensitivity of stationary digital chest tomosynthesis (s-DCT) in the detection of lung lesions.
Pulmonary Nodule, Solitary|Pulmonary Nodule, Multiple
DEVICE: Scatter corrected s-DCT
Reader Confidence in s-DCT Images Compared to Conventional CT (Units on a Scale), Readers will rate their confidence in images from the experimental modality (sDCT with scatter correction) as compared to the conventional scan (chest CT with x-ray) on a 7 point Likert scale (-3 to 3) based on ability to identify lesion(s) present comparing each modality. A value of -3 is significantly less confident in the s-DCT representation 0 is the same confidence in modalities, and 3 is significantly more confident in the s-DCT representation compared to the conventional. Each individual will have a single value per reader. Two readers compared each scan. The overall reader preference between modalities was calculated by determining the mean value., Baseline
Sensitivity of s-DCT Images (Percentage of Positive Scans), Sensitivity will be defined as the ability of s-DCT images to detect lesions positively identified on gold standard CT images., Baseline
Digital tomosynthesis is an imaging modality that produces 3D sectional information using x-ray projections acquired over a limited scanning angle. Scatter is known to be the primary source of image degradation in x-ray based imaging.

The investigators have developed an approach that measures scatter through a low dose (3% of the conventional scan) scatter measurement technique. Preliminary studies have shown that scatter reduction in DCT can significantly improve quality. The approach will characterize the reader confidence in lung nodule detection in a scatter corrected chest tomosynthesis imaging approach as compared to the conventional chest tomosynthesis.

Fifty (50) patients who have undergone a clinical non-contrast CT with lung nodules will be asked to have an s-DCT (scan) within 4 weeks (+/- 2 week) of their clinical CT with no intervening procedures or therapies (i.e. biopsy of lung nodules). Investigators will then perform a reader study to evaluate the radiologist reader confidence in images generated from the scatter reduction technique versus more conventional chest tomosynthesis imaging.