Monoclonal Antibody 3F8 and Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Neuroblastoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as monoclonal antibody 3F8, can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Colony-stimulating factors, such as sargramostim, may increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Combining monoclonal antibody 3F8 with sargramostim may cause a stronger immune response and kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining monoclonal antibody 3F8 with sargramostim in treating patients who have neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: anti-GD2 murine IgG3 monoclonal antibody 3F8|BIOLOGICAL: anti-GD2 murine IgG3 monoclonal antibody 3F8
Efficacy at Completion of Treatment, 3 years|Relapse-free Survival Every 3 Months, 3 years
Compare Granulocyte Activation in Patients Treated With Short-term vs Prolonged Daily Exposure to Sargramostim (GM-CSF) After 4 Courses, 3 years|Simplify Treatment With Consequent Reduction in Cost, 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the efficacy of sargramostim (GM-CSF) in enhancing monoclonal antibody 3F8-mediated ablation in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma.
* Determine the prognostic impact of minimal residual bone marrow disease on relapse-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Compare the effects of short-term (2-hour intravenous) vs prolonged (subcutaneous release) daily GM-CSF on granulocyte activation, in order to establish the optimal route for tumor-cell kill in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label study. Patients are stratified according to evaluable disease (yes \[primary refractory bone marrow disease\] vs no \[no evidence of disease\]).

Patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) subcutaneously on days -5 to 4 and monoclonal antibody 3F8 IV over 0.5-1.5 hours on days 0-4. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 courses and then every 8 weeks for up to a total of 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Beginning after 2 courses of GM-CSF and monoclonal antibody 3F8, patients also receive oral isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14 (when no monoclonal antibody 3F8 is administered). Treatment with isotretinoin repeats approximately every 28 days for 6 courses.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 340 patients will be accrued for this study.