Ibrutinib or Idelalisib in Treating Patients With Persistent or Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, or Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma After Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial studies how well ibrutinib or idelalisib works in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia, small lymphocytic lymphoma, or non-Hodgkin lymphoma that is persistent or has returned (relapsed) after donor stem cell transplant. Ibrutinib and idelalisib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Idelalisib
Overall survival (OS) (Cohort I), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 12 months
Incidence of grade III-IV adverse events using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0 (Cohort I and Cohort II), Toxicities among the 2 cohorts will be compared to those reported in the literature after using ibrutinib or idelalisib for relapsed CLL/lymphoma before transplant., Up to 30 days post-treatment|OS (Cohort I and Cohort II), OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in all cohorts., Up to 6 years|Progression free-survival (PFS) (Cohort I and Cohort II), PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method in all cohorts., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To improve the outcomes of patients who have progressed or relapsed lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL)/small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL)/prolymphocytic leukemia (PLL) within 180 days following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) compared to historical data: 12-month overall survival.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety profile observed in these populations.

II. Estimate the overall response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) by standard morphologic, flow cytometric, imaging, and molecular techniques.

III. Assess progression free-survival.

IV. Define incidences of grade III-IV toxicities and infections.

V. Estimate incidence of relapse and non-relapse mortality.

VI. Estimate incidences of grade II-III and III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic GVHD.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 or idelalisib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.