Megestrol Acetate or Levonorgestrel-Releasing Intrauterine System in Treating Patients With Atypical Endometrial Hyperplasia or Endometrial Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well megestrol acetate or levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system works in treating patients with atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrial cancer. Progesterone can cause the growth of endometrial cancer cells. Hormone therapy using megestrol acetate or levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system may fight endometrial cancer by lowering the amount of progesterone the body makes. It is not yet known whether megestrol acetate is more effective than levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system in treating atypical endometrial hyperplasia or endometrial cancer.
Atypical Endometrial Hyperplasia|Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IA Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IB Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage II Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IVA Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IVB Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: megestrol acetate|DEVICE: levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Histologic regression from endometrioid adenocarcinoma or complex atypical hyperplasia to benign endometrium, Histologic regression will be dichotomized as a binary outcome variable, yes if patients have a confirmed histologic regression at the time of the scheduled biopsy, and no if the histologic regression is not observed regardless of compliance, lost-to-follow-up, or other issues. A contingency table and a bar plot will be used to show the histologic regression rate between the 2 arms. Two-group test of equivalence in proportions will be used to detect whether the histologic regression rate in Arm B is not significantly lower than that in Arm A., Up to 6 months after completion of study treatment
Change in weight, Weight gain will be recorded longitudinally at each 3-month clinic visit and body mass index (BMI) will be calculated and analyzed over time. Can be evaluated using chi squared tests, logistic regression, or repeated measures analysis of variance (ANOVA) whenever appropriate., Baseline to up to 6 months after completion of study treatment|Change in mood ascertained using the self-reported Beck Depression Inventory-Primary Care (BDI-PC), Can be evaluated using chi squared tests, logistic regression, or repeated measures ANOVA whenever appropriate., Baseline to up to 6 months after completion of study treatment|Compliance, Can be evaluated using chi squared tests, logistic regression, or repeated measures ANOVA whenever appropriate., Up to 6 months after completion of study treatment
Change in levels of ER stress, The changes in the biomarker levels will be examined using scatter plots or tables and paired tests such McNemar test, paired t-test or repeated measures ANOVA whenever appropriate., Baseline up to 6 months after completion of study treatment|Changes in levels of tumorigenic biomarkers, The changes in the biomarker levels will be examined using scatter plots or tables and paired tests such McNemar test, paired t-test or repeated measures ANOVA whenever appropriate., Baseline up to 6 months after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (IUS) results in histologic regression of the endometrial lesion (complex atypical hyperplasia \[CAH\] and grade 1 endometrial cancer \[EC\]) comparable to that achieved with oral megestrol (megestrol acetate).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare both the side effect profiles, such as weight gain and mood changes as well as compliance with assigned treatment between the 2 treatment arms.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe fertility-related outcomes, ovulation, menstrual pattern and fertility abnormalities determined during usual workup (e.g., semen analysis), pregnancy and delivery within 18-months of treatment.

II. To characterize the incidence of endocrine comorbidities (e.g., hypothyroidism, polycystic ovarian syndrome, and diabetes).

III. To characterize the association of levels of endoplasmic reticular (ER) stress and protein kinase B (Akt)-activation in endometrial samples with clinicopathologic-response to Progestin (therapeutic progesterone) therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive megestrol acetate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 18 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive levonorgestrel-releasing IUS with continuous release for up to 18 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.