High-Dose Trivalent Influenza Vaccine in Inducing Immune Response Patients With Central Nervous System Tumors
This pilot clinical trial studies high-dose trivalent influenza vaccine in inducing immune response patients with central nervous system tumors. Studying samples of blood in the laboratory from patients receiving trivalent influenza vaccine may help doctors learn more about the effects of trivalent influenza vaccine on cells. It may also help doctors understand how well patients respond to treatment.
Central Nervous System Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: trivalent influenza vaccine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Estimation of geometric mean titer (GMT) seroconversion, defined as the percentage of patients with at least a four-fold increase in hemagglutinin inhibition (HI) antibodies, Baseline|Estimation of GMT seroconversion, defined as the percentage of patients with at least a four-fold increase in HI antibodies, Day 28
GMT, Continuous values will be analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests to compare high dose influenza vaccine to previously reported data on immunogenicity to the standard trivalent inactivated vaccine., Up to 3 months|Seroconversion, Categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher exact tests when necessary or appropriate., Up to 3 months|Seroprotection rate, defined as the percentage of patients with a serum HI antibody of at least 1:40, Categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square or Fisher exact tests when necessary or appropriate., Up to 3 months
Clinical factors such as treatment, disease status, and use of glucocorticoids, Logistic regression models adjusting for age and gender will be used to assess the relationship between seroconversion and clinical factors., Up to 3 months|Serologic markers of immune function, To assess the relationship between serologic markers of immune function and response to vaccination, student's t-test will be used., Up to 3 months|Response to vaccination, To assess the relationship between serologic markers of immune function and response to vaccination, student's t-test will be used., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the immunogenicity of high-dose influenza vaccination in patients with central nervous system tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the geometric mean titer (GMT) in patients after administration of high-dose influenza vaccination compared to previously determined geometric mean titer (GMT) among 38 patients receiving the standard yearly influenza vaccination.

II. To assess the seroconversion rates (i.e. four-fold rise in titer) compared to previously determined seroconversion following administration of the standard yearly influenza vaccination.

III. To assess the seroprotection rates (i.e. post-vaccination titer \>= 1:40) compared to previously determined seroconversion and seroprotection following administration of the standard yearly influenza vaccination.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the relationship between serologic markers of immune function and response to high-dose vaccination.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trivalent influenza vaccine on day 1.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 28 days and/or 3 months.