A Phase II Trial of High Dose-Rate Brachytherapy as Monotherapy in Low and Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer
A single high dose rate brachytherapy (HDR) treatment combined with a short course of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) is a highly effective and well tolerated treatment for men with intermediate risk prostate cancer. High cancer control rates have also been reported with HDR used on its own, without the EBRT. The challenge has been to determine what HDR dose to use with a move towards one or two fractions by several investigators. These schedules are reported to be well tolerated in the short term, but with little long term data. The objective of this study is to investigate HDR monotherapy given as either one fraction of 19 Gy or two fractions of 13.5 Gy in a randomized phase II clinical trial. The primary endpoint is patient reported toxicity and health related quality of life at 1 year, and efficacy data will be also be analyzed. Sample size for the study is 174 patients, which we expect to accrue within 18 months.
Carcinoma of the Prostate
RADIATION: HDR 2 Fraction|RADIATION: HDR 1 Fraction
Health related quality of life (QoL), To demonstrate that health related QoL at 1 year in the urinary and bowel domains of the Expanded Prostate Index Composite (EPIC) for at least one HDR monotherapy arm is not worse than that following current standard treatment with single fraction HDR combined with supplemental external beam radiotherapy., 1 year
GU and GI toxicities, To determine genito-urinary (GU) and gastro-intestinal (GI) toxicities in both study arms according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, baseline, 6 weeks post treament, 3mths, 6mths, 6 monthly for the first 3 years, annually up to 5 years|Urinary Symptoms, To determine changes in urinary symptoms in both study arms as determined by the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), baseline, 6 weeks post treatment, 3 mths, 6 mths, 6-monthly for the first 3 years, annually until 5 years|Serum PSA changes, To determine changes in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) in both arms, baseline, 6 weeks post treatment, 3 mths, 6 mths, 6-monthly up to 3 years, annually until 5 years|Biochemical failure and disease free survival rates, To determine PSA failure and disease free survival rates in both study arms, 5 years|Erectile function, To determine changes in erectile function in both study arms assessed using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) scale, 5 year|Associations between dosimetric parameters and toxicity/EPIC domains, To explore association between dosimetric parameters and toxicity/EPIC domain change, 5 years
A single high dose rate brachytherapy (HDR) treatment combined with a short course of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) is a highly effective and well tolerated treatment for men with intermediate risk prostate cancer. High cancer control rates have also been reported with HDR used on its own, without the EBRT. The challenge has been to determine what HDR dose to use with a move towards one or two fractions by several investigators. These schedules are reported to be well tolerated in the short term, but with little long term data. The objective of this study is to investigate HDR monotherapy given as either one fraction of 19 Gy or two fractions of 13.5 Gy in a randomized phase II clinical trial. The primary endpoint is patient reported toxicity and health related quality of life at 1 year, and efficacy data will be also be analyzed. Sample size for the study is 174 patients, which we expect to accrue within 18 months.