Safety and Immune Response to FMPV-1
This is a single centre, open-label, non-randomized, Phase I study assessing safety and immune response of FMPV-1 in healthy male subjects.
Colorectal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: FMPV-1|BIOLOGICAL: GM-CSF (as adjuvant)
Delayed Type Hypersensitivity Skin Reactivity Test, DTH test performed on Days 3, 29 and 43 with response assessment on Days 8, 31 and 45. A positive DTH response will be recorded if the area of the skin reaction (redness and/or induration) at the injection site has an average diameter ≥5 mm 48 h after injection., 45 days|Proliferative T-cell Responses, Whole Blood Samples for Proliferative T-cell Responses taken on Days 1, 45, 57±1, 80±3, 6-month and 12-month follow-ups. Samples will be processed to isolate PBMCs for T-cell receptor analysis., 12 months|Summary of Adverse Events, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject that occurs either before dosing (referred to as a pre-dose AE) or once a medicinal product has been administered, including occurrences which are not necessarily caused by or related to that product. AEs will be monitored from the time the subject signs the ICF until after the 12-month follow-up visit., 12 months
To date, there is no clinical experience with FMPV-1. This is the first clinical study with FMPV-1 in healthy volunteers to assess the safety and immunogenicity of FMPV-1 in man. The study population will include 16 healthy males in 2 cohorts (8 per cohort) to ensure data in a minimum of 14 subjects.

Up to two dose levels of FMPV-1 in conjunction with the adjuvant granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) will be assessed - the dose in Cohort 2 will depend on the safety and specific delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) response data from Cohort 1. Each cohort will follow the same study design. Following preliminary screening procedures, subjects will be admitted in the morning on the day before initial dosing (Day -1). In Cohorts 1 and 2, subjects will receive FMPV-1 15 ± 5 min after GM-CSF on Days 1, 8, 15, 29 and 43 as an intradermal injection into the back of the upper arm. In Cohort 1, 8 subjects will receive GM-CSF (0.03 mg) + FMPV-1 (0.15 mg/injection: low dose) administered as 2 separate intradermal injections. In Cohort 2, 8 subjects will receive GM-CSF (0.03 mg) + FMPV-1 (either 0.15 or 0.3 mg/injection - dependent on Cohort 1 data) administered as 2 separate intradermal injections.

Sentinel dosing will be applied for both cohorts if different doses are used; if the same dose is to be used in both cohorts, sentinel dosing will not be applied in Cohort 2.

Adverse events and laboratory assessments will be the endpoints to assess the safety of GM-CSF/FMPV-1 vaccination. FMPV-1 specific DTH responses and FMPV-1-specific proliferative T-cell responses will be the endpoints to assess the FMPV-1 specific immune response. Subjects will receive a total of 8 administrations intradermally: GM-CSF + FMPV-1 on 5 separate occasions and FMPV-1 (without GM-CSF) on 3 occasions for the DTH skin reactivity assessment. The main part of the study will last for approximately 16 weeks, including screening, and subjects will return for follow-up visits after 6 months and 12 months. The overall estimated time from screening until the final follow-up visit is approximately 12 months. All adverse reactions will be collected until early withdrawal or discharge from the study after the 12-month follow-up visit.