Hydroxychloroquine in Combination With Encorafenib and Cetuximab or Panitumumab in the Treatment of Metastatic BRAF-mutated Colorectal Cancer Refractory
This is a Phase II, open label, single-arm trial study of adding hydroxychloroquine to encorafenib and cetuximab in patients with metastatic BRAF V600E colon cancer with progression on at least 1 prior line of therapy. We hypothesize that autophagy is a major mechanism of resistance to BRAF inhibition in stage IV BRAF V600E colorectal cancer, and that the addition of hydroxychloroquine to standard encorafenib and cetuximab therapy will help overcome this resistance.
Stage IV Colorectal Cancer Positive for BRAF V600E Mutation|Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Cancer Stage IV
DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine in Combination With Encorafenib and Cetuximab or Panitumumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To determine the ORR by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v 1.1 criteria for the combination of encorafenib, cetuximab, and hydroxychloroquine. This will be assessed based on RECIST1.1 criteria by cross-sectional imaging done every 2 cycles., Within 30 days (+/- 7 days) of coming off treatment
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To determine PFS by RECIST v1.1 criteria, with encorafenib, cetuximab, and hydroxychloroquine. Progression is defined as either radiological progression (with CT scan) OR clinical progression., Up to 18 months after end of treatment|Overall Survival (OS), Determine overall survival (OS) by using RECIST v1.1 criteria. Overall survival time is defined as the time that elapses between C1D1 (start of E+C treatment) and the date of death from any cause., Up to 18 months after end of treatment|Duration of Response (DoR), The evaluation of DoR of patients will be calculated as the time elapsed from the day when 'complete response (CR)' or 'partial response (PR)' is first observed.

Confirmation of response for CR or PR will be conducted via imaging., Up to 18 months after end of treatment|Duration of Stable Disease (DoSD), Duration of stable disease will be calculated as the time elapsed from the day when "stable disease" is first observed until the earlier of the day of first documented disease progression (clinical OR radiological) using imaging., Up to 18 months after end of treatment|Adverse Events, To determine safety and tolerability of encorafenib, cetuximab, and hydroxychloroquine as determined by NCI CTCAE v 5., Up to 18 months after end of treatment
Primary Objective -Determine the Objective Response Rate (ORR) of encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine in patients with stage IV BRAF V600E mutated colorectal cancer.

Secondary Objectives

-Determine progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine.

Note: progression is defined as either radiological progression (with CT scan) OR clinical progression, which will be defined as 'clinical deterioration associated with rising CEA biomarker' (laboratory date of collection of sample to be noted).

* Determine overall survival (OS) by RECIST v1.1 criteria of patients treated with encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine.
* Determine 'Duration of Response' (DoR) of patients treated with encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine.
* Determine 'Duration of Stable Disease'(DoSD) of patients treated with encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine.
* Estimate rates of drug-related toxicities when patients are treated with encorafenib, cetuximab or panitumumab, and hydroxychloroquine.

OUTLINE:

Prior to starting therapy, patients will have a pretreatment cross-sectional scan. Patients will then begin with encorafenib 300 mg daily starting with Cycle 1 day 1; then patients will receive IV cetuximab weekly, with 400 mg/m2 on C1D1 as a loading dose and 250 mg/m2 on all other days.

Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months (+/- 1 month) for the next 18 months.