Efficacy and Safety of the Anti- COVID-19 Vaccin in Clinical Hematology Patients
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an emerging infectious disease that was first reported in December 2019 in Wuhan, China. Infection with this new coronavirus called SARS-CoV-2 can lead to fatal pneumonia associated with high rates of hospitalization in intensive care units (ICU).

Hospitalized patients with hematologic malignancies have a higher mortality rate than patients without hematologic malignancies (62% vs. 8%). The severity of Covid-19 may be related to their treatment, in particular anti-CD20 used in B lymphoid hemopathies. In fact, anti-CD20 antibodies induce rapid and prolonged depletion of B cells, but they are necessary for development. humoral immune responses.

But currently, no immunogenicity data are known for patients with hemopathy or in those on anti-lymphocyte immunochemotherapy.
Covid19|Hematologic Malignancy|Vaccine Response Impaired
OTHER: Patients with hemopathy
humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), 1 month after vaccination
humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), before first dose vaccination|humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), before second dose vaccination|humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), 3 months after vaccination|humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), 6 months after vaccination|humoral response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 Trimeric S IgG titers (BAU/ml), 12 months after vaccination|clinical response after COVID19 vaccination, SARS-CoV-2 disease onset in the follow-up, 12 months after vaccination|security of mRNA COVID19 vaccine, side effects onset in the follow-up, 3 months after vaccination
The aim of this study is to evaluate the humoral response after vaccination against SARS-CoV-2 in a French multicenter cohort of patients with hemopathies. Analysis of hemopathies and immunochemotherapy subgroups will determine whether there is a need to strengthen immunization schedules. In addition, the study wish to assess the safety and clinical efficacy of mRNA vaccines in this cohort.