Carbohydrate Metabolism Disorder Frequency in Hypertriglyceridemia Induced by Bexarotene of Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
Bexarotene is a RXR-selective retinoid, licensed for the treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma. The most frequent adverse effect is hypertriglyceridemia but its mechanism is not well known. The purpose of this study is to research a carbohydrate metabolism disorder associated in bexarotene-induced hypertriglyceridemia.
Hypertriglyceridemia|Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT)
glucose intolerance or diabetes, The presence of a carbohydrate disorder is defined by glucose intolerance or diabetes. The diagnosis of glucose intolerance is made for a fasting glucose less than 1.26 g / l glucose and 2 hours (T120mn) after taking 75 g of glucose during an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) between 1.4 and 2 g / l and / or a value greater than or equal to 2 g / l between T30 and T90 min. Diabetes is established for a fasting glucose greater than or equal to 1.26 g / l and / or blood glucose greater than or equal to 2 g / l to 2 hours., At 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 weeks after the administration of bexarotene.
hypothyroidism, hypothyroidism detection: TSH, free T3 and free T4 measured weekly during the first month and then every 15 days in the second month. Laboratory abnormalities will be evaluated according to the standards of the laboratory of each center., At 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 weeks after the administration of bexarotene.|response to bexarotene, Response to bexarotene: it is considered partial if the patient has a decrease in injuries between 50% and 90% to total as if it has a lower damage of more than 90%., At 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 weeks after the administration of bexarotene.
Primary cutaneous lymphomas are the second group of extra nodal lymphomas after gastrointestinal lymphomas. Bexarotene is licensed for the treatment of epidermotropic cutaneous T cell lymphoma .The most common side effect of bexarotene is hypertriglyceridemia (82%) associated with hypercholesterolemia (30 to 40%). Central hypothyroidism is also present in 40-80% of cases. These adverse effects are dose-dependent. The management of hyperlipidemia induced by bexarotene is difficult. The mechanism of lipid disorder induced by bexarotene is not well known. Associated carbohydrate metabolism disorder could be present and play a role in the bexarotene-induced hyperlipidemia.

The main objective is to estimate the frequency of a carbohydrate disorder in patients with hypertriglyceridemia (TG\> 1.5 g / L) induced by bexarotene treatment of cutaneous T cell lymphoma, previously free of diabetes, thyroid dysfunction and dyslipidemia.