Polyphenon E in Treating Patients With High-Risk of Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well Polyphenon E works in treating patients with high-risk of colorectal cancer. Polyphenon E contains ingredients that may prevent or slow colorectal cancer.
Advanced Colorectal Adenomas|Adenocarcinoma of the Colon|Stage I Colon Cancer|Stage II Colon Cancer|Stage III Colon Cancer
DRUG: defined green tea catechin extract|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Percent Change in Rectal ACF, Pre- and Post Intervention at 6 Months, The primary endpoint is based on a modified intent-to-treat procedure which includes all patients with baseline and 6-month ACF data. The percent change in rectal ACF (≤ 15 cm from the anal verge) for each patient is calculated as their Pre-Registration number of rectal ACF minus the number of rectal ACF present at the 6-month post-intervention exam, divided by the number of rectal ACF present at Pre-Registration times 100., 6 months
Tolerability as Estimated Using the Percent Dose of Treatment Received at 6 Months, Tolerability as estimated using the percent dose of treatment received for each patient by dividing the total dose received by the targeted (i.e., protocol specified) total dose., 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine whether POLYE (Polyphenon E) treatment is associated with a significant percent decrease in the number of rectal Aberrant Crypt Foci (ACF) (% change in ACF) identified during the pre-intervention and post-intervention chromoendoscopy exams. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the relative tolerability and safety of treatment with 2 capsules of POLYE taken twice a day by mouth (Note: each capsule of Polyphenon E contains approximately 200 mg of epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) versus placebo administered for 6 months. TERTIARY OBJECTIVES: I. To determine the effect of the study drug vs. placebo on EGCG levels in plasma and to correlate EGCG levels with drug compliance and toxicity. II. To characterize ACF based on four criteria and correlate such characterizations with the intervention (vs placebo), as well as exploring the natural history of ACF over 6 months in persons at high risk for colorectal cancer randomized to placebo. III. To correlate the 6-month measurements of ACF size (e.g., number of crypts/ACF), number, morphology, and histopathology with the adenoma recurrence data at the next surveillance endoscopy. IV. To assess caffeine and black tea consumption via a Beverage Consumption Questionnaire and correlate with study endpoints. V. To assess the effects of POLYE versus placebo on a focused panel of tissue biomarkers using re- and post-intervention biopsy samples obtained from ACF and normal-appearing rectal mucosa. Residual tissue will be stored for further analysis. VI. To study the association of clinical (toxicity and/or ACF response or activity) with the pharmacokinetic parameters, and/or biologic (pharmacodynamic) results. OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive Polyphenon E orally (PO) twice daily (BID). ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID. Courses in both arms repeat every 28 days for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.