Trial of Amrubicin as Second-Line Therapy in Patients With Advanced/Metastatic Refractory Urothelial Carcinoma
The primary objective of this study is to determine in subjects with metastatic measurable bladder cancer (or urothelial cancers originating elsewhere in the genitourinary tract) who have progressed on 1 prior chemotherapeutic regimen the objective response rate to treatment with amrubicin. The secondary objectives will be to evaluate progression-free survival, survival at 1 year, and the safety of amrubicin as second-line therapy in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Amrubicin
Objective Response Rate as Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1), Response to treatment based on tumor measurements via CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis for restaging after every 2 cycles.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 6 weeks
Progression-free Survival, The median progression-free survival

After the last dose of Amrubicin, patients will have follow-up every 3 months with a repeat CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis until the time of disease progression is documented., Every 3 months post Amrubicin administration|Overall Survival, The median overall survival, 1 year|Safety as Measured by the Frequency and Type of Adverse Events as Per the Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., Types of adverse events listed in Adverse Event Section, Day 1 of each treatment cycle; and 21 days after the last dose of amrubicin
Multiple small phase II trials exploring a variety of agents as second-line therapy for metastatic urothelial carcinoma have been performed. Overall, the most active of these agents have shown response rates of approximately 10-20% . Currently, there are no FDA approved agents for the second-line treatment of metastatic urothelial carcinoma.

The current study will explore the safety and activity of the novel anthracycline, amrubicin, as second-line chemotherapy in patients with advanced urothelial carcinoma.

The primary objective will be to evaluate the activity (as determined by objective response rate) of amrubicin as second-line chemotherapy in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma. The secondary objectives will be to evaluate progression-free survival, survival at 1 year, and the safety of amrubicin as second-line therapy in patients with metastatic urothelial carcinoma.

Subjects will receive amrubicin IV daily x 3 days, every 21-days, with prophylactic granulocyte colony stimulating factor. This 21-day time period is referred to as a cycle. Subjects will undergo repeat computed tomography (CT) scans after every 2 cycles. In the absence of progressive cancer, or prohibitive side effects, subjects will receive up to 6 cycles of treatment with amrubicin.