SBRT and Anti-programmed Cell Death Protein 1(Anti-PD-1) in Late Stage or Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer Patients
When gemcitabine based chemo and fluorouracil based chemo regimes are failed in late-stage or recurrent pancreatic cancer patients, there is no alternative options. Anti-PD-1 antibody has became a promising anti-cancer drug. While it showed limited efficacy in pancreatic cancer. Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy has been a new method to locally treat metastatic cancer. This study is aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of SBRT and anti-PD-1 antibody in late-stage or recurrent pancreatic caner who failed in second-line chemotherapy.
Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: anti-PD-1 antibody
overall survival, The percentage of people still alive for a given period of time after diagnosis, Up to approximately 12 months
Disease control rate, Percentage of patients whose cancer doesn't progress after treatment, Up to approximately 12 months|Objective response rate, Percentage of patients whose cancer shrinks or disappears after treatment, Up to approximately 12 months|Progression-free survival, The percentage of people does not get worse for a period of time after diagnosis, Up to approximately 12 months|EORTC quality of life questionnaire (QLQ), Assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life, Up to approximately 12 months|Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects, According to Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects version 4, Up to approximately 12 months|Related tumor markers, Serum level of related tumor markers (like carbohydrate antigen19-9, carcinoembryonic antigen and so on), Up to approximately 12 months
Pancreatic cancer is a kind of cancer with poor prognosis. Nowadays, recommended treatment for late-stage or recurrent pancreatic cancer patients are fluorouracil based chemotherapy (such as FOLFIRINOX) and gemcitabine based chemotherapy. When these two chemo regimes are failed, however, there is no alternative options. With the improvement of immune therapy, anti-PD-1 antibody has became a promising anti-cancer drug. While it showed limited efficacy in pancreatic cancer. Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) has been a new method to locally treat metastatic cancer. And previous studies showed that SBRT may enhance the efficacy of immunotherapy. So this study is amed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of SBRT and anti-PD-1 antibody in late-stage or recurrent pancreatic caner who failed in second-line chemotherapy.