Pulsatile High-dose Sunitinib Versus TAS-102 in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma (mCRC)
The purpose of this study is to compare progression free survival rates of metastasized colorectal cancer patients refractory or intolerant to systemic therapy with fluoropyrimidine, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, anti-VEGF therapy and anti-EGFR therapy (for tumours with wild-type KRAS)); randomized for treatment with TAS-102 (standard-arm) or High Dose Intermittent Sunitinib (700 mg once every 2 weeks). The investigators hypothesis is that treatment with the experimental arm (sunitinib) will provide an improvement in progression free in this patient group.
Colorectal Cancer|Metastasis
DRUG: Sunitinib Malate|DRUG: TAS 102
Progression Free Survival, Counting from the date of study inclusion (date of randomization) to the date of progressive disease (or death), Counting from the date of study inclusion (date of randomization) to the date of progressive disease or death (1 year follow-up). Analysis after inclusion of 33% of patients (N=20)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival, From the date of randomization up to the date of death, assessed up to 12 months. If study medication is discontinued for any reason, survival follow-up takes place every 12 weeks, also assessed up to 12 months|Adverse events (AEs), Safety and tolerability of the two drugs -, At the end of the study, after 12 months, the number of participants with adverse events that are related to both treatments will be assessed and compared|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL): European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life questionnaires (EORTC QoL), European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life questionnaires (EORTC QoL), via EORTC questionnaires, which will be filled in every 8-9 weeks (from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death, assessed up to 3 years). The questionnaires of both treatments will be assessed and compared|Liquid biopsies, Liquid biopsies for circulating blood biomarker analysis including microRNA and platelets containing tumor-derived RNA., The specific time points during study treatment are: (1) at baseline; (2) every 2 weeks during treatment (until progression of disease), assessed up to 12 months .
Study design: A prospective, open-label, randomized, mono-center, phase II clinical trial (with registration intent).

Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize a clinically relevant increase in PFS by 3 months; from 2 months as reported for TAS-102 to 5 months in patients treated with sunitinib. They further hypothesize that this will result in a meaningful improvement in Quality of Life (QoL).

Primary Objective: The primary objective of this study is to improve progression free survival (PFS), of patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma (mCRC) treated with high-dose sunitinib once every 2 weeks to 5 months, compared to the reported 2 months for TAS-102 monotherapy.

Secondary Objective: Secondary objectives include: overall survival (OS), the safety and efficacy of the treatment, the quality of life in the two study arms, the value of phosphoproteomics as a potential predictive biomarker for response to sunitinib, the potential value of blood markers for molecular diagnostics disease and response monitoring and the sensitivity, specificity.

Study Population: Patients eligible for inclusion are at least 18 years of age, with adequate organ function, who have histologically or cytologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the colon or rectum with documented metastatic disease and have an indication for palliative treatment with TAS102 (refractory or intolerant to systemic therapy with fluoropyrimidine, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, anti-VEGF therapy and anti-EGFR therapy (for tumours with wild-type KRAS)). Major exclusion criteria include evidence of significant uncontrolled concomitant disease, previous extensive radiotherapy, recent major surgery or infection, unresolved bowel disorders and poorly controlled hypertension. All patients will provide Informed Consent prior to inclusion in the study and during the course of the trial, all relevant data will be stored in electronic Case Report Forms (eCRF).

Treatment Schedule:

After study inclusion, patients will be randomized (1:1) via a centralized randomization system to receive either oral sunitinib (700 mg once every 2 weeks) or TAS-102 (35 mg per square meter, twice daily, 5 days a week, with 2 days of rest, for 2 weeks, followed by a 14-day rest period). Patients will receive treatment until disease progression or discontinuation due to unacceptable toxic effects, withdrawal of consent, or other reason.