Monopolar Current Cutting Knife vs Bipolar RFA Knife
This is a prospective, randomized trial that aims to study the efficacy and clinical outcomes of a novel Bipolar Knife vs. Monopolar Knives on patients who undergo endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) procedure at Baylor St. Luke's Medical Center.
Gastrointestinal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Mucosal Resection
Procedure time, The speed of endoscopic submucosal dissection as calculated by cm2/hour, Day 1
Technical success rate, En-bloc, R0 and curative resection rates for each knife, Day 1, 4 weeks|Procedural adverse event, Adverse events during the procedure: hemorrhage, perforation, etc., Day 1|Immediate post-procedural adverse event, Abdominal pain after the procedure using Visual Analogue Scale from 1 to 10, Up to 24 hours|Delayed post-procedural adverse event, Post polypectomy syndrome in both groups up to one month after the procedure, 4 weeks
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is a novel technique for the removal of advanced colonic polyps with high-risk features. ESD is minimally invasive and allows the removal of colonic adenomatous polyp without resorting to surgery. The process of ESD includes marking the lesions selected for removal, followed by submucosal injection of a lifting agent, then circumferential incisions using a specialized knife followed by submucosal dissection of the entire lesion.

Traditionally, knifes utilizing monopolar current such as dual knife or hybrid knife were the preferred tools for endoscopic submucosal dissection. These knifes allows accurate dissection and excellent hemostasis. However, due to monopolar current generated heat, post coagulation syndrome can be seen in up to 8 to 40 % of patients. Post coagulation syndrome present with abdominal pain, fever and leukocytosis and requires supportive treatment with IV fluid and antibiotics. Recently, a novel bipolar Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) knife were approved by FDA for the performance of ESD. The knife utilizes bipolar RFA current for submucosal dissection which can potentially expedite submucosal dissection and decrease the rates of post polypectomy syndrome.

Our tertiary referral center Baylor St Luke's Medical Center is center of excellence for ESD procedure and we have previously reported our ESD experience using specialized stability and traction device and monopolar current knife in 111 patients. The goal of our protocol is to compare the performance of monopolar current cutting knife and bipolar RFA knife in colonic endoscopic submucosal dissection.