Peri-operative SLOG for Localized Pancreatic Cancer
1. To evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant chemotherapy SLOG in localized pancreatic cancer
2. To evaluate the safety profile in patients with pancreatic cancer who receive neoadjuvant SLOG
3. To collect tumor tissue and peripheral blood samples from the patients for a comprehensive biomarker evaluation
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Pancreas Cancer
DRUG: S-1, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and gemcitabine
The percentage of subjects with R0 resection after surgery, 1 year
The percentage of subjects successfully underwent surgery after study drug treatment, 1 year|The percentage of subjects with tumor shrinkage >30%, according to RECIST 1.1, 1 year|The percentage of subjects without tumor progression, tumor progression is defined as increase of size by \>20% according to RECIST 1.1, 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS) of patient received study treatment, 1 year|Overall survival (OS) of patient received study treatment, 2 years|Duration of response (DOR) of patient received study treatment, 1 year|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 2 years|Biomarkers of treatment response by single cell RNA sequencing and whole exome sequencing, Biomarkers including but not limited to tumor mutation burden, change of immune cell proportion and percentage of T-reg in the tumor microenvironment., 4 years
The role of neoadjuvant treatment in pancreatic adenocarcinoma is still under debate due to a relative lack of robust data compared with other gastrointestinal cancers. According to 2020 NCCN guidelines, neoadjuvant is now the accepted approach for borderline resectable (BR) disease, while upfront surgery is still the recommendation for resectable disease except in cases with high risk features. Another important advantage of treatment with neoadjuvant treatment is an increase in the proportion of patients who receive chemotherapy. Traditionally, only patients with a good performance status and a good recovery after surgery are treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. About 45% of patients do not receive adjuvant chemotherapy after resection due to poor performance status, postoperative morbidity, or early progression of disease. A small cohort study using total neoadjuvant FOLFIRINOX for borderline resectable pancreatic cancer yielded a promising result but the tolerability of FOLFIRINOX limited the use of this regimen in Asian population. In previous T1211 clinical trial, the SLOG regimen showed comparable efficacy with a better safety profile in metastatic pancreatic cancer. This phase II trial will evaluate the feasibility of SLOG regimen in patients with localized pancreatic cancer.