Adoptive TKC Transfer Combined With Chemotherapy for Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
Innate immune cells are an important part of the body's innate immune system, the first line of defense against infection and cancer. Tumor killer cells (TKC) are mixed cultures of two kinds of innate immune cells, namely natural killer cells (NK cells) and gamma delta T cells (γδT cells), which are co-activated and co-cultured ex-vivo in a certain proportion by the unique TKC technology. Adoptive TKC transfer is expected to exert a strong anti-tumor effect through synergistic action between NK cells and γδT cells. In this study, the safety, tolerance, and preliminary efficacy of adoptive TKC transfer combined with chemotherapy will be examined in patients with advanced NSCLC.
Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Chemotherapy
DRUG: Chemotherapy|BIOLOGICAL: Adoptive TKC transfer therapy
Safety evaluation by the incidence of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), Incidence of AEs and SAEs of each participant will be recorded and assessed according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, Version 5.0)., 24 months
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who have a clinical response (objective tumor regression).ORR is computed by: the sum of the number of patients with Complete Response (CR) and number of patients with Partial Response (PR) / total number of patients. The total number of patients is the sum of the number of patients with CR, PR, stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD). The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) is used as the criteria to determine whether a tumor disappears (CR), shrinks (PR), stays the same (SD) or gets bigger (PD)., 24 months|Duration of response (DOR), DOR is the time between the initial response to treatment per RECIST v1.1 and subsequent disease progression among patients achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). RECIST v1.1 is used as the criteria to determine whether a tumor disappears (CR) or shrinks (PR)., 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is the length of time from the date patient enrolled in to the date on which tumor progresses or the patient dies for any cause., 24 months
Primary Objective:

● To describe the safety profile and toxicity tolerance of combining adoptive TKC transfer with chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Secondary Objectives:

● To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of combining adoptive TKC transfer with chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced NSCLC.

Design:

* This is a single-centre, open label, non-randomised, no control clinical trial.
* NK cells and γδT cells are isolated from the patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained before chemotherapy and then co-cultured with TKC technology ex-vivo. The mixed cultures will be used in multiple infusions under administration. The first infusion will be conducted in 7-10 days after chemotherapy and is assessed by the investigators.
* Clinical responses will be evaluated closely in about 30 days and last up to 2 years after treatment.