Comparison of Mood Disorders Screening Scales in Geriatric Oncology
The objective of this study is to evaluate the scales commonly used in geriatrics and oncology distress thermometer ( analogue scale rated from 0 to 1 for the emotional distress ) , the GDS15 (15 issues closed binary response seeking signs of depression ) the HADS (14 questions assessing the intensity of anxiety signs and signs of depression listed 0-3 ).

The prospective observational study will be conducted in parallel on two sites ( University Hospital Centre and François Baclesse ) after informed patient information.

It will be offered to patients 70 years and over with a new diagnosis or relapse of cancer or haematological malignancies in the hospital to meet the mood disorder screening questionnaires .
Mood Disorders
OTHER: comparison of screening scales
Concordance degrees Assessment (HADS and GDS ), Concordance degrees Assessment of each of 2 scales ( HADS and GDS ) from the DSM- V , for diagnostic confirmation of major depressive episodes in elderly patients with cancer or haematological malignancies, 3 weeks
Correlation between the presence of signs of depression screening by HADS -D ( ≥11 / 21) and GDS ( > 5/15), Correlation between the presence of signs of depression screening by HADS -D ( ≥11 / 21) and GDS ( \> 5/15) with the following factors: the type of cancer, concept of relapse, there is an oncologic therapeutic project or no , sex , social status, loss of autonomy, presence of pain , severe comorbidities ( CIRS - G≥3 ) , psychiatric history , psychotropic treatment ( anxiolytic , antidepressant) in place, 3 weeks|correlation between anxious signs of HADS -A ( ≥11 / 21) and the distress thermometer ( ≥4 / 10) and factors outcome 2, correlation between anxious signs of HADS -A ( ≥11 / 21) and the distress thermometer ( ≥4 / 10) and the type of cancer, concept of relapse, oncologic therapeutic project or no, sex, social status, loss of autonomy, presence of pain, severe comorbidities, psychiatric history , psychotropic treatment in place, 3 weeks|Comparison of the distress thermometer score between screening and revaluation to 3 weeks, Comparison of the distress thermometer score between screening and revaluation to 3 weeks, 3 weeks
There are various tools validated and recommended by the SiO and SFPO for screening mood disorders in geriatric oncology . The choice among them depends on the usual practices of the various teams , only some scales assessing depressive signs and other signs of anxiety too. None were assessed in a population aged diagnosis of cancer or hematologic malignancy in pre- therapeutic situation.

The objective of this study is to evaluate the scales commonly used in geriatrics and oncology distress thermometer ( analogue scale rated from 0 to 1 for the emotional distress ) , the GDS15 (15 issues closed binary response seeking signs of depression ) the HADS (14 questions assessing the intensity of anxiety signs and signs of depression listed 0-3 ) The prospective observational study will be conducted in parallel on two sites ( University Hospital Centre and François Baclesse ) after informed patient information.

It will be offered to patients 70 years and over with a new diagnosis or relapse of cancer or haematological malignancies in the hospital to meet the mood disorder screening questionnaires .

If one test is abnormal , a clinical psychological care will be offered . When returning home : telephone contact will be made the same day with the doctor , asking him to please make thymic revaluation within 2 weeks ( informed patient). It will be sent to the doctor by post a rubric of Major Depressive Episode criteria of the DSM V to return . If the patient remains hospitalized , the doctor taking care of patient will be contacted to obtain the same information .

In addition, the investigators will study the impact on the management (change or introduction of an antidepressant and / or anxiolytic use of psychotherapy or psychological counseling ... ) to 5 weeks