Investigation of the Effect of Custom Made Insoles on Foot Pressure Distribution and Gait Parameters in Patients With Morton's Neuroma
The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of the use of custom made insoles in the treatment of Morton's neuroma on foot pressure, temporal and spatial gait parameters.
Morton Neuroma
OTHER: Custom made orthosis
Step length (centimeter- cm), Step length (cm) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Aim of the system analyzes gait of the patients. Step length describes the distance between the heel contact of one side of the body and the heel contact of the contralateral side., 4weeks|Stance phase percentage (%), Stance phase percentage (%) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Stance phase percentage describes the phase of a gait cycle in which the foot has contact with the ground.The unit is expressed as a percentage., 4 weeks|Swing phase percentage (%), Swing phase percentage (%) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Swing phase describes the phase of a gait cycle during which the foot has no contact with the ground. The unit is expressed as a percentage, 4 weeks|Cadance, Cadence (steps/min) will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. Cadence is steps/minute. It is defined as the step frequency., 4 weeks|Velocity, Velocity will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. The system measures average gait speed during the analyzed measuring interval. The unit is expressed as km/hr., 4 weeks|Foot pressure distiribution, Foot pressure distiribution will be evaluated by Zebris (Zebris Medical -Limited -, Germany) FDM (Force distribution measurement ) System. Participants will walk barefoot on the Zebris FDM (Zebris Medical Limited, Germany) treadmill system. The system evaluate the average maximum values reached in N/cm² for the three zones: toes, mid-foot and heel., 4 weeks|Pain - Visual Analogue Scale, Visual Analogue Scale is one of the simple and common methods used in pain assessment. Self reported pain intensity during the rest and the activity measured by 0-10 centimeter chart. Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), where 0 indicates no pain or best and 10 indicates the most intense pain imaginable or worst. The patient will mark the severity of the pain on a 10 cm long chart., 4 weeks
The aim of our study is to investigate the effect of the use of custom made insoles in the treatment of Morton's neuroma on foot pressure, temporal and spatial gait parameters.