Chronic Convection Enhanced Delivery of Topotecan
The primary goal of this study is to establish, for the first time, safety of prolonged intracerebral convection enhanced delivery of chemotherapy in patients with recurrent high grade glioma (HGG). Secondary objectives will include determination of topotecan (TPT) distribution and radiographic tumor response with prolonged continuous intracerebral convection-enhanced delivery (CED).
Gliomas
DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Gadolinium|DEVICE: Synchromed II infusion pumps
Dose at which all patients have had no greater than grade 2 adverse reactions, This is designed to measure the safety of prolonged intracerebral convection enhanced delivery of chemotherapy in patients., Up to 29 days
Clinical toxicity rate, This is defined by the number of serious adverse events occuring, which is projected to be ≤ 5% at 23-29 days. A clinical toxicity rate that exceeds 20% will be considered unacceptable for this procedure., Up to 29 days|Change in radiographic tumor response, Tumor response to TPT will be investigated by MRI scan., Baseline, 6 weeks post-treatment|Progression free survival (PFS), The length of time during and after the treatment of disease that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse. Patients will be contacted every 3-6 months, up to 5 years, by phone until death., Every 3-6 months, up to 5 years
Malignant gliomas are among the most pernicious of human tumors - locally invasive and universally recurrent, with recurrence usually occurring within two centimeters of the original resection cavity. Although numerous chemotherapeutic drugs demonstrate significant anti-tumor activity in preclinical studies, the efficacy in clinical trials has been dismal because systemic delivery fails to achieve therapeutic drug levels in tumor cells due to various factors including limited blood-brain barrier permeability and systemic toxicity.

Convection-enhanced delivery (CED) is a method of regional drug delivery that circumvents this problem. Phase 1 clinical trial has shown that a potent topoisomerase inhibitor, topotecan (TPT), can be safely and effectively delivered by CED into patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. This study will expand on these clinical results to address two current limitations to the clinical application of CED: 1) A reliable method for non-invasively monitoring drug distribution throughout the tumor and brain does not exist; and 2) Duration of CED therapy has been limited to short-term infusions secondary to the use of externalized infusion pumps.

The hypothesis is that extended chronic local-regional delivery of TPT is safe, effective and feasible in patients with recurrent gliomas. TPT will be directly and chronically delivered into the tumor and surrounding brain by CED through subcutaneously implanted pumps while innovating a methodology for monitoring the drug distribution through non-invasive imaging. This strategy will overcome the limitations of chemotherapy as currently used in the treatment of gliomas, and may be applicable to other central nervous system (CNS) diseases currently limited by drug delivery barriers.