CD8+ Antigen-Specific T Cells, Cyclophosphamide, Aldesleukin, and Ipilimumab in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well white blood cells taken from person's own (autologous) cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ antigen-specific T cells, cyclophosphamide, aldesleukin, and ipilimumab work in treating patients with melanoma that has spread to another place in the body. Autologous CD8+ antigen-specific T cells are white blood cells that are designed in the laboratory to find melanoma cells and may kill them. Biological therapies, such as aldesleukin, use substances made from living organisms that may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving autologous CD8+ antigen-specific T cells with cyclophosphamide, aldesleukin, and ipilimumab may be an effective treatment for patients with metastatic melanoma.
Metastatic Melanoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
BIOLOGICAL: Aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: Autologous CD8+ Melanoma Specific T Cells|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
CTL With Anti-CTLA4, Evaluate the safety and efficacy of adoptively transferred CTL targeting melanoma tumors combined with anti-CTLA4, Baseline up to 2 years
Anti-CTLA4 Duration, Evaluate the influence of anti-CTLA4 on the duration of in vivo persistence and anti-tumor efficacy achieved following adooptive transfer of antigen-specific CTL., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the safety and efficacy of adoptively transferred cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) targeting melanoma tumors combined with anti-CTLA4.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the influence of anti-CTLA4 on the duration of in vivo persistence and anti-tumor efficacy achieved following adoptive transfer of antigen-specific CTL.

II. Evaluate the influence of anti-CTLA4 on the induction of T cells to non-targeted tumor-associated antigens (antigen-spreading) following adoptive transfer antigen-specific CTL, and the correlation of these responses with clinical outcome.

OUTLINE:

Beginning 48 to 72 hours prior to T cell infusion, patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes. Patients then receive autologous CD8+ melanoma-specific T cells IV over 30-60 minutes on day 0, aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days 0-13 and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1, 22, 43, and 64 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 5 years.