Denosumab for High Risk SMM and SLiM CRAB Positive, Early Myeloma Patients
This is a randomized, 2-arm phase II, placebo-controlled, multi-center study, where the investigators aim to evaluate whether the reported benefits of denosumab, delay of SRE and decrease in myeloma growth promotion, reduce the risk of progression of high-risk SMM and of early 'SLiM CRAB' myeloma into active, symptomatic CRAB positive myeloma or serological progression. In addition, tolerability of long-term treatment will be assessed.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Denosumab 120 MG/1.7 ML Subcutaneous Solution [XGEVA]|DRUG: Placebo 1.7 ml Subcutaneous Solution
Time to progression, Time from randomization to transformation to symptomatic, active MM (defined as progression to active multiple myeloma according to IMWG diagnosis criteria 2014) or progression of disease according to IMWG response criteria 2016, 78 months (the first 6 cycles are 28 days, thereafter each cycle is 3 months for a maximum of 36 months)
Percentage of patients transforming in 3 years, Percentage of patients with high-risk SMM and early 'slim CRAB' positive MM transforming to CRAB positive multiple myeloma and/or developing serological progression (as defined by IMWG criteria 2016 for MM) within 3 years, 36 months (the first 6 cycles are 28 days, thereafter each cycle is 3 months)|Overall survival, To determine the overall survival of patients receiving either denosumab or placebo, 78 months (the first 6 cycles are 28 days, thereafter each cycle is 3 months for a maximum of 36 months)|Time to first skeletal-related event, To determine the time to first skeletal-related event for patients receiving either denosumab or placebo. • Imaging: low dose wbCT (details will be described in a separate guidance document) or PET-CT mandatory, 78 months (baseline and every 6 months thereafter until progression or maximum of 3 years).|Incidence of bone lesions as MM defining events, To determine the incidence of bone lesions as MM defining events. • Imaging: low dose wbCT (details will be described in a separate guidance document) or PET-CT mandatory., 78 months (baseline and every 6 months thereafter until progression or maximum of 3 years).|Time to first anti-myeloma treatment, To determine the time to first anti-myeloma treatment for patients receiving either denosumab or placebo, 78 months (the first 6 cycles are 28 days, thereafter each cycle is 3 months for a maximum of 36 months)
The aim of this study is to evaluate whether the transition of early Multiple Myeloma (High Risk Smouldering Multiple Myeloma SMM or "Ultra High Risk" SMM) or SLiM CRAB positive multiple myeloma to a symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM) can be reduced or delayed by the administration of denosumab.

With the exception of clinical studies, there are currently no standardized treatment options for SMM. Ultra-high risk SMM is already part of early active myeloma and is therefore in some cases treated according to a standard myeloma protocol (Revlimid-Dexamethasone, Velcade melphalan prednisone, melphalan prednisone thalidomide, or others). However, most practitioners recommend a wait-and-see strategy, since depending on the initial situation within two years only 58-95% of patients develop an 'active' MM and 5-42% of the patients had a stable disease and therefore do not necessarily have to be treated immediately.

Denosumab is a human monoclonal antibody (IgG2) which binds to RANKL with high affinity and specificity. RANKL (receptor activator of NF-κB Ligand) is a protein that is responsible for the formation, function and survival of osteoclasts (cell type responsible for bone resorption) Increased osteoclast activity, stimulated by RANKL, is a key mediator of the bone resorption in bone metastases and MM. Thus the activity of denosumab is resulting in a reduced number and function of osteoclasts and thus decreases the bone resorption and tumor-induced bone destruction.

After an initial phase of about 14 days (screening), the patients will be randomized 1:1 in one of the two study groups (arm A: denosumab or arm B: placebo). The study is double-blinded. The planned duration of therapy is 3 years. Patients receive denosumab or placebo every 4 weeks for 6 months, then every 3 months until a total of 3 years or progression.

After completion of the therapy, an observation and follow-up phase is carried out with patient visits every 3 months until the end of the treatment.