Toripalimab Combined With Chemoradiotherapy in Patients With Locoregionally-advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
This is an open-label, parallel controlled, phase IIa exploratory study that evaluates the efficacy and safety of Toripalimab (PD-1 Antibody) combined with induction chemotherapy （Albumin-bound paclitaxel and cisplatin ）and concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and explores the biomarkers that can predict the efficacy and toxicity of the treatment.
Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Albumin-bound Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Adverse events, Incidence of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, 2 years
Overall survival (OS), calculated from randomization to the date of death from any cause., 3 years|Distant failure-free survival (DFFS), calculated from randomization to the date of first distant metastasis., 3 years|Locoregional failure-free survival (LRFFS), calculated from randomization to the date of locoregional persistence or 1st locoregional recurrence, 3 years|Overall response rate （ORR）and Complete response rate（CR）, Defined as percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) according to the RECIST 1.1., 2 years|Quality of life (QoL), The change of QoL from randomization to 12 months after chemoradiation. The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30）version 3.0 will be used. This questionnaire comprises 30 questions, 24 of which are aggregated into nine multi-question scales, that is, five functioning scales (e.g., physical), three symptom scales (e.g., fatigue) and one global health status scale. The remaining six single-question (e.g., dyspnoea) scales assess symptoms. These 15 scales will be scored according to the official Scoring Manual: 1. Estimate the average of the questions that contribute to the scale; this is the raw score. 2. Use a linear transformation to standardise the raw score, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Thus, a high score for a functional scale represents a high level of functioning, a high score for the global health status represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale represents a high level of problems., 3 years
This is an open-label, parallel controlled, phase IIa exploratory study that evaluates the efficacy and safety of Toripalimab (PD-1 Antibody) combined with induction chemotherapy （Albumin-bound paclitaxel and cisplatin ）and concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and explores the biomarkers that can predict the efficacy and toxicity of the treatment.