Monitoring of Neoadjuvant Therapy in Locally-Advanced Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether four new alternative imaging methods can be used to follow the response of breast cancer to the treatment patients are being given. These methods produce an image of the inside of the breast so that doctors can better decide whether breast cancer is responding to therapy. An important part of the study is to examine the same person with all methods in order to directly compare results. The four methods are: MRI Elasticity Imaging (abbreviated MRE), Electrical Impedance Spectroscopy (abbreviated EIS), Microwave Imaging and Spectroscopy (abbreviated MIS), Near Infrared Spectroscopy (abbreviated NIR). In addition to the experimental imaging methods, patients may also undergo a contrast-enhanced MRI, and/or additional mammography, which will help researchers compare the experimental methods. These additional examinations are accepted diagnostic procedures; they are not experimental. Some participants will have one or both of these additional examinations if clinically indicated.
Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
Objective Response, Correlate changes in each imaging modality with objective response to therapy, as defined by conventional criteria (clinical exam and conventional imaging)., at baseline, at conclusion of treatment (up to 6 months)
The purpose of this study is to determine whether four new alternative imaging methods can be used to follow the response of breast cancer to the treatment patients are being given. These methods produce an image of the inside of the breast so that doctors can better decide whether breast cancer is responding to therapy. An important part of the study is to examine the same person with all methods in order to directly compare results. The four methods are: MRI Elasticity Imaging (abbreviated MRE), Electrical Impedance Spectroscopy (abbreviated EIS), Microwave Imaging and Spectroscopy (abbreviated MIS), Near Infrared Spectroscopy (abbreviated NIR). In addition to the experimental imaging methods, patients may also undergo a contrast-enhanced MRI, and/or additional mammography, which will help researchers compare the experimental methods. These additional examinations are accepted diagnostic procedures; they are not experimental. Some participants will have one or both of these additional examinations if clinically indicated.