The DRAGON 2 Trial
In the randomized controlled DRAGON 2 trial study subjects will be randomized between two arms, PVE alone (control group) and PVE/HVE (interventional group).
Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases (CRLM)|Small Future Liver Remnant (FLR)
PROCEDURE: Embolization
Volume sufficient for resection at week 3 after the embolization, Volume sufficient for resection will be based on the first week or third week CT/MR Volumetry. Vauthey calculation for TLV will be used and the FLR volume will be measured centrally (objective panel), 3 weeks|5-year Overall Survival, survival data will be recorded up to 5-years., 5 years
Resection of liver metastases from colorectal cancer (CRLM) improves survival compared to chemotherapy alone and may lead to cure in up to 40% of patients. Extended liver resections are sometimes necessary to resect primarily unresectable/ potentially resectable (PU/PR) colorectal liver metastases. These resections are generally performed if the volume of the future liver remnant (FLR) comprises at least 30% of the total volume of the liver (without the volume of the metastases) or when liver function of the FLR on technetium-99m (99mTc) scintigraphy exceeds 2.67%/min/m2.

When this liver volume or function criterion is not met, a high chance of post-hepatectomy liver failure exists. To prevent this, the induction of liver regeneration between a two-stage hepatectomy is commonly performed.

The current standard procedure to induce regeneration is the embolization of the portal vein branches to the tumor carrying liver (PVE) to induce hypertrophy of the remaining part of the liver which will serve as the FLR. Recently, combined embolization of both portal and hepatic veins (PVE/HVE) has been described as a possible superior alternative to PVE, as it increases and accelerates hypertrophy of the FLR. PVE/HVE combines simultaneous embolization of the main portal vein branches into the tumor carrying liver and the hepatic vein draining this part of the liver. Preclinical studies in pigs, several retrospective studies, and the prospective DRAGON 1 interim analysis (n=60) have demonstrated the safety and feasibility of this novel technique. However, no international randomized controlled trial has been performed, in which combined PVE/HVE is compared with PVE