LuCID - Investigating the Use of a Novel Digital Rectoscope for Community Examinations During COVID-19
The LumenEye scope and CHiP platform will be piloted in a number of clinical settings including remote colorectal clinics. The rationale is to perform an initial pilot study to determine the clinical utility of the LumenEye device for use in primary and secondary care settings.

The main hypothesis is that digital rectoscopy is safe and acceptable to clinicians including general practitioners and can significantly reduce the burden of endoscopy referral to and within secondary care centres.
Bowel Cancer|Bowel Diseases, Inflammatory|Rectal Bleeding
DEVICE: LumenEye X1 digital rectoscope
Patient Experience of LumenEye Examination, Assessing the percentage of participants with positive responses to the patient experience questionnaire, which is answered with a 5 point Likert scale, On the day of examination|Clinician Experience of LumenEye Examination, Assessing the the positive response rate by examining clinicians to their overall experience and certainty of diagnosis for each examination, On the day of examination
Diagnostic Accuracy of the LumenEye for the Detection of Rectal Pathology Including Tumour, Polyps and Inflammation, To provide pilot data within the small study for the diagnostic accuracy of the LumenEye system as compared to conventional flexible endoscopy., Diagnostic accuracy of the LumenEye examination to be compared with subsequent investigations completed by the time of analysis (2-9 months after study examination).
All clinicians performing investigations with the LumenEye will undergo training and quality assurance assessment. The first 5 procedures will be performed with a proctor to ensure that this is performed safely using appropriate PPE according to Public Health England Recommendations.

The primary study site will be based at Imperial College NHS trust which is a recognized National Bowel Cancer Screening (NBCS) Centre of excellence. The Imperial endoscopy suite performs over 10,000 endoscopic procedures each year.

All patients enrolled into the study will be asked to have a glycerine suppository prior to the examination. They will be examined by the primary care physician in the clinic as per a standard rigid sigmoidoscopy assessment. Physicians may take biopsies if required but only if the physician feels this is warranted for clinical use. There is no requirement for research specimens in this study.

All doctors using the LumenEye will asked to record images showing standard anatomical locations including:

1. The rectosigmoid junction
2. Each rectal haustral fold
3. Exit from the rectum. Videos will also be recorded for any pathology identified. Virtual clinics will be coordinated by the CI and Co-Is. During these clinics, a secondary care physician or surgeon will be available to discuss the case with the GP. These could be performed in real time with the patient present during a live examination or they could be performed retrospectively as part of a multidisciplinary team meeting.

Clinicians will be asked to provide qualitative feedback data with each use concerning device performance. This will be in the form of a short questionnaire, split into technical performance, views achieved, diagnostic yield, quality of the telemedicine interaction, patient outcome (discharged or referred to formal endoscopy) and adverse events.

Patient feedback will be requested through a validated questionnaire.. All clinicians providing advice and guidance via CHiP will be asked to provide data on the quality of the views, the stability of the platform and to provide information on the diagnosis. All data pertaining to follow up colonoscopy or flexible sigmoidoscopy will be used as a comparator group for a diagnostic sensitivity / specificity analysis.