A Study of ASP2215 (Gilteritinib) by Itself, ASP2215 Combined With Azacitidine or Azacitidine by Itself to Treat Adult Patients Who Have Recently Been Diagnosed With Acute Myeloid Leukemia With a FLT3 Gene Mutation and Who Cannot Receive Standard Chemotherapy
This is a clinical study for adult patients who have recently been diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia or AML. AML is a type of cancer. It is when bone marrow makes white blood cells that are not normal. These are called leukemia cells. Some patients with AML have a mutation, or change, in the FLT3 gene. This gene helps leukemia cells make a protein called FLT3. This protein causes the leukemia cells to grow faster.

For patients with AML who cannot receive standard chemotherapy, azacitidine (also known as Vidaza®) is a current standard of care treatment option in the United States. This clinical study is testing an experimental medicine called ASP2215, also known as gilteritinib. Gilteritinib works by stopping the leukemia cells from making the FLT3 protein. This can help stop the leukemia cells from growing faster.

This study will compare two different treatments. Patients are assigned to one of these two groups by chance: a medicine called azacitidine, also known as Vidaza®, or an experimental medicine gilteritinib in combination with azacitidine. There is a twice as much chance to receive both medicines combined than azacitidine alone. The clinical study may help show which treatment helps patients live longer.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Acute Myeloid Leukemia With FMS-like Tyrosine Kinase (FLT3) Mutation
DRUG: gilteritinib|DRUG: azacitidine
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause., Up to 77 months
Event free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of documented relapse from complete remission (CR), treatment failure or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 77 months|Best response, Best response is defined as the best measured response (in the order of CR, CRp, Cri or treatment failure defined by lack of composite complete remission (CRc)) from all post-baseline visits., Up to 48 months|Complete remission (CR) rate, Complete remission rate is defined as the number of patients with all complete CRs., Up to 48 months|Composite complete remission (CRc) rate, CRc rate is defined as the number of patients with all complete and incomplete CRs (i.e., CR + Complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp) + Complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery (Cri))., Up to 48 months|Complete remission with partial hematologic recovery (CRh) rate, CRh rate is defined as the number of patients who achieve CRh at any of the post-baseline visits and do not have best response of CR divided by the number of patients in the analysis population., Up to 48 months|Complete remission and complete remission with partial hematological recovery (CR/CRh) rate, CR/CRh rate is defined as the number of patients who achieve either CR or CRh at any of the post-baseline visits divided by the number of patients in the analysis population., Up to 48 months|Transfusion conversion rate, Transfusion conversion rate is defined as the number of patients who were transfusion dependent at the baseline period but become transfusion independent at the post-baseline period divided by the total number of patients who were transfusion dependent at baseline period., Up to 49 months|Transfusion maintenance rate, Transfusion maintenance rate is defined as the number of patients who were transfusion independent at the baseline period and still maintain transfusion independence at the post-baseline period divided by the number of patients who were transfusion independent at baseline period., Up to 49 months|Leukemia free survival (LFS), LFS is defined as the time from the date of first composite complete remission (CRc) until the date of documented relapse or death for subjects who achieve CRc., Up to 77 months|Duration of remission, Duration of remission includes duration of CRc, CR, Cri, CRp and response (CRc + partial response \[PR\]). Duration of CRc is defined as the time from the date of first CRc until the date of documented relapse for subjects who achieve CRc. Duration of remission is similarly defined for CR, Cri and CRp., Up to 48 months|Participant reported fatigue from Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), The BFI was developed to assess the severity of fatigue and the impact of fatigue on daily functioning in subjects with fatigue due to cancer and cancer treatment The BFI inventory has 9 items and a 24-hour recall. A global fatigue score is computed by averaging the 9 items., Up to 48 months|Safety assessed by adverse events (AEs), Up to 49 months|Number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events related to treatment, Up to 48 months|Number of participants with abnormal vital signs and/or adverse events related to treatment, Up to 48 months|Number of participants with Physical Exam abnormalities and/or adverse events, Number of participants with potentially clinically significant physical exam values., Up to 48 months|Safety assessed by electrocardiograms (ECGs), The 12-lead ECGs will be recorded in triplicate (3 separate ECGs) and transmitted electronically for central reading. The mean of the triplicate ECG from central read will be used for all final treatment decisions and adverse event reporting., Up to 48 months|Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status score, ECOG performance status measured on 6 point scale to assess participant's performance status. 0=Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction; 1=Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature; 2= Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3=Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4=Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair; 5=Dead. 0=Best status; 5=Worst status., Up to 48 months
Patients considered an adult according to local regulation at the time of obtaining informed consent may participate in the study.

Safety Cohort Prior to initiation of the randomized trial, 8 to 12 patients will be enrolled to evaluate the safety and tolerability of ASP2215 given with azacitidine therapy in the study population.

Randomized Trial Approximately 250 patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive ASP2215 plus azacitidine (Arm AC) or azacitidine only (Arm C). Patients will enter the screening period up to 14 days prior to the start of treatment. Patients will be administered treatment over 28-day cycles.

Earlier protocol versions included a 1:1:1 randomization ratio to receive Arm A: ASP2215, Arm AC: ASP2215 + azacitidine or Arm C: azacitidine. Patients previously randomized to Arm A should continue following treatment and assessments as outlined in the protocol.