CairnSurgical Breast Cancer Locator (BCL) Post-Market Study
This interventional, post-market, multicenter clinical investigation is designed to evaluate the performance of a custom-made medical device, "the Breast Cancer Locator (BCL)" in Subjects with non-palpable breast cancer, in Europe.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Breast Cancer Locator Guided Breast Conserving Surgery
Positive Margin Rate, To evaluate the performance of BCL in reducing the positive margin rate, the proportion of patients with positive margins after partial mastectomy with the BCL will be obtained., Pathology results will from the index procedure be available within 14 days from the day of sample arrival at the pathological lab.
Specimen volume, To calculate the specimen volume after BCL guided partial mastectomy, the water displacement method (WDM) will be used., Results will be obtained the same day of surgery.|Surgeon's Perception, To evaluate the surgeon's perception of the BCL system, a survey asking them if they strongly disagree, somewhat disagree, are undecided, somewhat agree, or strongly agree that the BCL made tumor localization easier, was easy to use, made tumor excision easier, and would be recommended by them, will be used., Results will be obtained prior to subject discharge after the study procedure (within approximately 2 days after surgery)|Adverse events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of BCL, adverse events will be reported, including frequency, maximum intensity, relation to study treatment, seriousness, action taken, and outcome. Safety data will be handled descriptively., From supine MRI 10-40 days prior to surgery through 6 weeks +/- 7 days post surgery|Patient Satisfaction, To evaluate the patient's satisfaction, the BREAST-Q patient-reported outcome measure will be used. Patient satisfaction scores range from 0-100, with a higher score meaning greater satisfaction or better quality of life (depending on the scale)., 6 weeks +/- 7 days post surgery
The aim of this interventional, post-market, multicenter clinical investigation is to evaluate the performance of a custom-made medical device, the Breast Cancer Locator (BCL) system, in subjects with non-palpable breast cancer. The study will be conducted in European countries. To evaluate the performance of BCL in reducing the positive margin rate, the proportion of patients with positive margins after partial mastectomy with the BCL will be obtained.

Each Subject, after signing an Informed Consent Form (ICF), will enter into a screening phase, during which several assessments (e.g., demographics, medical history, evaluation of available prone MRI and core biopsy pathological results) will be conducted.

At visit 1, the Subject will undergo supine MRI, from which a 3D breast image and BCL will be made.

At visit 2, the patient will undergo Breast Conserving Surgery (BCS) using the BCL system. On the same day, the specimen volume will be determined. The excised specimen will be sent to the pathological lab for analysis. The results, including the positive margin rate (PMR) and specimen mammogram, will be obtained within 14 days.

At visit 3, follow-up assessments (including physical examination, and adverse event review) will be performed.

At the End Of Study visit, adverse events will be assessed and patients will be asked to express their satisfaction with the BREAST-Q.