Neoadjuvant Short-course Radiotherapy Followed by the Combination of Immunotherapy and Chemotherapy in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
This is a single arm, open-label, prospective phase II clinical trial to evaluate the combination of neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and immunotherapy (PD-1 antibody) for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC). A total of 40 patients will be enrolled in this trial to receive 5\*5Gy short-course radiotherapy, followed by 4 cycles of CAPOX chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody. Then they will receive the TME surgery and another 4 cycles of CAPOX chemotherapy. There are two cohorts according to the microsatellite instability status: (1) the micro-satellite stable (MSS) cohort（n=32), (2) the MSI-high cohort (n=8). The primary end point is the rate of pathological complete response (pCR). The long-term prognosis and adverse effects will also be evaluated and analyzed.
Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
DRUG: PD-1 antibody|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
pCR rate, Pathologic complete response rate, The TME surgery will be recommended at 1 week after the neoadjuvant therapy. The pCR rate is evaluated after surgery. Assessed up to 6 months
3-year DFS, 3-year disease free survival rate, Assessed up to 3 years|3-year local recurrence rate, 3-year local recurrence rate, Assessed up to 3 years|3-year OS, 3-year overall survival rate, Assessed up to 3 years|Grade 3-4 adverse effects rate, Radiotherapy, immunotherapy and chemotherapy related grade 3-4 adverse events rate, Assessed up to 3 years|Surgical complications, Type and Rate of surgical complications, Assessed up to 3 years from the TME surgery|Quality of Life Scale, The Quality of Life Scale (QoLS, range 0-60) will be used to evaluate the quality of life. Higher scores mean the better quality of life, Assessed up to 5 years
This is a single arm, open-label, prospective phase II clinical trial to evaluate the combination of neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy and immunotherapy (PD-1 antibody) for patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC). A total of 40 patients will be enrolled in this trial to receive 5\*5Gy short-course radiotherapy, followed by 4 cycles of CAPOX chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody. Then they will receive the TME surgery and another 4 cycles of CAPOX chemotherapy. There are two cohorts according to the microsatellite instability status: (1) the micro-satellite stable (MSS) cohort（n=32), (2) the MSI-high cohort (n=8). The primary end point is the rate of pathological complete response (pCR). The long-term prognosis and adverse effects will also be evaluated and analyzed.