GET FIT Prostate: A Randomized Controlled Exercise Trial
The GET FIT Prostate trial (Group Exercise Training for Fall prevention and functional Improvements during and after Treatment for Prostate cancer) is a single-blind, parallel group, randomized controlled trial comparing - 1) tai ji quan (functional balance) and 2) strength training (functional strength) against each other and vs. 3) a stretching control (functional mobility) - over a 6-mos. supervised intervention and 6-mos. follow-up. Two million prostate cancer survivors are alive in the U.S. and nearly half (45%) will receive androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) to reduce tumor androgen exposure and slow down cancer progression. While beneficial for cancer survival, significant treatment-induced side effects from ADT may lead to serious health consequences including falls, frailty, and dysfunction that contribute to morbidity and mortality
Prostate Carcinoma
OTHER: Resistance Training|OTHER: Stretching|OTHER: Tai Chi
Change in number of falls, Prospective assessment of falls will be done by collecting monthly reports returned by postal and/or electronic mail. A fall is defined as unintentionally coming to rest on the ground or at some other lower level, not as a result of a major intrinsic event (e.g., stroke or syncope) or overwhelming hazard., Baseline up to 12 months
Change in total frailty score, Frailty will be measured using the components of the Frailty Phenotype, which consist of measures of lean body mass, fatigue, physical activity, walk speed, and muscle strength, listed as additional outcomes below. Each component of frailty will be assessed using measures that will capture frailty criteria in the prostate cancer survivor population and where cutoff scores can be appropriately determined. A total frailty score will be calculated as: \>= 3 components = frail; 1-2 components = prefrail; 0 components = robust., Baseline up to 12 months|Lean body mass, Lean body mass will be measured by whole body by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan and by bioelectric impedance analysis., Baseline up to 12 months|Fatigue-general, Fatigue will be measured using the Short Form (SF)-36 Vitality scale. The scale ranges from 0-100 with lower scores indicating higher fatigue (i.e., less vitality)., Baseline up to 12 months|Fatigue-cancer, Fatigue will also be measured using the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F). The questionnaire includes 13 items rated from "not at all" to "very much" over the past 7 days., Baseline up to 12 months|Physical activity, Physical activity will be measured by physical activity-related energy expenditure (kcals/week) calculated from self-report physical activity., Baseline up to 12 months|Walk speed, Walk speed will be measured as the fastest time of two 15 foot walks at a usual pace. Walks will be performed on an electronic gait mat to ensure accurate timing. Cutpoints for the slowness component of frailty are: walk time \>= 7 seconds for height \>= 173 cm or time \>= 6 seconds for height =\< 173 cm. 3 meter Timed Up and Go will also be collected as a measure of slowness., Baseline up to 12 months|Muscle strength, Muscle strength will be measured by timed chair stand test (seconds required to rise from chair 5 times). The cutpoint for the frailty component of weakness is: chair stand time \>= 12 seconds., Baseline up to 12 months|Change in functional mobility, Functional mobility will be measured by the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test which measures the time that it takes a person to rise from a chair, walk 7 meters (m), turn around a cone and return and sit in the chair., Baseline up to 12 months|Change in functional balance, Functional balance will be measured by postural sway which evaluates how well a person can maintain their equilibrium during quiet standing. Participants will perform a standard 30-second postural sway test to measure the velocity (meters per second \[m/s\]) of sway during quiet standing with i) feet together and eyes closed and ii) feet together and eyes open, using lightweight, inertial wireless sensors worn on the trunk., Baseline up to 12 months|Change in perceived physical function, Perceived physical function will be measured by self-report using the physical function subscale of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30; version 3, App. I). Scores on the subscale range from 0-100 where higher scores indicate better physical functioning., Baseline up to 12 months|Flexibility, Flexibility will be measured using the chair sit and reach. While seated on the edge of a chair, participants bend from the hip and reach toward or past the toes. The toes represent 0, so a reach short of the toes is recorded in negative inches, and a reach past the toes is recorded in positive inches. Higher values indicate greater flexibility., Baseline up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine and compare the efficacy of tai ji quan training and strength training in reducing the incidence of falls in prostate cancer survivors on antiandrogen therapy (ADT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine and compare the efficacy of tai ji quan training and strength training to reduce frailty and dysfunction in prostate cancer survivors on ADT.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine how well the benefits of tai ji quan and strength interventions persist over a 6-month period.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the patterns and predictors of types of men (including host and treatment factors) who benefit most from tai ji quan and strength training.

OUTLINE:

The study is a 3-group, single-blind, parallel design randomized controlled trial in prostate cancer survivors treated with ADT. Participants in each study group will attend supervised 1-hr classes, 3 days a week for 6 months.

ARM 1: Tai ji quan, an integrated exercise routine consisting of 8 purposeful movement forms and a set of therapeutic movements, specifically designed to challenge limits of stability and train gait patterns, as reflected in movements such as upright trunk positioning, displacement of body's center of mass over the weight-bearing leg, and step initiation, locomotion, and termination.

ARM 2: Strength training. Participants wear a weighted vest while performing exercises using functional movement patterns that challenge balance by using muscle groups and movement involved in everyday activities (chair rises, 90°squats, side-to-side squats, toe raises, lunges (forward, lateral, backward, walking), multi-directional step ups).

ARM 3: Stretching control. Participants in the control group will attend a supervised flexibility program of the same total weekly duration as the experimental arms (e.g., 3, 60-min sessions per week). Control participants will perform a series of whole body stretching exercises, according to the ACSM guidelines for flexibility training, with a focus on developing and maintaining a healthy back.

Six Month Follow-Up: Participants will be followed for an additional 6 months after the 6-month supervised intervention stops to track falls (using same monthly report used during intervention phase). Exercise questionnaires to track participation in home or community exercise programs and will be collected at the 9- and 12-month time periods.