Prospective Screening and Differentiating Common Cancers Using Peripheral Blood Cell-Free DNA Sequencing
The goal of this observational study is to screen and differentiate common cancers in participants with or without suspicious lesions. The main question the investigators aim to answer is: Can the developed model, using peripheral blood cell-free DNA sequencing, work well in screening and classifying common cancers especially in the early stages? Participants will undergo the collection of 15\~20ml of blood and 1\~2 telephone follow-up calls.
Cancer Diagnosis|LungCancer|Gastric Cancer|Liver Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Esophagus Cancer|Breast Cancer|Pancreas Cancer
diagnostic accuracy, This refers to the ability of the test (peripheral blood cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly classify individuals into the categories of having or not having the disease. It is a measure of the test's overall effectiveness. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion|sensitivity, This is the ability of the test (peripheral blood cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly identify those with the disease. It is the proportion of true positive results (those with the disease who test positive) to the total number of individuals who actually have the disease. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion|specificity, This is the ability of the test (peripheral blood cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly identify those without disease. It is the proportion of true negative results (those without the disease who test negative) to the total number of individuals who actually do not have the disease. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion
The goal of this observational study is to screen and differentiate common cancers in participants with or without suspicious lesions. The main question the investigators aim to answer is: Can the developed model, using peripheral blood cell-free DNA sequencing, work well in screening and classifying common cancers especially in the early stages? Participants will undergo the collection of 15\~20ml of blood and 1\~2 telephone follow-up calls.