Measuring Fatty Acid Oxidation in Gliomas Using 18F-FPIA PET/MRI
Glioma is the most common primary malignant brain tumour in adults and has an extremely poor prognosis. The aim of this study is to quantify the degree of early step fatty acid oxidation in gliomas as imaged by 18F-FPIA PET/MRI in 10 evaluable patients.

The Investigators hypothesise that FPIA uptake will be higher in high-grade gliomas compared to lower grade gliomas, in keeping with a higher propensity of high grade tumours to generate ATP and NADPH via fatty acid oxidation under bioenergetic stress.
Glioma
OTHER: PET/MRI
Quantitative Measurement of [18F]-FPIA Uptake in Human Gliomas, Standardised uptake values (SUV) on \[18F\]FPIA PET/MRI, -21-0 days
Correlation of 18F-FPIA Uptake With Tumour Type and Histological Grade Including O6-methylguanine-DNA Methyltransferase (MGMT) and Isocitrate Dehydrogenase (IDH) Gene Expression., \[18F\]FPIA PET/MRI \& Immunohistochemistry (IHC), 0-3 months
10 evaluable participants with suspected cerebral glioma on previous MRI who are due to undergo surgical resection or biopsy will be enrolled into the study. The patients invited to participate in the study will provide full consent, but will only undergo 18F-FPIA PET/MRI imaging once they have satisfied the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Once these have been satisfied, eligible participants will proceed to 18F-FPIA PET/MRI.

On the day of imaging the participants will undergo a blood test to measure plasma concentrations of carnitine. During the scan, a single dose of 18F-FPIA (maximum, 370 MBq) IV will be administered to the participant followed by a whole brain dynamic PET/MRI scan over 66 minutes. During the MRI sequences, the participant will receive an additional IV bolus of Gadolinium contrast medium administered through a peripheral venous cannula. Arterial blood sampling through a peripheral arterial line will be performed to determine the concentration of radiotracer within arterial plasma. All the participants that are enrolled into the study will undergo biopsy or surgical resection as part of their routine clinical care, from which their tumour grade will be confirmed; the Investigators will obtain tissue from these procedures to perform metabolomics, genomics and proteomics. Surgery or biopsy will be performed typically within 2 weeks but no later than 3 months.