Focused Ultrasound to Promote Immune Responses for Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
This study is a single site, single-arm, feasibility study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of MRgFUS using the ExAblate 2100 System for the partial ablation of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcomas.
Undifferentiated Pleomorphic Sarcoma
DEVICE: ExAblate 2000/2100 Magnetic Resonance-guided Focused Ultrasound (MRgFUS)
Proportion of participants with reported Device-Related Adverse Events, Proportion of participants with device-related adverse events will be determined by evaluating the incidence and severity of any device-related complications from the treatment day visit through the time of surgery or last post-treatment point. Patients will be followed for any reported adverse events following MRgFUS, per the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, Approximately 1-4 months
Percent change between baseline and post-treatment T-cell populations, Blood samples obtained at 1 week prior to MRgFUS and at 1 week post MRgFUS will be sent to the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Cancer Immunotherapy Lab. Flow cytometry panels will be performed to evaluate T-cell populations. Percent change between baseline and post-treatment samples will be calculated and displayed as a table, Approximately 1-4 months|Percent change between baseline and post-treatment natural killer cell populations, Blood samples obtained at 1 week prior to MRgFUS and at 1 week post MRgFUS will be sent to the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Cancer Immunotherapy Lab. Flow cytometry panels will be performed to evaluate natural killer cell populations. Percent change between baseline and post-treatment samples will be calculated and displayed as a table, Approximately 1-4 months|Percent change between baseline and post-treatment myeloid cell populations, Blood samples obtained at 1 week prior to MRgFUS and at 1 week post MRgFUS will be sent to the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Cancer Immunotherapy Lab. Flow cytometry panels will be performed to evaluate myeloid cell populations. Percent change between baseline and post-treatment samples will be calculated and displayed as a table, Approximately 1-4 months|Percent change between baseline and post-treatment Cytokine Concentrations, Blood samples obtained at 1 week prior to MRgFUS and at 1 week post MRgFUS. Cytokine concentrations will also be measured. Percent change between baseline and post-treatment samples will be calculated, Approximately 1-4 months|Presence of Immune Cell Populations in Sarcoma Tissue, The detectable presence of various immune populations in tumor specimens, including populations of CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, CD68, FOXP3, PD-1, PD-L1, and CD45 positive cells will be determined. RNA sequencing will also be performed., Approximately 1-4 months|Immunohistochemistry analyses, Immunohistochemistry analyses in patients with newly diagnosed local UPS will be compared to an archived matched group of patients (matched for age, sex, and history of neoadjuvant chemotherapy) who had resection of UPS without pre-operative MRgFUS. Nanostring digital spatial profiling may also be used for tissue analysis, Approximately 1-4 months
A total of 20 adult participants will be treated with MRgFUS through this study. A matched comparison group of archived samples from patients with UPS who have not received focused ultrasound will be used as a control group to further evaluate the secondary endpoints (stratified and matched for age, sex, and history of neoadjuvant chemotherapy). All patients enrolled will receive timely standard of care surgical resection, as clinically indicated. For patients enrolled with metastatic disease pre- and post-MRgFUS biopsy samples will be obtained

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the overall rate and severity of adverse events following MRgFUS of newly diagnosed or metastatic undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure possible immune response effects related to MRgFUS by serial serological analysis with flow cytometry panels (T-cell, natural killer cell, myeloid panels).

II. To measure possible immune response effects related to MRgFUS by multiplex immunohistochemistry assays of resected tumor specimens (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, CD68, FOXP3, PD-1, PD-L1, CD45) as well as RNA sequencing.

III. To compare possible immune response effects in patients receiving MRgFUS prior to either surgical resection or follow-up biopsy of undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma to either 1) a comparison group of archived samples from patients who have had resection of UPS but did not have pre-operative focused ultrasound (for patients with newly diagnosed local disease or 2) individual pre-MRgFUS biopsy analyses.