Nelfinavir, Cisplatin, and External Beam Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of Locally Advanced Vulvar Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of nelfinavir when given together with cisplatin and external beam radiation therapy in treating patients with vulvar cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) and cannot be removed by surgery. Nelfinavir is an antiviral drug normally used to treat human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high energy beams to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving nelfinavir, cisplatin, and external beam radiation therapy may work better than giving only cisplatin and external beam radiation therapy in treating patients with vulvar cancer.
Stage II Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Vulvar Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Nelfinavir
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of nelfinavir, Defined as the dose for which the isotonic estimate of the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) rate is closest to the target DLT rate of 30%. If there are ties, the higher dose will be chosen as the RP2D when the isotonic estimate is lower than 30%, and the lower dose will be chosen when the isotonic estimate is greater than or equal to 30%., 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, Results from the dose escalation phase of study will be summarized by a tabulation of the number of patients treated and the number who experience a DLT at each dose level tested. Comprehensive safety data on all toxicities will be tabulated by type, grade, duration, attribution to treatment, and administered dose level. A patient level summary by worst grade toxicity will be included. Laboratory data and concomitant medications associated with episodes of toxicity will be summarized. Will also report the number of patients who discontinue therapy and the reasons for discontinuation., 1 year
Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method developed by Kaplan and Meier. Will report rates at specific times (e.g., at 6 and 12 months) and medians, if attained, with corresponding 95% confidence interval., 1 year|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the product-limit method developed by Kaplan and Meier. Will report rates at specific times (e.g., at 6 and 12 months) and medians, if attained, with corresponding 95% confidence interval., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and dose limiting toxicities of nelfinavir in combination with cisplatin plus inguinal +/-pelvic radiation therapy for treatment of patients with unresectable T2-4, N0-3 vulvar carcinoma.

II. To determine the recommended phase II dose of nelfinavir combined with chemoradiotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine recurrence site (local/distant), progression-free survival and overall survival.

II. To determine the levels of Akt activity (and downstream effectors such as pGSK3, pEBP1) and p16INK4A in addition to the presence of human papilloma virus (HPV) 16 and 18, and E6/E7 ribonucleic acid (RNA) in vulvar biopsy specimens of patients at up to two(2) different time points (1. pre nelfinavir, pre-radiation, 2. while on nelfinavir, pre-radiation).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nelfinavir orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 8 weeks. Starting week 2, patients also receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 60-90 minutes once weekly during weeks 2-8. Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for 5 consecutive days between weeks 2-8. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 1 year.