Advisory Board on Cancer, Infertility and Pregnancy
The Advisory Board on Cancer, Infertility and Pregnancy provides a platform where physicians from all over the world can request recommendations regarding the medical care of pregnant women diagnosed with cancer or regarding fertility preservation. The platform will contain different national advisory boards, with their own coordinator and members, as well as an overarching international advisory board with an international coordinator and members from different national boards.

To investigate the impact of this platform, a year after its launch, data regarding the incoming requests will be extracted from the website, as well as all recommendation letters.
Cancer in Pregnancy|Fertility Preservation|Cancer|Pregnancy
The impact of an international advisory board on cancer in pregnancy, To investigate the impact of this platform, a year after its launch, data regarding the incoming requests will be extracted from the website, as well as all recommendation letters. All requesting physicians will be asked to complete a survey including their experiences with the ABCIP, to what amount they followed the given recommendations and the outcomes of mother (and child), 1 year
The Advisory Board on Cancer, Infertility and Pregnancy (ABCIP)-platform will be a web-based platform where clinicians from all over the world can request advice from a group of experts on the field of Cancer and Pregnancy. The platform will contain different national advisory boards, with their own coordinator and members, as well as an overarching international advisory board with an international coordinator and members from different national boards.

Clinicians can fill in a format (attached) requesting for advice, using only pseudonymized patient data after agreeing a disclaimer:

All information filled in in the 'request advice' format needs to be regarded as anonymous or pseudonymous data. We recommend you to inform your patient and ask for approval when needed, based on the rules and regulations applicable in your country.

The filled out request will be sent to the specific national board of their own country, and if no national board is available, to the overarching international board.

. To investigate the impact of this platform, a year after its launch, data regarding the incoming requests will be extracted from the website, as well as all recommendation letters.