Intelligent Vacuum Assisted Biopsy Immediately Before Surgery As an Intra- or Pre-Operative Surrogate for Patient Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) is common practice in the primary treatment of breast cancer, leading to a complete pathologic remission (pCR) of the tumor in more than 50% in aggressive tumor types. As NAC induces different response patterns, radiologic imaging is not sufficiently accurate in predicting residual disease. Because of this uncertainty, surgery is so far the only valid option to either ascertain complete response or to remove the complete residual disease.

Vacuum-assisted biopsy (VAB) with the possibility of obtaining tissue of the former tumor center could contribute more reliably to detect any residual tumor or respectively, rule out residual disease. Ultrasound (US) or mammographically (MG) guided VAB will be used in this trial in order to detect residual tumor lesions in patients with radiological complete response (rCR) after NAC. The investigators will evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the post-NAC VAB sample in comparison to the sample obtained in open surgery.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Vacuum assisted biopsy (VAB)
Sensitivity, Sensitivity of I-VAB is defined as proportion of true positive patients (Both VAB and surgery showing non pCR) given patients with non pCR assessed using surgical specimen., max. 6 weeks after registration
Specificity, Specificity of I-VAB is defined as proportion of true negative patients (Both VAB and surgery showing pCR) given patients with pCR assessed using surgical specimen., max. 6 weeks after registration|Positive predictive value (PPV), PPV of I-VAB is defined as proportion of true positive patients given patients with non pCR assessed using VAB, max. 6 weeks after registration|Negative predictive value (NPV), NPV of I-VAB is defined as proportion of true negative patients given patients with pCR assessed using VAB, max. 6 weeks after registration|Accuracy (ACC), ACC of I-VAB is defined as the proportion of true positive and true negative patients., max. 6 weeks after registration|Surgical lymph node status, Surgical lymph node status (positive vs. negative) is categorized by the pathologist according to surgical specimen., max. 6 weeks after registration|Adverse events, Proportion of patients with bleeding/hematoma causing immediate surgical intervention and breast infection, which are related to VAB., From US-guided VAB (max. 6 weeks after registration) until 2 weeks after breast surgery (max 1 day after VAB).
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC), initially indicated to downstage tumors to achieve the option of breast conserving surgery, has lately become common practice in the primary treatment of breast cancer. The use of modern NAC regimens lead to a complete pathologic remission (pCR) of the tumor in more than 50% in aggressive tumor types.

In general, it is difficult to predict pCR in the absence of invasive surgical techniques, as it depends on several factors such as biological subtype, the used chemotherapy regimen and anatomic stage. The most common imaging methods beside clinical examination are breast ultrasound, mammography and breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). As NAC induces different response patterns, radiologic imaging is not sufficiently accurate in predicting residual disease. Because of this uncertainty, surgery (and the standardized assessment of resected tissue) is so far the only valid option to either ascertain complete response or to remove the complete residual disease.

Vacuum-assisted biopsy (VAB) with the possibility of obtaining tissue of the former tumor center could contribute more reliably to detect any residual tumor or respectively, rule out residual disease. Ultrasound (US) or mammographically (MG) guided VAB will be used in this trial in order to detect residual tumor lesions in patients with radiological complete response (rCR) after NAC. The investigators will evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the post-NAC VAB sample in comparison to the sample obtained in open surgery.

The main objective of the trial is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of I-VAB using the full pathologic specimen evalutation obtained after open surgery to detect residual tissue.