Alpha Lipoic Acid to Decrease Pain and Side Effects in Concurrent Treatment of HNSCC
This is a phase I, single-center, non-randomized, 3+3 dose-escalation study of alpha lipoic acid given during chemotherapy-radiation in HNSCC patients with non-metastatic disease.
HNSCC
DRUG: Alpha Lipoic Acid
MTD and RP2D of ALA during chemoradiotherapy for HNSCC patients, The maximum tolerated dose will be the highest dose in the planned schema that is given without evidence of SAEs.

The RP2D will incorporate the MTD and PKs to determine the dose that is best tolerated as well as has the concentration necessary to be effective according to historical studies., 18 months
Safety of ALA by following adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be documented to determine the primary endpoints as well as to categorize potential side effects that can be attributed to ALA. CTCAE version 5.0 will be used to categorize the AEs, up to 18 months|Maximum plasma concentration of ALA at the MTD with chemoradiotherapy, Maximum plasma concentration will be evaluated on the 3 patients in the dose expansion group at the MTD. This will be studied when given with cisplatin for standardization to ensure concentration is similar to when ALA is given alone., At start of ALA, Day 1, and Day 15, for 3 dose expansion PK patients|Change in Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS) from baseline, OMAS scores will give preliminary measures on efficacy of drug to control pain and improve quality of life which will be the primary focus in future studies. Total scores will be collected from 0 (no mucositis) to 45 (worse mucositis). Average OMAS and change from baseline to worst score will be evaluated., From start of treatment to post-treatment surveillance scans, up to 6 months|Change in Visual Assessment Score (VAS) for pain from baseline, VAS for pain will give preliminary measures on efficacy of drug to control pain which will be the primary focus in future studies. The VAS score is from 0-10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being the worse possible pain. Average VAS and change from baseline to worst score will be evaluated., From start of treatment to post-treatment surveillance scans, up to 6 months|Change in quality of life measures using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head & Neck (FACT-HN) during chemoradiation, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head \& Neck (FACT-HN) will be used to evaluate quality of life measures at baseline and during treatment. This scale has the sub-categories of physical well being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being, functional well-being, and additional concerns. Each question is scaled from 0 (worst) to 4 (best). Each sub-category will be totaled and a total FACT-HN score will be calculated for each time point. Average sub-category and total scores will be calculated as well as change from baseline to worst scores during treatment., From start of treatment to post-treatment surveillance scans, up to 6 months|Total concurrent opioid use using patient reported diaries, Patients will document every dose of opioid medications taken during the study period. This will be used to used to calculated total opioid amounts taken (as oxycodone equivalents) as well as total duration of opioid use in days., From start of treatment to post-treatment surveillance scans, up to 6 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival will be calculated as time to disease progression from start of treatment measured in weeks. This will be documented by PET/CT and/or CT neck and chest completed prior to start of treatment and approximately 3 and 6 months after treatment discontinuation, Screening, 3 and 6 month follow up visits|Overall survival (OS), OS will be calculated as time from start of treatment to death as measured in weeks. This will be documented by survival follow-up during study visits, From start of treatment up to 18 months
The study will be completed when the MTD and RP2D are determined. This will be either when 2 or more patients have a DLT at a particular dose level, or when 6 patients have completed treatment at the highest dose level (600 mg TID). The final 3 patients enrolled at the highest tolerated dose will also complete PK studies.