Impact of Aggressive Versus Standard Drainage Regimen Using a Long Term Indwelling Pleural Catheter
Purpose and Objective: The purpose of this study is to determine if the rate of spontaneous pleurodesis using the Pleurx® catheter could be increased by simply increasing the frequency of pleural drainage and, if so, whether catheter-related complications can be minimized and spare patients the need for long term management of the Pleurx® catheter.
Pleural Effusion, Malignant
OTHER: Standard Drainage Instructions|OTHER: Aggressive Drainage Instructions
To compare the incidence of auto-pleurodesis utilizing aggressive drainage versus standard drainage protocols with the PleuRx® catheter, 2, 6, and 12 weeks post-catheter insertion
To determine the median time to auto-pleurodesis utilizing aggressive drainage versus standard drainage protocols with the PleuRx® catheter, 2, 6, and 12 weeks post-catheter insertion|To assess the effects of aggressive drainage versus standard drainage protocols with the PleuRx® catheter on functional health status, 2, 6, and 12 weeks post-catheter insertion|To determine predictors of auto-pleurodesis (volume and rate of pleural fluid drainage, biochemical, and radiographic) using post-hoc analysis in both the aggressive and standard drainage protocols, 2, 6, and 12 weeks post-catheter insertion|To determine patient and caregivers' satisfaction with the PleuRx® catheter using a questionnaire, 2, 6, and 12 weeks post-catheter insertion
Study Population: Patients greater than 18 years of age with malignant pleural effusions will be identified and approached in clinic by the Principle and Co-Investigator. Informed consent will be obtained from qualified and interested patients.

Study Activities: Patients will be randomized to standard and aggressive drainage groups and complete questionnaires regarding their health. Patients will then receive the Pleurx® catheter for standard treatment of their malignant pleural effusions, obtain a chest-xray, and receive educational instruction and training on catheter drainage and told whether to drain everyday using a 1-liter bottle or every other day using a 600-cc bottle. Patients will complete a drainage diary on everyday they drain fluid which will provide information on drainage volume, fluid color, pain, and complications. At 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks post catheter placement, patients will return to clinic for follow-up at which time they will have an interval history and physical and chest xray and complete a questionnaires regarding their health and satisfaction.

Risks/Safety Issues: Risks associated with draining the catheter include: pneumothorax, re-expansion pulmonary edema, hypotension, circulatory collapse, and infection. All serious adverse events will be reported to the institutional review board: a) death - immediately; b) life-threatening within 7 calendar days; c) all other SAEs (serious adverse events) within 15 calendar days. Should there be a serious adverse event that occurs that increases the risk to the participants, the study will be stopped, an investigation will be conducted, and a findings report will be generated before the study is resumed.

Data Analysis: The principal endpoint is the incidence of successful pleurodesis utilizing an aggressive drainage protocol compared to the incidence of successful pleurodesis using a standard drainage protocol. An interim analysis will be performed after 3 months.