Phase 2 Study of Zevalin Versus Zevalin and Motexafin Gadolinium in Patients With Rituximab-Refractory Low-grade or Follicular B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The objectives of this study are to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the Zevalin regimen compared to Zevalin and motexafin gadolinium in patients with rituximab-refractory, low-grade or follicular Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL).

Effectiveness of the experimental regimen assessed by complete response rate within 6 months of study entry (primary endpoint), complete response rate within 3 months of study entry, and overall response rate within 6 month of study entry.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Y-90-Zevalin|DRUG: Moxtezafin Gadolinium|DRUG: Rituximab
Complete Response Rate (CR), 6 Months
Overall Response Rate, Complete response rate within 3 months, overall response rate within 6 months and progression-free survival., 3 Months and 6 Months|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events and Non-Serious Adverse Events, An Adverse Events (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death, initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization, life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying), persistent or significant disability or incapacity, congenital anomaly. Non-SAEs was an AE events that are not Serious Adverse Events., From time of dosing until 2 years
This multi-center, randomized, open-label study is designed to compare the safety and efficacy of therapy with Zevalin regimen versus Zevalin and motexafin gadolinium in patients with rituximab-refractory, low-grade or follicular NHL. Approximately 100 adult patients enrolled in the study (approximately 50 in each group at 15 clinical sites in North America).

Patients screened for eligibility within the 14 days prior to Day 1 of the study. Once written informed consent has been obtained and patient eligibility has been established, the patient randomized 1:1 to receive either Zevalin or Zevalin and motexafin gadolinium.

Patients assessed for safety at each visit to the study center and for disease response at Months 3, 6 and 12. An end-of-study-visit performed at Month 12.

Disease status assessed using positron emission tomography (PET) or PET/computerized tomography (CT), and/or flow cytometry. Disease response will be evaluated in accordance with the standardized definitions and criteria of the International Working Group Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. The efficacy endpoints that assessed are complete response rate and overall response rate.

Safety was assessed by adverse events, physical examinations, vital signs, and clinical laboratory assessments. Serious adverse events (SAEs) and treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) was collected for all patients beginning on Day 1 and continuing through the end-of study-visit to be performed at Month 12 or withdrawal from study.