A Study of Intravenous EEDVsMit in Children With Recurrent / Refractory Solid or CNS Tumours Expressing EGFR
This is an open-label, sequential dose exploration study of single agent EEDVSMit administered by intravenous (IV) infusion twice weekly, followed by weekly maintenance dosing, in children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours.
Solid Tumours|CNS Tumours
DRUG: Mitoxantrone packaged EDV (EnGeneIC Delivery Vehicle)
MTD at which fewer than one third of patients experience dose limiting toxicity as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, To determine a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for EEDVsMit administered intravenously in children with recurrent / refractory solid or CNS tumours expressing EGFR, Day 28 (cycle 1)|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, To define and describe the toxicities of EEDVSMit administered on these schedules in children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours, Up to 35 days after the completion of study treatment|Incidence of all adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, clinically significant changes in vital signs, ECGs and clinical laboratory tests, Assess the safety and tolerability of EEDVSMit in children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours., Up to 35 days after the completion of study treatment
Assess disease response according to RECIST version 1.1 for children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours, To preliminarily define the anti-tumour activity of EEDVSMit and assess response rates using RECIST version 1.1 criteria in children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours within the confines of a phase 1 study., Up to 35 days after the completion of study treatment|Assess overall survival, Assess overall survival (OS) in children with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours treated with EEDVSMit on this schedule, 12 months from the date the last subject was enrolled in the study.|Time to response assessed by radiological imaging and RECIST v1.1, Estimate the time to response., Evaluated at Day 56 (after cycle 2), then every second cycle to the end of study treatment (up to 12 months)
Eligible subjects enrolled in the study will receive EEDVSMit by IV injection twice weekly as a 20 min infusion beginning at study day 1 for the first cycle (4 weeks) then weekly for subsequent cycles. Subjects will undergo radiological assessment of their tumours after the first cycle, and every second cycle thereafter. Dosing with EEDVSmit will continue unless there is radiographic evidence of progressive disease (PD) per RECIST criteria version 1.1, the subject becomes intolerant to the study medication, signs and symptoms of clinical progression are evident as determined by the principal investigator, or the subject/parent/guardian withdraws consent. Suspected tumour progression should be confirmed with a repeat scan after 4 weeks to exclude the possibility of pseudoprogression.

Determination of EGFR expression for eligibility of subjects will be assessed at the local site. In addition, radiological assessment confirming measurable disease by the RECIST criteria is also required for entry into the Part B of the study.

The study will be conducted in two parts: Part A -Dose Exploration and Part B -Dose Expansion.

Part A - Dose Exploration:

The dose exploration part of the study is aimed at determining a recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) in this patient group. A standard dose escalation with a rolling 6 design will be used.

Part A will commence dosing at one log scale below the maximum dose tested in the recent adult recurrent glioma trial (with the first 4 doses administered at 1/10 of the starting dose) and escalate to a maximum of 8x109 EEDVSMit evaluating the safety and tolerability, of EEDVSMit. The first 4 doses administered will be reduced by a further log reduction.

Part B - Dose expansion:

The dose expansion phase (Part B) will begin upon completion of the dose exploration (Part A). Up to 12 subjects with recurrent/refractory solid or CNS tumours will be treated at the Recommended Phase Two Dose (RPTD). All doses, including the first 4, will be at the same dose level established in Part A (RPTD).