Modified Immune Cells (TAG72-CAR T Cells) for the Treatment of Patients With Platinum Resistant Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of TAG72-chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells in treating patients with epithelial ovarian cancer that remains despite treatment with platinum therapy (platinum resistant). T cells are infection fighting blood cells that can kill tumor cells. The T cells given in this study will come from the patient and will have a new gene put in them that makes them able to recognize TAG72, a protein on the surface of tumor cells. These TAG72-specific T cells may help the body's immune system identify and kill TAG72+ cancer cells.
Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cells|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Rates and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 28 days|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse Events are graded using NCI CTCAE v.5., Up to 1 year post treatment
Persistence of CAR T cells, Defined as CAR T cells \> 0.1% of total CD3 cells by flow-cytometry., Up to 28 days post treatment|Expansion of CAR T cells, Max log10 copies/ug of genomic DNA, Up to 1 year post treatment|Response (iRECIST), Assessed based on Immune-Related Response Criteria. Rates and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 1 year post treatment|Overall survival (OS), Defined as death from all causes from first treatment date (either lymphodepletion or CAR T cell infusion, as applicable. Kaplan Meier methods will be used to estimate median OS, and graph the results., Up to 1 year post treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined as survival without biochemical (CA125) or radiographic evidence of disease progression or relapse from first treatment date (either lymphodepletion or CAR T cell infusion, as applicable). Rates and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits will be estimated., Up to 6 months post treatment|Serum cytokine profile, Serum cytokine profile before and after CAR T cell infusion: to assess potential cytokine release syndrome (CRS) toxicity and CAR T cell effector function, sequential serum samples will be analyzed for Th1/Th2 cytokines (e.g., IL-12, IFNgamma, TNFalpha, IL-10, IL-4, IL-5) by bead array, Up to 1 year post treatment
Phenotypes and frequencies of immune cell subsets in the peripheral bloodpre- and post-therapy, Analysis will include CD4:CD8 ratios, differentiation status (CD62L, CD27, CD45 RA/RO), and exhaustion markers (PD1, Tim3, LAG3),trafficking (CCR7, alpha4beta7), proliferation markers (ki67) and effector functions (cytotoxicity, Th1/Th2 cytokines, and CD107a degranulation) on endogenous and CAR+ T cells. Will provide descriptive statistics for exploratory studies. Data will be presented as % of total cells, or as cell/mL blood or peritoneal fluid., Up to 1 year post treatment|Phenotype of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, Will provide descriptive statistics for exploratory studies., Up to 1 year post treatment|Gene expression, Assessed by ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNA-seq) of circulating tumor cells (CTCs). Will provide descriptive statistics for exploratory studies., Up to 1 year post treatment|Circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid in peripheral blood, Assessed by whole exome sequencing., Up to 1 year post treatment|CAR immunogenicity, Assessed based on the presence of anti-TAG72 CAR antibodies or T cell mediated immune responses., Up to 1 year post treatment|Microbial changes (Stool), Microbial changes in stool associated with CAR T cell therapy, Up to 1 year post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of TAG72-CAR T cells in participants with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC).

II To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). III. To identify the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Persistence of CAR T cells in blood and peritoneal cavity pre- and 28 days post-infusion.

II. Response based on Immune-Related Response Criteria (irRC). III. Estimate the 6 month progression free survival rate. IV. Estimate median overall survival. V. TAG72 expression on tumor cells by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or flow cytometry; VI. Describe the serum cytokine profile pre- and post-CAR T cell infusion to assess potential cytokine release syndrome (CRS) toxicity and CAR T cell effector function.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Phenotypes and frequencies of immune cell subsets in the peripheral blood pre- and post- therapy: analysis will include CD4:CD8 ratios, differentiation status (CD62L, CD27, CD45 RA/RO), and exhaustion markers (PD1, Tim3, LAG3), trafficking (CCR7, alpha4beta7), proliferation markers (ki67) and effector functions (cytotoxicity, Th1/Th2 cytokines, and CD107a degranulation) on endogenous and CAR+ T cells.

II. Phenotype of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). III. Gene expression (by RNA-seq) of circulating tumor cells (CTCs). IV. Circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) in peripheral blood by whole exome sequencing.

V. CAR immunogenicity based on the presence of anti-TAG72 CAR antibodies or T cell mediated immune responses.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TAG72-CAR T cells.

Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) and cyclophosphamide IV on days -5 to -3. Patients receive TAG72-CAR T cells IP on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 7, 14, 21, 28, 60 and 90 days, 6, 9, and 12 months, then for up to 15 years.