Salvage Therapeutic Radiation With Enzalutamide and ADT in Men With Recurrent Prostate Cancer (STREAM)
The purpose of this study is to describe the 2 year progression-free survival in men with recurrent PSA-only disease after prostatectomy receiving combined enzalutamide and standard androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) with salvage radiation therapy. Eligible men will have recurrent PSA-only prostate cancer within 4 years of prostatectomy, and a PSA of 0.2 - 4 in the absence of metastatic disease on CT and bone scans. In addition to standard ADT and radiation therapy, research participants will take enzalutamide once daily for six months. It is primarily hypothesized the 2 year PFS rate will be improved with the combined therapy compared to the historical control data in a similar patients setting.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: enzalutamide|DRUG: Androgen Deprivation|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Two Year Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients surviving 2 years from the start of study treatment without progression of disease. PFS was defined as the time from the date of study treatment initiation to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. Progression-free was defined as being without one of the following: serum PSA value of 0.2 ng/mL or more above post-radiotherapy PSA nadir that continues to increase 4 weeks later OR if no nadir is experienced, two rising PSA values over 4 or more weeks OR evidence of clinical progression or initiation of systemic therapy for progressive disease, 2 years
PSA Less Than 0.1, The percentage of men with PSA less than 0.1 ng/mL and testosterone greater than 100, every year, up to 3 years|Three Year Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients surviving 3 years from the start of study treatment without progression of disease. PFS was defined as the time from the date of study treatment initiation to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. Progression-free was defined as being without one of the following: serum PSA value of 0.2 ng/mL or more above post-radiotherapy PSA nadir that continues to increase 4 weeks later OR if no nadir is experienced, two rising PSA values over 4 or more weeks OR evidence of clinical progression or initiation of systemic therapy for progressive disease, 3 years|Biochemical Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients surviving 2 and 3 years from the start of study treatment without progression of disease. Biochemical PFS was defined as the time from the date of study treatment initiation to the date of first documented progression or death due to any cause. Progression-free was defined as being without one of the following: serum PSA value of 0.2 ng/mL or more above post-radiotherapy PSA nadir that continues to increase 4 weeks later OR if no nadir is experienced, two rising PSA values over 4 or more weeks, 3 years|PSA Nadir, Median PSA nadir post-radiation therapy, 8 weeks|Time to Testosterone Recovery, Percentage of patients with recovering testosterone to \> 100 at 1, 2, and 3 years., 3 years|Number of Patients With Adverse Events Related to Combination Enzalutamide, ADT, and XRT, Safety and tolerability will be assessed using CTCAE v4.0, 3 years
The purpose of this study is to describe the 2 year progression-free survival in men with recurrent PSA-only disease after prostatectomy receiving combined enzalutamide and standard androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) with salvage radiation therapy. Eligible men will have recurrent PSA-only prostate cancer within 4 years of prostatectomy, and a PSA of 0.2 - 4 in the absence of metastatic disease on CT and bone scans. In addition to standard ADT and radiation therapy, research participants will take enzalutamide once daily for six months. It is primarily hypothesized the 2 year PFS rate will be improved with the combined therapy compared to the historical control data in a similar patients setting.