Patient Acceptance and Preference Among Screening Modalities for Detection of Barrett's Esophagus
To assess patient acceptance and preference among screening modalities, Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD), Transnasal Esophagoscopy (TNE), and Cytosponge for Barrett's esophagus (BE). Subjects will undergo administration of Cytosponge and transnasal endoscopy (TNE) prior to their scheduled clinically indicated upper endoscopy performed per routine standard of care. Following the procedure, a follow-up phone call will be made during which an impact of events scale related to the subjective distress of each procedure, a preference and acceptance questionnaire, and adverse events related to study participation will be collected.
Barrett Esophagus|GERD
DEVICE: Cytosponge|DEVICE: Transnasal Endoscopy (TNE)|DEVICE: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy
7 Days Post-EGD Impact of Events Score (IES), Impact of Events Score (IES): scale was developed to assess the distress associated with a specific life event. IES scores range from 0-75, with higher scores indicating more severe distress associated from an event. Scores ≥ 44 indicate a event has severe impact on self-reported distress while scores ≤ 25 indicate the event may have an effect on distress., 7 days post-EGD
Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Score, Visual Analog Scale (VAS): 100-mm horizontal line on which the participant's pain intensity is represented by a point between the extremes of 0 reflecting "no pain at all" and 100 reflecting the "worst pain imaginable.", Day 1, Post-procedure (<24 hours of procedure completion)|7 Days Post-EGD Willingness to Repeat, 7 days post-EGD participants were asked about their willingness to repeat the maneuvers (Yes/No)., 7 days post-EGD|7 Days Post-EGD Ranking of Preferred Screening Modality, Participants asked to rank preferred screening modality in order (1,2,3). Scores range from 0-3. Scores of 1 indicate a preference, while scores of 3 indicate aversion., 7 days post-EGD|Number of Participants Reporting Preferred Screening Modality, Participants asked "Which procedure would you prefer to undergo again?" Only one item could be selected., 7 days post-EGD|Factors Influencing the Preferred Screening Modality, Participants asked what factors influenced preference in choosing preferred screening modality. Selection options were: discomfort/pain; time (preparation time and post-procedure); cost; and sedation. Participants could provide multiple response selections., 7 days post-EGD
Potential subjects will be identified via protocol and Institutional Review Board (IRB) methods prior to obtaining written informed consent. Once written informed consent is obtained and baseline demographic and medical history is collected, subjects will undergo administration of Cytosponge and transnasal endoscopy (TNE) prior to their scheduled clinically indicated upper endoscopy performed per routine standard of care. Following the procedure, a follow-up phone call will be made during which an impact of events scale related to the subjective distress of each procedure, a preference and acceptance questionnaire, and adverse events related to study participation will be collected.