Cisplatin, Irinotecan, and Bevacizumab, in Treating Patients With Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving cisplatin and irinotecan together with bevacizumab works in treating patients with extensive-stage small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of small cell lung cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving cisplatin and irinotecan together with bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Survival time, Described using Kaplan-Meier curves., The time beginning at randomization until death or last known follow-up, assessed up to 4 years|Failure-free survival, Described using Kaplan-Meier curves., The time between randomization and the occurrence of disease progression, or death, whichever comes first, assessed up to 4 years
Frequency of toxicity, tabulated by the most severe occurrence, Graded using the NCI CTCAE version 3.0., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the percentage of patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer treated with cisplatin, irinotecan and bevacizumab who live longer than 12 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate of patients treated with cisplatin, irinotecan and bevacizumab.

II. To evaluate the toxicity and tolerability of the combination of cisplatin, irinotecan and bevacizumab.

III. To determine the association between VEGF/KDR complex expression and VEGF plasma levels and tumor response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cisplatin IV over 60 minutes and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 8. Patients also receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.