11C-YJH08 PET Imaging for Detection of Glucocorticoid Receptor Expression
This phase I trial studies if positron emission tomography (PET) imaging using 11C-YJH08 can be useful for detecting certain cell receptor expression in tumor cells in patients with cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). 11C-YJH08 is a small-molecule radiotracer that binds to receptors on cells (glucocorticoid receptor) so that they show up better on the PET scan. Systemic therapy (including enzalutamide) can cause more glucocorticoid receptors to be produced in tumor cells, which can make the tumor cells resist hormone therapies. If researchers can find a better way to detect whether glucocorticoid receptors are increasing during therapy, it may lead to more successful therapies using glucocorticoid receptor antagonists.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IV Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Solid Tumor, Adult|Solid Tumor|Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: 11C-YJH08|PROCEDURE: Optional Tumor Biopsy
Sensitivity of 11C-YJH08 PET in Metastatic Lesion Detection (Cohort A Only), Using as a cut-off to define a positive lesion on PET as a lesion with SUV at least 1.5 times higher than mediastinal blood pool, the sensitivity (probability that a test will indicate recurrent disease among those with recurrent disease (True Positive / (True Positive + False Negative)) will be descriptively reported on a lesion-per-lesion basis, using as reference standard staging scans including computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging of the chest/abdomen/pelvis., Up to day 1 follow-up|Median Percent Change From Baseline in Standardized Uptake Value (SUV)Max (Cohort B and C Only), The median percent change from baseline, and range of SUVmax (across all metastatic lesions per patient) will be descriptively reported using mediastinal blood pool and normal organ as background uptake values., Up to 24 months|Median Percent Change From Baseline at the Time of Progression in Standardized Uptake Value (SUV)Max-ave (Cohort B and C Only), The median percent change from baseline, and range of SUVmax-ave (in each study cohort) will be descriptively reported using mediastinal blood pool and normal organ as background uptake values., Up to 24 months
Number of Participants With Reported Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, The frequency and severity of adverse events following 11C-YJH08 injection will be descriptively reported, using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 criteria., Up to day 1 after injection|Median Intra-tumoral Uptake, The median and range for intra-tumoral SUVmax within metastatic lesions will be descriptively reported to asses for intra-tumoral heterogeneity and differences in uptake by site of disease., Up to 24 months|Association Between Baseline Uptake on 11C-YJH08 PET With Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA50) Response (Cohort B Only ), The association between baseline and percent change from baseline in SUVmax-ave with the cohort will be dichotomized above and below the median will be compared to the PSA response rate using Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria, Up to 24 months|Association Between Baseline Uptake on 11C-YJH08 PET and Objective Response Rate (Cohort B & C Only), The association between baseline and percent change from baseline in SUVmax-ave with the cohort will be dichotomized above and below the median will be compared to the objective response rate (in subset of measurable tumors by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1), Up to 24 months|Association Between Baseline Uptake on 11C-YJH08 PET and Clinical Benefit Rate (Cohort B & C Only), The association between baseline and percent change from baseline in SUVmax-ave with the cohort will be dichotomized above and below the median will be compared to the clinical benefit rate (in subset of measurable tumors by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1), Up to 24 months|Median Progression-free Survival by Cohort (Cohort B & C Only), The association between baseline and percent change from baseline in SUVmax-ave with the cohort will be dichotomized above and below the median and median progression-free survival will be reported by group., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of metastatic lesion detection in enzalutamide/apalutamide-resistant metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) using 11C-YJH08 PET. (Cohort A).

II. To determine the mean percent change from baseline at the time of progression on enzalutamide or apalutamide in standardized uptake value (SUV)max-ave on paired 11C-YJH08 PET on a per-patient and per-lesion basis. (Cohorts B \& C).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and determine average organ uptake of 11C-YJH08. II. To descriptively report the patterns of intra-tumoral uptake of 11C-YJH08 on whole body PET, including by site of disease, uptake by tumor type, inter-tumoral and inter-patient heterogeneity, and tumor-to-background signal.

III. To determine whether baseline uptake on 11C-YJH08 PET is associated with subsequent clinical outcomes including objective response rate, progression-free survival, and prostate specific antigen (PSA50) response. (Cohorts B \& C)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the association between uptake on 11C-YJH08 PET with glucocorticoid receptor (GR) expression and transcriptional signature scores on paired metastatic tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: Participants are assigned to 1 of 3 arms.

Cohort A (Dosimetry): Participants receive 11C-YJH08 intravenously (IV) over 1-2 minutes and 10-60 minutes later, undergo either PET/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or PET/computed tomography (CT) over 90 minutes at baseline.

\*\*Enrollment in Cohorts B \& C will enroll after dosimetry has been established in Cohort A\*\*

Cohort B: Participants with mCRPC receive 11C-YJH08 and undergo either PET/MRI or PET/CT at baseline and at time of progression.

Cohort C: Participants with solid tumors receive 11C-YJH08 and undergo either PET/MRI or PET/CT at baseline and at time of progression.

Participants are assessed the day of the scan for safety follow-up, and up to 24 months for non-interventional clinical outcomes. An optional metastatic tumor biopsy may be performed within 14 days of the initial scan.