A Dose Titration Study of Fentanyl Buccal Soluble Film for Breakthrough Cancer Pain in Taiwan
Primary Objective:

To determine the feasible dose range of Painkyl® required for Taiwanese population.

Secondary Objectives:

To evaluate the efficacy of Painkyl® by calculating squared mean of pain intensity difference at 30 minutes after taking Painkyl® (SPID30, an 11-point scale).

To evaluate subjects' satisfaction by conducting global evaluation of medication performance (a 5-point categorical scale).

To identify percentage of episodes requiring rescue medication during maintenance treatment period.

To evaluate the safety data of Painkyl® for breakthrough pain.
Breakthrough Cancer Pain
DRUG: Fentanyl buccal soluble film (FBSF)
Optimal dose calculation of Painkyl®, Time to "optimal" dose of an open-label study medication in the titration phase. During the dose titration period, subjects were administered with FBSF (Painkyl®) in a dose escalation manner until a treatment dose was identified (defined as an adequate relief of BTP observed for at least two consecutive episodes). All patient started with a dose of 200 μg and increased by 200 μg in each subsequent episode until an adequate pain relief with tolerable side effects was achieved., Within 2 weeks
Efficacy Phase : Pain intensity difference at 30 minutes (PID30) after treatment, During the efficacy phase participants assessed their pain intensity at each breakthrough pain (BTP) episode at 0 and 30 minutes after taking dose using the 11-point Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) on a scale from 0 to 10, where 0 represents the absence of pain and 10 is "worst possible pain". PID30 is calculated as the difference in pain intensity from time 0 to 30 minutes. A positive value is a decrease (improvement) of the pain; a ≥ 3-point difference is considered as clinically important., During the efficacy phase, at each episode of breakthrough pain, 30 minutes after taking dose of study drug, at 0 and 10 minutes after taking dose of study drug|Efficacy Phase : Subjects' satisfaction score at 30 minutes after treatment, Participants assessed their subjects' satisfaction of treatment efficacy for treated BTP episodes at 30 minutes after taking dose of study drug. The validated, categorical 5-point Verbal Rating Scale (VRS) was used for this assessment and scored as follows: poor; fair; good; very good; excellent., During the efficacy phase, at each episode of breakthrough pain, 30 minutes after taking dose of study drug|The percentage of episodes requiring rescue medications., • Percentage of episodes requiring rescue medications: subjects will record whether rescue medication was taken after study medication administration for each episode of BTP, by answering "yes" or "no.", Within 2 weeks|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) [Safety and Tolerability], Assessed by the NCI-CTCAE (Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects) v4.0 and within some subgroups of patients, From the date of study entry until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
The primary endpoint was the feasible range of FBSF required for Taiwanese population. The secondary endpoints were the difference in pain intensity at 30 minutes (PID30) after FBSF administration, subjects' satisfaction, and the percentage of episodes requiring rescue medications.

Pain intensity was determined using an 11-point numeric scale from 0="no pain" to 10="worst pain." Patients were assessed with baseline pain as well as pain intensity at 30 minutes after dosing. The PID30 was obtained by baseline pain score minus score rated 30 minutes after dosing.

Patient's satisfaction was assessed using a 5-point (poor, fair, good, very good, and excellent) categorical scale at 30 minutes after taking FBSF with the following question: "What was your overall satisfaction with the medication?" At each episode of BTP, subjects recorded whether a rescue medication was taken after administration of FBSF.