Accelerated Radiation Therapy After Surgery in Treating Patients With Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well giving accelerated radiation therapy (RT) after surgery works in treating patients with breast cancer. RT uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Giving RT after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells
Inflammatory Breast Cancer|Invasive Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Lobular Breast Carcinoma|Mucinous Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Papillary Ductal Breast Carcinoma|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Tubular Ductal Breast Carcinoma
RADIATION: External beam radiation therapy
Number of Participants With Local, Regional, and/or Distant Failure, Assessed by physical examination and other relevant imaging per the discretion of the patients treating physicians. Confirmed by biopsy, and should be coded as either chest wall recurrence, axilla, supraclavicular, or internal mammary., Up to 5 years after dose of last treatment, an average of 62 months
Count of Participants With Grade Three or Higher Toxicities, Adverse events will be monitored weekly during treatment, then two weeks after RT, then at week 8, then every 3-6 months for 3 years, then every 6-12 months out to 5 years., weekly during treatment, then two weeks after RT, then at week 8, then every 3-6 months for 3 years, then every 6-12 months out to 5 years.|Participants With Plans for Breast Reconstruction, Having Grade Three or Higher Reconstruction Complications, Up to five years after dose of last treatment, an average of 62 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Freedom from local failure and freedom from regional failure.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Acute toxicity and late toxicity using previously published toxicity scales. II. To identify co-variates responsible for poor cosmetic outcome in women with reconstructed chest walls when treated with accelerated, hypofractionated radiotherapy.

III. To correlate toxicity, cosmesis, and local control with molecular markers.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo hypofractionated accelerated RT over 11 weekdays (for 15 elapsed days) within 21-63 days after last surgery or last course of chemotherapy. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2-8 weeks, every 3-6 months for 3 years, every 6-12 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.