Effect of the Benson Relaxation Technique on Clinical Outcomes of Oncology Patients Admitted to Intensive Care Units
The benson Relaxation Technique (BRT), developed by Dr. Herbert Benson, is a method aimed at reducing stress and anxiety through a series of simple steps designed to elicit the "Relaxation Response." This response is a physiological state that counteracts the harmful effects of stress, characterized by decreased heart rate, lower metabolism, and reduced breathing rate
Oncology Patients|Relaxation Program
BEHAVIORAL: benson relaxation|BEHAVIORAL: Routine care in unit
Heart rate, measure heart rate per min, daily for three days|Blood pressure, measure blood pressure in mmHg, daily for three days|Respiratory rate, measure respiratory rate per min, daily for three days|The Rhodes Index of Nausea, Vomiting, and Retching, It is a self-report tool designed to assess the severity and impact of nausea, vomiting, and retching on patients' 5-point categorical scales, the interval of each category was (maximum possible score/4-1 ) with the score being zero in the "none" category. For example, if the maximum possible score was 32, then, none: 0, mild: 1-8, moderate: 9-16, severe: 17-24, great: 24-32., daily for three days|The Numeric Pain Rating Scale, The patient is asked to make three pain ratings, corresponding to current, best and worst pain experienced over the past 24 hours. scale is the most widely used single-dimension assessment scale.The total score is divided into 4 main categories: zero, which indicates no pain; 1-3 grades, which indicates mild pain; 4-6 grades, which indicate moderate pain; and 7-10 grades, which indicate severe pain, daily for three days|Insomnia Severity Index Scale, The Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) is a widely used self-report questionnaire designed to assess the severity of insomnia. It consists of seven questions, each rated on a scale that reflects the severity of sleep problems experienced over the last two weeks. The total score is calculated by summing the responses to all seven items, with potential scores ranging from 0 to 28.

Total Score Calculation 0-7: No clinically significant insomnia 8-14: Subthreshold insomnia 15-21: Clinical insomnia (moderate severity) 22-28: Clinical insomnia (severe), daily for three days
Icu length, How long patient stay in ICU, an average three months
The benson relaxation consisted of the following steps: (1) Sitting or lying down quietly in a comfortable position; (2) Closing eyes; (3) Deeply relaxing all muscles, beginning at the feet and progressing up to the face. Keeping them relaxed; (4) Breathing through the nose. Becoming aware of breathing. Focus on a word, phrase, a short prayer, or only breathing. (6) Continuing for 15 minutes. When finished, sit quietly for several minutes, at first with eyes closed and later with eyes opened. Do not stand up for a few minutes.

According to the agreement, the patients in both groups were required to perform the Benson relaxation technique regularly twice daily (morning and evening) for three days in a row. Each session lasted 15 minutes