Alvocidib in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Refractory Solid Tumors or Hematologic Malignancies
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of alvocidib in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable refractory solid tumors or hematologic malignancies. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as alvocidib, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.
Hematopoietic/Lymphoid Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: alvocidib|OTHER: pharmacological study|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18|OTHER: fluorine F 18 fluorothymidine|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), 28 days|MTD (or recommended phase II dose), defined as one dose level below that which produces two instances of DLT during the first 28-day course and the level at which no more than one of six patients experiences DLT during course 1, 28 days
Pharmacokinetic parameters, including maximum concentration (Cmax), half-life, area under the curve (AUC), clearance, and volume of distribution, Determined by nonlinear regression analysis of geometric mean plasma profile. Cmax in patients w/stable disease or response at 8 weeks compared to those who progressed using Mann-Whitney test. Wilcoxon signed-rank test to compare concentration and metabolic ratios directly following infusion and 24, 48, 72 hrs later. Concentration and metabolic ratios compared in patients w/ and w/o toxicities of diarrhea, neutropenia, and asthenia using Mann- Whitney test. Fisher's exact test to assess association of flavopiridol systemic metabolism (low vs. high metabolic ratio) w/development of toxicity., 24 hours, 48 hours, 72 hours, and 8 weeks|Potency of alvocidib in plasma based on change in proliferation of stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), Baseline to up to 72 hours of day 1 course 1|Change in tumor metabolism and proliferation assessed by fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) and fluorine F 18 fluorothymidine (FLT) positron emission tomography (PET), Each type of pre- and post-treatment scans may be analyzed as paired data. The FDG and FLT data will be correlated to explore the relationship between tumor metabolism and tumor proliferation, for example, using Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficient., Baseline to up to day 19 of course 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of flavopiridol in patients with metastatic or unresectable refractory solid tumors or hematologic malignancies. (Accrual for patients with hematologic malignancies temporarily closed as of 11/30/04)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety profile and toxic effects of this drug in these patients.

II. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. III. Determine, by pharmacodynamic assays, the ability of this drug to inhibit cyclin-dependent kinase activity in tumor tissue, normal proliferating tissues, circulating tumor cells, and in plasma in these patients.

IV. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a 2-part, dose-escalation, multicenter study.

PART 1 (closed to accrual as of 8/2005): Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of alvocidib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)\* is determined.

PART 2: Patients receive alvocidib IV over 1 hour at or below the MTD determined in part 1 and then receive a maintenance dose of alvocidib IV over 1-6 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating durations of the maintenance dose of alvocidib until the MTD\* is determined. An additional cohort of 10-20 patients receives alvocidib over 1 hour on days 1 and 15 at the MTD.

NOTE: \*The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

In both parts, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed at 1 month and then every 2 months thereafter.