Prostate Cancer Stereotactic Radiotherapy
Primary purpose of the study is to develop a stereotactic radiation treatment (RT) to prostate cancer which minimizes treatment related toxicity. Movement of the prostate during a radiation therapy will be monitored by temporary implanted electromagnetic transmitter. This data will be used to define prostate marginals (PTV) for stereotactic treatment. Radiation toxicity to rectum will be reduced by using a rectum fixation during a treatment.

Study group I (20 patients) will be treated 39 x 2 Gy and study group II (20 patients) with 20 x 3 Gy fractionation schedules. With the data collected from these groups treatment marginals to prostate will be defined and used to treat group III (40 patients) with 5 x 7.25 Gy.

Second purpose of this study is to assess if Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging could be used to evaluate radiation treatment response in intermediate prostate cancer. Androgen deprivation therapy is not allowed in this study.
Prostate Neoplasms|Toxicity Due to Radiotherapy
RADIATION: Fractionation|RADIATION: hypofractionated|RADIATION: stereotactic fractionation
To determine whether the temporary implanted electromagnetic transmitter could be used to reduce treatment marginals in prostate cancer radiation therapy, Prostate specific antigen (PSA) recurrence, 1 to 3 months
Evaluation of DW-MRI to predict the outcome of prostate cancer radiation therapy, PSA recurrence, 0 - 12 months|quality of life changes, questionaires, 1 to 3 months
New local prostate cancer patients needing external radiotherapy are included into three radiation dose groups;

Group I will be treated normal dosing (39 x 2 Gy) and study group II with hypofractionated dosing (20 x 3 Gy) and group III extreme hypofractionated dosing. Primary goal is to develop safe and effective curative radiotherapy for these patients

Second aim is to study Diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance image (DW MRI) in radiation treatment response in intermediate prostate cancer.

Patients are followed by MRI, PSA, bone scans and quality of life questionaries.