Study of the Apatinib Combine With POF Versus POF in Gastric Cancer
This study is a randomized, parallel control, multicenter,phase II study, comparing the efficacy and safety of apatinib plus POF(paclitaxel plus oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin) versus POF, in the first-line treatment for patients with advanced/metastatic gastric cancer.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: POF
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Rate at 6-month, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to first documented disease progression (PD) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For target lesions, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.PFS rate at 6-month defined from randomization to 6 month,the cases of patients documented no PD or death or not receive other anti-tumor treatment in percentage of evaluable patients, Up to approximately 6 months
Objective Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as percentage of participants with best (confirmed) overall response (BOR) of either CR or PR. ORR was assessed by the investigator according to RECIST version 1.1 and is based on BOR, which is defined as best response recorded from start of study treatment until disease progression/recurrence or death. Participants needed to have two consecutive assessments of PR or CR to be a responder. Only participants with measurable disease at baseline were included in the analysis of BOR and who did not have any evaluable post-baseline assessments were classified as not evaluable.

The ORR will be reported by percentage with each arms and appropriate confidence intervals., From randomization to 24 month|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS), defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death, regardless of the cause of death. Participants who were alive at the time of the analysis were censored at the date of the last follow-up assessment. Participants without follow-up assessment were censored at the day of last study medication and participants with no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization.

The OS will be will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. A Kaplan-Meier curve, median OS, hazard ratio with appropriate confidence intervals will be reported., From randomization to 24 month|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to first documented disease progression (PD) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For target lesions, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD was defined as the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.

The PFS will be will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. A Kaplan-Meier curve, median PFS, hazard ratio with appropriate confidence intervals will be reported., From randomization to 24 month
This is a randomized, two-arm, open-label, multicenter phase II trial. Our primary purpose is to compare that PFS rate at 6-month of patients with apatinib plus POF and POF for advanced/metastatic gastric cancer.

Eligible patients will randomized to a ratio of 1:1 to apatinib+POF (experimental group) or POF (control group). Stratification factors were 1) gender (male;female);2) previous surgical history (yes;no);3) metastatic sites (measurable; Immeasurable).

In treatment period, patients will be administrated POF, with or without apatinib, every 14 days for 1 cycle, total 9-12 cycles.After the above treatment finished,parients will received with S-1,with or without apatinib,every 21days for 1 cycle,until disease progression, toxicity intolerance, withdrawal of informed consent, patients judged must be terminated study termination.

The imaging evaluation was performed according to the RECIST 1.1 criteria every 6 weeks.