Dual-targeting CLDN18.2 and PD-L1 CAR-T for Patients with CLDN18.2-positive Advanced Solid Tumors
Claudin18.2(CLDN18.2) is a kind of integrin membrane protein in the tight junction between epithelium and endothelium, which is highly expressed in many solid tumors, especially in gastric cancer and pancreatic cancer. The CLDN18.2/PD-L1 dual-targeting CAR-T will be investigated in patients with CLDN18.2-positive advance solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: Dual-targeting CLDN18.2 and PD-L1 CAR-T cells
Adverse Events (AEs), Safety evaluation. AEs will be recorded and evaluated by CTCAE 5.0., 28 days|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Tolerability evaluation. DLT will be assessed by CTCAE 5.0., 28 days|Recommended phase II dose (RP2D), Efficacy dose., Approximately 18 months
Objective Remission Rate (ORR), Include CR (complete response) and PR (partial response)., 3 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The time from CAR-T administration to disease progression or death., Approximately 18 months|Duration of Control Rate (DCR), The number of cases in which response (PR + CR) and stable disease (SD) are achieved from the start of cell infusion/the total number of evaluable cases (%)., Approximately 18 months|Duration of Response (DOR), It refers to the time from the first evaluation of CR or PR to the first evaluation of PD (Progressive Disease) or death from any reason., Approximately 18 months|Overall-Survival (OS), It defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, is a direct measure of clinical benefit to a patient. Patients alive or lost to follow-up are censored., Approximately 18 months|CAR-T cell numbers, Monitoring CAR-T cell numbers in blood to determine the persistence of CAR-T., 12 months|Anti-CAR antibody production, Immunogenicity, 12 months|CAR-T cell phenotype, Immunophenotyping, 12 months
In this study, the CLDN18.2/PD-L1 dual-targeting CAR-T cells will be injected intravenously to patients with CLDN18.2-positive advanced solid tumors, such as gastric adenocarcinoma or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma and pancreatic adenocarcinoma, who had nearly no response to standard treatment. The safety and effectiveness will be evaluated. The safety evaluation standard refers to the standard of CTCAE 5.0. The evaluation standard of effectiveness refers to the evaluation standard of solid tumor curative effect RECIST 1.1 to evaluate the curative effect.

There are two phases of this study. The first is dose escalation phase, and 9 patients with CLDN18.2-positive advanced solid tumors are planned to be enrolled. The second is dose expansion phase. The curative effect has been observed in the first phase, and after the DLT observation period of the related dose group finished, the PI will decide whether to conduct the dose expansion research finally. It is planned to enroll 20 patients in dose expansion phase.