PLANNED VISUAL EDUCATION ABOUT SKIN CANCER
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of planned visual education based on the Health Belief Model on university students' attitudes and beliefs toward skin cancer. The planned visual education based in Health Belief Model has possitive effects on univestiy students' attitudes and beliefs toward skin cancer.
Skin Neoplasm
OTHER: Planned Visual Education Based on Health Belief Model
The Health Belief Model Scale in Skin Cancer, Developed by Dogan and Caydam (2021), the scale consists of 26 items and 5 sub-dimensions (perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, perceived barriers, and self-efficacy). The HBMSSC is a five-point Likert-type scale, and each item is answered from "disagree=1" to "strongly agree=5". The total Cronbach's alpha coefficient of the scale is 0.86, and for the sub-dimensions it is 0.89; 0.79; 0.77; 0.65 and 0.86, respectively. The "perceived barriers" sub-dimension of the scale is reverse coded. The scale does not have a total score, and each sub-dimension is scored within itself. Higher "perceived susceptibility, "perceived benefit, "perceived severity", and "self-efficacy" scores indicate higher perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, and self-efficacy, One months|The Health Belief Model Scale in Skin Cancer, Developed by Dogan and Caydam (2021), the scale consists of 26 items and 5 sub-dimensions (perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, perceived barriers, and self-efficacy). The HBMSSC is a five-point Likert-type scale, and each item is answered from "disagree=1" to "strongly agree=5". The total Cronbach's alpha coefficient of the scale is 0.86, and for the sub-dimensions it is 0.89; 0.79; 0.77; 0.65 and 0.86, respectively. The "perceived barriers" sub-dimension of the scale is reverse coded. The scale does not have a total score, and each sub-dimension is scored within itself. Higher "perceived susceptibility, "perceived benefit, "perceived severity", and "self-efficacy" scores indicate higher perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, and self-efficacy, Three months|The Health Belief Model Scale in Skin Cancer, Developed by Dogan and Caydam (2021), the scale consists of 26 items and 5 sub-dimensions (perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, perceived barriers, and self-efficacy). The HBMSSC is a five-point Likert-type scale, and each item is answered from "disagree=1" to "strongly agree=5". The total Cronbach's alpha coefficient of the scale is 0.86, and for the sub-dimensions it is 0.89; 0.79; 0.77; 0.65 and 0.86, respectively. The "perceived barriers" sub-dimension of the scale is reverse coded. The scale does not have a total score, and each sub-dimension is scored within itself. Higher "perceived susceptibility, "perceived benefit, "perceived severity", and "self-efficacy" scores indicate higher perceived susceptibility, perceived benefit, perceived severity, and self-efficacy, Seven months
This study aimed to evaluate the effect of planned visual education based on the Health Belief Model on university students' attitudes and beliefs toward skin cancer. Planned as a cluster-randomized controlled experimental study conducted on two groups (n=116). The study was carried out in Faculty of Economics and Administrative Sciences (FEAS) and Hasan Ferdi Turgutlu Faculty of Technology (HFTFT) from the faculties of Manisa Celal Bayar University (MCBU) between February-Semptember 2019. Among seven departments in FEAS and four departments in the HFTFT, simple random sampling was used to draw lots again. The Department of Econometrics from the FEAS was assigned as the intervation groups (n=58) and Mechatronics Engineering from HFTFT was assigned as the control group (n=58). Data were collected using The Student Introduction Form and The Health Belief Model Scale in Skin Cancer.