Paclitaxel and Bevacizumab With or Without Emactuzumab in Treating Patients With Platinum-Resistant Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies the side effects of paclitaxel and bevacizumab with or without emactuzumab and how well they work in treating patients with ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back after treatment with platinum chemotherapy. Monoclonal antibodies, such as emactuzumab, block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Bevacizumab may prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. Giving emactuzumab with paclitaxel and bevacizumab may work better in treating ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Malignant Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Emactuzumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Part 1: To Evaluate the Safety of Administration of Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab and Emactuzumab Over 4 Weeks., Safety is defined as no required dose alterations during the first cycle (4 weeks) of therapy due to a grade 3 or greater related adverse event., Up to 4 weeks|Part 2B: To Compare the Progression-free Survival (PFS) of Patients With Stable Disease Following Part 2A Randomized to Paclitaxel Plus Bevacizumab or to Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab Plus Emactuzumab., Will use a log-rank test., At 32 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of administration of paclitaxel, bevacizumab and emactuzumab over 4 weeks. (Part 1) II. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with stable disease following Part 2A randomized to paclitaxel plus bevacizumab or to paclitaxel, bevacizumab plus emactuzumab. (Part 2B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) of the treatment arms. II. Objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and CA-125 response criteria ("responders").

III. Objective response rate by RECIST only ("RECIST responders"). IV. Objective response rate by CA-125 response criteria only ("CA-125 responders").

V. Biological progression-free interval (PFIbio) by serum CA-125 assessed according to the Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup (GCIG) criteria.

VI. Overall survival (OS). VII. Safety and tolerability. VIII. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of bevacizumab and emactuzumab when administered in combination.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the utility of surrogate biomarkers and the anti-tumor response to therapy with the combination treatment of bevacizumab and emactuzumab.

II. To assess tumor alterations by serial non-invasive imaging macrophage-specific imaging, ADC (apparent diffusion coefficient) for cellularity, and DCE (dynamic contrast enhanced) for vasculature.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity. Patients with stable disease are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and bevacizumab IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel and bevacizumab as in Arm I. Patients also receive emactuzumab IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 2 years.