Multicohort Trial of Trabectedin and Low-dose Radiation Therapy in Advanced/Metastatic Sarcomas
Phase II, multicohort, single arm, open-label, multicenter, international clinical trial with three cohorts (cohort A: Soft tissue sarcoma, cohort B: Bone tumors (osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma and cohort C: Small round-cell sarcomas (Ewing's sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, desmoplastic small round-cell tumors and other small round cell sarcomas)) with 7 sites in Spain.

Main objective: To evaluate the overall response rate (ORR) in the irradiated nodules according to RECIST v1.1 criteria.

Treatment

Medication

Trabectedin at 1.5 mg/m2 24-h IV CI along with radiation therapy (30 Gy, 3 Gy/day for 10 days for non-extremity location and 45 Gy, 1.8 Gy/day for 25 days for extremity location of target lesion(s)), starting within 1 hour after the first trabectedin infusion withdrawal (day 2)) will be given every 3 weeks up to progression or intolerance.

Premedication

4 mg oral dexamethasone 24h and 12h before trabectedin administration, 20 mg IV dexamethasone 30 minutes before treatment. Ondansetron or analogue will also be given prior to trabectedin.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Bone Tumors|Small Round-cell Sarcomas
DRUG: Trabectedin
Overall response rate (ORR) in the irradiated nodules, ORR is defined as the number of subjects with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) only in the irradiated nodules divided by the number of response evaluable subjects (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria and based on central radiology review). This is considered a good surrogate for palliative relief., 6 weeks
Overall response rate (ORR) considering all the lesions, ORR is defined as the number of subjects with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) considering all the lesions divided by the number of response evaluable subjects (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria and based on central radiology review)., 6 weeks|Progression-free survival rate (PFSR) at 6 months considering all the lesions, Efficacy measured by the PFSR at 6 months according to RECIST v1.1 criteria based on central radiology review. PFSR at 6 months is defined as the percentage of patients who did not experience progression (considering all the lesions) or death due to any cause since the date of enrollment until month 6 after date of enrollment., 6 months|Median progression-free survival (mPFS), Efficacy measured by the mPFS according to RECIST v1.1 criteria based on central radiology review. mPFS is defined as the median of time in months between the date of enrollment and the date of progression (considering all the lesions) or death due to any cause., 6 months|Time to progression (TTP) of irradiated nodules, TTP is defined as the time in months between the date of enrollment and the date of progression of irradiated nodules (not including deaths) (according to RECIST v1.1 criteria and based on central radiology review)., 6 weeks|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time in months between the date of enrollment and the date of death due to any cause. OS will be censored on the last date a subject was known to be alive., 6 months|Variations in pain using the Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF), Variations from baseline will be assessed on day 1 of every cycle (before trabectedin administration) until cycle 10 and then on day 1 every other cycle (cycle 12 day 1, cycle 14 day 1...)., 3 weeks|Variations in quality of life using the QLQ-C30 EORTC v3.0 questionnaire., Variations in quality of life will be assessed at baseline (within 7 days with respect to enrollment), on day 1 of every cycle (before trabectedin administration) until cycle 10 and then on day 1 every other cycle (cycle 12 day 1, cycle 14 day 1...)., 3 weeks|Safety profile measured by adverse event type, incidence, severity, time of appearance, and related causes, Toxicity will be assessed through physical explorations and laboratory tests. Toxicity will be graded and tabulated by using CTCAE v5.0., 3 years
Cohort A: Soft tissue sarcomas (2nd or further line): A proportion of 10% of ORR will be considered as not promising, whereas an ORR of 35% will be considered promising in this population. With a type I error α of 0.05 and a power of 0.90, 27 patients were estimated in this cohort. With Simon's two-stage optimal design,36 at least 2 responses have to be obtained over the 11 first patients. Then, additional 16 eligible patients will be accrued up to 27 patients. If at least 6 patients show response, further investigation of this scheme is warranted.

Cohort B: Bone tumors (osteosarcoma, chondrosarcoma) (2nd or further line): A proportion of 3% of ORR will be considered as not promising, whereas an ORR of 20% will be considered promising in this population. With a type I error α of 0.05 and a power of 0.90, 29 patients were estimated in this cohort. With Simon's two-stage optimal design,36 at least 1 response has to be obtained over the 12 first patients. Then, additional 17 eligible patients will be accrued up to 29 patients. If at least 3 patients show response, further investigation of this scheme is warranted.

Cohort C: Small round-cell sarcomas (Ewing's sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, desmoplastic small round-cell tumors and other small round-cell sarcomas) (3rd or further line): A proportion of 15% of ORR will be considered as not promising, whereas an ORR of 40% will be considered promising in this population. With a type I error α of 0.05 and a power of 0.90, 29 patients were estimated in this cohort. With Simon's two-stage optimal design,36 at least 3 response has to be obtained over the 13 first patients. Then, additional 16 eligible patients will be accrued up to 29 patients. If at least 8 patients show response, further investigation of this scheme is warranted.

Taking into account that 10% of enrolled patients might not be evaluable (losses), an extra amount of 3 patients may be recruited per cohort.