Interdisciplinary Rehabilitation of Patients With Glioma During Anti-cancer Treatment
The results of the present RCT study will add to the growing body of literature investigating the potential role of exercise as a supportive therapeutic intervention for patient with glioma.
Neoplasms|CNS Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Interdisciplinary rehabilitation
Health related quality of life, Questionnaires EORTC-QLQ-30 \& BN-20, Change from Baseline HRQoL at 6 months
Symptom burden, Assessed through EORTC-QLQ-30 \& BN-20, Change from Baseline Symptom burden at 6 months|Physical activity levels, Physical activity at work and leisure time ( Assessed through questionnaire by Saltin and Grimsby 1968 and Physical Activity Scale), Change from Baseline Physical activity levels at 6 months|Muscle strength, Assessed through 3-8 submax repetition maximum, Change from Baseline Musclestrength at 3 months|VO2peak, Assessed through Åstrand 1-pkt. cycle test., Change from Baseline VO2peak at 3 months|Balance, Assessed through wii balance board, Change from Baseline Balance at 3 months|Gait function, Assessed through 10 meter walk test. Time and step frequency., Change from Baseline gait function at 3 months|Activity levels, Assessed through questionnaire (Impact on Participation and Autonomy), Change from Baseline Activity levels at 3 months
Gliomas are the most frequent primary neoplasm in the CNS and according to the World Health Organization histologically categorized into low-grade glioma (LGG) (WHO grades I/II) or high-grade glioma (HGG) (WHO grades III/IV). Gliomas are among the biggest challenges within the field of neuro-rehabilitation and oncology, and optimising treatment by improving QoL, function and cognition is of major clinical importance in this population. Because the majority of patients cannot be cured, clinical cancer research traditionally have focused on prolonging survival, exposing relapse or optimising the response to the medical treatment. Today there is a general consensus that health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is important in the evaluation of new treatments. However, research in HRQoL among patients with gliomas is scarce compared to the other categories of patients with tumors. In recent years have exercise become an important part of cancer treatment. The effects is well documented in studies among other cancer patients than gliomas and includes improvements of quality of life, physical function, reduce fatigue and thereby supports daily activities among cancer patients'. Inpatient rehabilitation studies among glioma patients have also indicated improved HRQoL and functional measurements such as activity of daily life, mobility and cognition. Despite of this rehabilitation efforts is still not emphasized in this population and recent literature concludes that there are no well-designed clinical studies examining the effect of multidisciplinary rehabilitation among Glioma patients. This study is the first to investigate the effect of an intensive specialised interdisciplinary outpatient rehabilitation program among gliomas patients.