Immune Changes Following Trabectedin in Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Sarcoma
This research trial studies the immune changes following trabectedin in patients with sarcoma that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Analyzing tumor tissue may help to understand the changes in immune cells in or around the tumor or if there is an increase in immune cells in the tumor after receiving trabectedin.
Myxoid Liposarcoma|Round Cell Liposarcoma|Stage III Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Soft Tissue Sarcoma AJCC v7|Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Trabectedin
Percentage change of T cells (CD3+) by flow cytometry, Analysis will be performed using a Wilcoxon matched-pairs assigned rank test as these will be paired samples where parametric distribution cannot be assumed. T cell receptor (TCR) sequencing, immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis will all be used in order to confirm the primary endpoint., Baseline up to 4 weeks
Expression of inhibitory ligands including PD-1, CTLA-4, LAG-3 on infiltrating T cells, Gene expression will be analyzed using differential cluster analysis in order to look for patterns and gene groups that are differentially expressed in the post-treatment samples and such gene groups will be represented by heatmaps in order to illustrate this quantitative information. TCR fraction, clonality, and maximum (max) frequency will be compared between pre and post treatment samples., Up to 4 weeks|CD8+ or CD4+ phenotype of infiltrating T cells, Gene expression will be analyzed using differential cluster analysis in order to look for patterns and gene groups that are differentially expressed in the post-treatment samples and such gene groups will be represented by heatmaps in order to illustrate this quantitative information. TCR fraction, clonality, and max frequency will be compared between pre and post treatment samples., Up to 4 weeks|Type 1 helper cell (Th1) versus (vs.) type 2 helper cell (Th2) phenotype of infiltrating T cells based on expression of CCR5 and CXCR3, Gene expression will be analyzed using differential cluster analysis in order to look for patterns and gene groups that are differentially expressed in the post-treatment samples and such gene groups will be represented by heatmaps in order to illustrate this quantitative information. TCR fraction, clonality, and max frequency will be compared between pre and post treatment samples., Up to 4 weeks|Infiltrating tumor associated macrophage number, Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Percentage of tumor tissue in pre- and post-treatment biopsies comprised of T-cells, as determined by flow cytometry.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: numbers of tumor associated macrophage (TAM) in tumor II. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: phenotype (classically activated macrophages \[M1\] versus \[vs\] alternatively activated macrophages \[M2\]) as characterized by CD163, CD115, CD206 on infiltrating TAM.

III. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: phenotype of T cells infiltrating tumor (CD4, CD8, markers of CD4 phenotype including FoxP3 and memory).

IV. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: expression T cell inhibitory markers (PD-1, CTLA-4, TIM3).

V. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: recognition of autologous tumor by expanded tumor infiltrating lymphocyte lines.

VI. To explore additional potential biomarkers including: in tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) expanded from myxoid/round cell liposarcomas, recognition of cancer testis antigens.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo a biopsy at baseline and then receive trabectedin for up to 4 cycles. Beginning 1 week after completion of cycle 2 and prior to cycle 3, patients undergo a second biopsy. Patients who achieve clinical benefit (complete response \[CR\], partial response \[PR\], stable disease \[SD\]) after the first post-treatment scan and who continue trabectedin for 4 cycles undergo a third biopsy after cycle 4.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 30 days.