Ipilimumab and Nivolumab With Immunoembolization in Treating Participants With Metastatic Uveal Melanoma in the Liver
This phase II trial studies ipilimumab and nivolumab with immunoembolization in treating patients with uveal melanoma that has spread to the liver. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab and nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Immunoembolization may kill tumor cells due to loss of blood supply and develop an immune response against tumor cells. Giving ipilimumab and nivolumab with immunoembolization may work better in treating patients with uveal melanoma.
Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Liver|Metastatic Uveal Melanoma|Stage IV Uveal Melanoma AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|DRUG: Embolization Therapy
Hepatic Metastasis Stabilization Rate by Response Criteria (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] 1.1), Defined as complete response + partial response + stable disease. Rated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. The estimate of the hepatic metastasis stabilization rate will be presented with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. The method of Atkinson and Brown will be used to adjust for the two-stage design., At the end of 4th treatment cycle (Day 84 +/- 3 days). Cycles are 21 days.
Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Toxicity rates will be estimated with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the start of the treatment to confirmation of progression of disease, assessed up to 1 year|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the start of the treatment to confirmation of progression of disease, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the clinical benefit of treatment with immunoembolization (IEMBO) in combination with ipilimumab and nivolumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine all treatment and immune related toxicities. II. Determine progression free survival. III. Determine overall survival.