Feasibility of a New Technology for Isolating Circulating Tumour Cells
This is a prospective interventional single-site research with a collection of biological samples.

The primary objective of the trial is to assess the ability of the "new technology" to isolating circulating tumor cells (CTC) in selected cancer patients.

Five groups will be constitued: at first the Group 0: Healthy volunteers included for the spike-in test; and then the four groups, Group1: Metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer; Group 2: Advanced CA-125 positive ovarian cancer; Group 3: Metastatic PSA-positive castrate-resistant prostate cancer; Group 4: Healthy volunteers included as control).

In each group, the percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells will be estimated.
HER2-positive Metastatic Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Circulating Tumor Cell
PROCEDURE: Blood sample collection
Percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells., To assess the ability of the "new technology" to isolating circulating tumor cells (CTC) in selected cancer patients.

In each group, the percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells will be estimated.

Success: the technique has isolated putative circulating cells that have been confirmed as tumor cells by the immuno-histochemistry approach.

Failure: the technique failed to identify circulating tumor cells, either due to a technical issue, or because there was no cell identified by the new technique, or lastly because the identified cells were negative by the standard FISH or IHC technique.

To be regarded as true CTC, Putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as:

* HER-2 positive using Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) (Group 1)
* CA 125-positive using immuno-histochemistry (IHC) (Group 2)
* PSA-positive using IHC (Group 3), within 24 hours after inclusion (blood sample collection)
Description of the isolated circulating cell, Describe the different characteristics of these cells: size, cytological characteristics, number ...

These informations will allow to characterize the isolated circulating cells., within 24 hours after inclusion (blood sample collection)|Percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells after frozen storage, To assess the ability of the new technology to isolating CTC

As secondary collected, collected samples will be frozen, and new technique for isolation of CTC will be applied a second time to describe the impact of freezing to our capacity for isolating the CTC.

In each group, the percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells will be estimated.

To be regarded as true CTC, Putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as:

* HER-2 positive using Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) (Group 1)
* CA 125-positive using immuno-histochemistry (IHC) (Group 2)
* PSA-positive using IHC (Group 3), within 24 hours after inclusion (blood sample collection)
This is a prospective interventional single-site research with a collection of biological samples ("Recherche Impliquant la Personne Humaine de type 2" according to French legislation).

First, a cohort of 20 healthy volunteers (Group 0: Healthy volunteers included for the spike-in test) will be constituted for the spike-in-test.

Then, recruitment of the three groups of 14 patients each (Group1: Metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer; Group 2: Advanced CA-125 positive ovarian cancer; Group 3: Metastatic PSA-positive castrate-resistant prostate cancer) and the control group of 14 healthy volunteers (Group 4: Healthy volunteers included as control) will be done in parallel.

In each group, the percentage of cases with identified circulating tumor cells will be estimated. Success will be defined as follows: the new technique has isolated putative circulating cells that have been confirmed as tumor cells by the immuno-histochemistry approach.

Circulating tumor cells (CTC) will be identified as followed:

* Group 1 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as HER-2 positive using Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization (FISH) to be regarded as true CTC
* Group 2 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as CA 125-positive using immuno-histochemistry (IHC) to be regarded as true CTC
* Group 3 - putative circulating cells isolated by the new technique must be tested as PSA-positive using IHC to be regarded as true CTC For the healthy volunteers included as controls, if putative circulating cells are observed, these healthy volunteers will be tested against the three markers (HER2, CA-125 and PSA).

Failure will be defined as follows: the technique failed to identify circulating tumor cells, either due to a technical issue, or because there was no cell identified by the new technique, or lastly because the identified cells were negative by the standard FISH or IHC technique.

The different characteristics of these cells will be described: size, cytological characteristics, number, etc.

Secondary collected samples will be frozen, and new technique for isolation of CTC will be applied a second time to describe the impact of freezing to the capacity for isolating the CTC.

The primary objective of the trial is to assess the ability of the "new technology" to isolating circulating tumor cells (CTC) in selected cancer patients.