A Study of Palbociclib in Combination With Fulvestrant or Tamoxifen as Treatment for Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the side effects of palbociclib when given together with fulvestrant or tamoxifen citrate in treating patients with hormone receptor positive breast cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Palbociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Hormone therapy using fulvestrant or tamoxifen citrate may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen by the tumor cells. Giving palbociclib together with fulvestrant or tamoxifen citrate may work better in treating hormone receptor positive breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or 4 Neutropenia, Grade 3/4 neutropenia as defined by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03 in patients with prior exposure to 1-3 lines of chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer, Up to 24 months
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the interval from study entry to the first documented evidence of disease progression by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum SLD recorded since the treatment started and minimum 5 mm increase over the nadir, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Patients who remain progression-free at the time of analysis will be censored at their last date of follow-up., Up to 24 months|Proportion of Participants With Demonstrated Clinical Benefit, Defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response, according to RECIST, is either complete response (CR), a partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) at 24 weeks. Only those patients who have measurable disease present at baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for response., 24 weeks|Proportion of Participants With an Objective Response, Defined as the proportion of patients whose best overall response, according to RECIST, is either complete response (CR), a partial response (PR) at 24 weeks. Only those patients who have measurable disease present at baseline, have received at least one cycle of therapy, and have had their disease re-evaluated will be considered evaluable for response., 24 weeks|Median Change in Percent Positive Cells From Baseline of Ki-67, Median change in percent positive cells of Ki-67 from baseline will be reported with IQR, Up to 24 months|Median Change in Percent Positive Cells From Baseline of Total-Rb, Median change in percent positive cells of Total-Rb from baseline will be reported with interquartile range (IQR), Up to 24 months|Median Change in Percent Positive Cells From Baseline of pS780-Rb, Median change in percent positive cells of pS780-Rb from baseline will be reported with IQR, Up to 24 months
Patients will be randomly allocated in a 1:1 ratio to take either 100 mg or 125 mg of palbociclib. Randomized treatment assignments will be made by permuted blocks, generated by our collaborating statistician at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the incidence of grade 3/4 neutropenia in patients with hormone receptor positive (HR+) advanced breast cancer previously exposed to chemotherapy, treated with fulvestrant or tamoxifen (tamoxifen citrate) in combination with palbociclib at a dose of 100mg or 125mg.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression-free survival with 100 mg and 125 mg dosing of palbociclib.

II. To evaluate inhibition of retinoblastoma (RB) phosphorylation in tumor and in skin at 100 mg and 125 mg dosing of palbociclib.

III. To evaluate the correlation between inhibition of RB phosphorylation in skin and tumor.

IV. To evaluate the correlation between inhibition of RB phosphorylation and progression-free survival (PFS).

V. To evaluate the objective response and clinical benefit rate of palbociclib given at 100 mg or 125 mg.

VI. To evaluate the toxicity associated with palbociclib given at 100 mg and 125 mg in combination with fulvestrant or tamoxifen.

VII. To evaluate markers of resistance to palbociclib and fulvestrant or tamoxifen in circulating plasma tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ptDNA).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive low-dose palbociclib orally (PO) on days 1-21. Patients also receive tamoxifen citrate PO on days 1-28 or fulvestrant intramuscularly (IM) on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and then on day 1 only in subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive high-dose palbociclib PO on days 1-21. Patients also receive tamoxifen citrate PO on days 1-28 or fulvestrant IM on days 1 and 15 of cycle 1 and then on day 1 only in subsequent cycles. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.