GEMOX-HAIC Plus GEM-SYS in Combination With Lenvatinib and PD-1 Inhibitor for Large Unresectable ICC
This study aimed to preliminarily evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) of gemcitabine and oxaliplatin (GEMOX) plus systemic gemcitabine chemotherapy (GEM-SYS) combined with lenvatinib and programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) inhibitor in patients with large unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (uICC). Large uICC patients who underwent GEMOX-HAIC (Day 1) and GEM-SYS (Day 8) (3w/cycle) combined with lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitor between November 2019 and December 2022 were enrolled. Clinical data were retrospectively collected to analyze local tumor response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and adverse events (AEs). Tumor response was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. AEs were evaluated by the common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. In this study, OS was the primary endpoint, and progression-free survival (PFS) was the secondary endpoint.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine-Oxaliplatin Regimen
Overall survival(OS), OS was calculated as the duration from the date of the first cycle of GEMOX-HAIC+GEM-SYS to the date of death or last date of follow-up., 1-, 2-, and 3-year
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of the first cycle of GEMOX-HAIC+GEM-SYS to tumor lesion progression, death, or last follow-up, whichever came first., 1-, 2-, and 3-year
This study aimed to preliminarily evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) of gemcitabine and oxaliplatin (GEMOX) plus systemic gemcitabine chemotherapy (GEM-SYS) combined with lenvatinib and programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1) inhibitor in patients with large unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (uICC). Large uICC patients who underwent GEMOX-HAIC (Day 1) and GEM-SYS (Day 8) (3w/cycle) combined with lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitor between November 2019 and December 2022 were enrolled. Clinical data were retrospectively collected to analyze local tumor response, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and adverse events (AEs). Tumor response was assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. AEs were evaluated by the common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.0. In this study, OS was the primary endpoint, and progression-free survival (PFS) was the secondary endpoint.