Ixabepilone in Treating Patients With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixabepilone, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. This phase II trial is studying how well ixabepilone works in treating patients with metastatic prostate cancer that has not responded to previous hormone therapy.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: ixabepilone
Proportion of Patients With PSA Response, PSA response is defined as a decline from baseline value by \>=50%, or normalization of PSA (PSA \< 0.2 ng/lm), confirmed by a second measurement \>= 4 weeks later. The proportion of patients with PSA response was reported separately for 3 strata. Additional patients accrued to this study were not included in this analysis., Every 4 weeks during treatment; then every 3 months if <2 years from study entry; then every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry
Proportion of Patients With Measurable Disease Response (Best Overall Response), Only patients with measurable disease were included in this analysis. The proportion of patients with measurable disease response (based on RECIST: Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) was reported separately for 3 strata.

Per RECIST criteria, Complete response (CR)= disappearance of all target and nontarget lesions Partial response (PR)= \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions from baseline, and persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits.

Objective response = CR + PR, Every 8 weeks during treatment; then every 3 months if <2 years from study entry; then every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry|Duration of PSA Response, Duration of PSA response was defined as the time from the date of onset of PSA response until the date the criteria were met for PSA progression. Only patients with a PSA response were included in this analysis. The results were reported separately for 3 strata., Every 4 weeks during treatment; then every 3 months if <2 years from study entry; then every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry|Duration of Measurable Disease Response, Duration of measurable disease response was defined as the time from the date when measurement criteria were met for complete or partial response, whichever status was recorded first, until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented based on RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). Only patients with measurable disease response were included in this analysis., Every 8 weeks during treatment; then every 3 months if <2 years from study entry; then every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the effect on percent with a 50% decrease in PSA response in patients with metastatic prostate cancer who have progressed on androgen ablation therapy and are classified into 1 of 3 separate categories:

1. Never received prior chemotherapy/cytotoxic therapy
2. Received prior taxane-based regimen
3. Received 2 prior cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens (including, but not limited to, prior taxane and anthracyclines)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine measurable disease response in patients with measurable disease treated with this drug and overall response rate.

II. Determine the toxic effects of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the duration of PSA and measurable disease response in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine the expression of p53, multidrug resistance protein, and Bcl-2 by immunohistochemistry in the primary tumors of patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior chemotherapy (none vs 1 prior taxane-containing regimen vs 2 prior cytotoxic regimens).

Patients receive ixabepilone IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.