Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This clinical trial studies sorafenib tosylate in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Sorafenib tosylate may block some of the enzymes needed for tumor cell growth. Blocking these enzymes may also help the immune system work better. Granzyme B is a biomarker that can be used to measure how well the immune system is working. A biomarker is a biological molecule found in blood, other body fluids, or tissues that is a sign of a normal or abnormal process, or of a condition or disease. Studying granzyme B levels in patients receiving sorafenib tosylate may help doctors learn more about the effects of sorafenib tosylate on the immune system and may help to predict how well sorafenib tosylate will work in treating patients with liver cancer.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Localized Non-Resectable Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage III Childhood Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IV Childhood Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Granzyme B levels, The pGrzB hazard ratio (per 10 percentage point increase) and the associated 95% confidence interval will be estimated using a Cox PH model. Whether pGrzB measurements vary by presence of grade 3+ adverse events (AEs) will be assessed using permutation independent sample t-tests. Descriptive statistics include the pGrzB mean, standard deviations and ranges within AE or patient characteristics., Up to 35 days|Overall survival (OS), The hazard ratio and 95% confidence interval for the effect of day \~28-35 pGrzB (in 10 percentage point increments) on OS will be estimated using proportional hazards (PH) models. The pGrzB functional form will be assessed using generalized additive models. Possible confounding from sorafenib dose differences and baseline characteristics will be assessed by including other covariates (or perhaps frailty terms) in the model., Time between start of first treatment and death, assessed up to 6 months
Granzyme B level variations by presence of grade 3 or higher AE, characterized using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events severity grade, These differences will be assessed using permutation independent sample t-tests. For an AE observed in 15 (50%) of the patients and two-sided statistical significance threshold = 0.05, this test has 80% power to detect a 1.0 standard difference in mean pGrzB. 95% confidence limits for the difference in mean pGrzB will also be provided. Descriptive statistics include the pGrzB mean, standard deviations and ranges within AE or patient characteristics., Up to 30 days
Change in granzyme B levels after sorafenib tosylate treatment, The hypotheses of immediate (HI) and sustained improvement (HS) of immune function will be tested using a fixed-sequence procedure. Each hypothesis uses a permutation paired t-test with an upper 1-sided 0.05 significance threshold. HI considers a pGrzB increase between days 0 \& \~28-35. If the HI test finds no short-term pGrzB improvement, the HS test will not be done. If HI indicates a short-time pGrzB improvement, HS considers a pGrzB increase between days 0 and 24 weeks (± 1 week). If both tests indicate improvements it will be concluded improved \& sustained pGrzB response follows sorafenib., Baseline to up to 35 days|Proportion of cluster of differentiation (CD)8+ T cells expressing granzyme B, Up to 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the proportion of cytotoxic T lymphocytes that are producing granzyme B (denoted pGrzB) as measured \~28-35 days after initiation of sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) therapy correlates with overall survival, defined as the number of months between the start of sorafenib treatment and death from any cause.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether higher pGrzB levels will correlate with better sorafenib tolerance, manifested by fewer dose reductions, dose interruptions and adverse events.

II. To determine whether improved immune function may also result in greater recognition of hepatitis viral antigens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 30 days or after the 6 month time point if continuing sorafenib tosylate and then periodically thereafter.