FMISO-based Adaptive Radiotherapy for Head and Neck Cancer
Hypoxia occurs in about 80% of head and neck tumors. Based on experimental and clinical data, hypoxia is a useful parameter for pretherapeutic stratification. These radioresistant regions can be detected with FMISO PET/CT. Moreover, hypoxic subvolumes of tumors can be evolving as target volumes for radiotherapy ("dose painting") in hypoxia imaging-based dose escalation.
Head and Neck Cancer|Hypoxia|FMISO|Dose Escalation
RADIATION: Dose escalation
Complete response rate, response rate, 2-year|Locoregional progresion free survival, locoregional progresion free survival, 2-year|Rate of acute (<3 months) radiation-induced events according to CTCAE 5.0, acute radiation-induced events, 3 months|Rate of late radiation-induced events according to CTCAE 5.0, late radiation-induced events, 2-year
Overall survival, overall survival, 4 years|Distant metastasis free survival, distant metastasis free survival, 4 years|Change in QoL according to the standardised EQ-5D questionnaire, QoL according to the standardised EQ-5D questionnaire, 2 years|Rate of new hypoxic areas after two weeks of radiotherapy, rate of new hypoxic areas after two weeks of radiotherapy, 2 week after start of radiotherapy
The radiotherapy protocol will include two dose-escalation regimens. The dose in hypoxic tumor volume will be escalated either by conventional RT or stereotactic radiotherapy technique. Concurrent chemotherapy cisplatin will be administered weekly 35-40 mg/m2 or every three weeks 80-100 mg/m2. The parameter of cumulative cisplatin dose of 200 mg/m2 during the whole course of radiotherapy will be also taken into account. Patients will be examined and monitored at least every two weeks.

Target volumes and dose and fractionation:

Definition of gross tumor volumes (GTV), clinical target volumes (CTV) and planning target volumes (PTV) will follow recommendations of DAHANCA, EORTC and RTOG guidelines.

The conventional radiotherapy protocol:

Standard fractionation regimen: 70 Gy/54 Gy in 33 fractions GTV primary - CTV - PTV (5+5mm): for dose 70 Gy in 33 fractions GTV LN bulky (\> 3cm) - PTV (5mm): for dose 70 Gy in 33 fractions LN low risk (for elective irradiation) - CTV - PTV (3mm-5mm): for dose 54 Gy in 33 fractions

Dose escalated radiotherapy protocol:

Dose escalated radiotherapy protocol: 75,9 - 79,2 Gy in 33 fractions GTV hypoxic or any hypoxic LN \> 2cm - PTV (0mm): dose 75,9 - 79,2 Gy in 33 fractions (Contours must be subtracted and reduce by 3mm in case of close relation to the skin, bones or large blood vessels) GTV primary - CTV - PTV (5+5mm): for dose 70 Gy in 33 fractions LN low risk (for elective irradiation) - CTV - PTV (3mm-5mm): for dose 54 Gy in 33 fractions