Optimizing Y90 Therapy for Radiation Lobectomy
HCC resection candidates with inadequate future liver remnant will be enrolled in this study. They will be treated with Y90 radioembolization to help grow the liver enough to undergo liver resection. There will be 2 Patient Groups. The first group of patients will be treated with Y90 dose and embolic load as per standard-of-care. The second group of patients will be treated with the optimal Y90 dose and embolic load found in Patient Group 1.
HCC|Resection|Transplant|Metastatic Cancer|Adult Primary Liver Cancer
DEVICE: Y90 radioembolization
Patient Group 1: Y90 Glass Microspheres, Measure the distribution of Y90 glass microspheres throughout the tumor and non-tumor hepatic parenchyma, as assessed by same day post-radioembolization study-specific non-FDG PET/CT scan., 2 years|Patient Group 1: Sphere distribution, Sphere distribution will be correlated with mean lobar absorbed radiation dose, embolic load, and time taken to achieve adequate Future Liver Remnant (\>40% of total liver volume) to determine optimal lobar dose and embolic load., 2 years|Patient Group 2: Quantitative Imaging Radiologic Biomarkers, Quantitative MRIs and biomarkers drawn will assess the association of circulating and imaging biomarkers on Future Liver Remnant hypertrophy. Tropic factor biomarkers to be drawn include: hepatocyte growth factor, epidermal growth factor, transforming growth factor beta, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, insulin-like growth factor binding protein, vascular endothelial growth factor, platelet derived growth factor, and phosphorus level., 3 years|Patient Group 2: HCC Resection, Assess progression-free survival between patients with HCC who underwent resection following Y90 radioembolization and those who presented with an adequate Future Liver Remnant for resection (i.e. who were not treated pre-surgically)., 3 years
In this study there will be 2 different patient groups 1 and 2 that will consist of 40 and 64 patients, respectively with hepatocellular carcinoma who are eligible for resection and to receive Y90 radioembolization who have inadequate future liver remnant.

Y90 radioembolization uses radioactive beads (microspheres), which are tiny glass particles that are loaded with radiation. The beads are injected into an artery of the liver that supplies blood to the tumor(s). The beads flow to the tumor(s) and become trapped inside. The beads release the Y90 radiation inside the tumor(s).

Liver resection is used to remove the part of the liver that has the HCC tumor(s). It has been shown that Y90 radioembolization can also increase the untreated liver's size and volume. Patients with HCC may be liver resection candidates if they have a large enough liver.

The purpose of this research is to determine if there is an ideal Y90 dose to increase liver volume of the future liver remnant. This research may help determine the best Y90 dose for future patients who need a larger liver to have a liver resection.

Participants in Group 1 will have standard-of-care Y90 radioembolization as well as study-specific optional liver biopsy.

Participants who already have a planned Y90 radioembolization treatment with the dose range established in Group 1 will be enrolled into Group 2. Patient Group 2 will have blood drawn and a quantitative MRI performed at specific timepoints.

The study will last up to 3 months. Participants' health status will be followed up to 5 years.