HAIC Combine With Lenvatinib and PD-1 Inhibitors for Advanced HCC With PVTT
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy combined with Lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitors compared to Lenvatinib plus PD-1 inhibitors for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Portal Vein Thrombosis
PROCEDURE: HAIC|DRUG: Lenvatinib 1|DRUG: PD-1 Inhibitors|DRUG: Lenvatinib 2|DRUG: PD-1 inhibitors 2
6-month progression-free survival rate, Proportion of patients with 6- month progression-free survival after treatment begining in all patients., From the date of treatment begining to the date of 6 months after the treatment begining.
Overall survival, The time from treatment initiation to death due to any cause, From date of treatment beginning until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 100 months.|Objective survival rate, The proportion of participants in the analysis population who have complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) determined by investigators using mRECIST criteria at any time during the study., Evaluation of tumor burden based on mRECIST criteria through study completion, an average of once per 3 months.|Progression-free survival, The time from treatment initiation to the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs firstly., From date of treatment beginning until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Time to progression, Time to progression is defined as time from treatment initiation to radiological progression., Evaluation of tumor burden based on mRECIST criteria until first documented progress, assessed up to 100 months.|Number of patients with treatment-related adverse events, Number of patients with AE, treatment-related AE (TRAE), serious adverse event (SAE) assessed by CTCAE v5.0., Through study completion, an average of once per 1 month.
Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) can significantly improve the local drug concentration in liver compared to systemic chemotherapy. The efficacy of HAIC for hepatocellular (HCC), cholangiocarcinoma, gallbladder, and colorectal carcinoma liver metastasis has been proved by many published studies. HAIC with oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil could significantly prolong survival time for HCC patients with portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT). Lenvatinib, as a new oral anti-neovascularity inhibitor, was proved to have similar efficacy in HCC patients compared to sorafenib in REFLECT study. The sub-group analysis showed that the median overall survival (OS) in Lenvatinib group was significantly longer that sorafenib group in Chinese HCC patients. Recently, the programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitors alone or combined with targeted therapy was explored and confirmed to be effective for advanced HCC, with the median progression-free survival (PFS) and median OS of 2.1-5.6 months and 14.4-22.1 months, resepectively. Thus, the investigators carried out this prospective controlled trial to compare the efficacy and safety of HAIC combined with Lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitors and Lenvatinib and PD-1 inhibitors for advanced HCC with PVTT.

Total 66 subjects will be recruited in this trial, each group of 33 subjects in treatment group (HAIC-Cola group) and control group (Cola group). The primary endpoint is six-month progression-free survival rate, and the secondary endpoints are OS, overall response rate (ORR), PFS, time-to-progression (TTP) and safety. The safety evaluation will be carried out according to the standard of adverse reaction classification (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, CTCAE v5.0).