Palliative Radiotherapy with Lurbinectedin in Patients with Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial aims to determine if it is safe to use palliative radiotherapy and lurbinectedin at the same time to treat small cell lung cancer that has spread outside of the chest and that has grown after being treated with chemotherapy (extensive stage). Lurbinectedin kills tumor cells by blocks a process called transcription that small cell lung cancer relies on to survive. It also damages the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) of tumor cells, which is similar to the way radiation kills tumor cells. Palliative radiotherapy is a routine medical treatment for patients who have lung cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic), and is used to relieve symptoms caused by cancer or to patients from developing symptoms. This trial may help doctors understand if treating patients with lurbinectedin and palliative radiotherapy at the same time would make them both work better than either one alone or if they could cause more side effects for patients when given together.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC V8
DRUG: Lurbinectedin|RADIATION: Palliative Radiation Therapy
Incidence of adverse events of palliative radio therapy (RT) with lurbinectedin, Will be defined as having one or none of the following:

* Grade 4 or 5 serious adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely related to protocol treatment from 30 days from the start of RT.
* Any adverse events possibly, probably, or definitely related to protocol treatment that leads to prolonged dose delays (defined as with-holding of two consecutive doses of lurbinectedin).
* Any adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment resulting in the permanent discontinuation of lurbinectedin. Will be analyzed separately for safety cohorts 1 and 2 and will be summarized descriptively using frequencies and percentages. These will be compared to rates reported by Trigo et al. from lurbinectedin monotherapy., Up to 1 year
The number of dose reductions or interruptions possibly, probably, or definitely due to the delivery of protocol therapy, Feasibility will be defined as the number of dose reductions or interruptions possibly, probably, or definitely due to the delivery of protocol therapy in the 30 days following completion palliative RT. Will be summarized descriptively using frequencies and percentages., 30 days following completion palliative RT|Response rate, Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. The rate will be reported, along with a 95% confidence interval estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 3 months post-RT|Pain response rates, Will be assessed at 3 months post-RT, as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), at 3 months as well as pre-treatment (at registration). The rates will be reported, along with 95% confidence intervals estimated using the Clopper-Pearson method., At 3 months pre-treatment and 3 months post-RT|Progression free survival (PFS), Those alive without disease progression will be censored at last date of disease assessment. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and a 95% confidence interval for median PFS will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley approach., From protocol treatment initiation to disease progression or death, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Those alive will be censored at date of last follow-up. OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and a 95% confidence interval for median OS will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley approach., From treatment initiation to death, assessed up to 1 year|Patient-reported toxicity, Rates of patient reported outcome (PRO)-adverse events (AEs), will be assessed by PRO-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v1.0 and reported using frequencies and percentages., Up to 1 year
Hematologic toxicity rate, Rates of hematologic toxicity (grade 3+) as a function of dose-volume relationships of irradiated bone marrow volume will be reported, using frequencies and percentages., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the safety in terms of palliative radiation therapy (RT) in combination with uninterrupted lurbinectedin in patients with extensive stage-lung small cell carcinoma (ES-SCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of delivering palliative RT in combination with lurbinectedin.

II. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of RT plus (+) lurbinectedin, as assessed by:

IIa. Radiographic response rates. IIb. Pain response rates. IIc. Progression free survival (PFS). IId. Overall survival (OS). III. To assess patient-reported toxicities to palliative RT + lurbinectedin.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore the dose-volume relationships between irradiated bone marrow and hematologic toxicity.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo palliative RT over 5 or 10 treatment fractions at the discretion of the treating physician daily for 21 days. Patients also receive lurbinectedin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles of lurbinectedin repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of palliative RT, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.