Phase I/II Trial of Bevacizumab, Pemetrexed and Erlotinib in Elderly Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a Phase I/II trial of elderly patients (\> 70 years of age). Patients in this age group with previously un-treated Advanced Stage Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with Stage IIIB (with malignant pleural effusion) and stage IV disease will be enrolled. Therapy consists of three drugs (Premetrexed\[Alimta™\], Bevacizumab and Erlotinib\[Tarceva™\]) which are given every 28 days.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Progression Free Survival (PFS), The primary objective was to determine the progression free survival (PFS), in newly diagnosed patients with advanced Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who are treated with a regimen consisting of Bevacizumab(B), pemetrexed(A), and erlotnib(T). This was a Phase I/II study. This trial was halted after the Phase I component was completed. The Phase II component was never initiated., 26 months
One-year Survival(1-year S), Secondary Objective: One-year survival(1-year S) in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with this regimen., 26 Months|Number of Patients Who Responded to Treatment, Phase I:

Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST)Criteria was used for Response. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of Longest Dimention (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., 26 Months|Quality of Life (QOL), The Scales we were intending to use were:

Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL): Range of Scale 0 (Best) to 8 (Worst).

Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatric (CIRS-G): Range of Scores 1(Best) to 18 (Worst).

Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L): Range of Scores 0 (Best) to 48 (Worst).

Fatigue Symptom Inventory (FSI): Range of Scores 0(Best) to 121 (Worst).

Each scale would have been evaluated independently. Since the study was not completed and closed early due to poor accrual, none of the QOL parameters were analyzed., 26 Months|Number of Participants With Grade 3 and Grade 4 Adverse Events, By Safety, the intent was to capture, tabulate, list all of the grade 3 and 4 adverse effects seen by this protocol. For each toxicity, we followed the Common Toxicity Criteria(NCI CTC)Version 2.0 Toxicity scale guidelines., 26 Months|Overall Survival (Median Survival [MS]), Secondary Objective: Determine the Overall Survival (median survival\[MS\]) in patients with advanced NSCLC treated with this regimen. Patients were to be followed until death and survival curves were to be generated., 26 Months
This is a Phase I/II trial of elderly patients (\> 70 years of age) with previously un-treated Advanced Stage Non-Squamous NSCLC with Stage IIIB (with malignant pleural effusion) and stage IV disease will be enrolled.

Treatment Regimen:

Premetrexed (Alimta™) 500 milligrams(mg)/Meter squared(m20 Intravenous(I.V.) Day 1 and Day 15; Bevacizumab 10mg/Kilogram(Kg) I. V. Day 1 and Day 15; Erlotinib (Tarceva™) 150mg Per Orally(PO) Once Daily(QD) for 7 days starting day 2 and day 15; Repeat cycles every 28 days.

All three drugs will be continued for two cycles after maximal response. After which patient will be maintained only on the Bevacizumab and Erlotinib until progression. If patient has stable disease after the first two cycles then patient will be given another two cycles with all three drugs before maintenance treatment with Bevacizumab and Erlotinib is initiated.