Study of Oral cMET Inhibitor INC280 in Patients With EGFR Wild-type (wt), Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) (Geometry Mono-1)
Study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of capmatinib as a single-agent treatment for subjects with advanced/metastatic (stage IIIB or IV) non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who had wild-type epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR wt) (for exon 19 deletions and exon 21 L858R substitution mutations), anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-negative rearrangement, and mesenchymal epithelial transition (MET) mutations leading to exon 14 deletion (referred to as MET mutation hereafter) and/or MET amplification.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Capmatinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) Assessment, Percentage of participants with a best overall response defined as confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by BIRC assessment per RECIST 1.1.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years
Duration of Response (DOR) by BIRC Assessment, Time from the date of the first documented CR or PR by BIRC per RECIST 1.1 to the first documented progression or date of death due to any cause for patients with confirmed PR or CR. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate DOR, and the median DOR, along with 95% confidence intervals was reported. If a subject did not have an event, DOR was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years|ORR by Investigator Assessment, Percentage of patients with a best overall response defined as confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 by investigator assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years|DOR by Investigator Assessment, Time from the date of the first documented CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 by investigator assessment to the first documented progression or death due to any cause for patients with confirmed PR or CR. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate DOR, and the median DOR, along with 95% confidence intervals was reported. If a subject did not have an event, DOR was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years|Time to Response (TTR) by BIRC Assessment, Time between date of start of treatment until first documented response (confirmed CR or PR) per RECIST 1.1 by BIRC assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years|TTR by Investigator Assessment, Time between date of start of treatment until first documented response (confirmed CR or PR) per RECIST 1.1 by investigator assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 5 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of participants with a best overall response of confirmed CR, PR or stable disease (SD) per RECIST 1.1 by BIRC and investigator assessment.

CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target and non-target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target and non-target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters.

SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease., Up to approximately 5 years|Progression-Free Survival, Time from start of treatment to the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause per RECIST 1.1 by BIRC and investigator assessment. Clinical deterioration was not considered as a qualifying event for progression. PFS was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment if one of the following occurred: absence of event or the event occurred after two or more missing tumor assessments.

The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate PFS, and the median PFS, along with 95% confidence intervals, was reported.

Progressive disease: For target lesions, at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm\^2. For non-target lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, Up to approximately 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Time from start of treatment to the date of death due to any cause. If the patient was alive at the date of the analysis cut-off or lost to follow-up, then OS was censored at the last contact date prior to data cut-off date.

The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate OS, and the median OS, along with 95% confidence intervals, was reported., Up to approximately 6 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Concentrations of Capmatinib, PK concentrations of capmatinib. Plasma concentrations of capmatinib were measured using validated liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/MS) methods with a lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Capmatinib concentration data was summarized for Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b when capmatinib was administered in fasted state; and for Cohorts 6 and 7 when capmatinib was administered with or without food., Cycle (C) 1 Day (D) 1 predose and 2 hours post-dose, C1D15 pre-dose and 2 hours post-dose, C3D1 pre-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Capmatinib, Cmax of capmatinib was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum plasma drug concentration after single dose administration. Plasma concentrations of capmatinib were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of CMN288, Cmax of CMN288 (metabolite of capmatinib) was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. Cmax is the maximum plasma drug concentration after single dose administration. Plasma concentrations of metabolite CMN288 were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Zero to Time Infinity (AUCinf) of Capmatinib, AUCinf of capmatinib was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. AUCinf is the area under the plasma concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity. Plasma concentrations of capmatinib were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Zero to Time Infinity (AUCinf) of CMN288, AUCinf of CMN288 (metabolite of capmatinib) was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. AUCinf is the area under the plasma concentration-time curve extrapolated to infinity. Plasma concentrations of metabolite CMN288 were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Time to Reach Maximum Concentration (Tmax) of Capmatinib, Tmax of capmatinib was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum plasma concentration. Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations. Plasma concentrations of capmatinib were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Time to Reach Maximum Concentration (Tmax) of CMN288, Tmax of CMN288 (metabolite of capmatinib) was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. Tmax is the time to reach maximum plasma concentration. Actual recorded sampling times were considered for the calculations. Plasma concentrations of metabolite CMN288 were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from cohorts 1-5, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Elimination Half-life (T1/2) of Capmatinib, T1/2 of capmatinib was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. T1/2 is the time it takes for the concentration of capmatinib in the bloodstream to decrease by half. Plasma concentrations of capmatinib were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days|Elimination Half-life (T1/2) of CMN288, T1/2 of CMN288 (metabolite of capmatinib) was estimated by non-compartmental analysis. T1/2 is the time it takes for the concentration of CMN288 in the bloodstream to decrease by half. Plasma concentrations of metabolite CMN288 were measured using validated LCMS/MS methods with a LLOQ of approximately 1.0 ng/mL.

Only a subset of participants from Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3, 4, 5a and 5b, who had an extensive PK collection schedule, were included in this analysis, Cycle 1 Day 1 and Day 15 at pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6 and 8 hours post-dose. Each Cycle is 21 days
This was a Phase II, multicenter, open-label study. Patients were enrolled in different cohorts based on their MET status (amplification and/or mutation) and prior treatment status: Cohort 1a, Cohort 1b, Cohort 2, Cohort 3, Cohort 4, Cohort 5a, Cohort 5b, Cohort 6, and Cohort 7. MET mutation (by RT-PCR) and/or MET amplification status by gene copy number (GCN, by FISH) was determined by central laboratory.

Patients in Cohorts 1, 2, 3, and 4 had previously failed 1 or 2 prior lines of systemic therapy, while patients enrolled in Cohorts 5 and 7 were treatment-naïve for advanced disease/metastatic disease. Patients enrolled in Cohort 6 had failed 1 prior line of systemic therapy for advanced/ metastatic disease.

Patients with MET mutation were enrolled in Cohort 4 (pre-treated), Cohort 5b (treatment naïve) or Cohort 7 (treatment naïve expansion cohort of Cohort 5b), irrespective of their MET GCN. The enrollment in expansion Cohort 7 started after the completion of enrollment in Cohort 5b.

Patients without MET mutation, were enrolled in Cohorts 1a, 1b, 2, 3 (pre-treated) or 5a (treatment naïve), based on their MET GCN. Patients enrolled in Cohort 6 (expansion cohort of Cohort 1a and Cohort 4) had either MET GCN ≥10 without MET mutation (Cohort 6.1) or MET mutation, irrespective to their MET GCN (Cohort 6.2). The enrollment in Cohort 6 started upon enrollment completion of the respective Cohort 1a or Cohort 4.

All participants in the study received oral capmatinib 400 mg twice daily. A treatment cycle was defined as 21 days. Treatment with capmatinib continued until patient experienced any of the following: disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 as determined by investigator and confirmed by Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC), unacceptable toxicity that precluded further treatment, treatment discontinuation at the discretion of the Investigator or patient, lost to follow-up, or death. Treatment with capmatinib was allowed beyond RECIST 1.1-defined disease progression (as determined by investigator and confirmed by BIRC) if, in the judgment of the investigator, there was evidence of clinical benefit and the patient wished to continue on the study treatment. All patients continued to have safety evaluations for 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.

Patients who discontinued treatment with capmatinib for any reason other than disease progression, as determined by the investigator and confirmed by BIRC, death, withdrawal of consent for further assessments, or being lost to follow-up, continued to have tumor assessments (post-treatment efficacy follow-up) until disease progression confirmed by BIRC, death, withdrawal of consent for further assessments, or lost to follow-up.

All patients who discontinued treatment with capmatinib were followed for survival (post-treatment survival follow-up) until death, loss to follow-up, withdrawal of consent to survival follow-up, or the end of the study.