Intraoperative Imaging of a PET Positive Lymph Node(s) Using 18FDG and a Dual-Mode, Hand-Held Intraoperative Imager
This study is a prospective collection of data utilizing the Imaging Beta Probe (IBP) in patients with positron emission tomography (PET) positive disease. A pilot clinical study involving 5 patients will be conducted using the IBP. The sterilized IBP will be used intraoperatively in surgical wounds for localization of tumor sites and detecting completeness of excision vs. positive margins. The outcome of each of these studies will be documented and used to demonstrate clinical benefits of the new probe. The investigators will correlate the images from the probe of the Fludeoxyglucose (18FDG) positive tissue, both in-vivo and ex-vivo after dissection, with the previously performed PET scan and with the routine pathology results obtained on the surgical specimens.The experimental imaging modality studied in this protocol will be compared to clinically utilized modalities of ultrasound and PET/ CT. Localization between imaging modalities will be compared with respect to: detection and side of localization.
Head and Neck Neoplasms
DEVICE: Imaging Beta Probe (IBP)
Detection of PET positive disease, Localization between imaging modalities will be compared with respect to: detection (y/n) and side of localization (r/l)., Day 1
This study is a prospective collection of data utilizing the Imaging Beta Probe (IBP) in patients with positron emission tomography (PET) positive disease. A pilot clinical study involving 5 patients will be conducted using the IBP. The sterilized IBP will be used intraoperatively in surgical wounds for localization of tumor sites and detecting completeness of excision vs. positive margins. The outcome of each of these studies will be documented and used to demonstrate clinical benefits of the new probe. The investigators will correlate the images from the probe of the Fludeoxyglucose (18FDG) positive tissue, both in-vivo and ex-vivo after dissection, with the previously performed PET scan and with the routine pathology results obtained on the surgical specimens.The experimental imaging modality studied in this protocol will be compared to clinically utilized modalities of ultrasound and PET/ CT. Localization between imaging modalities will be compared with respect to: detection and side of localization.