The Risk of Acute Myeloid Leukaemia in Patients with Ewing's Sarcoma
Ewing's sarcoma is an uncommon yet vital malignancy of bone. It demonstrates a predilection for the pediatric and young adult population. Chemotherapy is considered an important treatment modality for Ewing's sarcoma. However, the development of therapy-related leukemia, especially acute myeloid leukemia following treatment, is attributed to the use of substances such as alkylating agents and topoisomerase inhibitors which are genotoxic. There is a very few studies elaborating on the incidence rates of such complications. So, our aim is to quantify the risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia in Ewing sarcoma patients and provide an updated evidence to the literature.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Ewing Sarcoma
The standardized incidence ratio and excess risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia in Ewing's sarcoma patients, The surveillance, epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database was used to calculate the standardized incidence ratio (SIR) as Observed/Expected (O/E) and calculated the excess absolute risk for acute myeloid leukemia in Ewing's sarcoma patients., from Jan, 2000 till Dec, 2021
The standardized incidence ratio and excess risk of second primary malignancies in Ewing's sarcoma patients across different racial groups, from Jan, 2000 till Dec, 2021|The standardized incidence ratio and excess risk of second primary malignancies in Ewing's sarcoma patients between different stages, from Jan, 2000 till Dec, 2021
Ewing's sarcoma is an uncommon yet vital malignancy of bone. It demonstrates a predilection for the pediatric and young adult population. Chemotherapy is considered an important treatment modality for Ewing's sarcoma. However, the development of therapy-related leukemia, especially acute myeloid leukemia following treatment, is attributed to the use of substances such as alkylating agents and topoisomerase inhibitors which are genotoxic. There is a very few studies elaborating on the incidence rates of such complications. So, our aim is to quantify the risk of developing acute myeloid leukemia in Ewing sarcoma patients and provide an updated evidence to the literature.