Neoadjuvant Almonertinib Followed by Chemo-immunotherapy in II-IIIB EGFR-mutant NSCLC
Phase II, single-arm, open-label study that assess clinical feasibility and safety of neoadjuvant almonertinib followed by 3 cycles neoadjuvant adebrelimab plus chemotherapy in EGFR-mutant stage IIA-IIIB NSCLC followed by surgery, adjuvant treatment was upon investigators' decisions.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|EGFR Gene Mutation
DRUG: almonertinib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
Major Pathological Response (MPR), MPR was defined as percentage of tumor cells within tumor bed less than 10% for primary lung lesions, MPR will be assessed within 2 weeks after surgery
Pathological Complete Response (pCR), The pathological complete response is defined as the absence of residual tumor in both lung and lymph nodes after neoadjuvant treatment., pCR will be assessed within 2 weeks after surgery|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the number of participants with a Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) divided by the total number of participants. Response is based on the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) criteria. Complete Response (CR) was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions compared to baseline or the complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence of 1 or more nontarget lesion(s) and no new lesions., Tumor response will be evaluated within 2 weeks after almonertinib, and within 3-4 weeks after last dose of neoadjuvant treatment
Overall Survival (OS), From date of initiation of neoadjuvant treatment till the date of all-cause death, assessed up to 60 months., up to 60 months.|Event Free Survival (EFS), Time from initiation of neoadjuvant treatment to any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence of disease after surgery, progression of disease in the absence of surgery, or death from any cause., From date of initiation of neoadjuvant treatment till the date of first documented disease progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), Incidence of all grade AE which has been confirmed to be correlated with neoadjuvant treatment, up to 90 days.
This study plans to include 32 eligible II-IIIB non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), patients will receive 6 weeks of almonertinib, and to avoid overlap of interstitial lung disease (ILD) and immune-related pneumonitis, 2 weeks of washout period was designed before 3 cycles of adebrelimab + doublet platinum-based chemotherapy is administered. Dynamic blood samples before, during or after neoadjuvant treatment will be obtained for exploratory analysis. Patients with local disease and resectable or potentially resectable NSCLC will receive anatomic resection. Patients who progress upon neoadjuvant treatment and further assessed as unresectable disease will be scheduled for local radiation or other potential subsequent treatment regarding multidisciplinary discussion. After completion of local treatment (surgery or radiation), patients will undergo optional adjuvant treatment including epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR-TKI) or immunotherapy upon investigators' consideration or CT surveillance. Patients will be follow-up within 5 years after surgery. The primary endpoint of this study is major pathological response (MPR) defined as no more than 10% residual tumor found in primary lung cancer as per International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) criteria.