Palifosfamide in Treating Patients With Recurrent Germ Cell Tumors
This phase II trial studies how well palifosfamide works in treating patients with recurrent germ cell tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as palifosfamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing
Adult Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumor|Adult Teratoma|Malignant Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumor|Malignant Extragonadal Non-Seminomatous Germ Cell Tumor|Extragonadal Seminoma|Recurrent Malignant Testicular Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Stage IV Extragonadal Non-Seminomatous Germ Cell Tumor|Stage IV Extragonadal Seminoma|Stage IV Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor
DRUG: palifosfamide
Overall Response Rate (Defined as Partial Response or Complete Response), The percent of patients who were shown as having a partial remission or better based on definitions of response in RECIST 1.1. At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, in reference to baseline sum diameters, needs to be confirmed to be considered as partial response or better. Note: There were no patients with a partial or complete response., Up to 2 years
Duration of Remission in Patients Who Achieve a Partial or Complete Response, The duration of remission is from the time of confirmed partial or complete response until progression or death. Patients continuing in remission at the end of the study will be treated as censored. Summarized by Kaplan-Meier methods including 90% confidence intervals for the median using method of Brookmeyer and Crowley. Note: There were no patients who achieved partial or complete response., Up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Summarized by Kaplan-Meier methods including 90% confidence intervals for the median using method of Brookmeyer and Crowley. Time until progression, death or last evaluation will be calculated. If a patient did not progress or die, they will be censored at their last evaluation in the analysis., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Summarized by Kaplan-Meier methods including 90% confidence intervals for the median using method of Brookmeyer and Crowley. Time until death or last evaluation will be calculated. If a patient did not die, they will be censored in the analysis at their last known alive date., Up to 2 years|Treatment Related Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher, Number of unique patients who had a treatment related (possible, probable or definite) adverse event that was graded 3 or greater according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the response rate (complete response \[CR\]+partial response \[PR\]) of single agent palifosfamide in patients with refractory germ cell tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of remission. II. To determine progression free and overall survival. III. To assess toxicity and tolerability of palifosfamide in patients with germ cell tumors.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive palifosfamide intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.