Efficacy and Safety Study of Idelalisib in Participants With Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas
The primary objective will be to assess the overall response rate and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of idelalisib (IDELA; GS-1101) in participants with previously treated indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (iNHL) that is refractory both to rituximab and to alkylating-agent-containing chemotherapy.

Eligible participants will initiate oral therapy with idelalisib at a starting dose of 150 mg taken twice per day. Treatment with idelalisib can continue in compliant participants as long as the study is still ongoing and the participants appear to be benefiting from treatment with acceptable safety.
Follicular Lymphoma|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Lymphoplasmacytic Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Idelalisib
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate (ORR) was assessed based on the International Working Group Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma (Cheson, 2007), and was defined as the percentage of participants achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR; or minor response \[MR\] for participants with WM) as assessed by the study independent review committee (IRC).

CR was defined as the complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease.

PR was defined as a ≥ 50% reduction in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all index lesions, with no new lesions.

For WM only, response was defined as a reduction in immunoglobulin M (IgM) of ≥ 50% decrease for PR, and ≥ 25% decrease for MR; no increase from baseline in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all index lesions, with no new lesions or signs and symptoms of active disease (Owen, 2013), Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)
Duration of Response, Duration of Response (DOR) was defined as the interval from the first documentation of CR or PR (or MR for participants with WM) to the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression as assessed by the study IRC or death from any cause. DOR was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Lymph Node Response Rate, Lymph node response (LNR) was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a ≥ 50% decrease from baseline in the sum of the product of the perpendicular diameters (SPD) of measurable index lesions as assessed by the study IRC., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Time to Response, Time to response (TTR) was defined as the interval from the start of idelalisib treatment to the first documentation of CR or PR (or MR for participants with WM) as assessed by the study IRC., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the interval from the start of idelalisib treatment to the earlier of the first documentation of disease progression as assessed by the study IRC or death from any cause. PFS was analyzed using KM estimates., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time interval from the start of idelalisib treatment to death from any cause. OS was analyzed using KM estimates., Start of Treatment to Last Long-Term Follow-Up Visit (up to maximum of 7 years)|Change in Health-Related Quality of Life Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: Lymphoma Subscale (FACT-LymS), Change in health-related quality of life events were reported by participants using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: Lymphoma Subscale (FACT-LymS) assessment tool. Results are presented as the mean (SD) best change from baseline. The best change from baseline was defined as the highest change score (improvement) after baseline.

The FACT-LymS is on a scale from 0-60, with higher scores associated with a better quality of life. It incorporates values from 15 questions, each rated 0-4, related to study indications., Baseline to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Change in Karnofsky Performance Status, The change in Karnofsky performance status was reported as the best (highest change score) and worst (lowest change score) change from baseline using the Karnofsky performance criteria. The Karnofsky score classified participants according to their functional impairment. Scores are on a scale from 0-100, the lower the score, the worse the survival for most serious illnesses., Baseline to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Changes in Plasma Concentrations of Disease-Associated Chemokines and Cytokines, Analysis of the cytokine/chemokine was planned to be performed on a subset of samples from this study along with a subset of samples from other studies. Therefore, data for this Outcome Measure are not reported here because the analysis population includes participants who were not enrolled in this study. ClinicalTrials.gov is designed for reporting results from only those participants who were enrolled in the study and described in the Participant Flow and Baseline Characteristics modules., Enrollment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Safety and Tolerability of Idelalisib Assessed as the Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events (AEs) or Abnormalities in Vital Signs, Laboratory Tests, or Electrocardiograms, This composite endpoint measured the safety and tolerability profile of idelalisib. "Clinically meaningful" abnormalities in vital signs and electrocardiograms (ECG) were as determined by the investigator., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months) plus 30 days|Study Drug Exposure, The average idelalisib exposure was summarized., Start of Treatment to End of Treatment (up to 81 months)|Idelalisib Plasma Concentration, Predose and at 1.5 hours (± 5 minutes) postdose on Day 29|PK Parameter: Cmax, Cmax at Days 1 and 29 was analyzed. Cmax is defined as the maximum concentration of drug., Predose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours postdose on Days 1 and 29|PK Parameter: Tmax, Tmax at Days 1 and 29 was analyzed. Tmax is defined as the time of Cmax (the maximum concentration of drug)., Predose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours postdose on Days 1 and 29|PK Parameter: AUClast, AUClast at Days 1 and 29 was analyzed. AUClast is defined as the concentration of drug from time zero to the last observable concentration, Predose and at 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours postdose on Days 1 and 29
The primary objective will be to assess the overall response rate and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of idelalisib (IDELA; GS-1101) in participants with previously treated indolent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (iNHL) that is refractory both to rituximab and to alkylating-agent-containing chemotherapy.

Eligible participants will initiate oral therapy with idelalisib at a starting dose of 150 mg taken twice per day. Treatment with idelalisib can continue in compliant participants as long as the study is still ongoing and the participants appear to be benefiting from treatment with acceptable safety.