Gemcitabine and Bendamustine in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of bendamustine hydrochloride when given together with gemcitabine hydrochloride and to see how well it works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride and bendamustine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug, combination chemotherapy, may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Lymphocyte Depletion Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Mixed Cellularity Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Nodular Lymphocyte Predominant Hodgkin Lymphoma|Adult Nodular Sclerosis Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: bendamustine hydrochloride
Adverse Events in Terms of Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT) and MTD of Bendamustine Hydrochloride (Phase I), Dose limiting toxicity will be defined during cycle 1 only of the phase I trial. Hematologic and Infectious Dose Limiting Toxicities include: Grade 3 febrile neutropenia persisting\> 7 days, Grade 4 infection or febrile neutropenia. Treatment delay\>14 days due to grade 3-4 neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. Non-Hematological Dose Limiting Toxicities include: any Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity related to study treatment with the exception of nausea or vomiting, alopecia, or electrolyte/glucose abnormalities that are correctable within 72 hours., up to 5 years
Overall Response Rate (ORR) of Bendamustine Hydrochloride and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma (Phase II), Tested using Simon's two-stage Minimax design. Descriptive statistics (i.e. means, standard deviations, 95% confidence intervals for continuous variables, and frequencies for discrete data) and graphical analyses will be used for all correlative laboratory parameters. The associations between correlative laboratory parameters and clinical response will be evaluated using two sample t test or Fisher's exact test, whichever is appropriate., up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicity and determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of combined bendamustine (bendamustine hydrochloride) and gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

II. To determine the overall response rate of bendamustine and gemcitabine in patients with relapsed and refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether therapy with bendamustine in the setting of relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma will impact future stem cell collection.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of bendamustine hydrochloride followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and bendamustine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 21-28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for up to 3 years.