Peer i-Coaching for Activated Self-Management Optimization in Adolescents and Young Adults With Chronic Conditions
The purpose of this study is to test the efficacy of a peer support coaching intervention to improve activated chronic illness self-management versus an attention control group in 225 adolescents and young adults with childhood onset chronic conditions.
Sickle Cell Disease|Chronic Kidney Diseases|Systemic Lupus Erythematosus|Childhood Cancer|Inflammatory Bowel Diseases|Stem Cell Transplant|Organ Transplant|Diabetes Mellitus, Type 1|Cystic Fibrosis
BEHAVIORAL: PiCASO Intervention Group|BEHAVIORAL: Sham Comparator: Attention Control Group
Change in Self-management as measured by the Partners in Health Scale, Self-management variable measured using the Partners in Health Scale (PIH): measures chronic illness self-management by assessing chronic condition self-management knowledge, partnership in treatment, recognition and management of symptoms, and coping. This 12 item self-report scale is scored on a 9-point Likert scale (range: 0-8; higher scores indicate better self-management), providing total and subscale scores (knowledge, coping, recognition and management of functions, adherence to treatment)., baseline 3-, 6-, 9-, 12 months|Change in Patient activation as measured by the Patient Activation Measure (PAM-13), Patient Activation variable measured using the Patient Activation Measure (PAM-13): measures patient activation through self-reports of knowledge, skills, and confidence related to self-management of one's own health care. This 13-item self-report assesses confidence in self-management and understanding of health condition and is scored on a 5-point Likert scale (range: 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher patient activation in self-management)., baseline 3-, 6-, 9-, 12 months
Change in Transition Readiness as measured by the Transition Readiness Questionnaire (TRAQ 20), Transition readiness variable measured using Transition Readiness Assessment Questionnaire (TRAQ 20): 20-item self-report assessment of the ability to make appointments, manage medications, track health issues, talk with providers, and manage daily activities. The TRAQ scores produced include an overall score and a subscale score for each of the five subscales. The overall score and the subscale scores are calculated by taking the average score across the items in the questionnaire (or subscale). Each item is scored 1-5. Higher scores indicate more transition readiness, baseline 3-, 6-, 9-, 12 months|Change in Health-related Quality of Life as measured by the Short Form Health Survey (SF12), Health-related Quality of Life variable measured using the Short Form Health Survey (SF12): 12-item self-report that assesses physical and mental health related quality of life. Results are expressed in terms of two meta-scores: the Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). The PCS and MCS scores have a range of 0 to 100 and were designed to have a mean score of 50. Higher scores indicate better physical functioning., baseline 3-, 6-, 9-, 12 months|Change in Emotional Health as measured by the Brief Symptom Inventory (BSI 18), Emotional health variable measured using the Brief Symptom Inventory: 18-item self-report of emotional symptoms experienced over the previous 7 days. Subscales include depression, anxiety, and somatization. 5-point Likert scale, with three sub-scale scores and an overall global psychological distress score. Higher scores indicate more psychological distress., baseline 3-, 6-, 9-, 12 months
Increases in life expectancy in almost all childhood-onset chronic conditions (COCC) has brought unique challenges for adolescents and young adults (AYA) who struggle to deal with the associated disease burden, manage therapies, and thrive as they develop independent self-management skills, and become active and engaged patients. The challenges that influence the lives of AYAs are largely adaptive, such as making lifestyle modifications, adhering to complex medication regimens, and learning to navigate the adult health system. Adding to this complexity is the need for AYAs to progressively take over greater self-management responsibilities from parents. Promoting activated self-management is critically important given that this shift in health care management from parents and health care providers to the AYA is identified as key to successful adult outcomes. Peer support interventions are well-suited to address challenges theorized as critical to AYAs given the importance of peer relationships during this time. The investigators propose a mixed-methods, five-year randomized controlled trial, that will include 225 AYAs (16-22 years) with COCCs, to test the Peer i-Coaching for Activated Self-Management Optimization (PICASO) versus an attention control group. This novel, mobile health intervention utilizes an established telephone/text based secure interface to allow AYAs access knowledge, experience, and instrumental/emotional support from a trained peer coach (18-26 years), who has already developed independence and is an active self-manager. The investigators will determine the efficacy of PICASO on self-management, patient activation, transition readiness, health-related quality, and emotional health of life across 12 months. The investigators will explore whether age, sex, race/ethnicity, chronic condition, and/or disease severity moderate the trajectory of PICASO effects on self-management, patient activation, coping, emotional health and health-related quality of life. Lastly, the investigators will explore mechanisms of the PICASO impact by describing AYA experiences with the intervention.