Aflibercept for Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well aflibercept works in treating patients with stage II or stage III multiple myeloma that has relapsed or not responded to previous treatment. Aflibercept may be able to carry cancer-killing substances directly to multiple myeloma cells. It may also stop the growth of multiple myeloma by blocking blood flow to the cancer.
Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: aflibercept
Overall Response Rate (Complete [CR] and Partial Response [PR]), A 95% confidence interval was intended to be estimated via binomial proportions, but was not computed due to small sample size.

Criteria for Response from EBMT, IBMTR, ABMTR: Complete Response:Complete absence of monoclonal protein by immunofixation for a minimum of 6 weeks; Near Complete Response:Absence of serum paraprotein by standard serum/urine protein electrophoresis without disappearance of monoclonal spike by immunofixation; Partial Response:Sustained decrease in production rate of monoclonal serum protein to 50% or less of pretreatment value; Stable Disease: No significant change from baseline; Progression of Disease:Patients with a \> or = 25% rise in production rate, new/increased size of lytic lesions/plasmacytomas/progressive marrow plasmacytosis; Symptomatic Deterioration:Patients with deterioration of health requiring discontinuation of treatment w/out objective evidence of disease progression., At baseline and every 4 weeks during study treatment until treatment discontinuation due to disease progression, unacceptable toxicities and/or patient withdrawal.
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., Time from first treatment day until objective or symptomatic progression, assessed up to 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., Time from first treatment day until death, assessed up to 6 months|Toxicities, Toxicities will be assessed and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 3.0 terminology. Exact 95% confidence intervals around the toxicity proportions will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates., up to 6 months|Tissue Expression Patterns of VEGFR Subtypes, The change in the prevalence/expression of these markers between pre-and-post treatment samples will be analyzed by McNemar's test. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates for all laboratory correlates., At baseline and post-treatment (1 week after 2nd dose and end of study)|The Apoptotic State of Tumor Neovasculature, The change in the prevalence/expression of these markers between pre-and-post treatment samples will be analyzed by McNemar's test. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates for all laboratory correlates., At baseline and post-treatment (1 week after 2nd dose and end of study)|Proangiogenic Factors Such as VEGF, The change in the prevalence/expression of these markers between pre-and-post treatment samples will be analyzed by McNemar's test. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates for all laboratory correlates., At baseline, before every course for 3 months, and then every 3 months during treatment for the first year|Circulating Endothelial Progenitors, The change in the prevalence/expression of these markers between pre-and-post treatment samples will be analyzed by McNemar's test. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates for all laboratory correlates., At baseline, before every course for 3 months, and then every 3 months during treatment for the first year
OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of VEGF Trap (aflibercept) in patients with relapsed or refractory, stage II or III multiple myeloma (MM).

II. To perform correlative studies in order to evaluate the angiogenic properties of tissue from patients during the course of treatment with VEGF Trap.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive aflibercept intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 60 days and then periodically thereafter.