Bipolar Enbloc Versus Thulium-Yag Enbloc Resection of Bladder Tumors
Prospective controlled study randomized comparing bipolar enbloc versus thulium enbloc for bladder tumours
Bladder Cancer
PROCEDURE: Bipolar enbloc resection of bladder tumor|PROCEDURE: Thulium laser enbloc resection of bladder tumor
Enbloc technique effectiveness in obtaining muscle in the speciment, Assessed by presence of muscles in histopathological specimen., 3 months|Duration of cancer free survival post enbloc resection, Duration of Cancer free survival post resection measured by weeks., 1year|Staging of bladder cancer post enbloc resection, Clinical staging using bimanual examination under anesthesia., 1year|Presence of residual tumors post resection, Assessed by visualization of any residual mass during second look cystoscopy, 3-6 months|Blood loss, Assessed by comparing between Hemoglobin level pre and post operative, Immediate postoperative
Bladder cancer is the ninth most prevalent cancer worldwide and the 2nd most common urologic cancer in the last two decades after cancer prostate .

Most bladder cancers attributed to exposure to environmental and occupational chemicals, the largest of which by far is tobacco smoke. Greater tobacco smoke and occupational exposure in men may help in the explanation of the 4-fold gender difference in bladder cancer incidence .

Approximately 75-85% of patients with bladder cancer present with disease confined to the mucosa or submucosa , which is referred to as nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC).

Transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) is still considered the gold standard treatment for primary nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer.

There are many drawbacks for conventional TURBT procedure such as such as the deficiency of the bladder detrusor muscle In the specimen

, the obturator jerk, thermal damage to surrounding tissues, and the technique of( incise and scatter). These drawbacks may lead to difficulty in performing an accurate pathological evaluation of fragment tissue and increase the risk of recurrence.

Laser therapy for bladder cancer was first reported in Germany in the 1970s and was approved to clinical use in the USA in 1984.

Modern laser technology has led to new alternatives to conventional transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) due to its efficacy and good control of bleeding. With the introduction of en-bloc resection of urinary bladder tumors, Laser come back into focus. The two most commonly used lasers at present are thulium and holmium Laser.

In 2018 PA Geavlete, declared that the enbloc bipolar resection of bladder tumors using mushroom loop provide the advantages of superior surgical safety, decreased perioperative morbidity and faster postoperative recovery, when compared to the standard monopolar TURBT but showed no superiority in oncological outcome.