Mini-AFTERc Intervention for Fear of Cancer Recurrence
People treated for breast cancer often live with an ongoing fear that the cancer will recur. This fear may develop and impact on their mental health and quality of life. The Mini-AFTERc study is a pilot trial of a brief cognitive behavioural communication intervention, designed to reduce fear of cancer recurrence (FCR) in breast cancer patients. This pilot trial aims to determine the acceptability and practicality of introducing the Mini-AFTERc intervention into everyday practice, and inform the development of a full randomised controlled trial.
Breast Cancer|Fear of Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mini-AFTERc
Patient satisfaction with nurse communication during the Mini-AFTERc intervention, Assessed using the Consultation and Relational Empathy (CARE) measure, validated for use in secondary care (Mercer et al. 2004). The CARE measure asks patient to rate their nurses' communication skills on 10 communication and empathy domains (e.g. 'How was your nurse at fully understanding your concerns?'). Patients rate nurses from 1 ('Poor') to 5 ('Excellent') for each of the 10 domains., 1 week post intervention
Fear of cancer recurrence level - FCR4, The FCR4 is a 4-item measure designed to assess patient anxiety, worry and strong feelings associated with the return of cancer (e.g. 'I am afraid that my cancer may recur'). The research group has validated the FCR4 as an accurate measure of cancer recurrence fears in breast cancer patients that is fit for routine use in clinical services (Humphris, Watson, Sharpe, \& Ozakinci, 2018). Each question in the FCR4 is rated by the patient on a scale of 1 ('Not at all') to 5 ('All the time'). A cumulative score of ≥10 (60 Percentile) across all 4 items is defined as 'moderate' fear of cancer recurrence and a cumulative score of ≥15 is defined as 'high' fear of cancer recurrence., 3 months|Depression and anxiety symptoms - Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), The HADS is a 14-item assessment tool used to screen for anxiety and depression the general medical population (Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983). The HADS is well established tool and has been employed in a multitude of medical settings, including oncology, to assess patients' mental health (Hartung et al., 2017; Vodermaier \& Millman, 2011). The HADS assesses two domains, depressionand anxiety. Patients report symptoms of depression and anxiety in the last week on a 4-point Likert scale, from 0 (e.g. "Not at all") to 3 (e.g. "Most of the time")., 3 months|Health-related quality of life - EuroQol 5 Dimension Measure of Quality of Life (EQ-5D), The EQ-5D is a standardised instrument of health-related quality of life, developed by the EuroQol Group (Herdman et al., 2011). The EQ-5D assesses 5 dimensions including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. The EQ-5D contains 6-items, 5 of these items assess each of the 5 dimensions and are rated on a 5-level (5L) scale. The final item is a measure of health state, which is rated on a scale of 0 ('worst imaginable health state') to 100 (Best imaginable health state')., 3 months|Nurses' perceived acceptability of the Mini-AFTERc intervention as part of routine cancer care - Determined by theory driven semi-structured interviews, Semi-structured interviews with patients will explain and evaluate the underlying mechanisms of implementing the Mini-AFTERc intervention into routine cancer care from the perspective of breast cancer nurses. Normalisation Process Theory (NPT) will provide a theory-driven framework for addressing this outcome. NPT aims to provide coherence, as well as assessments of cognitive participation, collective action and reflexive monitoring (Murray et al. 2010)., Within 1 month of delivering final intervention|Recruitment rate, Assess number of patients recruited at each site, including those who decline to participate., Duration of the pilot trial (Approx 2 years)|Retention rate, Assess number of patients who complete the trial., Duration of the pilot trial (Approx 2 years)|Attrition rate, Assess number of patients who do not complete the trial, withdraw or drop-out., Duration of the pilot trial (Approx 2 years)|Patient perceived acceptability of the Mini-AFTERc intervention as part of routine cancer care - Determined by theory driven semi-structured interviews, Semi-structured interviews with patients will explain and evaluate the underlying mechanisms of implementing the Mini-AFTERc intervention into routine cancer care from the perspective of patients. Normalisation Process Theory (NPT) will provide a theory-driven framework for addressing this outcome. NPT aims to provide coherence, as well as assessments of cognitive participation, collective action and reflexive monitoring (Murray et al. 2010)., Within 1 month of final follow-up questionnaire
The objectives of this pilot trial are as follows:

1. To develop a procedure for training breast cancer nurses (BCN) in the delivery of the Mini-AFTERc intervention and introduce the intervention into current NHS service provision for breast cancer patients.
2. To collect data to pilot and test recruitment (of breast cancer nurses and breast cancer patients), the fidelity of intervention elements, the acceptability to participants (primary and secondary outcomes) and detailed economic indicators for a full trial.
3. Apply a formal decision making framework (ADePT) to determine a profile of factors to reveal potential difficulties and appraise solutions prior to a full trial.

This study is a multicentre controlled pilot trial of the Mini-AFTERc intervention and will take place in 4 breast cancer centres in NHS Scotland health boards, including Fife, Highlands, Lothian and Tayside. Two centres will deliver the intervention (Fife and Lothian) and 2 centres will deliver usual care to patients, acting as control centres (Highlands and Tayside). The project will be delivered in 3 phases:

Phase 1 will include the development and delivery of the Mini-AFTERc intervention training package for breast cancer nurses.

Phase 2 will include patient recruitment and data collection. There will be 2 intervention centres and 2 control centres across NHS Scotland. Patients who have completed their primary breast cancer treatment, will be screened for moderate FCR (scoring ≥10 and \<15 on the Fear of Cancer Recurrence 4-item Scale; FCR4). Breast cancer nurses will deliver the intervention by telephone in intervention centres, which will be audio recorded. Patients will complete a satisfaction questionnaire after the intervention (CARE and MISS). Follow-up questionnaires measuring fear of cancer recurrence, anxiety and depression and quality of life outcomes (FCR4, HADS, EQ-5D) will be delivered via a smartphone app at 2 weeks, 1 month and 3 months following intervention or 3 weeks, 5 weeks and 13 weeks following screening for the control group. Semi-structured interviews with 20% of patients and all nurses will be conducted to assess experiences and acceptability of the intervention.

Phase 3 will conduct data analysis and trial evaluation. Screening and follow-up data will be quantitatively analysed, including structured equation modelling. Interviews will be subject to framework analysis based on normalisation process theory (NPT). The pilot trial will be systematically evaluated using a process of decision making after pilot and feasibility trials (ADePT).

The findings will help to understand if this brief intervention can be implemented in everyday practice and can reduce FCR. They will also inform the practicality of implementation of a larger-scale randomised trial.