Ketamine-Assisted PsychoTherapy ViAbility in Treating Cancer-related Emotional Distress
The present study will investigate if ketamine-assisted psychotherapy during palliative radiation therapy is safe, feasible, and effective at reducing psychological distress.
Cancer-related Problem/Condition|Depressive Symptoms|Anxiety Disorders
DRUG: Ketamine 100 MG/ML
Percentage of population completing at least one KAP session., The percentage of subjects who complete at least 1 session of KAP will be calculated, along with the associated 95% exact binomial confidence interval. The null hypothesis will be rejective if \>50% of patients complete at least 1 KAP session., Within 6 months from completion of radiation therapy
Depression and Anxiety, GRID-HAM-D-17 for depression and the HAM-A for anxiety. These forms will be completed at baseline (time of enrollment), at the completion of the ketamine psychotherapy sessions, and at the completion of consolidative psychotherapy. A subject will be considered a responder if they have a 50% decrease from baseline in GRID-HAM-D-17 score for depression and a 50% decrease in HAM-A score for anxiety. At each timepoint subsequent to baseline, the percentage of subjects who are responders will be calculated, along with the associated 95% exact binomial confidence interval. If feasible, a subset analysis will be carried out for patients with GRID-HAM-D-17 scores of at least 22 or HAM-A scores at least 25 at baseline., Within 6 months from completion of radiation therapy|Death and Dying Distress Scale (DADDS), The change from baseline in DADDS will be calculated at each timepoint subsequent to baseline, and summarized by calculating the median change, along with the first and third quartiles, and the minimum and maximum., Within 6 months from completion of radiation therapy|Mystical Experience Questionnaire (MEQ-30), The MEQ-30 will be assessed after every KAP session, and summarized by calculating the median, along with the first and third quartiles, and the minimum and maximum. These values will be compared to historical controls in the psilocybin population for reference., Within 6 months from completion of radiation therapy
Patients prescribed palliative radiation therapy with moderate-severe cancer-related anxiety or depression will be prescribed 3 Ketamine Assisted Psychotherapy (KAP) sessions. At the time of enrollment, they will complete surveys to assess depression, anxiety, and existential distress. KAP will be preceded by a preparatory session during which the subjects will virtually meet their the KAP clinical team, discuss important stressors or concerns, and prepare for KAP. Each KAP session will last approximately 3 hours during which patients will receive an individualized dose of Ketalar intramuscularly, and after the ketamine experience subsides, the patient will discuss the experience with a psychotherapist trained in KAP. A virtual integration session will occur the day after each KAP session as it provides patients with an opportunity to work collaboratively with their assigned therapist in a manner that can help translate any insights from their preparation and KAP sessions into actionable goals. Depression, anxiety, and existential distress will be measured throughout the trial to assess the impact from KAP.