Vaccine Therapy in Curative Resected Prostate Cancer Patients
In this study the investigators will include patients with high risk of PSA relapse scheduled to receive curative surgical treatment. This include patients with high Gleason score (9-10) or micrometastatic disease (tumor cells detected in specimens obtained from bone marrow). They are scheduled for regular follow-ups with PSA measurements. We have previously published that some patients with metastatic prostate cancer may respond to DC-vaccination with tumor mRNA, with a decrease in PSA. PSA response is related to immunological response. Patients receiving DC-vaccination may have a reduced risk of PSA relapse or increased time to PSA relapse. Previous experience with different DC-vaccine protocols in our hospital has resulted in only minor side-effects (grade 1-2 fever, rubor, fatigue, local swelling or pain).
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic cell vaccine
Time to treatment failure defined by two different measurement of PSA levels >0.5 µg/L with minimum of 4 weeks interval in patients receiving treatment, From date of vaccination until the date of first documented treatment failure, assessed up to 8 years
Safety and toxicity of vaccination. Evaluation of immunological response., Up to 8 years after vaccination
Efficacy Outcome Measure Efficacy Outcome Measure Percentage of patients with a second positive bone marrow examination at the End of Treatment, Up to 36 month|Time to PSA levels > 0.5 μg/L defined by two different measurement of PSA levels > 0.5 μg/L with minimum of 4 weeks interval in patients included by signing the informed concent form, but not receiving treatment, Pathological stage pT2 - pT3b and Gleason score 7B-8, pN0, pN+ or pNx. Negative bone marrow examination, From date of vaccination until the date of first documented treatment failure, assessed up to 8 years
In this study the investigators will include patients with high risk of PSA relapse scheduled to receive curative surgical treatment. This include patients with high Gleason score (9-10) or micrometastatic disease (tumor cells detected in specimens obtained from bone marrow). They are scheduled for regular follow-ups with PSA measurements. We have previously published that some patients with metastatic prostate cancer may respond to DC-vaccination with tumor mRNA, with a decrease in PSA. PSA response is related to immunological response. Patients receiving DC-vaccination may have a reduced risk of PSA relapse or increased time to PSA relapse. Previous experience with different DC-vaccine protocols in our hospital has resulted in only minor side-effects (grade 1-2 fever, rubor, fatigue, local swelling or pain).