A Feasibility Study Evaluating a Role for Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Biochemically Progressive Castration Sensitive Prostate Cancer on Intermittent Androgen Deprivation Therapy
The goal of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility of adding a combination of metformin and turmeric as part of a nutritional intervention regimen to the current standard of care, namely, intermittent Androgen Deprivation Therapy (iADT), for patients with castration sensitive biochemical progressive prostate cancer.

The main objectives are:

* Assess the feasibility of the study population and enrollment.
* Evaluate time to PSA relapse with nutritional intervention on iADT.

Participants who are receiving iADT will be dispensed Metformin and turmeric and complete a pill diary. Participants will also have blood and stool samples collected and complete quality of life questionnaires.

The long-term goal is to further assess the efficacy and safety of this nutritional regimen and the roles of metabolic syndrome, microenvironment/microbiome, and genomic vs epigenomic profiles in the care of these patients through a clinical trial.
Castration Sensitive Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Turmeric
Assess feasibility of recruitment, Assessed using frequency (in percentage) of the number of subjects enrolled in the first six and twelve months out of the total desired accrual, 12 months of enrollment being open|Evaluate time to PSA relapse with nutritional intervention on iADT., Observed from the time of consent to the time of PSA relapse or at the end of the study period (i.e., 27 months), whichever comes first. A survival curve will be used to estimate the accumulated rate of PSA relapse over time (over 27 months)., up to 27 months
Quality of life (QOL) assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P), Version 4., Obtain Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate (FACT-P) scores at baseline, after completion of 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at the end of the study (i.e., after 27 months). Minimum and maximum values 0-156. Higher scores indicate better outcome., up to 27 months|Quality of Life (QOL) assessed by the Aging Male Symptoms Questionnaire (AMS Questionnaire)., Obtain Aging Male Symptoms Questionnaire (AMS Questionnaire) scores at baseline, after completion of 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at the end of the study (i.e., after 27 months). Minimum and maximum values 17-85. Higher scores indicate worse outcome., up to 27 months
Expression levels of Metabolomic biomarkers from blood samples, Assessed at baseline, after 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at 16 months, and will be summarized using mean ± standard deviation and/or median (min, max), up to 16 months|Expression levels of CSC biomarkers including EMT and miRNAS from blood samples, Assessed at baseline, after 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at 16 months, and will be summarized using mean ± standard deviation and/or median (min, max), up to 16 months|Expression levels of Cancer dormancy Biomarkers (miR-200s, TGF-beta, BMPs, immune and inflammatory factors) from blood samples, Assessed at baseline, after 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at 16 months, and will be summarized using mean ± standard deviation and/or median (min, max), up to 16 months|Microbiome profiling from the stool samples to assess gut microbiome, Assessed at baseline, after 8 months of iADT with nutritional intervention, and at 16 months, and will be summarized using mean ± standard deviation and/or median (min, max), up to 16 months
The purpose of this research is to determine if a nutritional plan of metformin and turmeric is feasible for individuals receiving iADT for prostate cancer. Turmeric is an over-the-counter supplement that is believed to provide anti-inflammatory effects. Metformin is an FDA-approved medication for diabetes to help lower blood sugar. This feasibility study will be conducted according to the standard of care (SoC) for eligible subjects receiving iADT but coordinated and streamlined in a prospective manner to care for subjects while collecting and annotating data for the duration of their care.

All subjects will receive iADT + turmeric + metformin + dietary consultation.

SoC laboratory tests will be performed in accordance with clinical practice for the care of patients with prostate cancer on or off iADT. Additional vials of blood will be collected for research purposes in order to assess epigenetic biomarkers, CSC biomarkers, and cancer dormancy biomarkers. Stool samples will be used to obtain microbiome profiles. QOL instruments (FACT-P and AMS) will also be administered.