A Treatment Protocol For Patients Continuing From A Prior SU011248 Protocol.
This protocol allows subjects who have participated in a previous SU011248 protocol the ability to continue to receive SU011248 after their study has ended.
Neoplasms
DRUG: SU011248
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., Baseline up to Day 28 after last dose of study treatment
Overall Survival (OS), Time in weeks from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. OS was calculated as (the death date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1) divided by 7. Death was determined from adverse event data (where outcome was death) or from follow-up contact data (where the participant current status was death)., Baseline, every 2 months until death or up to 2 years after the last dose of study treatment|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time in weeks from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to any cause. PFS was calculated as (first event date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1) divided by 7. Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\]), or from adverse event (AE) data (where the outcome was "Death")., Baseline, every 2 months until objective tumor progression or death or up to 2 years after the last dose of study medication|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Time in weeks from start of study treatment to first documentation of objective tumor progression or death due to cancer, whichever comes first. TTP was calculated as (first event date minus the date of first dose of study medication plus 1) divided by 7. Tumor progression was determined from oncologic assessment data (where data meet the criteria for progressive disease \[PD\])., Baseline, every 2 months until objective tumor progression or up to 2 years after the last dose of study medication
This protocol allows subjects who have participated in a previous SU011248 protocol the ability to continue to receive SU011248 after their study has ended.