Effect of Fee on Attendance in Cervical Cancer Screening
Several reasons can explain non-attendance in cervical cancer screening. In low resource settings the attendance is even lower. The effect of fee as contributing reason of non attendance has not been studied before why the investigators decided to study this in a low resource setting as a randomised trial.
Cervical Dysplasia
OTHER: Screening without fee
Difference in attendance, Information from the database regarding study arm was linked, via citizen unique personal number, to the National Cervical Screening Quality Register. From this database aggregated information of attendance was extracted. The effect of the intervention on attendance was calculated as relative risks., 6 months
Differences in attendance stratified for age groups, home districts and previous pap smear history., Before analysing the results of which kind of invitation the woman got, age group, previous pap smear history and district, all personal information was anonymized., 6 months
Non-attendance in the cervical cancer screening programme is the most important factors why Swedish women contract the disease. Low attendance rate is observed in districts with low socioeconomic resources. Several reasons can explain this, including the existence of a fee. A low attendance rate in low resource districts is also noticed in Gothenburg, Sweden. After multiple interventions the coverage has slightly increased. None of the interventions included the aspect of the fee. The investigators decided to study the effect of fee abolishment in a randomized control trial emanating from the regular cervical cancer-screening program. Method: Randomized Control Trial (RCT). Women in low resource areas of Gothenburg, due for screening, January-July 2013, were randomised to receive an offer of a free test or receiving the regular invitation stating the regular fee of 100 Swedish kronor (SEK) (≈11 €). Power calculation has shown 80 % power to detect an increase in participation of 20% at 1972 participants.