ENDO-AID Assisted Tandem Colonoscopy RCT
This study hypothesizes that more adenomas will be detected using the ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy compared to conventional colonoscopy.

A single-centre, randomized, same-day, back-to-back tandem colonoscopy trial comparing Adenoma Missed Rate and Adenoma Detection Rate in ENDO-AID assisted colonoscopy and conventional colonoscopy.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: ENDO-AID CADe assisted Colonoscopy
Adenoma missed rate, To compare the adenoma missed rate (AMR) between ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy and conventional colonoscopy. AMR is defined as the number of adenomas detected in the second pass colonoscopy divided by the total number of adenomas detected in both passes for the same patients., End of study, about 1 year
Polyp missed rate, To compare the Polyp missed rate (PMR) between ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy and conventional colonoscopy. PMR is defined as the number of polyps detected in the second pass colonoscopy divided by the total number of polyps detected in both passes for the same patients., End of study, about 1 year|Adenoma detection rate, To compare the Adenoma detection rate (ADR) between ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy and conventional colonoscopy for the first pass colonoscopy. ADR is defined as the proportion of patients with at least 1 adenoma detected in the first pass colonoscopy., End of study, about 1 year|Patient missed rate, To compare the patient missed rate (PMR) between ENDO-AID assisted colonoscopy and conventional white light colonoscopy. PMR is defined as the number of patients in whom adenomas were detected for the first time during second pass colonoscopy divided by the number of patients with at least 1 adenoma detected., End of study, about 1 year|Number of polyps removed, To compare the number of polyps removed between ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy and conventional white light colonoscopy, End of study, about 1 year|Baseline Parameters, Baseline Parameters will be compared, including withdrawal time and Boston Bowel Preparation Scale in the first colonoscopy procedures, End of study, about 1 year|Serious Adverse Events, To compare the Serious Adverse Events between ENDO-AID assisted Colonoscopy and conventional white light colonoscopy, At 30 days|Number of CAD assisted abnormality, Number of abnormalities highlighted on ENDO-AID and actual number of abnormalities found macroscopically and histologically, End of study, about 1 year
Colorectal cancer is the third common cancer in the world and the commonest cancer in Hong Kong. Most sporadic colorectal cancers arise from benign polyps via adenoma-carcinoma sequence or the serrated polyp-carcinoma sequence. There are reports of unexpectedly high risk of interval carcinomas, as high as up to 9%, raising concerns about the effectiveness of colonoscopy in preventing colorectal cancers. Different techniques have been described to improve the area of mucosa visualised but lesions may still be missed due to failure of identification by the endoscopist.

Computer Aided diagnosis (CAD) assisted colonoscopy is becoming increasingly popular to address human error. Deep learning technology has surpassed human learning and advancement in technology now allows real-time Artificial Intelligence to assist colonoscopists in polyp detection.