Low-level Laser Therapy to Prevent Oral Mucositis in Head and Neck Patients
Oral mucositis remains a limiting factor in in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas patients treated with chemoradiation leading to pain, dysphagia, and weight loss. Low-level laser therapy emerges as a promising, preventive therapy of chemoradiation-induced OM. This study was designed to assess the efficacy of Low Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) in reducing the incidence and/or severity of oral mucositis.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Nasopharynx|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oropharynx|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Hypopharynx
DEVICE: Low Level Laser Therapy- (DMC, São Paulo, Brazil)|DEVICE: Placebo (DMC, São Paulo, Brazil)
Incidence and / or Severity of Oral Mucositis, The oral cavities of all patients were evaluated daily, from the first day until the last day of treatment. We used the scales of mucositis of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS) and a visual analogue scale (VAS) for pain assessment., 7 weeks
Oral Mucositis Survival Free, Pain, Opioid Treatment, Hospitalization, Treatment Interruption, Treatment Delay, Patient Weight Loss, Nasogastric Tube or of a Gastrostomy., Oral mucositis survival free, pain, opioid treatment, hospitalization, treatment interruption, treatment delay, patient weight loss, nasogastric tube or of a gastrostomy.The oral cavities of all patients were evaluated, from the first day to the last day of treatment., 7 weeks
Assuming oral mucositis grade 3 for placebo 0.4 (P0); laser group 0.15 (P1) ; β=0.2; α=0.05, sample size was 94 pts. From Jun 2007 to Dec 2010, 47 laser group and 47 placebo patients bearer of head and neck squamous cell carcinomas of nasopharynx, oropharynx and hypopharynx entered a prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled, phase III trial. chemoradiotherapy consisted of conventional radiotherapy 70.2 Gray (Gy) (1.8Gy/d, 5 times/wk) + concurrent cisplatin 100 mg/m2 every 3 weeks. The primary end point was the incidence of grade 3-4 oral mucositis. The Low-level laser therapy used daily, was a diode indium phosphide, gallium and aluminum (InGaAlP), 660nm-100 milliwatts (mW)-4 Joules (J)/cm²(DMC, São Carlos, São Paulo, Brazil). Oral mucositis evaluation was done by WHO and Oral Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS) scale.