Immunotherapy in High-risk Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS)
This is a study to investigate the change in the immune microenvironment of high risk ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) after short term exposure to immunotherapy.
Carcinoma, Intraductal, Noninfiltrating
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Intralesional mRNA 2752
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and recommended dose for subsequent expansion cohort, of intralesionally administered pembrolizumab in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast., 18 months|Number of participants with Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), To define the dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), tolerability, and feasibility of intralesional administration of pembrolizumab in patients with DCIS., 18 months|Percentage of patients who demonstrate an increase (baseline vs. post intralesional injection) in intralesional CD8+ T cells, To determine the response rate to intralesional pembrolizumab in patients with DCIS, as measured by an increase (baseline vs. post treatment) in intralesional CD8+ T cells, compared to untreated controls., post intralesional injection
Changes in Mean Tumor volume, To determine whether intralesional pembrolizumab with or without mRNA 2752 decreases tumor volume on MRI imaging, 18 months|Exploratory immunological responses to pembrolizumab before and after intralesional injection as measured using multiplex immunofluorescence on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue sections, To characterize changes in the immune landscape of DCIS following intralesional administration of pembrolizumab with or without mRNA 2752., 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

DOSE ESCALATION (Monotherapy Messenger RNA-2725 (mRNA-2752):

I. To determine the efficacy of intralesional mRNA-2752 monotherapy in participants with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast as measured by the change in the MRI tumor size/volume/enhancement. Absence of tumor on biopsy and increase in immune infiltrates as measured by immune multiplex assays.

II. To characterize the safety of mRNA-2752 and feasibility of intralesional administration of mRNA-2752 in patients with high-risk DCIS.

DOSE EXPANSION (mRNA-2752 with or without an immune checkpoint inhibitor):

I. To determine the Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) response rate and complete pathologic response rate with either mRNA-2752 monotherapy or combined therapy in high risk DCIS.

ENROLLMENT IN THE PREVIOUS COHORTS HAS BEEN COMPLETED.