Efficacy and Safety of Perioperative Chemotherapy Plus PD-1 Antibody in Gastric Cancer
For locally advanced gastric cance, neoadjuvant chemotherapy can increase the resectability of tumor, and finally improve the long-term survival.

Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced gastric cancer could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and resectability and reduce recurrence rate. Camrelizumab（SHR-1210） in this study is a Chinese anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for melanoma and Hepatocellular carcinoma.

This study is a single center, open-label, randomized comparative phase II clinical trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of Camrelizumab in combination with perioperative chemotherapy in locally advanced adenocarcinoma of stomach or gastroesophageal junction. Differences in T cell expression were detected by single cell RNA sequencing to screen people who were more sensitive to immunotherapy.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: S1
Major pathologic response (MPR), It is defined as residual tumors less than 10% after neoadjuvant chemotherapy., At time of surgery
Objective response rate(ORR), It is defined as the proportion of patients whose tumors shrink to a predetermined size and maintain a minimum time limit. It includes the cases of CR and PR., From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 3 years|pCR, Pathological complete response, From the initiation date of first cycle (each cycle is 21 days) to the date of operation, an average of 12 weeks|Disease-free survival (DFS), The time from the beginning of randomization to the recurrence of the disease or the death of the patient due to disease progression, 3years|Overall survival(OS), The Kaplan-Meier survival from the initiation date of first cycle until death from any cause or the last follow-up date., From the initiation date of first cycle to the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first,assessed up to 3 years|OSR, overall survival rate, 3years
Gastric cancer is one of the most common malignancies in China with incidence and mortality both ranking the 2nd among malignancies in China. Surgery is the only possible way to cure gastric cancer, however, over 80-90% of gastric cancer patients in China are in advanced stage. Locally advanced gastric cancer could be cured by multi-disciplinary therapies including surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy can increase the resectability of tumor, and finally improve the long-term survival. However, the therapeutic effects remain unsatisfactory.

Combination of perioperative PD-1 antibody and chemotherapy for locally advanced gastric cancer could be a novel therapy to increase response rate and resectability and reduce recurrence rate. Camrelizumab in this study is a Chinese anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody for injection which has been approved for melanoma and Hepatocellular carcinoma .This study is a single center, open-label, randomized comparative phase II clinical trial to evaluate safety and efficacy of Camrelizumab in combination with perioperative chemotherapy in locally advanced adenocarcinoma of stomach or gastroesophageal junction. Differences in T cell expression were detected by single cell RNA sequencing to screen people who were more sensitive to immunotherapy.