Efficacy of Mirasol-treated Apheresis Platelets in Patients With Hypoproliferative Thrombocytopenia
This is a prospective, multi-center, controlled, randomized, non-inferiority study to evaluate the clinical effectiveness of Conventional versus Mirasol-treated apheresis platelets in subjects with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia who are expected to have platelet count(s) ≤ 10,000/μL requiring ≥ 2 platelet transfusions.
Hematologic Malignancies|Hypoproliferative Thrombocytopenia
DEVICE: Mirasol platelets (MIR PLTs)|DEVICE: Reference platelets (REF PLTs)
Days of ≥ Grade 2 Bleeding, Number of days of Grade 2 or higher bleeding recorded from treatment start date through 28 days following the first transfusion, until transfusion independence (10 days without PLT transfusion) prior to Day 28, or study termination, whichever occurred first. Subjects who obtained transfusion independence prior to Day 28 were assumed to have zero bleeding events between the date of transfusion independence and Day 28. Observed and simulated data for off-protocol transfusion intervals were included., From the first post-randomization platelet transfusion through 28 days following the first transfusion.
Number and Percentage of Subjects With Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Alloimmunization, The outcome was the development of a new HLA Class I antibodies among subjects negative at baseline within each treatment group. Positivity for Class I HLA antibodies was determined by the 5 SD normalized background ratio cutoffs assay threshold (\>59.2, LABScreen Mixed LSM12, One Lambda)., HLA antibodies were measured at Baseline and Days 14, 28, and 56.|Number and Percentage of Subjects With ≥ Grade 2 Bleeding, The number and percentage of subjects with at least 1 day of ≥ Grade 2 bleeding from Day 0 through Day 27 (or until transfusion independence was achieved) by treatment group, From the first post-randomization platelet transfusion through 28 days following the first transfusion.|Number and Percentage of Subjects at the First Timepoint of ≥ Grade 2 Bleeding, The time to first ≥ Grade 2 bleeding was analyzed using a log-rank test comparing survival curves stratified by treatment group., From the first post-randomization platelet transfusion through 28 days following the first transfusion.|Number and Percentage of Subjects With ≥ Grade 3 Bleeding, The number and percentage of subjects with at least 1 day of ≥ Grade 3 bleeding from Day 0 through Day 27 (or until transfusion independence was achieved)., From the first post-randomization platelet transfusion through 28 days following the first transfusion.|Number and Percentage of Subjects With PLT Refractoriness, The number and percentage of subjects with PLT refractoriness defined as 2 sequential transfusions, each with corrected count increments (CCIs) \< 5000 measured 1 hour post-transfusion., From the first post-randomization platelet transfusion through 28 days following the first transfusion.|Number and Percentage of Subjects With Immune Platelet Refractoriness, The number and percentage of subjects with PLT refractoriness for each treatment group. Subjects were defined as immune PLT refractoriness based on 2 sequential transfusion episodes, each with CCIs \< 5000 measured 1 hour post transfusion, and who also had a positive antibody test within 14 days before or after the onset of PLT refractoriness., Initial post-randomization platelet transfusion through high Class I HLA development.
Number and Percentage of Subjects With Unanticipated Adverse Device Effects (UADEs), UADEs are identified as treatment emergent adverse events reported by the investigator as serious, unanticipated, at least possibly related to study device or at least possibly related to treatment. UADEs were coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) Version 19.1, From initial post-randomization PLT transfusion through 72 hours following the last per protocol PLT transfusion.
Patients will be randomized 1:1 to Mirasol-treated platelets (test platelets) or to conventional, untreated platelets (control platelets). The blood centers will collect the apheresis donor platelets and supply the test platelets to the hospital sites for transfusion into patients. Hospital sites will order control platelets as per their normal process, from their standard vendor.

The target population for the MIPLATE study are patients with hematologic malignancies with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia who are expected to have platelet (PLT) count(s) of ≤ 10,000/μL requiring ≥ 2 PLT transfusions.

The primary objective of MIPLATE is to determine if the hemostatic efficacy of Mirasol-treated plasma stored Trima Accel® Aph PLTs are non-inferior to Conventional plasma stored Aph PLTs in subjects with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia requiring PLT transfusions. The secondary objectives include comparing other efficacy and safety endpoints between the treatment groups.

Subjects with hematologic malignancies with hypoproliferative thrombocytopenia are anticipated to experience a "transfusion episode" where they will require PLT transfusion support until bone marrow recovery. During this period all PLT transfusions required for a study subject will be given according to the subject's treatment allocation for 28 days after the initial PLT transfusion OR until transfusion independence (10 days without PLT transfusion) prior to Day 28.

Additionally, serum samples for HLA antibody testing will be collected on Days 14, 28 and 56.

At a minimum, the initial post-randomization prophylactic PLT transfusion will be initiated for a PLT count ≤ 10,000/µL. Thereafter, indications for PLT transfusions may be PLT count-related prophylaxis, intervention-related prophylaxis, or therapeutic (treatment of active bleeding) as determined by the treating physician(s). The indication(s) for the transfusion(s) will be captured.