Safety and Efficacy of Intra-Arterial and Intra-Tumoral Ad-p53 With Capecitabine (Xeloda) or Anti-PD-1 in Liver Metastases of Solid Tumors and Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This is a Phase 1/2 study of the combination of Ad-p53 administered intra-arterially in combination with oral metronomic capecitabine or pembrolizumab in patients with unresectable, refractory liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and other solid tumors, including primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A third arm will study the intra-tumoral injection of Ad-p53 combined with nivolumab infusions in recurrent head and neck squamous cell cancer (HNSCC). This safety study has a standard 3+3 design for arms A and B; .HNSCC will be placed in a single dosing cohort. The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) will be determined as well for intra-arterial infusions, and the entire study will determine the general efficacy using RECIST 1.1 and Immune-Related Response Criteria. Safety will be followed using the CTCAE listings for adverse events.
Metastatic Solid Tumor Cancer|Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Ad-P53|DRUG: Xeloda|DRUG: Keytruda|DRUG: Opdivo
Safety assessed by CTCAE, Incidence of treatment-emergent and treatment-related adverse events (all AEs, laboratory AEs, SAEs and Fatal AEs, in accordance with the CTCAE, Screening to 30-days following Final Treatment (approximately 22 weeks)|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), To evaluate the safety, as assessed by the incidence of dose limiting toxicities, of the combination of Ad-P53 and Xeloda or Ad-p53 and Keytruda, Day 1 to 30-days Following Last Treatment (approximately 21 weeks)|Determination of maximum-tolerated dose (MTD), Determination of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) by review of DLTs, of the combination of Ad-p53 and Xeloda or Ad-p53 and Ketruda, Day 1 to 30 days following Final Treatment (Approximately 21 Weeks)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of patients using RECIST 1.1, PFS in patients treated with Ad-p53 and nivolumab determined by review of scans every 8 weeks for disease progression in accordance with RECIST 1.1. Scans are read locally but kept for possible central review. Scans are done every 8 weeks. Sites will review questionable findings on scans with Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC) \[Wolchok 2009\]., Time Frame: Day 1 to progression through end of study, approximately 18 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) of patients using RECIST 1.1, PFS determined by review of scans every 8 weeks for disease progression in accordance with RECIST 1.1 in patients treated with Ad-p53 and either Xeloda or Keytruda. Scans are read locally but kept for possible central review. Scans are done every 8 weeks., Day 1 to progression through end of study, approximately 2 years|Efficacy determined by Immune Related Response Criteria (irRC) [Wolchok 2009], Efficacy will be determined by review of the irRC (Immune-Related Response Criteria. Patients will undergo scanning every 8 weeks for the duration of the study, with evaluation of the scans in accordance with the Immune Related Response Criteria, including confirmation of disease progression with a scan 4 weeks after noted per RECIST criteria., Day 1 of Treatment through 30-days following last treatment (20 weeks)|Efficacy as determined by biomarker testing and immunohistochemistry testing, Efficacy endpoints will be correlated with central biomarker testing for PDL-1, PD-2, as well as central biomarker testing for immune cell infiltrates and tumor mutational burden biomarkers in exploratory analyses, through Cancer Genetics, Inc., Day 1 of Treatment to End of Study (approximately 18 months)
This is a Phase 1/2 study split into 3 arms. Arm A will follow the combination of Ad-p53 administered intra-arterially in combination with oral metronomic capecitabine while Arm B follows the intra-arterial administration of Ad-p53 combined with pembrolizumab, both in patients with unresectable, refractory liver metastases of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) and other solid tumors, including primary hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Arm C will follow the combination of intra-tumoral injections of Ad-p53 and nivolumab infusions. Arms A and B have a standard 3+3 design, with dosing following the initial cohort determined by MTD and DLT criteria as well as safety and tolerance. Arm C will be a single dosing cohort followed for safety and efficacy. All patients will be followed for adverse events and preliminary efficacy. In Arms A and B, the Maximum Tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined. All patients will be followed for general safety and preliminary efficacy using RECIST 1.1 and Immune-Related Response Criteria. CEA levels will also be followed for patients with metastatic colo-rectal cancer. Biomarker testing of archival or fresh tissue is performed during the study. In Arms A and B, patients will undergo a maximum of 2 8-week cycles, with scans every 8 weeks. For Arm B, patients will undergo a maximum of 3 28-day Cycles. All patients will continue on the background therapy for any additional cycles. No additional biopsies are planned following Screening. Enrollment will be up to 24 patients.