Preoperative Nivolumab in Patients With Locally Advanced Colon Cancer (T3 or T4): a Window-of-opportunity Study
A monocentric window of opportunity study preceded by a safety run-in phase. The study population will include locally advanced colon patients (T3 or T4).
Colon Cancer Stage II/III
DRUG: Nivolumab
Tolerability and Safety, To determine the feasibility of Nivolumab in the preoperative setting in patients with T3-T4 colon cancer: delay in surgery resection \> 21 days after last administration of nivolumab; severe adverse events-NCI CTC-AE Version 4.03 criteria, "up to 5 weeks"|Clinical Activity, Objective Tumor Response Rate (ORR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), "presurgery"|Predictive Biomarkers, To determine molecular and immunophenotypic changes in tumor and peripheral blood evaluating several biomarkers. Since the identification of new markers for immunotherapy is rapidly evolving, the definitive list of analyses remains to be determined, "up to 10 weeks"
Pathological Response, To determine the degree of pathologic regression: percentage of patients achieving a pathological complete tumor regression (TRG1), "up to 6 weeks"|Clinical efficacy, Relapse-Free Survival, 3 years|Clinical efficacy, Overall Survival, 5 years|Toxicities, Postoperative complications (occurring within 60 days from surgery), "up to 3 months"|Metabolic Response, Metabolic Response by FDG-Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scan prior to surgery compared to the baseline test., "presurgery"
An initial 6-patients safety run-in cohort will be followed by an expansion cohort, with a planned accrual of 16 patients.

Patients will receive nivolumab at a flat dosage of 240 mg every two weeks on Day -28 and Day-14 (+/- one day) prior to planned surgery on Day 0 or up to +7 days. Locally advanced colon cancer must be documented at screening (within 21 days prior to initiation of study treatment) and re-assessed prior surgery by spiral or multidetector computed tomography (CT) scan.

Postoperatively, standard adjuvant chemotherapy will be administered in pathological III-stage and at investigator discretion in pathological II-stage.

Safety Assessments: Toxicities will be evaluated throughout the study treatment and up to 30 days after surgery. Toxicity will be graded according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria.

The National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTC-AE) Version 4.03 will be used to evaluate the clinical safety of the treatment in this study. Patients will be assessed for AEs at each clinical visit and as necessary throughout the study. Grade ≥3 hematological and non-hematological toxicities will be recorded.

Efficacy Assessments: Pathological tumor regression will be evaluated according to Mandard modified scoring system \[Mandard 1994\].

Biomarker study: The Immunoscore evaluation will be assessed using standardized Immunoscore assays and software (HalioDx).

Additional correlative biological studies will be performed for the evaluation of the biomarkers indicated above on the biological samples (paraffin-embedded tissue, frozen tissue, blood, serum, etc.). Biomarkers will be evaluated on tumor tissues obtained by biopsies at baseline, and by surgery after neoadjuvant treatment. A comparison with a subsequent cohort of 22 patients with locally advanced colon cancer (T3-T4) who proceed to surgical resection without preoperative anti-PD-1 and recruited following the end of the enrollemnt of the planned pateints in the Nicole study, will be performed.

Blood samples will be collected at baseline, prior to surgery, and at the recurrence of the disease (progressive disease \[PD\]). Biomarkers will be correlated with pathological response and patient's outcome.

Patients will have follow-up evaluation every six months for five years.