The Expression of CD24 "do-not-eat-me" Signal in Cholangiocarcinoma
The investigators found an inverse relationship between CD24 and MiR-122 levels. Then the investigators found that CD24 that goes up with MiR-122 down makes macrophages unable to engulf the tumor cells. All this in mice. the investigators are interested in confirming this result in humans. Details of the preliminary results are attached to the submission of the research documents. the investigators will compare Cholangiocarcinoma tumors with other solid tumors, including liver tissue. The need to deepen understanding the investigators will also make a comparison between cancerous tissue and "normal" tissue adjacent to the tumor.
Cholangiocarcinoma
the investigators will analyze ductular reaction and cancer stem cells markers including CD24, CD44, the investigators will perform the analysis on tissue samples of cholangiocarcinoma and non tumor controls, using immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR, All along the study, from the first recruitment to the last recruitment. average of 1 year
The investigators will collect samples from the tissue bank. All materials will be kept in refrigerators at minus 80, except for the sections of the paraffin blocks at room temperature. The source of some of the biological samples and the information accompanying them in this study is Midgem - the Israeli repository for biological samples for research. Midgem is a non-profit association that operates within the Ministry of Health as an infrastructure for the promotion of bioresearch - Medical and industrial in Israel. The donors to Midgem are patients with malignant diseases, Non-malignant diseases as well as healthy volunteers. In Midgem, residues are collected from tissues already removed during surgery/taking a biopsy and/or samples from blood/saliva/urine/other body fluids donations and the accompanying medical information required for use in legally approved studies.There is no risk to the donors as a result of the donation of the samples and information and their use, since the donation is transferred to Midgem only after it has been ascertained beyond any doubt that the ability of the diagnosis and/or treatment of the donors will not be harmed. All the information transferred to the researchers is coded, in such a way that the investigators do not allow the identification of the donors' details. Since the donors to Midgem have signed a consent form for the collection and storage of samples and information for use in any legally approved study, the investigators request an exemption from signing a dedicated informed consent form for this study. The samples and information transferred to this study are donated in accordance with what is detailed in the inclusion criteria for the experiment.