Efficacy and Safety of Drug Eluting Beads TACE in Treatment of HCC in Egyptian Patients
This study aimed to to compare the conventional transarterial chemoembolization (cTACE) with chemoembolization using doxorubicin drug eluting beads (DEB-TACE) for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma regarding short term efficacy and safety in first 3 months after embolization
HepatoCellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE)|DRUG: TACE with Drug Eluting Beads procedure
Number of Participants With Complete Response, Assessment of Radiological response by modified RECIST radiological criteria after treatment (Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR."), 1 year
This prospective case control was conducted at the Department of Tropical Medicine and HCC Clinic, Ain Shams University Hospitals (Cairo, Egypt), The patients were divided according to the line of treatment into 2 groups:

1. Group (I): Twenty-five patients underwent Chemoembolization with Drug eluting beads.
2. Group (II): Twenty-five patients underwent conventional Chemoembolization (cTACE)

The total number of procedures was 77 sessions (37 sessions of TACE with beads and 40 sessions of conventional TACE).Post-procedure follow up:

Schedule of follow up:

All included patients were checked at:

1. One week after the procedure to detect early post chemoembolization complications and Patients were subjected to Liver function tests, Kidney function tests, complete blood count and Abdominal Ultrasound.
2. One and four months after the maneuver.

Patients were subjected to the following in each visit:

1. Complete History taking
2. Thorough clinical examination
3. Laboratory Investigations including:

   1. Liver function tests
   2. Kidney function tests
   3. CBC
   4. Serum alpha-fetoprotein.
4. Triphasic pelvi-abdominal CT Follow up imaging was performed at the first and fourth months after embolization and every 3 months thereafter. Repeated embolization was scheduled "on demand" basis, if there was residual viable tumor deemed unsuitable for radiofrequency ablation or surgery.