Early Staged Consent Before Prostate Biopsy
This is a study and a novel approach to clinical trials, testing the feasibility and acceptability of two-stage consent in the context of a trial integrated into routine clinical practice. The investigator will use, as a model, a trial of a brief mind-body intervention) with guided imagery for procedural pain at the time of prostate biopsy. In the two-stage design, patients will first be approached for consent to 1) have their routinely collected clinical data used for research purposes and 2) be randomly selected to be offered an intervention to improve the experience of prostate biopsy. Only patients randomized to the experimental arm will be informed about the benefits and harms of the intervention and will sign a second consent for the experimental treatment. There will be two separate randomizations in this study, one-stage (usual informed consent) vs. two-stage consent and mindfulness intervention vs. control.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Meditation|PROCEDURE: Prostate Biopsy|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
number of patients who sign consent form, 2 years
This is a study and a novel approach to clinical trials, testing the feasibility and acceptability of two-stage consent in the context of a trial integrated into routine clinical practice. The investigator will use, as a model, a trial of a brief mind-body intervention) with guided imagery for procedural pain at the time of prostate biopsy. In the two-stage design, patients will first be approached for consent to 1) have their routinely collected clinical data used for research purposes and 2) be randomly selected to be offered an intervention to improve the experience of prostate biopsy. Only patients randomized to the experimental arm will be informed about the benefits and harms of the intervention and will sign a second consent for the experimental treatment. There will be two separate randomizations in this study, one-stage (usual informed consent) vs. two-stage consent and mindfulness intervention vs. control.