Blood-Based Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Screening Implementation Into Clinical Practice Highlands
This is a prospective implementation study that will include patients that are identified as being average risk for colorectal cancer (CRC) according to USPSTF guidelines and who have opted to be screened for CRC. The purpose of this study is to understand implementation of a noninvasive screening test in primary care and internal medicine clinical settings, and the impact on patient acceptability and adherence of CRC screening.
Cancer Colon
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: blood-based CRC screening
Opted to be screened by either SOC or study diagnostic test, 3 months
Opted to be screened by the study diagnostic test instead of SOC, 3 months
Study Rationale This is a prospective implementation study that will include patients that are identified as being average risk for colorectal cancer (CRC) according to USPSTF guidelines and who have opted to be screened for CRC. The purpose of this study is to understand implementation of a noninvasive screening test in primary care and internal medicine clinical settings, and the impact on patient acceptability and adherence of CRC screening.

Although multiple screening options for CRC are available, participation and adherence to CRC screening remains below the national goal. CRC screening rate at the Ballad Health Mountain Laurel Internal Medicine clinic (site 1) is approximately 66%.

A blood-based test (BBT) can provide a clinically important complement to standard-of-care (SOC) screening tests and address unmet medical needs for patients, especially for those who are non-adherent with current screening modalities. There are economic and societal benefits in early detection and prevention of CRC in a broader population than the one currently up to date with screening. The unmet need for maximum participation in CRC screening could be addressed with blood-based testing.

Measuring subsequent provider experience and implementation behavior patterns involving blood based non-invasive cancer screening choices will also help to identify clinical utility of such test and implementation into clinical practice.