Perioperative Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Colon Cancer That Can Be Surgically Removed
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug and giving drugs in different ways may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known if surgery is more effective with or without chemotherapy for colon cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to evaluate whether perioperative 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) chemotherapy after curative resection could improve overall survival and disease-free survival in patients with Duke's B3 or C colon cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: leucovorin calcium
5-year Overall Survival Rate in Patients With Dukes' B3/C Disease, Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause or last date known alive. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate 5-year OS rate, every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until year 15 after randomization
5-year Disease-free Survival Rate in Patients With Dukes' B3/C Disease, Disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as time from randomization to recurrence, second invasive primary cancer, or deaths, whichever occurred first. Patients who were still alive and had no DFS events were censored at the last disease assessment date known to be free of DFS events. Patients without any follow up data were censored at random assignment. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the 5-year DFS rate., every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until year 15 after randomization|5-year Overall Survival Rate in Patients With Dukes' B2 Disease, Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause or last date known alive. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate 5-year OS rate, every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until year 15 after randomization|5-year Disease-free Survival Rate in Patients With Dukes' B2 Disease, Disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as time from randomization to recurrence, second invasive primary cancer, or deaths, whichever occurred first. Patients who were still alive and had no DFS events were censored at the last disease assessment date known to be free of DFS events. Patients without any follow up data were censored at random assignment. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the 5-year DFS rate., every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until year 15 after randomization
OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if adjuvant therapy with one week of continuous 5-FU given within 24 hours of a curative colon resection followed by 6 months of 5-FU/leucovorin is effective in prolonging the disease-free survival and increasing overall survival in patients with Dukes' B3 or C colon cancer, when compared to patients who are treated with 5-FU/leucovorin only.

II. 1. To determine if a week of perioperative continuous 5-FU affects disease-free survival and overall survival in patients with Dukes' B2 colon cancer.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, randomized phase III study. Patients undergo curative colon resection via laparotomy. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms in a 1:1 ratio.

Arm I (Perioperative 5-FU): Within 24 hours of the colon resection, patients receive perioperative 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) intravenously (IV) over 24 hours for 7 days.

Arm II (No perioperative 5-FU): Patients receive no perioperative fluorouracil.

After surgery, patients with stage I, stage IIA, or stage IV colon cancer are immediately removed from study. Patients with stage IIB, IIC, or III colon cancer are re-registered within 35 days postoperatively. Beginning 21-35 days after surgery, patients with stage IIC or III disease receive leucovorin calcium IV bolus immediately followed by 5-FU IV bolus on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days for a total of 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stage IIB disease do not receive adjuvant 5-FU and leucovorin calcium.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually until 15 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 800-2,000 patients (at least 400 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study over 2-3 years.