NSCLC Burden of Illness Study
The aim of this observational study is to identify and quantify the humanistic and economic burden of illness of patients with complete resection (no residual disease) of stage IB-IIIA NSCLC in three European countries (France, Germany, and the United Kingdom \[UK\]). Data collection will be conducted through patient medical record abstraction and patient survey.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
OTHER: Data collection
Determination of the adjuvant therapies used in routine practice in the target countries along with the durations of treatment, doses, dose reduction rates, discontinuation rates, and reasons for discontinuation., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Determinations of the proportions of patients receiving each type of adjuvant chemotherapy and proportions receiving no adjuvant chemotherapy., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Determination of the level of medical resource utilization and the direct healthcare costs of managing these patients during adjuvant treatment, prior to disease recurrence/progression, and post disease recurrence/progression., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.
Determination of the characteristics of patients receiving chemotherapy compared with those not receiving chemotherapy., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Determination of the proportion of patients with selected co morbidities (e.g., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD], cardiovascular disease, asthma)., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Evaluation of the national cost-of-illness estimates for France, Germany, and the UK., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Determination of indirect costs incurred., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Determination of the effect of the disease on Health related quality of life (HRQOL) based on EuroQol 5 Dimensions quality-of-life questionnaire (EQ-5D)., Observation of retrospective data between 2009-2012.|Estimation of overall and disease-free survival of patients with resected stage IB-IIIA NSCLC observed retrospectively., Between 01 Aug 2009 and 31 July 2012.
The study procedures will have no effect on the medical care delivered to enrolled patients. Physicians will continue to provide usual medical care to patients. There is no study intervention, and no drug or other intervention will be provided to the site as part of the study.

Methodology: the study will consist of two components:

* Medical record abstraction. Medical records of eligible patients (both living and deceased) will be reviewed, and data will be extracted for the study. Data collected will include patient demographic and disease characteristics, details of medical care received (including adjuvant treatment), and information about disease recurrence/progression.
* Patient survey. Living patients will be asked to participate in a patient survey. Living patients who agree to participate will be administered a brief patient questionnaire to collect information that is not available in the clinical sites' medical records \[e.g., local medical care, patient out-of-pocket expenses, work loss, and health-related quality of life (HRQOL)\]. The site may exclude individual patients from the survey if site staff feel that it would be inappropriate for that individual; the study will not collect patient survey information from the families of deceased patients.

Informed consent will be collected from living patients who participate in the patient survey, apart from the abstraction of their medical records. Country-specific requirements will be followed.

The medical records of patients (living or deceased) with complete resection of stage IB-IIIA NSCLC between 01 August 2009 and 31 July 2012 will be identified. No vaccine or drug was administered during this study.