Preoperative Exercise for Patients Undergoing Complex Cancer Surgery
Treatment for people with cancer of the lung or the oesophagus (food-pipe) often involves surgery. This surgery is complex and there is a high risk that patients will develop severe complications afterwards, leading to a longer hospital stay and higher hospital costs, and impacting greatly on recovery and quality of life. If patients' lungs and heart can be optimised before surgery, then recovery may be improved. While fitness can be improved by exercise, the lead-in time to surgery following a cancer diagnosis is often very short, and research is needed to examine what types of exercise might be most effective at increasing fitness over a short period.

This project will investigate if high intensity interval training (HIIT) can increase fitness levels in people scheduled for surgery for cancer of the oesophagus or the lungs. HIIT alternates between periods of high intensity exercise, cycling on a stationary bike, followed by a period of more relaxed exercise. This approach is known to improve fitness but has not previously been investigated in patients awaiting complex cancer surgery.

Groups will be compared for changes in pre-surgery fitness levels, any complications they may experience after surgery, general physical recovery after surgery and the cost of care after surgery. The investigators anticipate that patients who undergo HIIT before surgery will have less complications and better recovery after surgery, a significantly improved quality of life, and lower costs of care.
Postoperative Complications|Physical Activity|Surgery--Complications
OTHER: Control|OTHER: Exercise - HIIT Intervention
Change in Cardiorespiratory Fitness, Cardiorespiratory fitness will be determined by Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test (CPET), At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1)
Clavien-Dindo Scale, Measurement of the most severe complication that occurs in the postoperative period. The ordinal scale is divided into seven grades (Grade I-V, two sub-groups each for Grade III and IV), ranging from Grade I, which considers any deviation from normal, to Grade V, which describes death of the patient., At hospital discharge (approximately 7-14 days postoperatively)|Change in the Post-Operative Morbidity Score (POMS), The POMS is a nine-domain tool that prospectively describes and records in-hospital postoperative complications following major surgery., On postoperative day 5, postoperative day 7 and at hospital discharge (approximately 7-14 days postoperatively)|The Comprehensive Classification Index (CCI), This is a summary of overall morbidity including the type, number and severity of each complication experienced during the postoperative period., At hospital discharge (approximately 7-14 days postoperatively)|Change in Pulmonary function, Pulmonary function will be measured as the first step of the CPET. This will be used to determine forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume at 1s (FEV1) and the ratio of FEV1/FVC., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1)|Change in Maximum Inspiratory pressure, PImax will measured using a PowerBreathe K-series portable respiratory pressure metre. Patients will be measured at residual volume during a forceful inspiratory manoeuvre while resting in a seated position., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1)|Change in Muscle strength, Quadriceps muscle strength will be measured by 1 repetition maximum (1RM) in kg's using a horizontal leg extension. The 1RM is defined as the highest load that can be lifted through full range of movement at one time., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1)|Change in Self reported physical activity: International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), This questionnaire evaluates activity in metabolic equivalent (MET)-hours per week over the previous seven days. The questionnaire also quantifies average weekend and weekday sitting time. The questionnaire also quantifies average weekend and weekday sitting time., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1) as well as post-operative day 30|Change in Self reported functional recovery, Participants will rate their recovery as 0%, 25%, 50%, 75% or 100% according to standardised descriptors., At post-operative day 30|Change in Functional Performance, This will be measured using the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB). This measure combines the results of gait speed, chair stand and balance tests. A score lower than 10 indicates one or more mobility limitations., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1)|Change in Quality of Life, Quality of Life will be determined by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30).

Scores are reported on a linear scale from 0-100. A high score in a functional scale indicates greater function. A high score in a symptom scale indicates greater symptom burden., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1) and on post-operative day 30.|Change in Quality of Life (Specific to Lung Cancer), For Oesophago-gastric Cancer Patients Quality of Life will be further assessed with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Oesophago-gastric Cancer Subscale the EORTC QLQ-LC 13. Scores are reported on a linear scale from 0-100. A high score in a functional scale indicates greater function. A high score in a symptom scale indicates greater symptom burden., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1) and on post-operative day 30.|Change in Quality of Life (Specific to Oesophageal Cancer), For Oesophago-gastric Cancer Patients Quality of Life will be further assessed with the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Oesophago-gastric Cancer Subscales the EORTC QLQ-OES18 and QLQ-OES25. Scores are reported on a linear scale from 0-100. A high score in a functional scale indicates greater function. A high score in a symptom scale indicates greater symptom burden., At diagnosis (Dx), baseline (T0), immediately post-intervention (T1) and on post-operative day 30.|Cost Effectiveness, The costs of the program will be set against the effects on HRQOL, At routine post-operative clinic visits at 6 weeks and 3 months postoperatively.|Qualitative Approach, Focus groups and interviews will be carried out with participants to gain their perspectives of the impact of the program on physical and mental well-being., Immediately after the programme intervention (T1)
Patients with cancer of the lung or oesophagus, undergoing curative treatment, usually require a thoracotomy and a complex oncological resection. These surgeries carry a risk of major morbidity and mortality, and risk assessment, preoperative optimisation, and enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) pathways are modern approaches to optimise outcomes. Pre-operative fitness is an established predictor of postoperative outcome, accordingly targeting pre-operative fitness through exercise prehabilitation has logical appeal. Exercise prehabilitation is challenging to implement however due to the short opportunity for intervention between diagnosis and surgery. Therefore, individually prescribed, intensive exercise training protocols which convey clinically meaningful improvements in cardiopulmonary fitness over a short period need to be investigated. This project will examine the influence of exercise prehabilitation on physiological outcomes and postoperative recovery, evaluation of health economics, the impact of the programme on hospital costs.

This study will take the form of a randomised controlled trial aimed primarily at improving pre-operative fitness with high intensity interval training (HIIT). HIIT prescribes aerobic exercise which alternates between periods of high intensity training and active recovery. This form of exercise training stimulates greater improvements in cardiopulmonary fitness over short periods compared to continuous aerobic training and therefore may be ideally suited to exercise prehabilitation. The primary outcome, cardiopulmonary fitness, will be measured by cardiopulmonary exercise testing and explored further using a suite of pulmonary and physical performance measures. Secondary outcomes will examine the impact of individually prescribed HIIT on postoperative outcome, postoperative physical recovery, restoration of pre-treatment fitness levels and both acute and sub-acute hospital costs. The investigators anticipate that this mode of exercise prehabilitation will attenuate postoperative risk and improve postoperative recovery, thus improving patient quality of life and having considerable economic benefits for the healthcare system.