This Study Aims to Optimize Neoadjuvant Therapy for HER2-positive Breast Cancer by Implementing a Dynamic Monitoring-guided Treatment Strategy.
This study aims to optimize neoadjuvant therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer by implementing a dynamic monitoring-guided treatment strategy. Patients will initially receive trastuzumab, pyrotinib, and albumin-bound paclitaxel. Those who do not achieve a radiological response after Cycle 2 will switch to SHR-A1811 (a HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate) combined with pertuzumab. The primary objective is to evaluate whether this sequential treatment strategy improves the pathological complete response (pCR) rate while maintaining safety. The study will also explore the value of dynamic efficacy monitoring in guiding treatment adjustments and assess the safety and tolerability of the regimens.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Patients will initially receive trastuzumab, pyrotinib, and albumin-bound paclitaxel. Those who do not achieve a radiological response after Cycle 2 will switch to SHR-A1811 (a HER2-targeted antibody
tpCR, Total pathological complete response (tpCR: ypT0-is/ypN0), At the time of surgery
EFS, Event-free survival, 5 years
bpCR, Breast pathological complete response (bpCR：ypT0-is), At the time of surgery|ORR, Objective Response Rate (ORR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid, During 24 weeks of the neoadjuvant treatment|Incidence of Adverse Events, Incidence of Adverse Events, from consent to 28 days after last dose
This study aims to optimize neoadjuvant therapy for HER2-positive breast cancer by implementing a dynamic monitoring-guided treatment strategy. Patients will initially receive trastuzumab, pyrotinib, and albumin-bound paclitaxel. Those who do not achieve a radiological response after Cycle 2 will switch to SHR-A1811 (a HER2-targeted antibody-drug conjugate) combined with pertuzumab. The primary objective is to evaluate whether this sequential treatment strategy improves the pathological complete response (pCR) rate while maintaining safety. The study will also explore the value of dynamic efficacy monitoring in guiding treatment adjustments and assess the safety and tolerability of the regimens.