OH2 Oncolytic Viral Therapy in Solid Tumors
This phase I/II study evaluates the safety and efficacy of OH2 as single agent or in combination with HX008, an anti-PD-1 antibody, in patients with malignant solid tumors (gastrointestinal cancers, head and neck cancers, soft tissue sarcomas).

OH2 is an oncolytic virus developed upon genetic modifications of the herpes simplex virus type 2 strain HG52, allowing the virus to selectively replicate in tumors. Meanwhile, the delivery of the gene encoding human granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) may induce a more potent antitumor immune response.
Solid Tumor|Gastrointestinal Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: OH2 injection, with or without irinotecan or HX008
The dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of OH2 injection as single agent and in combination with HX008 in patients with solid tumors, Primary outcome of phase 1., 6 months|The maximum-tolerated doses (MTDs) of OH2 injection as single agent and in combination with HX008 in patients with solid tumors, Primary outcome of phase 1., 6 months|The biodistribution and biologic effect of OH2 injection, Primary outcome of phase 1. The biodistribution of OH2 is evaluated by detection of viral loads in the blood, urine, and saliva. Additionally, the injection sites are swabbed for virus shedding. For the analyses of biologic effects, serum samples are collected for HSV serology assays and assessment of GM-CSF protein and GM-CSF RNA., 6 months|The anti-tumor activity of OH2 monotherapy and in combination with irinotecan or HX008, Primary outcome of phase 2., 2 years
The anti-tumor activity of OH2 monotherapy and in combination with HX008, Secondary outcome of phase 1., 2 years|The immunogenicity of OH2, Secondary outcome of phase 1. The immunogenicity of OH2 is evaluated by detection of anti-GM-CSF antibodies in the blood., 2 years
This is a phase I/II study evaluating the safety and efficacy of OH2 injection in patients with malignant solid tumors.

In the phase I dose escalation part, three doses (1x10e6, 1x10e7, 1x10e8 CCID50/mL) of OH2 will be delivered intratumorally as single agent and in combination with HX008 to observe the DLTs and to identify the MTD. After the completion of phase I, the recommended dose for single agent and combination therapy will be determined for dose expansion in phase II.

The phase II part comprises of 4 cohorts. In cohort 1, patients will be treated at the recommended dose as defined in phase 1. In cohort 2, OH2 will be delivered in combination with irinotecan for the treatment of advanced gastrointestinal cancers. In cohort 3, OH2 will be injected in combination with HX008, and the first doses of the two anti-tumor agents will be administered on the same day. The treatments in cohort 4 will be identical as in cohort 3, except that the first dose of HX008 will be administered at the time of the third dose of OH2.

The biodistribution of OH2 is evaluated in the phase 1 part of the trial by detection of viral loads in the blood, urine, and saliva at different timepoints. In addition, the injection sites are swabbed for virus shedding on the next day of each dose from cycle 1-3.

Adverse events (AEs) and DLTs are graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) (version 5.0). Radiographic imaging studies are performed using computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Measurement of cutaneous or subcutaneous lesions are conducted with calipers. Evaluation of response are performed by the investigators using both the RECIST version 1.1 and the iRECIST criteria.