Pilot Study of Mobilization and Treatment of Disseminated Tumor Cells in Men With Metastatic Prostate Cancer
Hypothesis: Treatment with Burixafor hydrobromide will effectively mobilize metastatic prostate cancer (PCa) cells (i.e. disseminated tumor cells; DTCs) into the blood from the bone marrow. It has been demonstrated that prostate cancer cells have been mobilized out of the bone marrow of mice utilizing an anti-CXCR4 strategy; making them more susceptible to chemotherapy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Burixafor Hydrobromide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: G-CSF
Mobilization of DTCs from bone marrow, Measure the number of CTCs in the peripheral blood., 2 years
Kinetics of disseminated tumor cell mobilization by quantifying the number of circulating tumor cells per milliliter of blood over time, This will be reported as number of tumor cells/mL at multiple time points following infusion of Burixafor hydrobromide with and without G-CSF., 2 years|Kinetics of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization by quantifying the number of circulating HSCs per milliliter of blood over time, This will be reported as number of HSC/mL at multiple time points following infusion of Burixafor hydrobromide with and without G-CSF., 2 years|PSA response to treatment with Burixafor hydrobromide alone and Burixafor hydrobromide and docetaxel, 2 years|Safety of Burixafor hydrobromide +/- GCSF +/- docetaxel, Safety will be evaluated by the incidence, severity, duration, causality, seriousness, and type(s) of adverse events, 2 years|Exploratory biomarker Assessment on CTCs/DTCs, Examples of these may include, but are not limited to: assessment of cell cycle kinetics, apoptosis, PTEN status, MYC alterations, whole genome, whole exome, and transcriptome analysis, 2 years
This is an open label, multiple site, pilot study. Hypothesis: Treatment with Burixafor hydrobromide will effectively mobilize metastatic prostate cancer (PCa) cells (i.e. disseminated tumor cells; DTCs) into the blood from the bone marrow. In preclinical models, these bone marrow niche engaged cells are more resistant to therapy as compared to soft tissue sites.

It has been demonstrated that prostate cancer cells have been mobilized out of the bone marrow of mice utilizing an anti-CXCR4 strategy; making them more susceptible to chemotherapy. Currently, the anti-CXCR4 agent plerixafor is FDA approved to be given for up to 4 consecutive days in order to mobilize hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs).

Burixafor hydrobromide is a potent anti-CXCR4 agent that is in clinical trials. Burixafor hydrobromide, alone or in combination with G-CSF, is currently in Phase II testing for use as a hematopoetic stem cell (HSC) mobilization agent. When Burixafor hydrobromide is given intravenously (IV) alone at a dose of 3.14 mg/kg it has been shown to result in a 7.8 fold mean increase in peripheral blood CD34+ (a HSC marker) cells 6-hours post-infusion.