Examination of the Effect of Counselling and Follow-up After Breast Cancer Awareness Education
The aim of the study was to examine the effect of counselling and follow-up after education on the risks and prevention methods of breast cancer on early diagnosis behaviours and healthy lifestyle behaviours. The population of the study will consist of female administrative staff working at Mersin University. The sample of the study will consist of 160 people. A total of 160 personnel determined by randomisation will be divided into group A (study) and group B (control) formed by the independent researcher in the computer environment. All participants will be given a one-hour training on breast cancer and will be practised with a model as well as a presentation. Group A will be counselled for 6 months after the training and a reminder message will be sent via SMS on Monday every week as "Check your modifiable risk factors for breast cancer" and their feedback will be received. In group B, no additional application will be made except for the training. The data of the study will be collected before and 6 months after the training by using the Descriptive Characteristics Form, Breast Cancer Early Diagnosis Behaviours Form, Counselling Form and Healthy Lifestyle Behaviours Scale II. The data obtained from the study will be analysed in a computer environment. Number, percentage, mean and standard deviation will be used as descriptive statistics in the evaluation of the data.
Breast Cancer|Nurse|Education|Counselling|Follow-up
OTHER: Reminder message
Behaviours for Early Diagnosis of Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Early Diagnosis Behaviours Form: It is a form consisting of 5 questions about the frequency of early diagnosis behaviours such as breast self-examination, clinical breast examination and mammography., 6 months|Counselling, Counselling Form: This is a 5-question form that includes information on the subject consulted, the number of consultations, what was recommended in the consultation, the status of referral to a health institution after the consultation and what the outcome was if referred to a health institution., 6 months|Healthy Lifestyle Behaviours, Healthy Lifestyle Behaviours Scale II; The scale consists of six subscales under the titles of 'health responsibility', 'physical activity', 'nutrition', 'spiritual development', 'interpersonal relationships' and 'stress management'. The higher score obtained from the scale indicates more appropriate lifestyle behaviour., 6 months
The study was a prospective, parallel, two-arm (1:1), randomised controlled experimental study. The aim of the study was to examine the effect of counselling and follow-up after education on the risks and prevention methods of breast cancer on early diagnosis behaviours and healthy lifestyle behaviours. The population of the study will consist of female administrative staff working at Mersin University. The sample of the study will consist of 160 people with an effect size of 0.23, 80% power maximum 5% type 1 error and drop out rate of 10%. The sample determined by randomisation A total of 160 personnel in the group will be divided into group A (study) and group B (control) formed by the independent researcher in the computer environment. All participants will be given one-hour training on breast cancer, modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors for breast cancer, symptoms of breast cancer, screening programmes and breast self-examination. Group A will be counselled for 6 months after the training and a reminder message will be sent via SMS on Monday every week as "Check your Changeable Risk Factors for Breast Cancer" and their feedback will be received. In group B, no additional application will be made except for the training. The data of the study will be collected before and 6 months after the training by using the Descriptive Characteristics Form, Breast Cancer Early Diagnosis Behaviours Form, Counselling Form and Healthy Lifestyle Behaviours Scale II. The data obtained from the study will be analysed in a computer environment. Number, percentage, mean and standard deviation will be used as descriptive statistics in the evaluation of the data.