Sintilimab in Combination With Gemcitabine and Platinum-Based Chemotherapy as First-Line Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Squamous NSCLC
Efficacy and Safety Evaluation of IBI308 in Patients with Advanced or Recurrent Squamous NSCLC
Squamous NSCLC
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Carboplatin
PFS(Progression Free Survival), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. PFS according to RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BIRRC was reported for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 25 March 2020 (up to approximately 18 months)
OS (Overall Survival), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were to be censored at the date of the last follow-up. OS was reported for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 15 October 2019 (up to approximately 13 months)|ORR(Objective Response Rate), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who had a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters \[SOD\] of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD) according to RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experienced a confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BIRRC was reported as the ORR for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 25 March 2020 (up to approximately 18 months)|TTR (Time to Response), TTR was defined as the time of participants from the first treatment administration to the first incidence of a confirmed CR (disappearance of all lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters \[SOD\] of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD) according to RECIST 1.1. The time from first treatment administration to the first incidence of treatment response was reported as the TTR for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 25 March 2020 (up to approximately 18 months)|DCR (Disease Control Rate), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a CR (disappearance of all target lesions), PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), or Stable Disease (SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease \[PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD\]). The percentage of participants who experienced a confirmed CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BIRRC was reported as the DCR for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 25 March 2020 (up to approximately 18 months)|DOR (Duration of Response), For participants who demonstrated a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR was defined as the time from first documented evidence of a CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. DOR for participants who had not progressed or died at the time of analysis was censored at the date of their last tumor assessment. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. DOR assessments were based on BIRRC assessment. The DOR according to RECIST 1.1 for all participants who experienced a confirmed CR or PR was reported for each arm., Through Database Cutoff Date of 25 March 2020 (up to approximately 18 months)
The anti-tumor activity of anti-PD-1 therapy in previously untreated Chinese squamous NSCLC patients will be investigated in this clinical trial.