Radiotherapy Combined With PD-1 Inhibitors and Chemotherapy in the Treatment of NSCLC Patients With Symptomatic Brain Metastases
This is a prospective, single-center observational clinical study aimed at the efficacy and safety of radiotherapy combined with PD-1 inhibitors and chemotherapy in the treatment of Chinese patients with symptomatic NSCLC with brain metastases.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic|Brain Metastases
RADIATION: Radiotherapy combined with PD-1 inhibitors
Intracranial clinical benefit rate (CBR), 6 months|Intracranial progression-free survival (PFS), 1 year
Intracranial objective response rate (ORR), 1 year|Extracranial clinical benefit rate (CBR), 1 year|Extracranial objective response rate (ORR), 1 year|Extracranial progression-free survival (PFS), 1 year|Clinical benefit rate (CBR), 1 year|Objective response rate (ORR), 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), 1 year|Overall survival (OS), 1 year|Incidence of neurological adverse events, 1 year|Incidence of severe adverse events, 1 year|Rate of decline in cognitive function, 1 year
Radiotherapy is carried out within 4 weeks after the first dose of PD-1 inhibitor; radiotherapy is determined according to the patient's condition; the use of PD-1 inhibitors and chemotherapy is based on the actual product instructions.

From December 2021 to December 2023, after the patients signed the informed consent, they will be included in this observational study after being assessed as meeting the inclusion criteria. A total of 20 cases are planned to be included for research analysis. All eligible patients meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be invited to participate in this study. Patients included in the study will be solicited to allow efficacy evaluation and survival follow-up during the study and after treatment. Patients were considered to be on study unless the patient died, was withdrawn from the study, was lost to follow-up, or the study was terminated. Patients do not need to visit a doctor or receive evaluation specifically because of the study, and the study doctor evaluates the patients based on clinical practice.

Since this study is an observational study, the diagnosis and treatment process listed in the protocol is a clinically recommended process and is not mandatory. Treatment and clinical visit schedules for enrolled patients were determined by clinicians based on routine practice. This study collects patient information, including safety and efficacy data, based on routine diagnosis and treatment procedures. Although the protocol does not mandate clinical visits, physicians are encouraged to follow up patients who have not been seen for at least 6 months to collect treatment-related data and determine patient survival. Patients will be considered lost to follow-up if they have not been seen for at least 1 year.