Mutational Analysis as a Prognostic and Predictive Marker of Cardiovascular (CVD) Disease in Patients With Myelodysplasia
This study evaluates the relationship between myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and cardiovascular disease. MDS patients will be evaluated for the presence of mutations and whether they are associated with an increased risk of heart disease (CVD) and inflammation compared to healthy adults. Patients without symptoms of CVD will receive CT scans to assess for hidden disease and if that is related to their mutations.
MDS|Cardiovascular Diseases|Inflammation
GENETIC: Genetic Mutations|OTHER: Inflammatory and lipid markers|OTHER: Computed Tomography (CT) of the heart
Measure the allelic frequency and type of myeloid cancer-associated mutations in MDS patients diagnostic bone marrow aspirates or slides, Screen for Presence of myeloid-cancer associated mutations and their variant allele frequencies (VAF) at diagnosis of MDS as measured through next generation sequencing of 40 myeloid genes., 2 years|Screen for occult and potentially clinically significant CAD in MDS patients by means of coronary CT, Patients at Sunnybrook hospital with no pre-existing history of CAD who receive CT of the heart and found to harbour occult CAD by means of coronary calcium scoring:

1. zero calcium (No CAD)
2. 1-400: mild-moderate calcification
3. \>400: severe calcification, 2 years|Identify any correlation between selected myeloid mutations and/or their VAF with the presence of pre-existing incident or occult CAD, Comparing the presence of myeloid-cancer associated mutations and their variant allele frequencies (VAF) at diagnosis of MDS as measured through next generation sequencing of 40 myeloid genes between patients with pre-existing/occult CAD and those without., 2 years
Track how often newly discovered CAD from coronary CT leads to further intervention or changes in monitoring, The investigators will track any interventions in patients without a prior history of CAD who who are discovered to have occult CAD by coronary CT. This includes number of patients who were recommended:

1. medical management of CAD
2. Referral to clinical cardiologist
3. Invasive angiography, 2 years|Screen for serum inflammatory cytokines in the blood of patients with incident or occult CAD, Measure TNFa, IL-1beta, IL-6 and an array of other inflammatory cytokines (to be determined) in the peripheral blood upon enrollment, 2 years
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a type of blood cancer that can cause infection or bleeding because they prevent the formation of blood components and may lead to leukemia and death. MDS can arise from changes (or mutations) to a patient's DNA. MDS patients have increased risk of heart disease compared to healthy adults. The investigators will look for links between mutations in MDS patients and increased risk of heart disease. They will also use "CT imaging" to see if MDS patients have asymptomatic artery disease but may lead to heart disease in the future and if that is related to their mutations. The researcher will try to link mutations in MDS patients to markers of inflammation and to the amount of artery disease on CT imaging to look for patterns. The goal is to find certain mutations that are associated with inflammation and heart disease. This may ultimately allow hematologists to test MDS patients with these mutations for heart disease and/or treat them early so they have a better and longer life.