Radioprotective Effect of Chinese Herbal Medicine on Oral Mucositis
This protocol describes a randomized, double-arm, parallel-group, open-label controlled study that aims to evaluate the efficacy of Chinese herbal medicine on head and neck cancer patients with oral mucositis toxicities and quality of life during radiotherapy.
Head and Neck Cancer|Oral Mucositis
DRUG: Zi-Yin-Liang-Ge-San
Degree of oral mucositis, The degree was graded by the NHI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0), During the radiotherapy course, up to 6 weeks|Mucositis pain, 100-mm-visual analog scale (VAS, 0-100), During the radiotherapy course, up to 6 weeks
Health related-QoL (1), EORTC Core Quality of Life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), Baseline, 4th week, and 6th week of radiotherapy completion|Health related-QoL (2), Quality of Life Head and Neck Module (QLQ-H\&N35), Baseline, 4th week, and 6th week of radiotherapy completion|Body mass index (BMI), Body mass index (BMI), During the radiotherapy course, up to 6 weeks
Traditional Chinese medicine constitution, Body Constitution Questionnaire (BCQ), Baseline, 4th week, and 6th week of radiotherapy completion|Electrical body conductivity, Meridian Energy Analysis Device, Baseline, 4th week, and 6th week of radiotherapy completion
200 head and neck cancer patients who were scheduled for radiotherapy are randomly assigned at a 1:1 ratio to two arms: control group and those treated with Zi-Yin-Liang-Ge-San containing Rx. Scutellariae, Rx. Glycyrrhizae, Hb. Dendrobii, Rx. Ophiopogonis, and Hb. Menthae Haplocalycis from day 1 of radiotherapy. The study lasted at least 6 weeks and the clinical benefit was determined by onset, gradation of mucositis (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v5.0), oral pain (visual analysis scale) for each week during RT. Nutritional status, EORTC Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) and head and neck module (QLQ-H\&N35), Body Constitution Questionnaire (BCQ), and electrical body conductivity were evaluated before and after radiotherapy. Patient-Reported Outcomes version of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), serious adverse events, blood and biochemical analysis will be recorded to evaluate the safety.