Amifostine Plus Irinotecan in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.

PURPOSE: Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of amifostine plus irinotecan in treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: amifostine trihydrate|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride
To assess the toxicity profile of Irinotecan and Ethyol when administered together on this schedule., 12 weeks
To assess the total dose of Irinotecan received per 6 week cycle, 6 weeks|To determine incidence of Irinotecan-induced leukopenia and neutropenia, 12 weeks|To determine the incidence of Irinotecan-induced diarrhea, 12 weeks|To determine the response rate for patients with metastatic colorectal carcinoma receiving Irinotecan and Ethyol on this dosing schedule (as measured by time response, duration of response time to progression, time of treatment failure survival)., 12 weeks|To determine the clinical benefit of intravenous Irinotecan and Ethyol in patients with colorectal cancer, as measured by performance status, analgesic consumption, quality of life and survival., 12 weeks
OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the toxicity profile of irinotecan and amifostine when administered together in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. II. Assess the total dose of irinotecan received per 6 week course in these patients. III. Determine the incidence of irinotecan-induced leukopenia, neutropenia, and diarrhea in these patients. V. Determine the response rate for this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is an open label study. Amifostine is administered by 10 minute IV infusions. Irinotecan is administered by IV infusions 15 minutes after completion of amifostine. Treatment is repeated every 2 weeks for 6 weeks. This 6 week course is repeated in the absence of disease progression. Treatment may be delayed up to 2 weeks after a course to allow for recovery from toxic effects. Patients are followed at the end of study and at 30 days after study.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be 25-30 patients accrued into this study.