Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Can Be Removed by Surgery
Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed. This phase II trial is studying how well erlotinib hydrochloride works in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery
Intraductal Papillary Mucinous Neoplasm of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|GENETIC: protein expression analysis|PROCEDURE: biopsy|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Reduction in Number of Positive IPMN Celss and Staining Intensity After Treatment, Number of participants showed a reduction in number of positive IPMN cells and staining intensity after treatment, Pre-treatment and post-treatment
Plasma Calculated Concentration - OSI-774 (ng/mL), Plasma concentration levels of Erlotinib (OSI-774), 20 weeks|Pancreas Calculated Concentration - OSI-774 (ng/g), Pancreatic tissue concentration levels of Erlotinib (OSI-774), 20 weeks|Plasma Calculated Concentration - OSI-420 (ng/mL), Plasma concentration levels of Erlotinib (OSI-420), 20 weeks|Pancreas Calculated Concentration - OSI-420 (ng/g), Pancreatic tissue concentration levels of Erlotinib (OSI-420), 20 weeks|Number of Participants Reported at Least 1 Adverse Event With a Grade of 3 and Above, The worst grade of pre-listed toxicity will be summarized by participant and by visit for each treatment group. Descriptive statistics (frequencies and percents) will be used to summarize data and hypotheses about group differences will be tested where appropriate., Up to 20 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that the activated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signal transduction biomarker Mucin 5AC (MUC5AC) protein expression within intraductal pancreatic mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) lesions will have greater than zero absolute mean decrease from baseline comparing pre and post 21-42 days of Erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) administration at 100mg orally (PO) once daily (QD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that other correlative IPMN EGF inducible biomarkers will have greater than zero absolute mean decrease from baseline pre and post Erlotinib 100mg PO QD therapy.

II. Safety of Erlotinib treatment. III. To determine Erlotinib pharmacokinetic concentration in plasma and pancreatic tissue at the 100mg/day dose up to 42 days of therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO QD for 21-42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo to pancreatectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-20 weeks.