Safety Study of Afatinib for Brain Cancer
The purpose of this study is to try to determine the maximum safe dose of afatinib that can be administered to people with brain cancer. Other purposes of this study are to:

* find out what effects (good and bad) afatinib has;
* see how much drug gets into the body by collecting blood and cerebrospinal fluid for use in pharmacokinetic (PK) studies;
* learn more about how afatinib might affect the growth of cancer cells;
* look at biomarkers (biochemical features that can be used to measure the progress of disease or the effects of a drug).
Brain Cancer
DRUG: Afatinib
Rate of dose limiting toxicities of pulsatile afatinib, Number of side effects of study treatment that prevent an increase in dose or level of that treatment, first 28 days of treatment|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pulsatile afatinib, The highest dose evaluated that does not cause unacceptable side effects, first 28 days of treatment
Treatment-emergent adverse events, Type, number, grade and seriousness of adverse events reported after the first dose of study treatment, 7 months|Afatinib levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood, Measurement of afatinib concentration in CSF and blood at defined timepoints, 52 days|Objective response rate as assessed by the RANO criteria, Tumor response compared to baseline as assessed by the RANO criteria, approximately 6 months to 1 year|Best overall response rate, Best tumor response compared to baseline, approximately 6 months to 1 year|Progression free survival, Time between the start of treatment to disease progression, up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Time between the start of treatment to death, up to 5 years
This is an open-label, single institution, Phase I 3+3 dose escalation study to describe the safety and tolerability of afatinib in patients with brain cancer having failed prior therapy and to determine the recommended phase II dose.

Eligible patients will receive afatinib in treatment cycles of 28 days that will consist of afatinib administered orally by mouth once every four days. Patients will be assigned to the dose level open at the time of their enrollment. Patients will continue dosing of afatinib until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or treating physician determines it is in their best interest to stop. Guidelines for modifying study drug doses is provided for the management of adverse treatment effects.

All patients will have regular evaluations for assessment of safety parameters as detailed in the study flow chart. Lumbar puncture and blood draw for assessing afatinib levels will occur as detailed in the study flow chart.

Neurological imaging and assessment for response will be performed approximately every eight weeks. Tumor response will be assessed according to Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Working Group criteria.

An end of treatment evaluation will occur when a patient permanently discontinues study drug, as detailed in the study flow chart. Patients will then be followed every four months for survival.