Proof-of-Concept Study of ACT001 in Adult Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Harbouring STAT3-High Signature
This trial will study the effectiveness of ACT001 in adult patients whose Glioblastoma have recurred with a STAT3-high signature after standard-of-care treatment with at least radiation therapy.
Recurrent Glioblastoma
DRUG: ACT001
Overall Response Rate, ORR as defined as radiographic complete response, or partial response, or stable disease. Patients with stable disease will be considered responders if disease is stable for 24 weeks or more. The regimen will be considered worthy of further study if responses as defined above are observed in at least 3 of the 12 patients., 1.5 years
Progression-free survival (PFS) & Overall survival (OS), 6 months progression-free survival (PFS), defined as proportion of patients who remained alive and progression-free at 6 months.

PFS, which is defined as time from study enrolment to progression of disease per RANO criteria, or death, whichever occurs first. For patients who are not documented to have experienced a PFS event at the time of an analysis, PFS will be right-censored on the date of their last adequate assessment of disease.

Overall survival (OS), which is defined as time from study enrolment to death from any cause. For patients who are not reported to have died at the time of an analysis, OS will be right-censored at the last date the patient is documented to be alive., 1.5 years
Toxicity evaluation, Study team will assess adverse events, laboratory data and vital signs throughout the study. Analyses of adverse events will include only "treatment-emergent" events, i.e., those that start or worsen on or after the day of the first dose of study drug. Adverse event severity and laboratory evaluation changes will be assessed by utilizing National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0. Adverse events will be summarized by preferred terms within a System and Organ Class according to the most current Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) dictionary. Changes from baseline will be analyzed for each scheduled post-baseline visit and for the final visit for blood chemistry and hematology parameters, as well as urinalysis and vital sign parameters. Shifts in laboratory values from baseline NCI CTCAE grades to maximum and final post-baseline grades will be assessed., 1.5 years|Drug levels, Drug levels in cerebrospinal fluid and tissue sample when available in patients who are agreeable to proceed with Omaya shunt insertion, lumbar puncture or undergoes further surgical resection following treatment with ACT001., 1.5 years|Treatment response and resistance, Tissue and blood exosome biomarkers that are predictive of treatment response and treatment resistance., 1.5 years
This trial will study the effectiveness of ACT001 in adult patients whose Glioblastoma have recurred with a STAT3-high signature after standard-of-care treatment with at least radiation therapy.