Study of Ibrutinib in Combination With Revlimid/Dexamethasone in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is a registration, open-label phase 1 study of the combination of ibrutinib/lenalidomide:/dexamethasone in women and men with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Multiple Myeloma in Relapse|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Maximum Tolerated Dose for Combination, The maximum tolerated dose is defined as the highest dose level among those tested where at most one out of 6 patients develops a DLT prior to the start of their second cycle of treatment and the next highest dose level is such that 2 or more patients among the maximum of 6 patients treated at that dose level developed a DLT prior to the start of their second cycle of treatment., 19 Months|Objective Response Rate, The primary endpoint of the expansion portion of this phase I study is the objective response rate. The objective response rate is the percent of patients who meet the International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria for sCR, CR, VGPR, or PR on two consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart among the patients who began study treatment. A 90% binomial confidence interval will be constructed for the overall objective response rate., 34 Months
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival time is the time from study entry to the documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause., 34 Months|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from registration to death due to any cause., 34 Months|Duration of Response, The duration of response is the time from initiation of first response to first documentation of disease progression or death. Patients who have not progressed will be censored at the date of their last disease evaluation., 34 Months|Maximum Toxicity Grade, The maximum grade of each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient. For each toxicity reported by dose level, the percentage of patients developing any degree of that toxicity as well as the percentage of patients developing a severe degree (Grade 3 or higher) will be determined., 34 Months
The study will be completed in two parts: Dose escalation and dose expansion.

Dose Escalation Starting doses of ibrutinib and lenalidomide will be assigned at the time of registration. A minimum of 2 or a maximum of 6 patients will be accrued to a given dose level. Doses will not be escalated in any individual patient.

If none of the first 3 patients treated at a given dose level develops a dose limiting toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, enrollment to the dose level will be closed and enrollment will reopen at next higher dose level. If there are no other higher dose levels to be tested, three additional patients will be enrolled at the current dose level to confirm maximum tolerated dose. If one of the first 3 patients treated at a given dose level develops a dose limiting toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, three additional patients will be enrolled onto the current dose level. If, at any time in the enrollment of these 3 additional patients, a patient develops a dose limiting toxicity, enrollment will be closed to this dose level. Enrollment will be re-opened to the next lower dose level if fewer than 6 patients have been treated at that dose level. If none of these 3 additional patients develops a dose limiting toxicity during the first cycle of treatment, enrollment to this dose level will be closed and enrollment will reopen at next higher dose level. If there are no other higher dose levels to be tested, this will be considered the maximum tolerated dose.

Patients will return to the clinic every 28 days for physical exams, laboratory assessments and review of side effects.

Patients who do not have disease progression and have not experienced unacceptable toxicities will be eligible to continue protocol treatment at their current dose level until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal. Those patients who have not experienced progression of disease but have unacceptable toxicity may be eligible for re-treatment at a lower dose.

Part 2: Dose Expansion Once the maximum tolerated dose has been established or determined, 4-10 additional patients will be treated at the maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide and ibrutinib at the same schedule as above. Dexamethasone will be given at the same dose as in the dose escalation portion of the study.

Patients who discontinue treatment for protocol defined reasons will go to survival follow-up. Once a patient has entered the survival follow-up phase of the trial, his/her therapy is at the discretion of the treating physician. Patients' charts will be reviewed for progression and survival endpoints during visits with treating physicians.