A Phase II Study of Single Tremelimumab With Regular Interval Durvalumab Plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin in Locally Advanced Unresectable/Metastatic Combined Hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma
This is a single arm phase 2 study of Single Tremelimumab with Regular Interval Durvalumab (STRIDE) plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin (GEMCIS) in locally advanced unresectable/metastatic combined hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma (cHCC-CCA). Cycles 1 through 8 will be in 3 week intervals and Cycles 9+ will be in 4 week intervals. Tremelimumab is administered at 300mg intravenously once at Cycle 1. Durvalumab is administered at 1500mg intravenously every 3 weeks for Cycles 1-8, then every 4 weeks for Cycles 9+. Gemcitabine is administered at 1000mg/m\^2 intravenously on Day 1 and Day 8 of Cycles 1-8 only. Cisplatin is administered at 25mg/m\^2 intravenously on Day 1 and Day 8 of Cycles 1-8 only. Subjects will require a visit with appropriate laboratory work prior to the start of each cycle. Disease assessment will occur at screening and then every 9 weeks until the end of Cycle 9. Disease assessments will then occur every 8 weeks. Subjects will continue treatment until progression per RECIST 1.1, toxicity or subject/physician decision. A maximum of 24 months treatment from Cycle 1 Day 1 is allowed.
Combined Hepatocellular and Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Confirmed objective response rate (ORR), ORR will include confirmed complete response (CR) + confirmed partial response (PR) and will be determined as per RECIST version 1.1. A confirmed response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart., 24 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from registration to death from any cause., 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from registration to disease progression, as defined by RECIST 1.1, or until death, whichever occurs first., 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control is defined as achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or maintaining stable disease (SD) for at least 4 months (at time of second scan) while on treatment. Objective status will be assessed using RECISTv1.1 criteria. The Evaluable Population will be used. Disease control rate will be calculated as the proportion of evaluable subjects who achieve disease control., 24 months|Adverse Event Rates, The Safety Population will be used for adverse event analyses according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5. The rate of subjects experiencing at least one Grade 3+ adverse event (regardless of attribution) will be reported., 24 months
This is a single arm phase 2 study of Single Tremelimumab with Regular Interval Durvalumab (STRIDE) plus Gemcitabine and Cisplatin (GEMCIS) in locally advanced unresectable/metastatic combined hepatocellular-cholangiocarcinoma (cHCC-CCA). Cycles 1 through 8 will be in 3 week intervals and Cycles 9+ will be in 4 week intervals. Tremelimumab is administered at 300mg intravenously once at Cycle 1. Durvalumab is administered at 1500mg intravenously every 3 weeks for Cycles 1-8, then every 4 weeks for Cycles 9+. Gemcitabine is administered at 1000mg/m\^2 intravenously on Day 1 and Day 8 of Cycles 1-8 only. Cisplatin is administered at 25mg/m\^2 intravenously on Day 1 and Day 8 of Cycles 1-8 only. Subjects will require a visit with appropriate laboratory work prior to the start of each cycle. Disease assessment will occur at screening and then every 9 weeks until the end of Cycle 9. Disease assessments will then occur every 8 weeks. Subjects will continue treatment until progression per RECIST 1.1, toxicity or subject/physician decision. A maximum of 24 months treatment from Cycle 1 Day 1 is allowed.