Hypofractionated Radiotherapy for HNSCC in Elderly Patients
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a common malignant tumor, with 25% of HNSCC patients diagnosed at over 70 years of age. As the population ages, it is expected that by 2030, this proportion will exceed 60%. Elderly patients are gradually becoming the main population among head and neck cancer patients. Older patients often have a lower desire to seek medical treatment, leading to a higher number of late-stage diagnoses. Additionally, with declining physical function and multiple comorbidities, frequent hospital visits can be inconvenient, making them often unsuitable for aggressive surgery or comprehensive treatment.

In clinical practice, the commonly used conventional fractionated radiotherapy (66-70 Gy in 1.8-2.2 Gy per session over 30-33 sessions, completed in 6-7 weeks) is a time-consuming and intensive treatment method, often resulting in significant and prolonged acute and late toxicities. Hypofractionated radiotherapy (HFRT) significantly reduces the number of treatment sessions and shortens the treatment duration compared to conventional fractionation. Additionally, delivering higher doses can quickly and effectively reduce tumor burden by increasing the lethality to tumor cells.

Currently, there are few reports on HFRT for head and neck cancer patients abroad, and no reports on this treatment regimen for elderly HNSCC patients in China. In preliminary studies, our research group utilized a segmented hypofractionated regimen (66 Gy in 3.3 Gy per session for 20 sessions, treated for 2 weeks, followed by 1 week of rest, and then treated for another 2 weeks) to treat 12 HNSCC patients aged 77 to 97 years. The recent effective rate was 100%, with good treatment tolerance and no severe toxic reactions observed.
Head and Neck Cancer Squamous Cell Carcinoma|ELDERLY PEOPLE|Hypofractionation
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy
PFS, Progression-Free Survival, is defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first after 6 months of treatment., 6 months
LRC, Local Regional Control, is defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, whichever occurred first., 18 months|OS, Overall Survival, is defined as the time from random assignment to death from any cause or censored at the date of last follow-up., 18 months|DMFS, Distant-Metastasis Free Survival, is defined as the time from random assignment to distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 18 months|PFS, Progression-Free Survival, is defined as the time from random assignment to documented local or regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 18 months
safety and toxicity, Analysis of acute and late adverse events (AEs) are evaluated. Numbers of patients of treatment-related adverse events (acute toxicity) and late radiation toxicities were assessed by NCI-CTCAE v5.0., 18 months
This study aims to conduct a prospective study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of segmented hypofractionated radiotherapy in elderly patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma and to explore a radiotherapy fractionation scheme suitable for elderly HNSCC patients in China.