Simvastatin Plus Dual Anti-HER2 Therapy for Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study recruits patients with metastatic breast cancer who have progressed on their current regimen of dual anti-HER2 therapy. This study evaluates whether or not the addition of simvastatin to the dual anti-HER2 therapy regimen helps make the tumor respond to the anti-HER2 therapy again. All participants will receive simvastatin in combination with their current anti-HER2 therapy regimen.
Breast Cancer Stage IV
DRUG: Simvastatin 80mg
Objective Response, Objective response is defined as complete response or partial response, according to RECIST criteria., Up to approximately 24 months
Clinical benefit, Clinical benefit is defined as the number of objective responses plus the number of participants with stable disease lasting greater than 24 weeks, Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response, The length of time participants have a partial response, complete response or stable disease prior to disease progression, Up to approximately 24 months|Time to Progression, The length of time from the start of treatment until the disease starts to get worse or spread to other parts of the body, Up to approximately 24 months|Number of treatment-related adverse events, as assessed by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria v. 4.0 (CTCAE v. 4.0)., This is the number of side effects reported by participants receiving simvastatin in combination with HER2-therapy., Up to approximately 24 months|HMG-CoA Reductase and HMG-CoA Synthase 1 protein levels in baseline and post-treatment tumor biopsies, This measures the levels of certain enzymes in a tumor that help scientists understand how simvastatin is affecting the cancer cells., Up to approximately 24 months
This study is recruiting participants with metastatic breast cancer that is HER2 positive. "Metastatic" means that cancer has spread to areas of the body outside of the breast. "HER2 positive" means that a cancer cell has too many HER2 receptors on its surface. HER2 receptors act like copy machines, and help tell cancer cells to grow and multiply.

Drugs known as HER2-targeted therapies are often used to treat HER2-positive cancers. HER2-targeted therapies work by blocking the HER2 protein from telling the cell to grow and divide. Once the protein stops working, the cancer cells can no longer make copies of themselves. Once a cancer cell becomes unable to make copies of itself, the tumor will start to shrink. However, some tumors are able to find other ways to make copies of themselves, even when the HER2 protein is blocked. When this happens, the cancer will start to grow again. Researchers believe that adding a drug called simvastatin to an anti-HER2 therapy regimen may cause the cancer to start responding again to your HER2-medications.

Simvastatin is a drug that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat high cholesterol. Laboratory research has shown that simvastatin together with dual HER2-targeted therapy slows the growth of breast cancer tumors that had been growing on dual HER2-targeting therapy alone.