Study of Bevacizumab Plus Temodar and Tarceva in Patients With Glioblastoma or Gliosarcoma
This is a phase II study of Bevacizumab plus Temodar and Tarceva in patients with non-progressive glioblastoma or gliosarcoma. Patients must have stable disease immediately following a standard course of up-front radiotherapy and Temodar. All patients will receive Bevacizumab, Temodar and Tarceva. A total of 60 patients will be enrolled. Our hypothesis is that the combination of Bevacizumab plus Temodar and Tarceva will increase survival over that seen in historical controls who have newly diagnosed, non-progressive glioblastoma or gliosarcoma following radiotherapy plus Temodar and use Temodar alone.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Tarceva|DRUG: Temozolomide
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined from the date of diagnosis to date of death from any cause, Approximately 6-24 months|Unexpected Toxicities During First 2 Cycles of Study Drug, Unexpected severe study-related adverse events, Within 8 weeks of initiating study therapy
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined from the date of diagnosis to the date that progressive disease was first observed on imaging, or the date at which nonreversible neurologic progression or permanently increased corticosteroid requirement, death from any cause, or early discontinuation of treatment. Imaging guidelines were used to evaluate progression: (i) 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline; (ii) clear worsening of any assessable disease; (iii) appearance of any new lesion/site; and (iv) clear clinical worsening or failure to return for evaluation as a result of death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., Approximately 6 months to 1 year
Patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma or gliosarcoma are treated with standard of care radiation and temozolomide, plus the addition of Bevacizumab and Tarceva. The dose of temozolomide, Bevacizumab and radiation are the same for all patients. Tarceva dose is based upon the use of enzyme inducing anti-epileptic agents. Tarceva is given daily; Bevacizumab is given every 2 weeks; radiation is for 6 weeks, and temozolomide is given daily during radiotherapy and then in the adjuvant setting, is given on a 5-day schedule every 28 days. Patients are followed for progression and survival. The measure of response is MR scanning every 2 months. Dose adjustments are based upon the specific toxicity of the agent in question which differs for each agent (Bevacizumab, temozolomide, or Tarceva). Patients are not randomized, but assigned to an arm based on use of anti-epileptic agents.