Mature B-Cell Lymphoma And Leukemia Study III
This is a phase III clinical trial using risk-adapted therapy. Treatment outcomes for children with B-cell NHL are excellent. Further improvements in outcome will likely be achieved through more focused study of the biology of the tumors and prospective studies of the late effects of treatment. Toward this end, this study features a spectrum of prospective biologic and late effect studies performed in patients treated with a modified regimen derived from the very successful LMB-96 regimen.
Mature B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: COPAD|DRUG: COP, COPD M3, CYM|DRUG: COP, COPADM8, CYVE
Gene Differential Expression Profiling of Burkitt Lymphoma (BL) vs. Non-BL in the US and Other Selected Geographic Regions of the World, Gene expression levels in BL vs. non-BL will be analyzed through approximately 22,000 probesets on the Affymetrix U133A GeneChip by using two-factor analysis of variance model for each gene., 1 year after the participant is enrolled|Catalog and Estimate Frequencies of Copy Number Variations in Childhood Lymphomas, The prevalence of CNVs between different subtypes of childhood lymphomas and geographic regions will be reported and compared with exact chi-square or Fisher's test. The CNVs are derived from Affymetrix SNP arrays., 1 year after the participant is enrolled|Integrated Analysis of CNVs and Gene Expressions in the US and Other Selected Geographic Regions of the World, The association between the identified CNVs and gene expressions in the study cohort will be examined by using general linear models, and multiple tests will be considered. Gene expressions are measured by Affymetrix U133A arrays and CNVs are derived from Affymetrix SNP arrays., 1 year after the participant is enrolled|Pattern and Frequency of XLP Gene Mutations Presenting With B-cell Lymphomas in the United States and Selected Geographic Regions, Frequency of XLP mutation among boys will be calculated in each geographical region as well as in all regions pooled. The frequency is reported here as the number of boys with XLP gene mutations found in B-cell lymphomas boys., 1 year after the participant enrollment|Frequency of EBV Protein Expression (e.g., EBNA 3) in EBV-positive Lymphomas, Frequency of EBV-positive BL will be calculated for each geographical region., 1 year after the participant is enrolled
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) will be estimated among eligible patients treated at SJCRH by the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Up to 5 years after completion of therapy|Event-free Survival, Event-free survival (EFS) will be estimated among eligible patients treated at SJCRH by the Kaplan-Meier estimator. The events will include: (1) death while in continuous CR, (2) relapse, (3) secondary malignancy, and (4) failure to achieve complete response (CR)., Up to 5 years after completion of therapy|Complete Response Rate, Complete response rate will be estimated with exact 95% CI based on the binomial distribution, and it will be reported as the percentage of patients who reached complete remission among eligible patients treated at SJCRH, Up to 5 years after completion of therapy
1. This study will perform analysis of newly diagnosed mature B-cell lymphomas (e.g. Burkitt lymphoma/leukemia, DLBCL, and MLBCL) obtained from participants in different parts of the world.
2. This study will describe the types and frequency of mutations in the ARF-HDM2-TP53 pathway, in B-cell lymphomas in the United States and that found in selected geographic regions of the world.
3. This study will describe the expression of ARF-HDM2-TP53 and PUMA-associated pathways in B-cell lymphomas in the United States and that found in B-cell lymphomas of other selected geographic regions of the world.
4. This study will describe the pattern and frequency of XLP gene mutations presenting with B-cell lymphomas in the United States and selected geographic regions.
5. This study will describe the frequency of EBV-positive B-cell lymphomas in the United States and selected geographic regions of the world: and will describe the pattern of EBV protein and gene expression (e.g., EBNA 3) in EBV-positive lymphomas and the study will compare patterns of EBV protein and gene expression with clinical, laboratory and outcome data.

Exploratory Aims:

To estimate the complete response rate, event-free survival, and overall survival rates in patients with Burkitt lymphoma (BL), Burkitt leukemia/B-cell acute leukemia (B-ALL) and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) treated with a stage-adapted regimen based on the St. Jude B-cell II protocol.