Diagnostic Classifier for Cutaneous T-cell Lymphomas
Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a form of skin cancer that is derived from immune cells. The most common form of CTCL is mycosis fungoides (MF). While initially confined to the skin, MF may spread to lymph nodes, blood or inner organs, resulting in an overall poor prognosis for the patient. Thus, being a potentially lethal disease, an early and correct diagnosis of MF has very important implications for the patient. However, diagnosis of early MF is often difficult, as it usually shows a close resemblance to benign inflammatory conditions such as eczema and psoriasis. Strikingly, it takes an average of 3-6 (!) years from the appearance of the first skin lesions until a diagnosis of MF can be made. For this reason, a test to distinguishing early MF from benign inflammatory conditions is urgently mandated. By using skin suction blister fluid as well as skin biopsies from patients with MF, eczema and psoriasis, the investigators want to develop a classifier system that can distinguish early MF from benign inflammatory skin diseases.
CTCL/ Mycosis Fungoides
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Skin suction blistering and skin biopsies
Proteomic signature of MF in comparison to eczema, psoriasis, and healthy control skin, Proteomic multiplex assay, At baseline
Primary cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCL) are a form of skin cancer that is derived from immune cells. The most common form of CTCL is mycosis fungoides (MF). While initially confined to the skin, MF may spread to lymph nodes, blood or inner organs, resulting in an overall poor prognosis for the patient. Thus, being a potentially lethal disease, an early and correct diagnosis of MF has very important implications for the patient. However, diagnosis of early MF is often difficult, as it usually shows a close resemblance to benign inflammatory conditions such as eczema and psoriasis. Strikingly, it takes an average of 3-6 (!) years from the appearance of the first skin lesions until a diagnosis of MF can be made. For this reason, a test to distinguishing early MF from benign inflammatory conditions is urgently mandated. By using skin suction blister fluid as well as skin biopsies from patients with MF, eczema and psoriasis, the investigators want to develop a classifier system that can distinguish early MF from benign inflammatory skin diseases.