Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) With Hyperpolarized Pyruvate (13C) as Diagnostic Tool in Advanced Prostate Cancer
This is a prospective imaging study evaluating the utility of baseline metabolic MR imaging as a diagnostic and response monitoring tool in patients with advanced prostate cancer. Preliminary pre-clinical and clinical data demonstrates the ability of HP C-13 pyruvate/metabolic MR imaging to detect high-grade prostate cancer, including cancer with neuroendocrine differentiation, as well as provide early evidence of metabolic response and resistance following application of systemic therapies for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer patients. In the proposed study, the investigators aim is to extend the initial clinical results and further develop HP C-13 MRI as an imaging modality in advanced prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Advanced Prostate Carcinoma
DRUG: Hyperpolarized C13|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Pyruvate to lactate (kPL) metabolic flux within target lesion (Cohort A), The metabolic flux of kPL within the target lesion will be determined for each participant enrolled in Cohort A. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the kPL measurements with the mean, standard deviation, and 95% confidence interval, 1 day|Pyruvate to glutamate (kPG) metabolic flux within target lesion (Cohort A)., The metabolic flux of kPG within the target lesion will be determined for each participant enrolled in Cohort A. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the kPG measurements with the mean, standard deviation, and 95% confidence interval, 1 day|Mean percent change from baseline in intra-tumoral kPL within target lesion after treatment. (Cohort B), The mean percent change from baseline in intra-tumoral kPL to repeat metabolic MRI obtained at the time of radiographic disease progression by PCWG3 criteria will be descriptively reported for the entire study cohort and for the subgroups of participants with treatment- refractory and treatment-responsive prostate cancer. A paired t-test or signed rank Wilcoxon test will be used to compare follow up versus baseline kPL in target lesion in participants enrolled in Cohort B., Up to 8 weeks|Mean percent change from baseline in intra-tumoral kPG within target lesion after treatment., The mean percent change from baseline in intra-tumoral kPG to repeat metabolic MRI obtained at the time of radiographic disease progression by PCWG3 criteria will be descriptively reported for the entire study cohort and for the subgroups of participants with treatment- refractory and treatment-responsive prostate cancer. A paired t-test or signed rank Wilcoxon test will be used to compare follow up versus baseline kPG in target lesion in participants enrolled in Cohort B., Up to 8 weeks
Intra-tumoral range of kPL measurement within target lesion, The mean, standard deviation, and range for intra-tumoral kPG within metastatic lesions will be descriptively reported, to asses for intra-tumoral heterogeneity., Up to 1 year|Intra-tumoral range of kPG measurement within target lesion, The mean, standard deviation, and range for intra-tumoral kPG within metastatic lesions will be descriptively reported, to asses for intra-tumoral heterogeneity., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the kPL (metabolic flux from hyperpolarized \[HP\] \[1-13C\]pyruvate to \[1-13C\]lactate) and kPG (metabolic flux from HP \[2-13C\]pyruvate to \[5-13C\]glutamate) within target lesion. (Cohort A) II. To determine the mean percent change from baseline in intra-tumoral kPL and kPG within target lesion. (Cohort B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To descriptively report on the intra-tumor heterogeneity in kPL and kPG measurement within target lesion. (Cohorts A and B)

EXPLORATORY (CORRELATIVE) OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the change from baseline in kPL and kPG is associated with subsequent clinical outcomes on treatment including prostate specific antigen (PSA) response rate and radiographic progression-survival by Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) criteria. (Cohort B) II. In target lesions that are measurable by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, to determine whether baseline and/or change from baseline in intratumoral kPL and kPG is associated with subsequent objective response by RECIST criteria. (Cohort B) III. To determine the mean percent change from baseline in peak intra- tumoral HP lactate (lac)/pyruvate (pyr) and glutamate (glu)/pyr ratios on repeat metabolic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) obtained at the time of radiographic disease progression by PCWG3 criteria. (Cohort B) IV. To investigate for association between HP kPL and kPG as well as area under the curve (AUC) lac/pyr and glu/pyr ratios with tissue- based markers of elevated lactate and glutamate metabolism including MYC and Lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) and Pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) protein expression. (In participants who undergo optional tumor biopsy \[Cohort A or B\]) V. To investigate for an association between HP kPL and kPG as well as area under the curve (AUC) lac/pyr and glu/pyr ratios with histologic evidence of small cell/neuroendocrine differentiation. (In participants who undergo optional tumor biopsy (Cohort A or B))

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT A (SINGLE TIME-POINT): Patients receive C-1 labeled hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate intravenously (IV) over less than 1 minute then undergo magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (MRSI) over less than 5 minutes. Patients may also receive an optional C-2 labeled hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV and undergo MRSI within 15-60 minutes following completion of the first scan.

COHORT B (MULTIPLE TIME-POINT): Patients receive C-1 labeled hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV over less than 1 minute then undergo MRSI over less than 5 minutes. Patients may also receive an optional C-2 labeled hyperpolarized carbon C 13 pyruvate IV and undergo MRSI within 15-60 minutes following completion of the first scan at baseline and 12 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.