NY-ESO-1 TCR-T Cells for NY-ESO-1 Positive Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
New York Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma 1 (NY-ESO-1) is a cancer-testis antigen (CTA) which is expressed in various tumors. In TCR-T therapy, researchers take the blood of a certain patient, select T cells and insert genes into the cell that expressing a kind of protein that targeting NY-ESO-1. The genetically engineered cells are called NY-ESO-1 TCR-T cells. Then the engineered cells are re-infused to the cancer patients to cure the disease or prolong life.
Advanced Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: TC-N201 cells|DRUG: IL-2|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Dose Limiting Toxicity or Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as patients with the adverse event (AE) or laboratory abnormality, and should be possibly related to TC-N201 cell therapy, and should be unrelated to the disease itself, disease progression, concomitant diseases or concomitant medication. MTD is defined as the highest dose at which ≤1 of 6 patients experienced a DLT or the highest dose level studied if DLTs are not observed at any of the dose levels., Day 28 after the first TC-N201 infusion|Overall response rate, The efficacy of TC-N201 will be assessed by the objective response rate (ORR) evaluated according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST. ORR is described as patients assessed with partial response (PR) and complete response (CR)., Day 0 - Day 730|Treatment-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute general terminology standard for adverse events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0, The type, incidence and severity of adverse events include abnormal laboratory examination results with clinical significance after treatment, abnormal physical examination and blood examination results, bone marrow examination results, etc. Clinical and laboratory adverse events will be classified according to the CTCAE v5.0., Day 0 - Day 730
Duration of response, The efficacy of TC-N201 will be assessed by duration of response (DOR). DOR refers to the length of time from the first appearance of a treatment response to the first occurrence of progressive disease or recurrence., Day 0 - Day 730|Progression free survival, The efficacy of TC-N201 will be assessed by progression free survival (PFS). PFS refers to the time from treatment to progressive disease or death for any reason., Day 0 - Day 730|Overall survival, The efficacy of TC-N201 will be assessed by overall survival (OS). OS refers to the time from treatment to death., Day 0 - Day 730|Maximum Persistence (Cmax) of TC-N201, Blood samples were collected to measure persistence of infused TC-N201 using polymerase chain reaction of a vector specific sequence in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) extracted from peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC)., Day 0 - Day 730|Time to Maximum Persistence, Blood samples were collected to measure persistence of infused TC-N201 using polymerase chain reaction of a vector specific sequence in DNA extracted from PBMC., Day 0 - Day 730|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Zero to Day 28 (AUC [0-28]), Blood samples were collected to measure persistence of infused TC-N201 using polymerase chain reaction of a vector specific sequence in DNA extracted from PBMC., Day 28 after the first TC-N201 infusion|Anti-PD-1 single chain antibody concentration, The pharmacodynamics of TC-N201 will be assessed by anti-PD-1 scFv., Day 0 - Day 730
This is a single-center, open-label, Phase I clinical study of TCR-T cells for the treatment of the recurrent/metastatic solid tumors patients who had failed standard therapy.

Objective:

To evaluate the safety and efficacy of TCR-T cells for the treatment of advanced solid tumors.

Eligibility:

Adults aging 18-70 with advanced solid tumors

Design:

Patients will undergo screening tests, including imaging procedures, heart and lung tests, and lab tests.

Patients will have leukapheresis. Blood will be removed through a needle in the arm. A machine separates the white blood cells. The rest of the blood is returned through a needle in the other arm.

Engineered T cells will be re-infused into the patient. Patients will stay in hospital and be evaluated