Investigation of Profile-related Evidence Determining Individualized Cancer Therapy for Patients With Aggressive Malignancies and Poor Prognoses
This is a prospective, open-label navigational investigation designed to evaluate the feasibility of using molecular profile-based evidence to determine individualized cancer therapy for patients with aggressive malignancies. This is a non-randomized, histology-agnostic trial. Although there will be a case mix of histologies, the investigators now know that individual histologies are composed of a heterogeneous mix of molecular alterations. It is not clear whether one case mix is better or worse than another. Thus, the investigators are testing a strategy of molecular matching that may apply across different cancers.
Cancer
DRUG: Targeted agent|DRUG: Standard of care agent
Matched treatment, The number of subjects who receive matched treatment based on multiomic profiling analysis and MTB recommendations., 8 months
Actionable alterations, The number of subjects who have a genetic test result that can be matched with appropriate treatment that can target their specific mutation., 8 months|MTB recommended treatment, The number of subjects who receive the MTB recommended treatment., 8 months
Eligible and consented patients, if not already performed, will have their tumor tissues/blood molecularly profiled. Patients will be stratified into Group 1 (treatment naïve, localized/unresectable/medically unfit for surgery), Group 2 (treatment naïve, metastatic), and Group 3 (prior treated). Based on multiomic profiling, matched therapy, if available, will be recommended by the Molecular Tumor Board. Patients who receive the recommended matched therapy are designated to Arm A. Otherwise, those that receive the unmatched therapy (i.e., treating physician's choice of therapy) or have no molecular alterations are designated to Arm B. The study feasibility will be measured by the ability to enroll patients, the acceptable turnaround time and the actionable information obtained from multiomic profiling, and the viability of identifying and delivering the matched therapy.