Pharmacokinetic Profile of T-ChOS™ in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors (CHITIN)
This is a single center phase 1 trial, which evaluates the pharmacokinetic profile of T-ChOS™ (food supplement Benecta™) in subjects with advanced solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: T-ChOS
Pharmacokinetic parameters will be assessed for T-ChOS, • time to reach maximum plasma concentration (tmax), Approximately up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters will be assessed for T-ChOS, • area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to the last measurable time point (AUC0-t), Approximately up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters will be assessed for T-ChOS, • area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity (AUC), Approximately up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters will be assessed for T-ChOS, • apparent plasma clearance following oral administration (CL/F), Approximately up to 12 months|Pharmacokinetic parameters will be assessed for T-ChOS, • terminal half-life (t½), Approximately up to 12 months
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Safety and tolerability of the treatment regimens assessed by a summary of adverse events and clinical laboratory assessments., Approximately up to 18 months.|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR = complete response + partial response, according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately up to 18 months.|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR = complete response + partial response + stable disease, according to RECIST 1.1, Approximately up to 18 months.
Serum YKL-40, Serum YKL-40 during and following 4 weeks of treatment with T-ChOS, Approximately up to 18 months.|Serum CRP, Serum CRP during and following 4 weeks of treatment with T-ChOS, Approximately up to 18 months.
YKL-40 (also named chitinase 3 like-1 protein, CHI3L1), is a member of the mammalian chitinase like proteins and is a highly conserved glycoprotein. YKL-40 is produced by cancer cells and macrophages and promotes cancer progression by activating inflammation and inhibiting tumor angiogenesis. Thus, YKL-40 could be a new therapeutic target for patients with cancer.

T-ChOS™ is a technical name for a food supplement product that is marketed in Iceland under the name Benecta™. T-ChOS is manufactured using shellfish derived chitin as a raw material and is produced by Genis in Iceland. It is a blend of chitooligosaccharides that are hetero-complexes of N-acetyl-glucosamine and D-glucosamine. T-ChOS chitooligosaccharides have been specially selected to have high bioactivity in inflammatory models and strong binding affinity to YKL-40. Chitooligosaccharide induced blockade of YKL-40 signalling pathways may represents a promising approach. Pharmacokinetic profile of the T-ChOS in patients with advanced solid malignancies is not available.

Safety and tolerability data will be collected to expand the safety/tolerability database for patients with advanced solid malignancies treated with oral T-ChOS. Patients will be allowed to receive T-ChOS on a continuous basis and therefore have the possibility to gain clinical benefit, if any. Safety and tolerability data collected after pharmacokinetic part of the study will be also added to the safety database for patients with advanced solid malignancies treated with oral T-ChOS.