Pentoxifylline Treatment in Acute Pancreatitis (AP)
The purpose of this study was to determine the effects (good and bad) of giving a drug called pentoxifylline to patients with acute pancreatitis.
Acute Pancreatitis (AP)|Gallstone Pancreatitis|Alcoholic Pancreatitis|Trauma Acute Pancreatitis|Hypertriglyceridemia Acute Pancreatitis|Idiopathic (Unknown) Acute Pancreatitis|Medication Induced Acute Pancreatitis|Cancer Acute Pancreatitis|Miscellaneous (i.e. Acute on Chronic Pancreatitis)
DRUG: Pentoxifylline|DRUG: Placebo
Change in C-reactive Protein (C-RP) From Admission Baseline at One Week., C-reactive protein is a substance produced by the liver in response to inflammation. Normal C-RP levels are below 3.0 mg/L.Units: mg/L, Admission (baseline), day 5|Change in Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha (TNF-a) Levels From Admission Baseline at One Week., Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha is a cell signaling protein (cytokine) involved in systemic inflammation and is one of the cytokines that make up the acute phase reaction. TNF is important to the body because it helps regulate the response of the immune system to a foreign object, especially to the present cancerous tumor. It promotes inflammation, produces other cells used in the inflammatory response, and can help cells heal. The normal range is 5 to 27.2 pg/ml.Units: pg/ml, Admission (baseline), day 5|Change in Interleukin-6 (IL-6) Levels From Admission Baseline at One Week., Interleukin-6 (IL-6) may be used to help evaluate a person who has a condition associated with inflammation, such as lupus or rheumatoid arthritis, or with infection, such as sepsis. It may also be used in the evaluation of diabetes or cardiovascular disease. IL-6 is a cytokine, a protein produced by immune cells that acts on other cells to help regulate and/or promote an immune response. It also stimulates the production of acute phase reactants, proteins that increase in the blood with conditions that cause inflammation or tissue injury. Circulating IL-6 can be found in the blood of normal individuals in the 1 pg/mL range, with slight elevations during the menstrual cycle, modest elevations in certain cancers (melanoma) (10 pg/mL), and large elevations after surgery (30-430 pg/mL).Units: pg/ml, Admission (baseline), day 5|Change in Interleukin-8 (IL-8) Levels From Admission Baseline at One Week., IL-8 is a chemotactic factor that attracts neutrophils, basophils, and T-cells, but not monocytes. It is also involved in neutrophil activation. It is released from several cell types in response to an inflammatory stimulus. Units: pg/mL, Admission (baseline), day 5
Participants were randomized to either the treatment group (Pentoxifylline medication) or the control group (Placebo).

Participant took a pill orally, starting from the time of admission. Participants received a total of 9 doses over the three days of hospitalization (72 hours).

Research blood draws were done at baseline and on 5 successive days or until the time of discharge, whichever occured earlier. The study gathered clinical follow up information up to 4 months following hospitalization regarding the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis.