Exercising Together During Radiation Treatment
This pilot clinical trial studies how well the Exercising Together program works in helping couples cope with radiation treatment for prostate cancer. Treatments for cancer can cause side effects for the patient, such as fatigue, add stress for the spousal caregiver, and put strain on the marital relationship. The Exercising Together program is designed to promote teamwork and emotional intimacy during exercise, which itself can help manage fatigue and stress for the patient and spouse, and may facilitate communication between partners about day-to-day energy, abilities, and motivation.
Domestic Partnership|Prostate Carcinoma|Spouse
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Survey Administration
Feasibility, Will be determined as the number of couples who enroll out of those approached and the number of couples who opt to participate in Exercising Together versus to participate as controls. Will evaluate using descriptive statistics., Up to 8 weeks post radiation treatment|Physical function, Will be measured by the Physical Performance Battery (PPB), developed for the Established Populations for Epidemiologic Studies of the Elderly study. The PPB consists of three timed tests: 5 repeated chair stands, standing balance, and gait speed over 4 meters. Each test is scored 0 (unable) to 4, based on quartiles of performance, then scores are summed. Higher scores indicate better physical function., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|400m walk Test, The 400m walk test is a self-paced, submaximal exercise test. Participants will be required to move as fast as they can along a 20m course, demarked by two cones, until they have completed 10 laps of the course (400m). The time taken to complete the test will be recorded., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Acceptability, Will be measured by the average attendance at classes over the course of his radiation therapy. This will be calculated as the total number of classes attended divided by the total possible they could attend over the course of radiation therapy. Attendance will be categorized by sessions couples attended together and those where only one partner attends. Will evaluate using descriptive statistics., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Depressive symptoms, Will be measured with the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CES-D) scale. Scores range from 0-60, with higher scores indicating \> depressive symptomology., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Anxiety, Will be measured from the Symptom Checklist - 90 Anxiety Scale (SCL-90 ANX) which includes 10 items representing anxiety symptoms, scored on a 5 point scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely)., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Physical intimacy, Physical intimacy behavior of patient and spouse will be measured using the Physical intimacy behavior scale. Respondents are asked to report the frequency with which they engage in, initiate and avoid each of four affectionate and two sexual behaviors. Three scales assess the frequency, initiation and avoidance of affectionate and sexual behaviors., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Strain, Spouse strain will be measured with the role overload scale, which assesses the extent a spouse's time and energy are exhausted by demands of care for their partner., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Dyadic coping, Two types of dyadic coping will be measured. Active engagement assesses the extent to which the survivor (SVR) and spouse view their partner's active involvement and joint problem-solving. Participants respond to five items using a Likert scale from 1 (never) to 5 (very often). Higher scores indicate higher levels of perceived active engagement. Protective buffering assesses the extent to which the SVR and spouse view their partner's use of hiding concerns and denying worries. Participants respond to six items using a Likert scale from 1 (never) to 5 (very often). Higher scores indicate higher levels of perceived protective buffering., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Exercise outside the exercise intervention, Will measure outside activity with the Modified Godin Leisure-Time Exercise Questionnaire (GLTEQ). This survey, reported in average minutes per week over the past month, will be broken down into four categories: mild effort (minimal effort), moderate exercise (not exhausting), and strenuous exercise (heart beats rapidly), as well as resistance (weight bearing exercise). The questionnaire will be scored three different ways, to better capture different aspects of PA: 1) total activity = vigorous + moderate + mild + resistance 2) physical activity guidelines = moderate + (vigorous x 2) 3) moderate + vigorous., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment|Subjective evaluation of Exercising Together Program, For couples who opt to participate in Exercising Together will also ask them to fill out a survey asking about their experience in the program. They will be asked to rate their overall experience in the exercise classes using a 1 to 10 likert scale with 1 being poor and 10 being exceptional as well as indicate how much they agree or disagree with perceptions of the class., Up to 8 weeks post-radiation treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the feasibility and acceptability of offering the Exercising Together program to couples during the time when men are undergoing an 8 week radiation treatment regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the efficacy of partnered strength training on objective physical function, self-report function, symptoms and intimacy in both the patient and his spouse.

OUTLINE:

All participants complete questionnaires about their health status, physical activity habits and relationship with their spouse/partner and undergo four physical tests at baseline and at the end of the 5-8 week radiation treatment. The questionnaires are then completed one final time 8 weeks following the completion of radiation treatment.

EXERCISING TOGETHER PROGRAM: Participants complete three exercise sessions (approximately 1 hour per session) per week over 5-8 weeks during radiation treatment. Participants also receive a digital video disc (DVD) of a partnered strength training exercise program to continue on their own after radiation is completed.

After completion of the supervised exercise program, participants are followed up at 8 weeks.