Vorinostat in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Melanoma
This phase II trial is studying how well vorinostat works in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable melanoma. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Ciliary Body and Choroid Melanoma, Medium/Large Size|Extraocular Extension Melanoma|Iris Melanoma|Uveal Melanoma|Recurrent Intraocular Melanoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: vorinostat
Objective Response Rate Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST), Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and are assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR+ PR., Up to 5 years
Time to Progression Assessed by RECIST, Up to 5 years|Difference in HP1 and MacroH2A Nuclear Foci Expression Between Progressive Minus Stable Disease Outcomes, Macro H2A and HP1 expression levels were compared through analysis of log fold changes in antibody expression in a multivariate general linear model between progressive disease and stable disease outcomes., Baseline and day 15|Number of Patients With p53 Allelic Variations (72R or 72P), Participants were assessed for p53 allelic variation at baseline, Baseline|Comparison of VEGF Serum Levels to Response to Vorinostat, Blood specimens were collected from participants on Day 1 Cycle 1 prior to treatment (baseline), Day 1 3-4 hours following Vorinostat ingestion, Day 8 and Day 15. VEGF serum concentrations were detected using the Luminex multiplexed assay, where the median fluorescence intensity results were analyzed by a weighted five-parameter logistic method. The values were averaged across all time points per participant., Baseline, Day 1, Day 8 and Day 15
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with metastatic or unresectable melanoma treated with vorinostat.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine time to progression in patients treated with this drug. II. Determine the utility of HP1 and/or macro H2A nuclear foci as biomarkers of response in patients treated with this drug.

III. Correlate the presence of 72R or 72P variant p53 polymorphisms with response and time to progression in patients treated with this drug.

IV. Determine gene expression profiles that may predict response to this drug and gene expression changes that occur after treatment with this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.