The Effects of Circadian Gene on Sleep and Associated Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients Under Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is the evaluation of effect of circadian gene on sleep and other symptoms in breast cancer patients under chemotherapy.
Breast Neoplasms
Changes from Baseline Sleep Impairment at 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Sleep impairment will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion
Changes from Baseline Quality of Life at 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Quality of life will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline Cancer-related Symptoms at 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Cancer-related symptoms will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy.

The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline Fatigue at 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Fatigue will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline Depression at 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Depression will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline Anxiety 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Anxiety will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline PTSD Symptoms 1 Month After Chemotherapy, PTSD symptoms will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion|Changes from Baseline Menopausal Symptoms 1 Month After Chemotherapy, Menopausal symptoms will be evaluated by questionnaires before chemotherapy. The evaluation will be followed 1 month, 3 months after starting chemotherapy. The final evaluation will be done 1 month after completion of the chemotherapy., baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 1 month after chemotherpy completion
In this study, the investigators are going to examine the effect of genetic polymorphism on sleep, anxiety, depression and other cancer-related symptoms in patients with breast cancer who have started chemotherapy after surgery. No intervention was intended and blood sample was taken with other routine laboratory tests.