COVID-19 Prevention and Treatment in Cancer; a Sequential Multiple Assignment Randomised Trial;
A multi-centre Australian trial with four arms aims to evaluate several different immune modulating drugs for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 specifically in the cancer population.

ARM 1 is evaluating the effect of interferon-alpha (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with no COVID-19 infection or no known COVID-19 positive contacts.

ARM 2 is evaluating the effect of interferon-alpha (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with confirmed exposure to COVID-19 virus.

ARM 3 is evaluating the effect of Selinexor (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with moderate COVID-19 infection.

ARM 4 is evaluating the effect of Lenzilumab (vs placebo) on the treatment of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with severe COVID-19 infection.

Participants may become eligible and transition to different arms and treatments if they become exposed to COVID-19 or are hospitalised with an active moderate/severe COVID-19 infection.

It is hoped this research will provide insight into the best practice for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in cancer patients as emerging standard of care measures are not always suitable to this especially vulnerable population.
Cancer|Covid19|Respiratory Viral Infection
DRUG: Interferon alfa|DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Lenzilumab
Incidence of COVID-19 in cancer patients using interferon-alpha as prophylaxis without known positive contact with COVID-19 (COVID-19 confirmed by qPCR from respiratory swab), Incidence of COVID-19 in cancer patients using interferon-alpha as prophylaxis without known positive contact with COVID-19 (COVID-19 confirmed by qPCR from respiratory swab), 3 months from baseline.|incidence of any upper or lower community acquired respiratory viral infection assessed using local standard of care testing, incidence of any upper or lower community acquired respiratory viral infection (define as identification of respiratory viruses such as coronavirus other than SARS-CoV-2, influenza, parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, adenovirus, human metapneumovirus).

assessed using local standard of care testing (e.g. respiratory swabs, saliva and/or blood), 3 months from baseline.|incidence of COVID-19 when Interferon alpha is given as post-exposure prophylaxis with a known positive contact or exposure with COVID-19. COVID-19 confirmed by qPCR from respiratory swab ., incidence of COVID-19 when Interferon alpha is given as post-exposure prophylaxis with a known positive contact or exposure with COVID-19. COVID-19 confirmed by qPCR from respiratory swab ., 28 days from baseline|incidence of any upper or lower community acquired respiratory viral infection assessed using local standard of care testing, incidence of any upper or lower community acquired respiratory viral infection (define as identification of respiratory viruses such as coronavirus other than SARS-CoV-2, influenza, parainfluenza, respiratory syncytial virus, rhinovirus, adenovirus, human metapneumovirus).

Assessed using local standard of care testing (e.g. respiratory swabs, saliva and/or blood), 28 days from baseline|incidence of death and/or need for invasive or non-invasive ventilation. assessed using medical records, composite outcome: incidence of death and/or need for invasive or non-invasive ventilation.

assessed using medical records, 60 days from baseline|time to clinical improvement or discharge from hospital assessed using medical records, time to clinical improvement (defined as a two point reduction in clinical progress ordinal scale) or discharge from hospital, whichever occurs first.

assessed using medical records, 28 days from baseline
ARM 1: Duration of acute respiratory/ILI symptoms in case of confirmed respiratory infection during the study period. Assessed using patient symptom Diary PRO tool, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 1 Duration of acute respiratory/ILI symptoms in case of confirmed respiratory infection during the study period. (composite either COVID-19 or other respiratory viral infection).

assessed using a take-home PRO specifically developed and approved for this study entitled "patient symptom Diary". in combination with any relevant medical records., 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Time to diagnosis of COVID-19 in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period (days). Assessed using patient medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 2 Time to diagnosis of COVID-19 in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period (days). Assessed using patient medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Time to diagnosis of other respiratory viral infection in case of confirmed other respiratory viral infection diagnosed during the study period (days). assessed using patient medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 3. Time to diagnosis of other respiratory viral infection in case of confirmed other respiratory viral infection diagnosed during the study period (days). assessed using patient medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Illness severity in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period using WHO clinical progression scale, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 4 Illness severity in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression scale ranging from 0 (uninfected) to 10 (death), 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Incidence of unplanned all-cause hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 5 Incidence of unplanned all-cause hospital admission during the study period. Composite measure: duration of hospital stay if outcome met. assessed using medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Incidence of unplanned infection-related hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 6 Incidence of unplanned infection-related hospital admission during the study period. Composite measure: duration of hospital stay if outcome met. assessed using medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Incidence of sero-conversion of SARS-CoV-2 at the end of the study period. assessed using qPCR, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 7 Incidence of sero-conversion of SARS-CoV-2 at the end of the study period. assessed using qPCR, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Incidence of death from any cause during the study period. assessed using patient medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 8 Incidence of death from any cause during the study period. assessed using patient medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 1: Incidence of testing for COVID-19 during the study period. assessed using medical records, ARM 1, secondary endpoint 9 Incidence of testing for COVID-19 during the study period. Composite measure: frequency of testing if outcome is met. assessed using medical records, 120 days from baseline|ARM 2 Duration of acute respiratory symptoms in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period. assessed with PRO and medical records., ARM 2: secondary outcome 1. Duration of acute respiratory symptoms in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period (days).

assessed using a take-home PRO specifically developed and approved for this study entitled "patient symptom Diary". in combination with any relevant medical records., 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Time to diagnosis of COVID-19 in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period (days). assessed using medical records, ARM 2: secondary outcome 2. Time to diagnosis of COVID-19 in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period (days). assessed using medical records, 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Illness severity in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period. assessed using WHO clinical progression scale., ARM 2: secondary outcome 3. Illness severity in case of confirmed COVID-19 diagnosed during the study period, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression ordinal scale ranging from 0 (uninfected) to 10 (death), 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Incidence of unplanned all-cause hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records., ARM 2: secondary outcome 4. Incidence of unplanned all-cause hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records., 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Incidence of unplanned infection-related hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records, ARM 2: secondary outcome 5 Incidence of unplanned infection-related hospital admission during the study period. assessed using medical records, 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Incidence of seroconversion of SARS-CoV-2 at the end of the study period. assessed using qPCR., ARM 2: secondary outcome 6 Incidence of seroconversion of SARS-CoV-2 at the end of the study period. assessed using qPCR., 28 days from baseline|ARM 2: Incidence of testing for COVID-19 during the study period assessed using medical records, ARM 2: secondary outcome 7. Incidence of testing for COVID-19 during the study period. Composite measure: frequency of testing if outcome is met. assessed using medical records, 28 days from baseline|ARM 3: Time to clinical improvement assessed using medical records., ARM 3: secondary outcome 1 Time to clinical improvement defined as

1. Resolution of fever - oral temperature \< 38oC for 24 hours without antipyretics AND
2. Respiratory rate \< 20 breaths/minute OR
3. Oxygen saturation \> 94% on room air OR
4. Hospital discharge assessed using medical records, 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: Illness severity of COVID-19, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression ordinal scale, ARM 3: secondary outcome 2. Illness severity of COVID-19, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression ordinal scale ranging from 0 (uninfected) to 10 (death), 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: change to clinical condition assessed with Karnofsky Performance score, ARM 3: secondary outcome 3 change to clinical condition assessed with Karnofsky Performance score, 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: Time to progression to severe COVID-19, defined by WHO ordinal scale, ARM 3: secondary outcome 4. Time to progression to severe COVID-19, defined by WHO ordinal scale, 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: Time to all-cause mortality, ARM 3: secondary outcome 5 Time to all-cause mortality, 60 days from baseline|ARM 3:Duration of hospitalisation assessed using medical records, ARM 3: secondary outcome 6. Duration of hospitalisation. assessed using medical records, at discharge or day 60 whichever is sooner|ARM 3: Duration of COVID-19 symptoms assessed using patient reported symptom diary., ARM 3: secondary outcome 7 Duration of COVID-19 symptoms assessed using a take-home PRO specifically developed and approved for this study entitled "patient symptom Diary". in combination with any relevant medical records., 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: Duration of oxygen supplementation (days). assessed using medical records., ARM 3: secondary outcome 8. Duration of oxygen supplementation (days). assessed using medical records., 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: change in nasopharyngeal SARS-CoV-2 viral load shedding (assessed via qPCR), ARM 3: secondary outcome 9 change in nasopharyngeal SARS-CoV-2 viral load shedding (assessed via qPCR), 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: Safety and tolerability of selinexor using relevant medical records, ARM 3: secondary outcome 10. Safety and tolerability of selinexor defined as listing and documentation of frequency and severity of adverse effects. Outcome assessed using any/all of medical records, patient reported, vital signs, ECG, imaging, other investigative procedure as per standard local practice., 60 days from baseline|ARM 3: incidence of changes in blood results relevant to clinical improvement assessed using medical records, ARM 3: secondary outcome 11. composite outcome: incidence of changes in blood results relevant to clinical improvement.

1. Changes in C-reactive protein (CRP)
2. Changes in ferritin level
3. Changes in lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) level, 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Incidence of all cause death by day 28 and 60, ARM 4: secondary outcome 1 Incidence of all cause death by day 28 and 60 assessed using medical records, day 28 from baseline and day 60 from baseline|ARM 4: Time to all-cause mortality, ARM 4: secondary outcome 2 Time to all-cause mortality assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Illness severity of COVID-19, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression ordinal scale, ARM 4: secondary outcome 3 - composite outcome:

Illness severity of COVID-19, defined as the maximal score on the World Health Organization (WHO)'s clinical progression ordinal scale ranging from 0 (uninfected) to 10 (death)

1. Proportion who have recovered (defined as 0-4)
2. Proportion who had 1 point improvement
3. Proportion who had 2 point improvement, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Incidence of ARDS assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 4 Incidence of ARDS. assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: incidence of HLH. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 5 incidence of HLH. assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Duration of hospitalisation. assessed using hospital medical records., ARM 4: secondary outcome 6 Duration of hospitalisation. assessed using hospital medical records., at discharge or by day 60 whichever is sooner|ARM 4: Proportion discharged from hospital. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 7 Proportion discharged from hospital. assessed using medical records, at discharge|ARM 4: Incidence of mechanical ventilation up to day 28. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 8. Incidence of mechanical ventilation up to day 28. assessed using medical records, any time up day 28 from baseline|ARM 4: Ventilator-free days and proportion who did not receive invasive mechanical ventilation. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 9 composite outcome: Ventilator-free days and proportion who did not receive invasive mechanical ventilation. assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Organ failure free days and proportion who did not develop organ failure. assessed using medical records., ARM 4: secondary outcome 10. composite outcome: Organ failure free days and proportion who did not develop organ failure. assessed using medical records., any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Incidence and duration of ICU admission. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 11 composite outcome: Incidence and duration of ICU admission. assessed using medical records, at discharge or by day 60 from baseline.|ARM 4: incidence and duration of supplemental oxygen use. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 12 composite outcome: incidence and duration of supplemental oxygen use. assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: Time to clinical improvement defined as National Early Warning Score 2 (NEWS2) of <2 maintained for 24 hours., ARM 4: secondary outcome 13. Time to clinical improvement defined as National Early Warning Score 2 (NEWS2) of \<2 maintained for 24 hours.

assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: incidence of non-invasive ventilation. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 14 incidence of non-invasive ventilation. assessed using medical records, any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: number of participants alive and off oxygen at day 60. assessed using medical records., ARM 4: secondary outcome 15. composite outcome: number of participants alive and off oxygen at day 60. assessed using medical records., any time up to 60 days from baseline|ARM 4: proportion of participants who had improved oxygenation for >48 hours. assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 16 proportion of participants who had improved oxygenation for \>48 hours. assessed using medical records, any time up to 28 days from baseline|ARM 4: Incidence of adverse events based on the national cancer institute CTCAE v5. Assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 17 Incidence of adverse events based on the national cancer institute CTCAE v5. Assessed using medical records, any time up to day 28 from baseline.|ARM 4: incidence of SAEs based on NCI CTCAE v5 assessed using medical records, ARM 4: secondary outcome 18 incidence of SAEs based on NCI CTCAE v5 assessed using medical records, any time up to 28 days from baseline.|ARM 4: change in nasopharyngeal SARS-CoV-2 viral load shedding. assessed using qPCR., ARM 4: secondary outcome 19 change in nasopharyngeal SARS-CoV-2 viral load shedding. assessed using qPCR., any time up to day 60 from baseline
A multi-centre Australian trial with four arms aims to evaluate several different immune modulating drugs for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 specifically in the cancer population.

ARM 1 is evaluating the effect of interferon-alpha (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with no COVID-19 infection or no known COVID-19 positive contacts.

ARM 2 is evaluating the effect of interferon-alpha (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with confirmed exposure to COVID-19 virus.

ARM 3 is evaluating the effect of Selinexor (vs placebo) on the incidence of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with moderate COVID-19 infection.

ARM 4 is evaluating the effect of Lenzilumab (vs placebo) on the treatment of COVID-19 infection in cancer patients with severe COVID-19 infection.

Participants may become eligible and transition to different arms and treatments if they become exposed to COVID-19 or are hospitalised with an active moderate/severe COVID-19 infection.

It is hoped this research will provide insight into the best practice for prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in cancer patients as emerging standard of care measures are not always suitable to this especially vulnerable population.