Tinostamustine Conditioning and Autologous Stem Cell
Phase 1

The primary objectives of Phase 1 of this study are to:

* Establish the safety, toxicity, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the tinostamustine conditioning regimen.
* Identify the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of tinostamustine for use in the Phase 2 portion of the study.

The secondary objective of Phase 1 of this study is to:

- Investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of tinostamustine.
Multiple Myeloma in Relapse|Multiple Myeloma Progression|Multiple Myeloma With Failed Remission
DRUG: Tinostamustine|PROCEDURE: Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT)
Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Response Criteria, ORR was defined as the participants with a complete response (CR) or very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR) as determined by IMWG Response Criteria. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target/non target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<) 10 mm; PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter; VGPR was defined as a \>90% reduction in serum IgM levels from baseline., at Day 100 post-autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT)|Phase 1: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), DLT was defined as at least possibly related to tinostamustine based on common terminology criteria for adverse events 4.03 (CTCAE 4.03): (1) delayed engraftment (greater than \[\>\] 30 days after ASCT) where subject has not met criteria for both neutrophil (first of 3 consecutive days with ANC \> 0.5×10\^9/liter \[L\]) and platelet (plt) engraftment (first of 3 consecutive days of plt count \> 20×10\^9/L without plt transfusion in prior 7 days) (2) QTcF \> 500 millisecond (msec) or \> 60 msec increase from baseline with duration of \> 30 minutes or greater than or equal to (\>=) Grade 3 QTcF interval prolongation with ventricular arrhythmia (3) Grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity (4) Grade 3 non-hematologic toxicity related to treatment, except: nausea, emesis, diarrhea, fatigue, dehydration, glucose intolerance, skin rash with treatment, fever (\> 40C for \>= 24 hours), infection, dyspnea, hypoxia, pneumonitis, pain, dysphagia, oral mucositis, anorexia, flu-like or engraftment syndrome, weight., Phase 1: From Day -1 up to 30 Days post-ASCT
Phase 1 and 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) for Participants Treated at the Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), ORR for participants who achieved CR, minimal residual disease negativity (MRD-N), was determined by next generation flow cytometry according to the IMWG Criteria., at Day 100 post ASCT|Phase 1 and 2: Number of Participants With Neutrophil and Platelet Engraftment Failure, Neutrophil engraftment was defined as the first of 3 consecutive days with absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \>0.5 × 10 \^9/L. Platelet engraftment was defined as the first of 3 consecutive days of platelet count \>20 × 10 \^9/L without platelet transfusion in the prior 7 days. Number of participants with neutrophil and platelet engraftment failure was reported., up to 6 months|Phase 1 and 2: Duration of Cytopenia, Duration of cytopenia i.e ANC \<= 0.5×10\^9/L, and platelet count \<= 20×10\^9/L., Up to 6 months|Phase 1 and 2: Number of Participants With Treatment Related Mortality (TRM), Number of participants with treatment related mortality was reported., Up to 6 months|Phase 1 and 2: Number of Participants With Transplant-related Non-hematologic Grade 3 Toxicity, Transplant-related non-hematologic grade 3 toxicity was defined by CTCAE 4.03 stratified by hematopoietic cell transplantation comorbidity index (HCT-CI). HCT-CI is a validated comorbidity index that comprises 17 different categories of organ dysfunction. Positive findings are summated into a total score. The HCT-CI provides information with regard to the overall as well as non-relapse mortality risk a patient is likely to experience after stem cell transplantation (SCT)., Up to 6 months|Phase 1 and 2: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Events (TESAEs), An Adverse Event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. Serious adverse event (SAE) was defined as AE resulting in any of the following outcomes deemed significant for any other reason: death, was life-threatening (participant was at immediate risk of death from event as it occurred), requires in-patient hospitalization (formal admission to a hospital for medical reasons) or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAE was defined as an adverse event that started on or after the first dose of tinostamustine through Day 107, or after the end of the study if thought to be related to study drug., From first dose of tinostamustine up to end of study (up to 6 months)|Phase 1 and 2: Change From Baseline in Hematology Parameters, Hematology parameters assessment included white blood cell (WBC) count and differential (lymphocytes, monocytes, basophils, eosinophils, neutrophils), red blood cell (RBC) count, hematocrit, hemoglobin, and platelet count. Change From baseline in hematology parameters at Day 30 were reported., Baseline (Day -1), Day 30|Phase 1 and 2: Change From Baseline in Clinical Serum Chemistry Tests: Electrolytes, Clinical serum chemistry tests included electrolytes i.e. bicarbonate, calcium, magnesium, chloride, glucose, phosphate, potassium, and sodium. Change from baseline in clinical serum chemistry tests i.e. electrolytes at Day 100 were reported., Baseline (Day -1), Day 100|Phase 1 and 2: Change From Baseline in Clinical Serum Chemistry Tests: Liver Function Parameters, Clinical serum chemistry tests included liver function parameters i.e. Alanine aminotransferase (ALT), Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Aspartate aminotransferase, (AST) and Lactate dehydrogenase. Change from baseline in clinical serum chemistry tests i.e. liver function parameters at Day 100 were reported., Baseline (Day -1), Day 100|Phase 1 and 2: Change From Baseline in Clinical Serum Chemistry Tests: Renal Function Parameters, Clinical serum chemistry tests included renal function parameters i.e. creatinine and bilirubin. Change from baseline in clinical serum chemistry tests i.e. renal function parameters at Day 100 were reported., Baseline (Day -1), Day 100|Phase 1 and 2: Change From Baseline in Clinical Serum Chemistry Tests: Total Protein, Clinical serum chemistry tests included total protein. Change from baseline in clinical serum chemistry tests i.e. total protein at Day 100 were reported., Baseline (Day -1), Day 100|Phase 1 and 2: Time to Reach Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax) of Tinostamustine and Its Metabolites, Tmax was defined as time to reach maximum plasma concentration. Tinostamustine (EDO-S101) and its metabolites included M2-EDO-S101 and M8-EDO-S101., Pre-infusion, 0.50, 0.75, 1, 3, 6, 24, 48 hours post-infusion|Phase 1 and 2: Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Tinostamustine and Its Metabolites, Cmax was defined as maximum observed plasma concentration. Tinostamustine (EDO-S101) and its metabolites included M2-EDO-S101 and M8-EDO-S101., Pre-infusion, 0.50, 0.75, 1, 3, 6, 24, 48 hours post-infusion|Phase 1 and 2: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to the Last Measurable Concentration (AUC0-t) of Tinostamustine and Its Metabolites, AUC0-t was defined as area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last measurable concentration. Tinostamustine (EDO-S101) and its metabolites included M2-EDO-S101 and M8-EDO-S101., Pre-infusion, 0.50, 0.75, 1, 3, 6, 24, 48 hours post-infusion|Phase 1 and 2: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to 12 Hours (AUC0-12h) of Tinostamustine and Its Metabolites, AUC0-12h was defined as area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to 12 hours. Tinostamustine (EDO-S101) and its metabolites included M2-EDO-S101 and M8-EDO-S101., Pre-infusion, 0.50, 0.75, 1, 3, 6 hours post-infusion
Study Design (Methodology):

This is a 2-part, international, multi-center, open-label study of salvage treatment with tinostamustine conditioning followed by ASCT in participants with relapsed/ refractory multiple myeloma (MM). (ASCT is defined as salvage if the participant had already received a prior ASCT and undergoes a second ASCT after evidence of progressive disease \[PD\].) Phase 1 of the study employs a standard 3+3 dose escalation design with the objective of defining the dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the tinostamustine conditioning regimen and defining the MTD and RP2D for use in the Phase 2 portion of the study.

The Safety Review Committee can make a decision to stop dose escalation or explore intermediary doses at any time. The total dose of tinostamustine will be administered on Day -1. Phase 2 of the study employs a 2-step sequential design (Simon, 1989). In Stage 1 of Phase 2, up to 31 participants initially will be enrolled. If lesser than or equal to (\<=) 25 participants of these initial 31 participants experience a response, then no additional participants will be enrolled. However, if greater than (\>) 25 participants in Stage 1 of Phase 2 experience a response, then enrollment in this cohort will continue, with up to 71 participants enrolled. In Phase 2 of the study, all participants will receive tinostamustine at the RP2D administered in Phase 1 according to the same schedule. After provision of written informed consent, participants will be screened for study eligibility within 28 days before Day 1 (the day of ASCT). Participants who have a minimum of 2×106 CD34+ cells/kg cryopreserved and are otherwise determined to be eligible, based on screening assessments, will be enrolled and receive the tinostamustine conditioning regimen. The tinostamustine dose will be administered 24 hours pre-ASCT (i.e., Day -1). On Day 1, ASCs will be administered intravenously (IV) according to standard institutional practice. Participants will receive supportive measures (including growth factor support post-ASCT, antimicrobial prophylaxis, red blood cell and platelet transfusion, and treatment for neutropenic fever) according to standard institutional practice.