Ipilimumab Combined With a Stereotactic Radiosurgery in Melanoma Patients With Brain Metastases
This is a non-controlled, open label, Phase II Study of ipilimumab combined with a Stereotactic Radiosurgery. The study included an induction phase of four IV infusions of Ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks associated with a stereotactic radiosurgery performed 3 days before 2nd ipilimumab administration. A Maintenance phase included Ipilimumab, IV, 10 mg/kg once every 12 weeks, starting at week 24, in the absence of PD, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent or disease progression. The primary objective is the overall survival. The Secondary objectives include safety, ORR, PFS and peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) as a predictive biomarker.
Melanoma|Brain Metastasis
DRUG: IPILIMUMAB|RADIATION: Stereotactic radiosurgery
Overall survival rate, until week 96 or death
All adverse events ≥ Grade 3 according to CTCAE, Version 4.0 criteria,, through study completion, until week 96|Overall response rate in brain, according to immune-related response criteria (ir-RC) and the mWHO criteria of target lesion, until week 96 or death|Global overall response rate, according to immune-related response criteria (ir-RC) and the mWHO criteria of target lesions, until week 96 or death|Disease control rate in brain, according to immune-related response criteria (ir-RC) and the mWHO criteria of target lesions, until week 96 or death|Global disease control rate, according to immune-related response criteria (ir-RC) and the mWHO criteria of target lesions, until week 96 or death|Progression free survival, until week 96 or death
This is a non-controlled, open label, Phase II Study of ipilimumab combined with a Stereotactic Radiosurgery. The study included an induction phase of four IV infusions of Ipilimumab at 10 mg/kg every 3 weeks associated with a stereotactic radiosurgery performed 3 days before 2nd ipilimumab administration. A Maintenance phase included Ipilimumab, IV, 10 mg/kg once every 12 weeks, starting at week 24, in the absence of PD, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent or disease progression. The primary objective is the overall survival. The Secondary objectives include safety, ORR, PFS and peripheral blood absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) as a predictive biomarker.