Regional Versus Systemic Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
Systemic chemotherapy with cytotoxic drug is of limited effectiveness in advanced pancreatic cancer patients. Gemcitabine has been used as the first-line drug for advance pancreatic cancer for over two decades and combinations of gemcitabine with different chemotherapeutic drugs have been investigated to improve the outcomes of pancreatic cancer. However, no substantial improvement in patient survival has been achieved. Locoregional chemotherapy via intra-arterial perfusion or chemoemoblization takes advantage of the increasing local drug concentrations and reducing systemic toxicities. In this study, the investigators hypothesis that artery infusion chemotherapy had a better antitumor effect than systemic chemotherapy. The investigators will analyze and evaluate the effect and safety of an implanted percutaneous left subclavian artery port-catheter drug delivery system for regional chemotherapy of inoperable pancreatic carcinoma.
Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: regional interventional chemotherapy group
overall surviva, 36 months
Clinical Benefit Rate, 12 months|The median progression-free survival PFS, 12 months|Drug Toxicity, The grading standards of the World Health Organization for acute and subacute toxicity of anticancer drugs will be used to grade toxicity., 18 months|surgical complications, Major surgical complications included allergic reaction to the contrast agent, local hematoma, pneumothorax, puncture site bleeding, wound infection, delayed healing or cracking, port-catheter blockage, and necrosis of the tissue surrounding the port-catheter., 18 months
Systemic chemotherapy with cytotoxic drug is of limited effectiveness in advanced pancreatic cancer patients. Gemcitabine has been used as the first-line drug for advance pancreatic cancer for over two decades and combinations of gemcitabine with different chemotherapeutic drugs have been investigated to improve the outcomes of pancreatic cancer. However, no substantial improvement in patient survival has been achieved. Locoregional chemotherapy via intra-arterial perfusion or chemoemoblization takes advantage of the increasing local drug concentrations and reducing systemic toxicities. In this study, the investigators hypothesis that artery infusion chemotherapy had a better antitumor effect than systemic chemotherapy. The investigators will analyze and evaluate the effect and safety of an implanted percutaneous left subclavian artery port-catheter drug delivery system for regional chemotherapy of inoperable pancreatic carcinoma.