Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Advanced Colon Polyps
This randomized phase II clinical trial studies how well MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine works in treating patients with newly diagnosed advanced colon polyps (adenomatous polyps). Adenomatous polyps are growths in the colon that may develop into colorectal cancer over time. Vaccines made from peptides may help the body build an effective immune response to kill polyp cells. MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine may also prevent the recurrence of adenomatous polyps and may prevent the development of colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Adenoma|Colorectal Adenoma With Severe Dysplasia|Colorectal Carcinoma|Colorectal Tubulovillous Adenoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: MUC1 Peptide-Poly-ICLC Vaccine|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Saline
Change in Anti-MUC1 Immunoglobulin G (IgG) Levels as Determined by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), The ratio of the week 12 to week 0 IgG levels will be calculated and compared between the MUC1 vaccine and placebo. The Wilcoxon Rank-Sum test will be used. For all measurements of response (i.e. the primary endpoint), the 95% confidence intervals will also be provided., Week 0 to week 12
Adenoma Recurrence Rate, The secondary endpoint for Part 3 will evaluate the adenoma recurrence rate from surveillance exams. The rate is defined as the percentage of participants with adenoma recurrence., At least one year and up to 3 years|Booster Response, The key secondary endpoint for Part 2 will assess the booster response at week 55 vs. week 52 for the vaccine as compared to placebo. The IgG ratios are summarized according to the following categories : \<1, 1-\<1.5, 1.5-\<2, and \>=2 (1-year response rate)., At week 55|Participant-reported Injection Site Reactions - Redness at the Injection Site, Swelling/Induration, Itching at Site, and Skin Warmth at Site, Participant-reported injection site reaction information is collected by the use of a participant-completed Vaccine Report Card. Participant-reported injection site reactions will be compared between study arms and are summarized below for redness at the injection site, swelling/induration, itching at site, and skin warmth at site., Up to 55 weeks|Participant-reported Injection Site Reactions - Pain at the Injection Site Without Touching, and Tenderness (Pain at the Injection Site With Touch), Participant-reported injection site reaction information is collected by the use of a participant-completed Vaccine Report Card. Participant-reported injection site reactions will be compared between study arms and are summarized below for pain at the injection site without touching, and tenderness (pain at the injection site with touch)., Up to 55 weeks|Number of Patients With at Least a 2-Fold Increase in the IgG Ratio, The frequency and percentage of patients with at least a 2-fold increase in the IgG Ratio will be calculated and compared between the MUC1 vaccine and placebo. The Fisher's exact test will be used., At 12 weeks
Anti-MUC1 Antibody Titer by ELISA, Comparisons between MUC1 and placebo will be performed using a two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test, as appropriate. All categorical variables will be analyzed using chi-square tests or Fisher's exact test., At approximately week 156|Change in Levels of Circulating MDSC in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells by Flow Cytometry, MDSC levels will be correlated with anti-MUC1 antibody levels and adenoma recurrence. Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will be generated to review the continuous biomarker data. In addition, for continuous biomarker values, the actual and percent change in the level of each of the biomarkers from baseline to post-baseline time points will be explored within each arm using Wilcoxon signed rank tests, and paired sample t-tests., Baseline to up to 3 years|Change in MUC1 Expression, Descriptive statistics and simple scatter plots will be generated to review the continuous biomarker data. In addition, for continuous biomarker values, the actual and percent change in the level of each of the biomarkers from baseline to post-baseline time points will be explored within each arm using Wilcoxon signed rank tests, and paired sample t-tests., Baseline to up to 3 years|Establishment of a Biospecimen Repository Archive Including Live Cells, Plasma, and Germline DNA for Future Immunologic and Other Assays, Up to 3 years|Incidence of Adverse Events as Graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the immunogenicity at week 12 of a MUC1 peptide vaccine with adjuvant (MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine) (administered at 0, 2, and 10 weeks) in participants with a history of an advanced adenoma, randomized to receive MUC1 peptide vaccine versus placebo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the ability of the vaccine to elicit a long-term memory response.

II. To compare the adenoma recurrence rate from surveillance exams occurring at least 1 year and up to 3 years after week 0 vaccine administration - MUC1 versus placebo.

III. To compare the adenoma recurrence rates between MUC1 and placebo by excluding the following types of adenomas: participants with adenomas =\< 5 mm; participants with adenomatous tissue which may represent residual adenoma at the site of the previous advanced adenoma; participants with adenomatous tissue detected in the same segment of the bowel as the previous advanced adenoma.

IV. To assess adverse events to the MUC1 peptide vaccine in comparison to placebo during Parts I and II.

V. To assess patient reported injection site reaction events from the Vaccine Report Card.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the anti-MUC1 antibody titer at the time of surveillance colonoscopy for the purpose of evaluating the anti-MUC1 antibody response in relation to adenoma recurrence.

II. To evaluate MUC1 expression on baseline advanced adenomas and on recurrent adenomas detected at surveillance colonoscopy.

III. To evaluate levels of circulating myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSC) in the vaccinated and the placebo group and correlate with anti-MUC1 antibody levels and adenoma recurrence.

IV. To establish a biospecimen repository archive including live cells, plasma, and germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) for future immunologic (e.g. MUC1-specific T cells) and other assays (systems biology approach to detect differences between responders and non-responders), testing not currently accommodated within the budget of this trial.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Participants receive MUC1 peptide-poly-ICLC adjuvant vaccine subcutaneously (SC) in weeks 0, 2 and 10 and a booster injection in week 53.

ARM II: Participants receive saline SC in weeks 0, 2, and 10 and a booster injection in week 53.

After completion of treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years.