Sunitinib Malate (SUO11248) In Subjects W/ Metastatic And/Or Surgically Unresectable Hepatocellular Cancers (HCC)
An open label multi-site phase II clinical trial of dose escalated sunitinib malate given orally once daily on days 1-28 of each 42-day cycle. Treatment will be continued until there is either disease progression or cumulative or acute toxicity which in the opinion of the treating physician compromises the ability of the patient to receive treatment or patient desire to stop treatment.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: Sunitinib Malate
Number of Participants With Partial Response (PR) at Interim Analysis, Partial Response at Interim Analysis. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter (LD). Response was evaluated using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee \[JNCI 92(3):205-216, 2000\]., On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant|Number of Participants With Stable Disease (SD) at Interim Analysis, Stable Disease (SD) Rate at Interim Analysis. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for Partial Response (PR) nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progressive Disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter (LD) since the treatment started. Response and progression were evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee \[JNCI 92(3):205-216, 2000\]., On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant|Number of Participants With Progressive Disease (PD) at Interim Analysis, Progressive Disease Rate. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Response and progression were evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee \[JNCI 92(3):205-216, 2000\]., On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant
Participant Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), Investigators planned to determine the time to tumor progression (TTP) of sunitinib malate in the treatment in unresectable Hepatocellular Cancers (HCC). TTP is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression., On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant|Number of Participants With Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) of sunitinib malate in the treatment in unresectable HCC, On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), The toxicity of sunitinib malate in the treatment in unresectable HCC, On Treatment to Off Study - average of 7 months per participant
An open label multi-site phase II clinical trial of sunitinib malate given orally once daily on days 1-28 of each 42-day cycle. Sunitinib malate will be dispensed as capsules at the beginning of each treatment cycle. The dose may be escalated at the investigator's discretion. Treatment will be continued until there is either disease progression or cumulative or acute toxicity which in the opinion of the treating physician compromises the ability of the patient to receive treatment or patient desire to stop treatment.

A follow up visit will be required before the beginning of every cycle every 6 weeks to assess toxicity and for physical examination. Complete blood count (CBC) and differential, comprehensive metabolic panel (including liver function tests) and alpha-feto protein (when indicated) will be obtained at every scheduled follow up visit.