Study of Pemetrexed in Mesothelioma and Lung Cancer Patients With Fluid Around the Lungs or Abdomen
This study will test the effects of pemetrexed on mesothelioma and non-small cell lung cancer patients with fluid around their lungs or abdomen.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Mesothelioma|Lung Neoplasms
DRUG: pemetrexed
Overview of Adverse Events, Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient who received study drug was considered an adverse event (AE), without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAE): those which occurred or worsened after baseline. An adverse event resulting in any of the following outcomes, or deemed to be significant for any other reason, was considered to be a serious adverse event (SAE): death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; a life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., baseline, up to 18 weeks
Number of Participants With Common Toxicity Criteria - National Cancer Institute Grade 3 and Grade 4 Toxicities, Number of participants with laboratory and non-laboratory toxicities possibly related to study drug, which were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0) for defining and grading specific adverse events. Grades range from 0 (none) to 5 (death). Grade 3 is severe and Grade 4 is life-threatening.

NOS = Not otherwise specified., baseline, up to 18 weeks|Pemetrexed Population Pharmacokinetics (PK): Clearance, Clearance (CL) can be defined as the volume of plasma which is completely cleared of drug (pemetrexed) per unit time. Total body clearance is calculated after intravenous administration of the drug (pemetrexed) and is measured by taking plasma samples at various timepoints and measuring the amount of pemetrexed in the plasma., Cycle 1 and Cycle 2: before the end of infusion (approximately 9.5 minutes), 2 hours, 9-10 hours, 24-48 hours, 480-528 hours (20 to 22 days) after start of pemetrexed infusion|Pemetrexed Population Pharmacokinetics: Volume of Distribution, Volume of distribution is the theoretical size of the compartment necessary to account for total drug amount in the body if it were present throughout the body in the same concentration found in plasma. Volume of distribution is defined as distribution of pemetrexed in the body and is determined by volume of distribution = dose/drug concentration. By knowing dose and measuring concentration of pemetrexed in plasma, volume was calculated. Central volume (V1) was determined by dose/peak serum level of pemetrexed. Peripheral volume (V2) is sum of all tissue spaces outside the central compartment., Cycle 1 and Cycle 2: before the end of infusion (approximately 9.5 minutes), 2 hours, 9-10 hours, 24-48 hours, 480-528 hours (20 to 22 days) after start of pemetrexed infusion|Discontinuations Due to Adverse Events, Adverse events were coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities, Version 11.0., baseline, up to 18 weeks
Overall Tumor Response, Overall tumor response was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST), which defines when cancer patients improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments.

CR (complete response) = disappearance of all target lesions. PR (partial response) = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

PD (progressive disease) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions.

SD (stable disease) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., baseline, up to 18 weeks
This study will test the effects of pemetrexed on mesothelioma and non-small cell lung cancer patients with fluid around their lungs or abdomen.