Tipifarnib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Malignant Melanoma
This phase II trial is studying how well tipifarnib works in treating patients with metastatic malignant melanoma. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: tipifarnib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response rate (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]}, Estimated confidence intervals will be adjusted for the number of stages., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From date of entry onto the trial until documented progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to treatment failure (TTF), Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., From trial entry until a patient ends protocol therapy due to unacceptable toxicity, progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Correlation between RhoC expression levels and response, From baseline to up to 2 years|Change in FTAse levels, From baseline to up to 2 years|Change in the production of IL-2 and IFN-g by T cells, Descriptive statistics will be used to describe the mean and spread of production of IL-2 and IFN-g., From baseline to up to 2 years|Adverse events as assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the clinical response rate in patients with metastatic malignant melanoma treated with R115777 (tipifarnib).

II. To evaluate the safety of R115777 in patients with metastatic melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess RhoC expression in tumor samples pre- and post- therapy with R115777.

II. To evaluate Ftase levels in peripheral blood and tumor samples pre- and post-therapy with R115777.

III. To assess the effect of R115777 treatment on T lymphocyte cytokine production, pre- and post- therapy with R115777.

IV. Estimate time to treatment failure (TTF). Time to treatment failure is defined as time to withdrawal for unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease.

OUTLINE Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 2 courses and for a maximum of 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses beyond CR.

Patients who discontinue therapy due to toxicity or complete response are followed every 3 months for 2 years after study entry. Patients who discontinue therapy due to disease progression are followed every 6 months for 2 years after study entry. Patients with stable or partially responding disease who complete treatment are followed at 2 years after study entry.