TEW-7197 with Paclitaxel for the Treatment of Metastatic Gastric Cancer
This is an open-label, single arm study evaluating the safety and tolerability of TEW-7197 in combination with paclitaxel in metastatic gastric cancer patients.
Metastatic Gastric Cancer
DRUG: TEW-7197
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To define the MTD and determine RP2D, 4 weeks
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0, To evaluate safety profile of TEW-7197 with regards to frequency, type, grade, and seriousness, and causality of treatment-related clinical and laboratory adverse events including, but not limited to, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, serum creatinine, etc., from screening through study completion (up to 28 days after the last dose of TEW-7197), an average of 1 year.|Overall survival, Overall survival (months, median) defined by RECIST 1.1, every 2 cycles (8 weeks) and end-of-treatment (EOT) time point. EOT is defined as within 7 days from the last dose of study medication by the protocol.|Objective response, Objective response rate (%) defined by RECIST 1.1, every 2 cycles (8 weeks) and end-of-treatment (EOT) time point. EOT is defined as within 7 days from the last dose of study medication by the protocol.|pharmacokinetics of TEW-7197, Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of TEW-7197 Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of TEW-7197, At cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
pSMAD as a pharmacodynamic marker, pSMAD in peripheral blood mononuclear cell determined by immunohistochemistry, At baseline and cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)
In the dose escalation step (phase 1b), 3 subjects are registered for each dose step, and the DLT is evaluated by administering the investigational product for 1 cycle (28 days). However, for reasons other than toxicity related to the test drug, the patient was given a combination of Paclitaxel and TEW-7197 (Vactosertib) during the DLT evaluation period during the first cycle of the planned TEW-7197.

If more than 80% of the administered dose of (Vactosertib) is not administered, the patient will be considered unevaluable for DLT and another patient will be enrolled. At the end of one cycle of each cohort, the SMC decides whether to proceed to the next cohort. After completing the DLT evaluation of the final phase 1 cohort, the recommended dose to proceed in the dose expansion phase (Phase 2a) is determined. For subjects who have completed one cycle (DLT evaluation period), administer the investigational drug at the same dose until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs. Tumor imaging (CT or MRI) for tumor evaluation is performed after screening and C1D1. Assessment every 6 weeks (±2 weeks) and at the end of treatment (EOT/DC). As efficacy evaluation items, PFS, OS, ORR, and DCR are evaluated according to RECIST 1.1, and the amount of change in the biomarker is confirmed.

In the dose expansion phase (phase 2a), 50 patients will be enrolled at the dose determined in the dose escalation phase. Tumor imaging (CT or MRI) for tumor evaluation is evaluated every 6 weeks (±2 weeks) after screening and C1D1, and at the end of treatment (EOT/DC). As validity evaluation items, PFS, OS, ORR, and DCR according to RECIST 1.1 are evaluated, and the amount of change in the biomarker is confirmed.