A Study of TTI-622 in Combination With Daratumumab Hyaluronidase-fihj in People With Multiple Myeloma
This study will test the safety of TTI-622 in combination with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj in people with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. The researchers look for the highest dose TTI-622 that causes few or mild side effects in participants when given in combination with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj. Once the researchers find the highest safe dose of each study drug, they will further test the combination TTI-622 + daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj) in new participants to find out if the combinations are effective in treating relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Researchers think that combining TTI-621 or TTI-622 with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj, a standard treatment for multiple myeloma, may be an effective treatment approach.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: TTI-622|DRUG: Daratumumab Hyaluronidase-fihj
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities, Dose limiting toxicities are defined as any of the following treatment emergent adverse events that occur during the 28-day DLT observation period, inclusive of pre-dose testing on C2D1. Adverse events for which a relationship to study treatment cannot be ruled out should be considered possibly related to treatment. Toxicity grading will be adjudicated according to NCI CTCAE version 5., 28-day observation period following C1D1 of therapy
Overall response of TTI-621, measurable disease parameters and International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria, 2 years|Overall response of TTI-622, measurable disease parameters and International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria, 2 years
This study will test the safety of TTI-622 in combination with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj in people with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. The researchers look for the highest dose TTI-622 that causes few or mild side effects in participants when given in combination with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj. Once the researchers find the highest safe dose of each study drug, they will further test the combination TTI-622 + daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj) in new participants to find out if the combinations are effective in treating relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Researchers think that combining TTI-621 or TTI-622 with daratumumab hyaluronidase-fihj, a standard treatment for multiple myeloma, may be an effective treatment approach.