Meloxicam vs Placebo for Mobilization
This research study is evaluating a drug called meloxicam to see if it provides a benefit to people receiving Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation (AHSCT).

The participant is currently scheduled to receive an AHSCT, which is a procedure that removes blood-forming stem cells (cells from which all blood cells develop) from the body. These stem cells are stored and later given back to the participant by a process called apheresis. This is a standard procedure to treat certain blood diseases such as lymphoma and multiple myeloma. However the use of meloxicam with this procedure is considered investigational.

Meloxicam is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) which is given to decrease fever, swelling and pain that may come with inflammation. It has been approved by the FDA for the treatment of arthritis however it has not been approved for use in people receiving AHSCT.

This study will compare the combination of meloxicam with a drug called G-CSF (also called neupogen), to the combination of G-CSF with an agent that has no medicine (placebo). G-CSF is a substance that causes blood stem cells to change or increase in number when given to people undergoing AHSCT. The researchers would like to learn if giving meloxicam in combination with G-CSF to people before they undergo AHSCT will increase the number of stem cells available in the blood to collect and make the collection process easier.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Multiple Myeloma|Hematopoietic Stem Cells
DRUG: GCSF|DRUG: meloxicam|DRUG: Placebo
Numbers of Circulating CD34+ Cells on the First Day of Apheresis, Numbers of circulating CD34+ cells on the first day of apheresis, 3 days after starting treatment (or 9 days for multiple myeloma patients that received cyclophosphamide)|Number of Apheresis Sessions Required to Collect ≥ 4 x 10^6 CD34+ Cells/kg for Multiple Myeloma Patients and ≥ 2 x 10^6 CD34+ Cells/kg for Lymphoma Patients, Up to 6 days after the start of treatment or up to 12 days for multiple myeloma patients that received cyclophosphamide|Time to Neutrophil Engraftment After AHSCT, The median to neutrophil engraftment (absolute neutrophil counts above 0.5/mcl for 3 consecutive days) ., Up to 6 months after transplantation ( up to 66-72 days after the start of treatment)|Time to Platelet Engraftment After AHSCT, The median to platelet engraftment (platelet count above 20,000/mcl for 3 consecutive days), Up to 6 months after transplantation ( up to 66-72 days after the start of treatment)
Number of Patients With Grade 3+ Treatment Related Adverse Events, Adverse events were assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4). Related adverse events were defined as adverse events that were deemed to be possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment., Up to 30 days after the last apheresis session (up to 36 days after the start of treatment or 42 days for multiple myeloma patients that received cyclophosphamide)|Number of Participants That Received Red Blood Cell and Platelet Transfusions Prior to Engraftment, Up to 6 months after transplantation ( up to 66-72 days after the start of treatment)|Number of Patients That Failed to Achieve Stem Cell Mobilization., The number of patients that did not achieve CD34+ count of ≥ 4 x 10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg for multiple myeloma patients or ≥ 2 x 10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg for lymphoma patients., Up to 6 days after the start of treatment or up to 12 days for multiple myeloma patients that received cyclophosphamide
After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate in the research study:

Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the participant will be "randomized" into one of the study groups:

* G-CSF with meloxicam
* G-CSF with placebo (pills with no medicine)

Randomization means that the participants are put into a group by chance. It is like flipping a coin. Neither the participant nor the research doctor will choose what group the participant will be in. The participant will have an equal chance of being placed in any group.

- Study Drug (meloxicam or placebo): If the participant takes part in this research study, the participant will be given a study drug-dosing diary. The study drug will come as a pill that the participant will take by mouth daily for 5 days, starting 6 days (Day -6) before the participant is scheduled to undergo the first apheresis procedure (Day 0) and continuing until 2 days before apheresis (Day -2). The participant will take meloxicam or placebo for a total of 5 days. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the study drug(s).

-G-CSF: All participants receive G-CSF as an injection under the skin (subcutaneous) in the clinic, daily starting 4 days (Day -4) before the first apheresis procedure (Day 0). The participant will continue to receive G-CSF for 3 days after apheresis.

- Apheresis: The participant may receive up to 4 apheresis procedures, depending on how their body reacts to the stem cell mobilization. The participant will receive either meloxicam or placebo in combination with G-CSF on Days -6 to -2 as described above.

Clinical Exams: While the participant is receiving this procedure, the participant will have regular physical exams and they will be asked specific questions about any problems that they might be having. The participant will also have blood tests every day to look at how their bone marrow is recovering, to give possible transfusional support, and how to see how their liver and kidneys are functioning.

Planned Follow-up: The investigators would like to keep track of the participant's medical condition for the rest of their life. The investigators would like keep track of the participant's medical condition for 6 months after the study to see how they are doing.