Durvalumab (MEDI4736) and Tremelimumab for Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Patients Listed for a Liver Transplant
Immunotherapy can safely downstage patients and achieve durable systemic disease control to improve clinical outcomes in HCC patients undergoing liver transplant.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Cirrhosis|Portal Hypertension
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|PROCEDURE: Liver Transplant
Cellular rejection rates, To assess the safety of immunotherapy for treatment of HCC in patients listed for a liver transplant, with respect to cellular rejection rates, Up to 30 days post transplant
Adverse events during treatment, and graft loss and mortality rates, To assess the safety of immunotherapy for treatment of HCC in patients listed for a liver transplant, with respect to adverse events during treatment, and graft loss and mortality rates up to 30 days after transplant;, Treatment, and up to 30 days post transplant|Radiologic responses via RECIST 1.1 and/or mRECIST, To assess the efficacy of immunotherapy for treatment of HCC in patients listed for a liver transplant, with respect to radiologic responses, Survival follow up will continue for 5 years after end of Treatment|Pathologic responses via explanted liver assessment, To assess the efficacy of immunotherapy for treatment of HCC in patients listed for a liver transplant, with respect to Pathologic responses, Survival follow up will continue for 5 years after end of Treatment|Recurrence-free survival and overall survival outcomes based on survival follow up reporting, To assess the efficacy of immunotherapy for treatment of HCC in patients listed for a liver transplant, with respect to Survival outcomes, Survival follow up will continue for 5 years after end of Treatment
ESR-20-21010 is a single-arm, open-label, Phase II, multicenter clinical trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of durvalumab and tremelimumab for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients who have cirrhosis or portal hypertension and are evaluated by institutional Liver Transplant team and deemed eligible for transplant.

The key eligibility requirements include HCC, Child-Pugh score of up to 7, and ECOG PS of 0 or 1.

Patients will be treated with the immunotherapy combination for up to 4 months. After a minimum 28 day washout, they will undergo locoregional therapy per institutional standards. Eventually, after a minimum 72-day washout from the end of immunotherapy, they will undergo liver transplant.

The primary endpoint is proportion of patients experiencing post-transplant rejection (within 30 days of transplant). A total of 30 patients are to be enrolled, to allow at least 20 transplants for adequate primary endpoint analysis. An interim analysis after 10 patients will be performed to ensure safety. If there are untoward safety signals, study modification/discontinuation will be discussed.