Ramucirumab Plus Irinotecan for Previously Treated Advanced Gastric or Gastro-esophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
The investigators hypothesize that this combination regimen of irinotecan plus ramucirumab administered as second line treatment will be tolerated and lead to improved outcomes similar to paclitaxel plus ramucirumab in patients with advanced gastric and gastro-esophageal junction (GEJ) cancers. This study proposes a phase II clinical trial with irinotecan plus ramucirumab for treatment of patients with metastatic gastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma who have progressed after first line chemotherapy. To the knowledge of the investigators, this regimen has not been previously administered to this patient population, so safety and tolerability will be monitored and reported.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastro-esophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Ramucirumab|GENETIC: Blood for angiome profiling|GENETIC: Blood for cfDNA
Progression-free Survival (PFS), -PFS will be measured from date of study entry to first radiographic progression or death due to any cause. Radiographic progressive disease (PD) will be defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1 (RECIST v1.1). For those who are alive and do not experience progression, the investigators will censor them at the time of loss to follow-up or at 30 months from the study entry, whichever comes first., Up to 30 months from completion of treatment (up to 36 months)
Overall Survival (OS), -OS time will be measured from date of study entry to date of death from any cause. For those who are alive, the investigators will censor them at the time of loss to follow-up or at 30 months from the date of treatment discontinuation, whichever comes first., Up to 30 months from completion of treatment (estimated to be 36 months)|Time to Progressive Disease (TTP), -TTP is defined as the time from study entry until date of radiographic PD using RECIST v1.1 criteria. For those who are alive and do not experience progression, the investigators will censor them at the time of loss to follow-up or at 30 months from the study entry, whichever comes first. For those who are dead before progression, the investigators will consider death as the competing risk. If the number of death are very small, the investigators will censor them at time of death., Up to 30 months from completion of treatment (estimated to be 36 months)|Best Overall Response (BOR), -BOR is defined as the best response across all time points from randomization until radiologically confirmed PD using RECIST, v1.1 criteria. Complete response defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions. Partial response defined as having a ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions. Progressive disease defined as having a ≥20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions and ≥5 mm increase above nadir. Stable disease defined as small changes that did not meet above criteria., Up to end of treatment (estimated to be 6 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), -ORR defined as confirmed complete response + confirmed partial response. Complete response defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions. Partial response defined as having a ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions., Up to end of treatment (estimated to be 6 months)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), -CBR defined as percentage of combined participants who have achieved confirmed complete response, confirmed partial response, and stable disease. Complete response defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions. Partial response defined as having a ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions. Stable disease defined as small changes that did not meet above criteria nor the criteria for progressive disease., Up to end of treatment (estimated to be 6 months)|Toxicity and Tolerability of Regimen as Measured by the Count of the Worst Grade of Adverse Event Experienced by Each Participant, -The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., Up to 30 days following completion of treatment (median length of follow-up 131.5 days, full range 15-687 days)
The investigators hypothesize that this combination regimen of irinotecan plus ramucirumab administered as second line treatment will be tolerated and lead to improved outcomes similar to paclitaxel plus ramucirumab in patients with advanced gastric and gastro-esophageal junction (GEJ) cancers. This study proposes a phase II clinical trial with irinotecan plus ramucirumab for treatment of patients with metastatic gastric and GEJ adenocarcinoma who have progressed after first line chemotherapy. To the knowledge of the investigators, this regimen has not been previously administered to this patient population, so safety and tolerability will be monitored and reported.