DeStress for Health: Partnering With Granville and Vance Counties to Reduce Stress and Cancer Risk (Part 2)
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether a positive psychology intervention paired with a health behavior intervention is successful in decreasing perceived stress and increasing positive affect in residents of Vance and Granville County.The program will consist of 4 in person / zoom sessions that are based on empirically supported PPWB components including Optimism, Gratitude, Mindfulness and Positive Savoring to improve behavioral self-regulation towards health-related goals with an additional class five as a check in that will be used for survey completion. Specifically, principal investigator will provide participants with instruction on positive psychology exercises that can do on their own and counseling around increased fruit and vegetable intake, physical activity and smoking cessation. Participants will then be asked to create a SMART goal to work on each week of the program for one of the behaviors. Research staff will conduct surveys with participants at baseline and at end of program. Feasibility and acceptability measures of the intervention will be collected at the end of the program. Research team will also collect informal feedback from participants at the end of each of the class sessions. Classes will be delivered in person and broadcasted via zoom via a password protected zoom link. Participant who choose to remain remote and participate via Zoom will be mailed binders of study materials with information on who to call if participants have questions. Participants who attend live events will receive their materials in person. Pre- and post-intervention surveys will be sent to participants via email. This is Part 2 of study (NCT03776890)
Stress Reduction
BEHAVIORAL: DeStress for Health Program Participants
Number of Participants Recruited in a 6-Month Time-frame, Measured via subject enrollment log, 6 months|Percentage of Participants That Stay in Study for Duration, Measured via subject enrollment log, 2 months|Percentage of Participants That Attend All Intervention Sessions, Measured via subject enrollment log, 2 months|Percent of Participants Rating Intervention as Useful, Measured on a scale from 1-5 with 1 being "Not Useful at All" and 5 being "Extremely Useful"., 2 months|Percent of Participants Recommending Intervention to Friend, Measured on a scale from 1-5 with 1 being "Not at All" and 5 being "Extremely"., 2 months
Change in Stress Self Regulation As Measured By a Survey, qualitative scale I agree a lot I agree a little I neither agree nor disagree I disagree a little I disagree a lot, 2 months|Change in Positive Emotion As Measured by a Survey, qualitative scale I agree a lot I agree a little I neither agree nor disagree I disagree a little I disagree a lot, 2 months|Change in Behavioral Self Regulation As Measured by a Survey, qualitative scale I agree a lot I agree a little I neither agree nor disagree I disagree a little I disagree a lot, 2 months
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether a positive psychology intervention paired with a health behavior intervention is successful in decreasing perceived stress and increasing positive affect in residents of Vance and Granville County.The program will consist of 4 in person / zoom sessions that are based on empirically supported PPWB components including Optimism, Gratitude, Mindfulness and Positive Savoring to improve behavioral self-regulation towards health-related goals with an additional class five as a check in that will be used for survey completion. Specifically, principal investigator will provide participants with instruction on positive psychology exercises that can do on their own and counseling around increased fruit and vegetable intake, physical activity and smoking cessation. Participants will then be asked to create a SMART goal to work on each week of the program for one of the behaviors. Research staff will conduct surveys with participants at baseline and at end of program. Feasibility and acceptability measures of the intervention will be collected at the end of the program. Research team will also collect informal feedback from participants at the end of each of the class sessions. Classes will be delivered in person and broadcasted via zoom via a password protected zoom link. Participant who choose to remain remote and participate via Zoom will be mailed binders of study materials with information on who to call if participants have questions. Participants who attend live events will receive their materials in person. Pre- and post-intervention surveys will be sent to participants via email. This is Part 2 of study (NCT03776890)