A Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Ex Vivo Expanded Autologous Immune Killer Cells (IKC) in Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) in Patients Who Failed Chemotherapy or Target Therapy
In this study, whole blood is drawn from the patient to be used to grow Immune Killer Cells (IKC). After proliferation, the IKC will be infused back into the patient to treat the cancer for a total of 24 weekly treatments.

Possible adverse reaction can include slight fever and headache.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Stage IV
BIOLOGICAL: Immune Killer Cells (IKC)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The length of time during and after the treatment of a disease, that a patient lives with the disease but it does not get worse, 6 months
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety], Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) according to National Cancer Institute Criteria for Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03 (NCI CTCAE v4.03) will be recorded and evaluated for their relationship to the treatment, 7 months|Quality of Life (QOL), The assessment will be performed using The World Heath Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire (WHOQOL)

This questionnaire produces a quality of life profile. It is possible to derive four domain scores. The four domain scores denote an individual's perception of quality of life in each particular domain (1. Physical health 2. Psychological 3. Social relationships 4. Enviromental) Domain scores are scaled in a positive direction (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life).

The mean score of items within each domain is used to calculate the domain score (min: 0 max: 100)

Domain scores are then calculated (divide domain score by 4) to produce a final QOL Score (i.e. higher scores denote higher quality of life min: 0 max:100)., 8 months
In this study, whole blood is drawn from the patient to be used to grow Immune Killer Cells (IKC). After proliferation, the IKC will be infused back into the patient to treat the cancer for a total of 24 weekly treatments.

Possible adverse reaction can include slight fever and headache.