The Reproducibility Of Diffusion Weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging For Neuroendocrine Tumor Liver Metastases
Imaging with CT (Computed Tomography) or MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) is normally used to see how tumors respond to treatment. If tumors shrink after therapy, doctors continue with the same treatment. On the other hand, growing tumors in a patient can bring about a change in therapy. Unfortunately, it often takes three to six months, or even longer before the investigators see tumors shrink or grow on scans. Doctors are looking for new imaging tools that can look at how tumors respond early on during treatment. This study will help us decide if such an MRI technology called DWI (Diffusion Weighted Imaging) can be used as a helpful imaging tool.
Gastro-enteropancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor|Secondary Malignant Neoplasm of Liver
OTHER: magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
reproducibility of diffusion weighted imaging for neuroendocrine liver metastases., The investigators will calculate an ADC value for each metastasis that was chosen through consensus by the two participating radiologists. ADC is a voxel-level measurement so summary measures will be employed in order to get a single measurement for the ROI of each metastasis under study. For both the clinical and research MRI, the investigators will take the voxel-level data and calculate the mean, median, and minimum ADC within each ROI., 2 years
evaluate the repeatability of perfusion insensitive diffusion coefficients ADC high of liver metastases, A similar application of the CCC will be employed to assess both intra-observer and interobserver variability separately for ADC high as in the primary aim. The repeatability and reproducibility of the ADC high will then be compared to the most repeatable and reproducible ADC measures identified in Aim 1 by ranking the CCC values and selecting the measure with the highest value., 2 years|evaluate the reproducibility perfusion insensitive diffusion coefficients (ADC high) of liver metastases, A similar application of the CCC will be employed to assess both intra-observer and interobserver variability separately for ADC high as in the primary aim. The repeatability and reproducibility of the ADC high will then be compared to the most repeatable and reproducible ADC measures identified in Aim 1 by ranking the CCC values and selecting the measure with the highest value., 2 years
Imaging with CT (Computed Tomography) or MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) is normally used to see how tumors respond to treatment. If tumors shrink after therapy, doctors continue with the same treatment. On the other hand, growing tumors in a patient can bring about a change in therapy. Unfortunately, it often takes three to six months, or even longer before the investigators see tumors shrink or grow on scans. Doctors are looking for new imaging tools that can look at how tumors respond early on during treatment. This study will help us decide if such an MRI technology called DWI (Diffusion Weighted Imaging) can be used as a helpful imaging tool.