Psychosocial Support for African-American, Latina-American, or European-American Cervical Cancer Survivors
RATIONALE: Telephone counseling may help reduce depression and anxiety and improve the well-being and quality of life of cervical cancer survivors.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well psychosocial support works in African-American, Latina-American, or European-American cervical cancer survivors.
Cancer Survivor|Cervical Cancer|Psychosocial Effects of Cancer and Its Treatment
BEHAVIORAL: telephone-based intervention|OTHER: counseling intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: study of socioeconomic and demographic variables|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care
Utility of a psychosocial intervention in educating and improving awareness of the physical and psychological impact of cancer and in increasing knowledge about appropriate medical and psychosocial resources for cervical cancer survivors, 12 months after study initiation|Utility of a psychosocial intervention in improving psychological functioning (i.e., decreasing depression and anxiety) among cervical cancer survivors, 12 months after study initiation|Utility of a psychosocial intervention in improving social functioning (i.e., family support and communication) among cervical cancer survivors, 12 months after study initiation
OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the utility of the 6 telephone sessions (low intensity: LiTx) and 8 telephone sessions (high intensity: HiTx) plus Survivorship Booklet designed to educate and improve awareness of the physical and psychological impact of cancer and increase knowledge of appropriate medical and psychosocial resources for women with cervical cancer. II. To evaluate the utility of the telephone sessions (LiTx and HiTx) designed to improve psychological functioning (decrease depression and anxiety) of women with cervical cancer. III. To evaluate the utility of the telephone sessions (LiTx and HiTx) designed to improve social functioning (family support and communication).

OUTLINE: Patients are clinically assigned to 1 of 2 groups. GROUP I: Patients receive a survivorship booklet in the mail that contains information about cervical cancer. Patients then receive a follow-up telephone call at 3 months to clarify any issues relevant to the survivorship booklet. GROUP II: Patients are randomly assigned to receive either 6 or 8 weekly telephone sessions that address managing medical issues, health education, and cancer resources; balancing emotions and managing stress; coping skills and problem solving; family and social concerns; relational, intimacy, and sexual concerns; and financial and employment concerns. Patients also receive a survivorship booklet as in group I.