A Retrospective Analysis of Spinal Anaesthesia for TURBT Procedures in Elderly Patients
The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of spinal anesthesia among elderly patients The basic methods for diagnosis and management of bladder cancer include endoscopic procedures (cystoscopy, trans-urethral resection of bladder tumour TURBT). The age of most patients is above 60, which increases the risk of complications during the perioperative period. Usually the leading anaesthesia method in TURBT procedures is regional, mainly spinal, anaesthesia. Although the prevalence of regional upon general anaesthesia is questioned, certain positive aspects of regional anaesthesia are indisputable. Maintaining logical communication with a patient during the procedure enables early diagnosis of complications (TUR syndrome, bladder perforation). Undeniably, regional anaesthesia ensures the best pain management in the early post-operative period. The simplicity of performing an efficacious spinal block and its cost-effectiveness are additional factors, which have contributed to the acknowledgement of the method as the standard of anaesthesia for transurethral procedures.
Spinal Anaesthesia|Bladder Tumor|Transurethral Resection
The effectiveness of spinal anaesthesia for TURBT evaluated by a number of participants that had the procedure done, without the need of conversion to general anaesthesia ., The investigator evaluates whether the procedure could be completely performed under spinal anesthesia, 6 months
The influence of the bupivacaine spinal dose on bradycardia evaluated by a heart rate measurements, The investigator evaluates the bupivacaine doses, heart rate and the need to give atropine, 6 months|The influence of the bupivacaine dose on hypotension evaluated by the non-invasive blood pressure measurements, The investigator evaluates the bupivacaine doses, blood pressure and the need to give ephedrine, 6 months|Experienced and non-experienced anesthetist does it influence the bupivacaine dose, The investigator evaluates the doses of bupivacaine spinal given by specialist, young and advanced trainee., 6 months|Experienced and non-experienced anesthetist does it influence the spinal anaesthesia success, The investigator evaluates the success rate of spinal anaesthesia given by specialist, young and advanced trainee., 6 months
The aim of the study was to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of spinal anesthesia among elderly patients The basic methods for diagnosis and management of bladder cancer include endoscopic procedures (cystoscopy, trans-urethral resection of bladder tumour TURBT). The age of most patients is above 60, which increases the risk of complications during the perioperative period. Usually the leading anaesthesia method in TURBT procedures is regional, mainly spinal, anaesthesia. Although the prevalence of regional upon general anaesthesia is questioned, certain positive aspects of regional anaesthesia are indisputable. Maintaining logical communication with a patient during the procedure enables early diagnosis of complications (TUR syndrome, bladder perforation). Undeniably, regional anaesthesia ensures the best pain management in the early post-operative period. The simplicity of performing an efficacious spinal block and its cost-effectiveness are additional factors, which have contributed to the acknowledgement of the method as the standard of anaesthesia for transurethral procedures.