Exploring an Alternative Pre-operative SLN Mapping Method Using a Magnetic Tracer and MRI for Melanoma Patients
Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is crucial in the management of malignant melanoma treatment and is currently performed by pre-operatively inject a colloid nanomaterial labeled with Technetium (99mTc) as radioactive tracer. Intra-operatively, Patent Blue (PB) will be injected to improve the visualization of the lymphatic tract. However, current pre-operative SLN mapping technique is associated with disadvantages as radiation exposure for both patients and health care staff and logistic challenges, because of time constraints due to short half-live time of 99mTc.

Superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) is a non-radioactive technique using a magnetic tracer (Magtrace® (Endomagnetics Ltd.)) to identify SLNs. Several studies showed that SPIO is non-inferior to dual tracing with 99mTc and PB in breast cancer patients. SPIO is expected to be non-inferior to dual tracing with 99mTc and PB in melanoma patients. However, further research is needed to demonstrate the use of SPIO in pre-operative MRI scanning.

The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of pre-operative MRI scanning using SPIO compared to lymphoscintigraphy (LS) and single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) using 99mTc for identifying SLN status in melanoma patients.
Melanoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Diagnostic Test: Sentinel node mapping using MRI
The diagnostic accuracy of SPIO/MRI and LS+SPECT/CT and 99mTc to identify SLN, The diagnostic accuracy of SPIO/MRI and LS+SPECT/CT and 99mTc to identify SLN will be expressed as sensitivity and specificity, and positive and negative predictive values, including their 95% exact binomial confidence intervals. MRI image analyses will be performed by two independent professionals., Before surgery (MRI scanning and scintigraphy)
The diagnostic accuracy of SPIO/magnetometer and PB, 99mTc and Gamma probe, The diagnostic accuracy of SPIO/magnetometer and PB, 99mTc and Gamma probe will be expressed as sensitivity and specificity, and positive and negative predictive values, including their 95% exact binomial confidence intervals ., During SLNB (surgery)|Comparison between 99mTc injection + LS + SPECT/CT time vs SPIO injection + MRI, Time/duration of 99mTc injection + LS + SPECT/CT and time/duration of SPIO injection + MRI will be compared, During SLNB (surgery)|Number of post-injection (skin) reactions, complication and adverse events, Descriptive only, At 10-14 days and at 3 months after the procedure
Rationale: Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is crucial in the management of malignant melanoma treatment and is currently performed by pre-operatively inject a colloid nanomaterial labeled with Technetium (99mTc) as radioactive tracer. Intra-operatively, Patent Blue (PB) will be injected to improve the visualization of the lymphatic tract. However, current pre-operative SLN mapping technique is associated with disadvantages as radiation exposure for both patients and health care staff and logistic challenges, because of time constraints due to short half-live time of 99mTc.

Superparamagnetic iron oxide (SPIO) is a non-radioactive technique using a magnetic tracer (Magtrace® (Endomagnetics Ltd.)) to identify SLNs. Several studies showed that SPIO is non-inferior to dual tracing with 99mTc and PB in breast cancer patients. SPIO is expected to be non-inferior to dual tracing with 99mTc and PB in melanoma patients. However, further research is needed to demonstrate the use of SPIO in pre-operative MRI scanning.

Objective: The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of pre-operative MRI scanning using SPIO compared to lymphoscintigraphy (LS) and single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) using 99mTc for identifying SLN status in melanoma patients. A secondary objective is to assess the feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of SPIO/magnetometer (Sentimag®, Endomagnetics Ltd.) in comparison with dual trace gold standard (99mTc and PB) in SLN procedures in melanoma patients.

Study design: A prospective single-arm feasibility study will be performed at the department of Surgical oncology at Zuyderland Medical Center Sittard, the Netherlands.

Study population: Adult patients (≥18 years) with primary melanoma stage I-II and an indication for wide local excision (1 cm) and SLN procedure will be included in the study.

Intervention (if applicable): All patients will undergo lymphatic mapping with a SPIO tracer (Magtrace®), 99mTc and PB.

Main study parameters/endpoints: The concordance in SLN detection rate (sensitivity and specificity) of SPIO/MRI and LS and SPECT/CT using 99mTc.

The concordance in SLN detection rate (sensitivity and specificity) of SPIO/magnetometer and the gold standard dual trace technique using 99mTc/Gamma probe and PB. Additionally, the number of post-injection (skin) reactions, complication and adverse events will be noted.