Arterial Chemoembolization for the Treatment of Desmoid Fibromatosis
Desmoid fibromatoses are rare (1-2 cases/million per year) and locally aggressive mesenchymal tumors. For asymptomatic disease, current guidelines suggest an initial period of active surveillance.

The current scientific evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of the treatment of desmoid fibromatosis by arterial embolization is constituted by several retrospective and prospective studies. Embolization of desmoid tumors alone, without chemotherapy, on the contrary, has been shown to be inefficient. Using Doxorubicin in desmoid fibromatosis is effective but associated with systemic toxicity. Consequently, this drug is reserved for symptomatic, nonresponsive, rapidly growing or life-threatening tumors. The intrinsic hypervascularity of desmoid tissue can be exploited as a conduit to achieve local distribution of Doxorubicin by navigation of a catheter endovascular.
Desmoid
PROCEDURE: Chemoembolization with Doxorubicin
Volume reduction in cm, Reduction of the lesion evaluated with MRI, measuring the diameter of the lesion in cm., 1 year|Reduction of pain (VAS score), Clinical assessment regarding pain by Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) score (0-100 mm), in which 0 represents no pain, and 100 represents maximum pain imaginable., 1 year|Reduction of antalgic therapy (mg), Mean reduction in the use of pain medications evaluated in mg of active ingredient taken daily before the treatment and at follow-up., 1 year
Improvement in quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL questionnaire), Clinical assessment regarding quality of life by EORTC QLQ-C15-PAL questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of several scales, covering different aspects related to palliation. The maximum and minimum scores for each scale of the questionnaire can range from 0 to 100. The interpretation of scores depends on the specific scale in the questionnaire, and a higher value may indicate either greater negative impact (e.g., more symptoms or more suffering) or greater positive impact (e.g., better quality of life or less symptomatology). The overall assessment requires a detailed analysis of individual scores and related scales., 1 year|Improvement in quality of life (EORTC QLQ - BM22), Clinical assessment regarding quality of life by EORTC QLQ - BM22 questionnaire. The questionnaire consists of several scales, covering different aspects related to palliation. The maximum and minimum scores for each scale of the questionnaire can range from 0 to 100. The interpretation of scores depends on the specific scale in the questionnaire, and a higher value may indicate either greater negative impact (e.g., more symptoms or more suffering) or greater positive impact (e.g., better quality of life or less symptomatology). The overall assessment requires a detailed analysis of individual scores and related scales., 1 year
Desmoid fibromatoses are rare (1-2 cases/million per year) and locally aggressive, characterized histologically by monoclonal myoblasts present in abundant stromal tissue.The current therapeutic strategy has abandoned primary resection, as recurrences after resection are common and often their phenotype is more infiltrative. Nonsurgical approaches remain suboptimal. For asymptomatic disease, current guidelines suggest an initial period of active surveillance.

The current scientific evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of the treatment of desmoid fibromatosis by arterial embolization is constituted by several retrospective and prospective studies. These studies report promising results through the use of chemoembolization, that is, arterial embolization using particles loaded with chemotherapy. Embolization of desmoid tumors alone, without chemotherapy, on the contrary, has been shown to be inefficient. Doxorubicin is routinely used in the treatment of soft tissue sarcomas and other mesenchymal malignancies. Its use against desmoid fibromatosis is effective but associated with hematologic, gastrointestinal, and cardiac toxicity. Consequently, this drug is reserved for symptomatic, nonresponsive, rapidly growing or life-threatening tumors. The intrinsic hypervascularity of desmoid tissue can be exploited as a conduit to achieve local distribution of Doxorubicin by navigation of a catheter endovascular. Doxorubicin contains a protonated amine group which can establish an ionic bond with the sulfonate present on the surface of microbeads of hydrogel, ensuring embolization and elution of the drug. This process allows high concentrations of Doxorubicin in the target tissue and low concentrations in the systemic circulation.