Rituximab, Temozolomide, and Methylprednisolone in Treating Patients With Recurrent Primary CNS Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide and methylprednisolone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Rituximab may help chemotherapy kill more cancer cells by making cancer cells more sensitive to the drugs. Giving rituximab together with temozolomide and methylprednisolone may be an effective treatment for primary CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving rituximab together with temozolomide and methylprednisolone works in treating patients with recurrent primary CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: methylprednisolone|DRUG: temozolomide
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response rate of the combination of Rituximab and TMZ, 2 months
Number of Participants Alive at 3 Years, The intent was to measure Median Overall Survival at 3 years, however only one participant was analyzable at this time point. Therefore, the number of participants who survived is reported instead., 3 years|1 Year Overall Survival Rate, 1 year|6-month Progression-free Survival, Scan at 6 months

Complete response: Complete disappearance of all tumor on MRI scan, off all glucocorticoids with stable or improving neurological exam minimum of 4 wks

Partial response: Greater than or equal 50% reduction in tumor size on MRI, on sable or decreasing glucocorticoids with stable or improving neurological exam for a minimum of 4 wks.

Progressive disease: Progressive neurological abnormalities not explained by other causes or greater than 25% increase in size of tumor or if new lesion.

Stable disease: Clinical status and MRI does not qualify for complete response, partial response or progression, 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the response rate in patients with recurrent primary CNS non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with rituximab, temozolomide, and methylprednisolone.

Secondary

* Determine the overall and 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: Induction therapy: Patients receive rituximab IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral temozolomide daily on days 1-7 and 15-21. After day 28, patients with stable disease or better proceed to consolidation therapy.

Consolidation therapy: Patients receive oral temozolomide daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses. Patients achieving a complete remission proceed to maintenance therapy.

Maintenance therapy: Patients receive methylprednisolone IV over 2 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study within approximately 13.3 months.