Telenursing and Breast Cancer: The Turkish Case
This study aims to determine the effectiveness of telenursing services on chemotherapy symptoms and comfort levels in patients with breast cancer in Turkey.
Breast Cancer Female
BEHAVIORAL: Telenursing and Counseling
Edmonton Symptom Assessment System, This tool is designed to assist in the assessment of symptoms common in cancer patients: pain,fatique, nausea, sadness, anxiety, insomnia, anorexia, wellbeing and shortness of breath, change in skin-nails, mucositis and numbness in hands. The patient circles the most appropriate number to indicate where the symptom is between "0" and "10". "0" is the minimum value, which means there is no change and it is a better outcome for the patient. "10" is the maximum value, means that the symptom level is the highest, which is a worse outcome for the patient., 10 minutes
General Comfort Questionnaire, It is used to evaluate the situation of achieving the expected comfort increase result with nursing interventions that provide comfort. The scale, which is a four-point likert type, has a total of 48 items, 24 items are positive and 24 items are negative.

The lowest value that can be taken is 1 which indicates low comfort and this is a worse outcome. The highest value 4 indicates high comfort, which is a better outcome. The response patterns of the scale, which consists of positive and negative items, are given in mixed form. Accordingly, from positive statements; high score (4p) indicates high comfort, low score (1p) indicates low comfort, while negative items indicate low comfort (1p), high score (4p) low comfort., 10 minutes
This study aims to determine the effectiveness of telenursing services on chemotherapy symptoms and comfort levels in patients with breast cancer in Turkey. The study employs an experimental research methodology with a sample of 96 ambulatory patients (48 experimental, 48 control) who were receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer for the first time in a state hospital. Research data were collected by using "Patient Information Form", "Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale", "General Comfort Questionnaire, "Symptoms Follow-up Form", and "Telephone Call Form". The experimental group received telenursing service every week until the end of the four-cycle chemotherapy treatment, which started one week after the first treatment. The control group did not receive any intervention. Investigators analyzed data with SPSS 15.0 (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) with comparative statistical methods of MannWhitney U Test, Chi-Square Test, One Way Analysis of Variance in Repeated Measurements, and Pearson Correlation.