Pembrolizumab Plus Lenvatinib in Combination With Belzutifan in Solid Tumors (MK-6482-016)
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of belzutifan in combination with pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in multiple solid tumors including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), colorectal cancer (CRC), pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), biliary tract cancer (BTC), endometrial cancer (EC),and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). There is no formal hypothesis testing in this study.
Neoplasm Malignant
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Belzutifan|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Arm 1: Number of Participants Who Experience at Least One Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Occurrence of any of the following will be considered a DLT if possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment administration: Grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity; Grade 4 hematologic toxicity lasting \>7 days; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia-any duration; Grade 3 thrombocytopenia if associated with clinically significant hemorrhage; Febrile neutropenia Grade 3 or Grade 4; Grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity lasting \>5 days despite optimal supportive care; Grade 3 hypertension not controlled by antihypertensive medication(s); Grade 3 or Grade 4 nonhematologic laboratory abnormality (if medical intervention is required, or leads to hospitalization, or persists for \>1 week) ; Elevated bilirubin if persists \>4 weeks (for HCC and BTC participants only); Designated alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) liver test abnormalities; Treatment-related toxicity resulting in participant discontinuation of study intervention during the DLT window; Grade 5 toxicity., Up to approximately 21 days|Arm 1: Number of Participants Who Experience at Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who experience one or more AEs will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|Arm 1: Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented separately for the safety lead-in phase (up to 21 days) and the main study., Up to approximately 67 months|Confirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. The percentage of participants who experience CR or PR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months
Duration of Response (DOR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. DOR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have a CR, PR, or Stable Disease (SD). Per RECIST 1.1, CR = disappearance of all target lesions, PR = ≥30% decrease in the sum of product diameters (SPD) of target lesions, compared to baseline SPD, and SD = neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. The best overall response of CR, PR, or SD after ≥ 6 weeks will be assessed per RECIST 1.1 by BICR., Up to approximately 67 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, PFS is defined as the time from first day of study intervention to the first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by RECIST 1.1. PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. PFS as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the first day of study intervention to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 67 months|ORR Per Modified Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (mRECIST 1.1) for Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) as Assessed by BICR, ORR, per mRECIST 1.1, is defined as the percentage of participants with CR (disappearance of any intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable \[contrast enhancement in the arterial phase\] target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed by BICR. For participants with HCC, mRECIST1.1 allows assessment of treatment-related tumor necrosis and assessment of viable tumor by assessment with arterial phase imaging. ORR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|DOR Per mRECIST 1.1 for HCC as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions) per mRECIST 1.1, DOR is defined as time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death. Per mRECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters (SOD) of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. The mRECIST 1.1 this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. For participants with HCC, mRECIST1.1 allows assessment of treatment-related tumor necrosis and assessment of viable tumor by assessment with arterial phase imaging. DOR as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|DCR Per mRECIST 1.1 for HCC as Assessed by BICR, DCR is defined, per mRECIST 1.1, as the percentage of participants who have a CR (Disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) or Stable Disease (SD, Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD \[At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD\]). For participants with HCC, mRECIST1.1 allows assessment of treatment-related tumor necrosis and assessment of viable tumor by assessment with arterial phase imaging. The best overall response of CR, PR, or SD after ≥ 6 weeks per mRECIST 1.1 for HCC will be assessed by BICR., Up to approximately 67 months|PFS Per mRECIST 1.1 for HCC as Assessed by BICR, PFS, per mRECIST 1.1, is defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to the first documented PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by mRECIST1.1 to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. Per mRECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. For participants with HCC, mRECIST1.1 allows assessment of treatment-related tumor necrosis and assessment of viable tumor by assessment with arterial phase imaging. PFS as assessed by BICR will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|Arm 2: Number of Participants Who Experience an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who experience an AE after administration of pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months|Arm 2: Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment of pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib after an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 67 months
Effective as of Amendment 3 (26 Mar 2025), enrollment of participants with ESCC will be closed.