CATCH-R: A Rollover Study to Provide Continued Access to Rucaparib
This protocol is designed to provide participants currently benefiting from rucaparib treatment in a Clovis-sponsored clinical study with continued access to treatment for as long as they continue to benefit. Participants in long-term follow-up (LTFU) in a parent study may also enroll in this study for continued data collection, as applicable based on parent study objectives.
Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer|Other Solid Tumor
DRUG: Rucaparib
Number of Participants Experiencing SAEs and AESIs, An SAE was any untoward medical occurrence that occurred at any dose, or after informed consent was given and prior to dosing if the SAE was related to a study procedure, that: resulted in death; was life-threatening; required in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; resulted in a congenital anomaly or birth defect; or was an important medical event that may not have resulted in death, was not life-threatening, or did not require hospitalization but may be considered an SAE, based on appropriate medical judgment. An AESI was defined as any AE of scientific and medical concern specific to the sponsor's product or program, for which ongoing monitoring and rapid communication by the investigator to the sponsor can be appropriate. A summary of all SAEs regardless of causality is located in the 'Reported Adverse Events' Section., From first dose of rucaparib through 28 days after receiving last dose of rucaparib (approximately 20 months)
Participants enrolled in this study are required to have completed an End-of-Treatment (EOT) Visit with associated assessments as specified in the Clovis-sponsored parent study (NCT01891344; NCT01968213; NCT02855944). Participants who are no longer receiving treatment and are in LTFU in the parent study (NCT02855944) may enroll into the LTFU portion of this study, as applicable based on parent study objectives, without repeating the EOT visit.

The starting dose of rucaparib administered at initiation of this study will be the same as the last dose received in the parent study, or as deemed appropriate by the investigator and based on available dose strength tablets. The first treatment in the rollover study will begin at the next scheduled treatment visit following the EOT Visit in the parent study.

Participants enrolled to receive continued rucaparib may be treated until disease progression, as assessed by the investigator, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, death, loss to follow-up, or study closure by the sponsor. If a participant demonstrates disease progression per investigator assessment while receiving treatment with rucaparib but continues to derive clinical benefit, then continuation of treatment beyond progression is permitted based on investigator decision and participant consent. If a participant continues treatment post-progression, all study assessments should be continued per institutional standard of care. The participant should be discontinued from treatment once it is clear that no further clinical benefit can be achieved.