Robotic Colonoscopy Using the Triton 4.0 System in Adults for Screening, Surveillance, and Diagnosis of Lower Gastrointestinal Conditions
This study is a prospective, single-arm, non-randomized, single site first-in-human study and will be conducted in two phases, where Phase A will serve to evaluate the safety of the Triton 4.0 System to perform screening, surveillance and diagnostic colonoscopies, and Phase B will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Triton 4.0 System to perform screening, surveillance and diagnostic colonoscopies.
Colonoscopy|Colorectal Cancer Screening|Colorectal Neoplasms|Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Diagnostic Colonoscopy
Safety Endpoint - Incidence of Major Adverse Events Within 48 Hours, Absence of Major Adverse Events (MAEs) within 48 hours of the procedure. MAEs are defined as any of the following:

1. Device-related death within 48 hours
2. Perforation within 48 hours
3. Intraprocedural bleeding preventing completion of the procedure
4. Delayed bleeding within 48 hours accompanied by pre-defined symptoms and confirmed by a hemoglobin drop of \>2 g, leading to admission to the hospital, prolongation of hospital stay, or another procedure requiring sedation/anesthesia.

Unit of Measure: Number of participants with at least one Major Adverse Event, 48 hours|Efficacy Endpoint - Successful Completion of Colonoscopy, Completion of colonoscopy defined by both: (a) successful cecal intubation (clinically acceptable access and visualization of the cecum), and (b) successful withdrawal (clinically acceptable diagnostic and therapeutic access of the entire colon tract)., During procedure
Time to Cecum, Time from scope insertion to successful cecal intubation. Unit of Measure: Minutes, During procedure|Need for Repositioning, Number of times a participant was repositioned to facilitate scope advancement. Unit of Measure: Number of repositioning events, During procedure|Polypectomy Success, If applicable, indicates whether at least one polyp was successfully removed using standard polypectomy tools during the procedure. This outcome is evaluated per participant and applies only to Phase B (robotic procedures).

Unit of Measure: Categorical - Yes / No / Partial (i.e., at least one polyp removed, but not all targeted polyps)., During procedure|NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX), Physician's subjective workload assessment using the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX), a validated tool consisting of six subscales: Mental Demand, Physical Demand, Temporal Demand, Performance, Effort, and Frustration. Each subscale is scored from 0 to 100 in increments of 5. Higher scores indicate greater perceived workload.

Unit of Measure: Composite score (0-100), Post-procedure|Mucosal Injury Score, Mucosal injury graded using a 5-point ordinal scale based on injury severity: 1 = Erythema/ Bruising, 2 = Mucosal break \<5mm in length, 3 = Mucosal break \>5mm in length, 4 = Mucosal Injury (non-full thickness), 5 = Full thickness injury. Outcome is reported per subject. Only applicable to Phase B (robotic procedures).

Unit of Measure: Score (1-5); higher scores indicate more severe injury, During procedure|Delayed Bleeding (14 Days), Number of participants with delayed bleeding within 14 days confirmed by pre-determined symptoms and hemoglobin drop of \>2 g/dL.

Unit of Measure: Number of participants, 14 days|Delayed Perforation (14 Days), Number of participants with delayed perforation identified within 14 days post-procedure.

Unit of Measure: Number of participants, 14 days|Adenoma Detection Rate (ADR), Proportion of participants in whom at least one adenomatous polyp is detected during the robotic colonoscopy procedure. Applicable to Phase B (robotic procedures) only.

Unit of Measure: Percentage of participants with ≥1 adenoma detected, During procedure
This study is a prospective, single-arm, non-randomized, single site first-in-human study and will be conducted in two phases, where Phase A will serve to evaluate the safety of the Triton 4.0 System to perform screening, surveillance and diagnostic colonoscopies, and Phase B will evaluate the safety and efficacy of the Triton 4.0 System to perform screening, surveillance and diagnostic colonoscopies.