A Study on the Effects of Exercise Therapy on Signs of Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out the effects of exercise therapy on indicators of prostate cancer in people with low-risk prostate cancer who are on active surveillance. The exercise therapy in this study will be regular home-based walking sessions on a treadmill, and that therapy will be assigned by an exercise physiologist (a medical professional who studies how exercise affects the human body). Some participants in this study will have the assigned exercise therapy, and some participants will participate in their usual exercise routines. Researchers will compare how the assigned exercise therapy and the usual exercise routines affect indicators of prostate cancer in participants. This study will not provide treatment for prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Localized Prostate Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Therapy
Change in molecular, radiologic, and pathologic nimbosus hallmarks from baseline to follow-up, The phenomenon of multiple independent prognostic features that moderately correlate with one another has been termed Nimbosus, "a gathering of storm clouds". The more Nimbosus hallmarks present in a tumor, the more aggressive it is likely to be, and the greater the chance that it will escape the prostate leading to nodal and distal metastatic spread. Nimbosus hallmarks provides a targetable set of biomarkers to test in a RCT of exercise therapy in localized prostate cancer.

Molecular end points will be evaluated on FFPE tumor samples obtained from a total of two ultrasound-guided transrectal prostate biopsies performed at pretreatment (diagnostic biopsy) and post-intervention around month 6-12 (confirmatory biopsy), as per standard procedures., 6-12 months
The purpose of this study is to find out the effects of exercise therapy on indicators of prostate cancer in people with low-risk prostate cancer who are on active surveillance. The exercise therapy in this study will be regular home-based walking sessions on a treadmill, and that therapy will be assigned by an exercise physiologist (a medical professional who studies how exercise affects the human body). Some participants in this study will have the assigned exercise therapy, and some participants will participate in their usual exercise routines. Researchers will compare how the assigned exercise therapy and the usual exercise routines affect indicators of prostate cancer in participants. This study will not provide treatment for prostate cancer.