Oblimersen Plus Doxorubicin and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of oblimersen when given together with doxorubicin and docetaxel and to see how well they work in treating women with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Oblimersen may increase the effectiveness of doxorubicin and docetaxel by making the tumor cells more sensitive to the drugs.
Male Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: oblimersen sodium|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: docetaxel|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: pegfilgrastim|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Participant With Toxicities, From baseline until the date of first documented toxicity or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed every three weeks up to 2 years and 5 months|Number of Participants With Pathologic Complete Response (pCR), Pathologic complete responses (pCR), defined as no evidence of residual invasive tumor, including no residual tumor in the axillary lymph nodes, measured by microscopic evaluation of tissue specimen at time of definitive surgery (after 6 courses of neoadjuvant therapy). Neoadjuvant (preoperative) therapy administered on the first five days of every 3-week cycle. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee \[JNCI 92(3):205-216, 2000\], At time of definitive surgery (after 6 courses of neoadjuvant therapy in 3 week cycles), approximately 18 weeks
Clinical Imaging Responses, Evaluation target lesions (clinical response) by physical exam/ultrasound measurements of primary tumor and axillary lymph nodes after 3-6 courses: Complete Response: Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response: \>30% decrease in sum longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease: \>20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions, reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or appearance of 1\>new lesions; Stable Disease: Neither sufficient shrinkage for PR nor increase for PD, reference smallest sum LD since treatment started., After 3 and 6 courses of 21 day treatments (up to 18 weeks)|Bcl-2 Expression in Breast Cancer Tissue, Number of participant with Bcl-2 Expression in breast cancer tissue by protein and mRNA expression before treatment and at 3-5 days after oblimersen treatment., before treatment and at 3-5 days after oblimersen treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of G3139, doxorubicin and docetaxel in breast cancer patients receiving G3139/AT therapy. (Phase I) II. To determine the safety of bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide G3139 (GenasenseTM) together with docetaxel plus doxorubicin (AT) in patients with metastatic and locally advanced breast cancer (LABC). (Phase I) III. To determine the therapeutic efficacy of neoadjuvant G3139 in combination with AT chemotherapy in patients with LABC. (Phase II) IV. To further evaluate the safety of bcl-2 antisense oligonucleotide G3139 (GenasenseTM) together with docetaxel plus doxorubicin (AT) in patients with locally advanced breast cancer (LABC). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical and imaging response to neoadjuvant G3139/AT in the breast and the axillary lymph nodes. (Phase II) II. To determine the disease-free survival of breast cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant G3139/AT. (Phase II) III. To further define the pharmacokinetics of G3139/AT. (Phase II) IV. To evaluate the role of Bcl-2 expression as a predictor of response to neoadjuvant G3139/AT therapy. (Phase II) V. To obtain serial breast cancer samples from patients treated with G3139. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-escalation study of oblimersen.

PHASE I (COMPLETED AS OF 8/16/04): Patients receive oblimersen IV continuously on days 1-6 interrupted only to administer doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 6. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 7-13 or pegfilgrastim SC on day 7. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of oblimersen until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients receive doxorubicin, docetaxel, G-CSF or pegfilgrastim, and oblimersen at the MTD as in phase I.

Patients with resectable tumors after 6 courses undergo surgical resection.

Patients are followed every 3-6 months for 5 years.