Safety and Efficacy Study of Catumaxomab to Treat Ovarian Cancer After a Complete Response to Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the investigational drug catumaxomab delivered in the planned treatment schedule is a safe and effective treatment for women with advanced ovarian cancer who experience a complete response to chemotherapy.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: catumaxomab
Number of Participants Who Completed a 4-dose Series of Catumaxomab Infusions (Defined as 10-20-50-150 Micrograms) Within 21 Days, 21 days
Number of Participants With Negative (Undetectable) Humoral Immune Responses to Catumaxomab Therapy, Humoral immune response of participants with functional immune system to catumaxomab can provide important information regarding why a therapy may work for some participants and not for others. An undetectable humoral response by itself does not necessarily imply lack of study drug activity. Humoral response is one of the possible selected measurements of the study drug activity at a time point in the study., 2 months|Number of Participants With no Residual Disease Prior to Catumaxomab Treatment Via 2nd-look Laparoscopy or Laparotomy (These Procedures Are Optional), Baseline|Median Time of Progression-free Survival in Weeks (Post-study for 24 Months), 2 years|Number of Participants Who Survived (Post-study at 24 Month Visit), Number of participants who survived (post-study at 24 month visit) is the number of participants who did not die, 2 years|Number of Participants With no Residual Disease at 3 Months After Catumaxomab Treatment Via 3rd-look Laparoscopy or Laparotomy (These Procedures Are Optional), 3 months
A multi-center, phase II study of catumaxomab in ovarian cancer patients who experience a complete response to chemotherapy. Each eligible patient will receive four ascending doses of catumaxomab, administered intraperitoneally via an indwelling catheter or port. Catumaxomab will be administered as a 3-hour constant rate infusion with a dosing interval of 3-4 days. Each patient will participate in this study for up to 4 months (includes the baseline screening period, 11 to 21 days treatment period, and up to 90 days/3 months follow-up), with post-study follow-up every 3 months for 2 years.

Catumaxomab is a trifunctional antibody targeting epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) on tumor cells and CD3 (cluster of differentiation 3) on T cells. Trifunctional antibodies represent a new concept for targeted anticancer therapy. This new antibody class has the capability to redirect T cells and accessory cells (e.g. macrophages, dendritic cells \[DCs\] and natural killer \[NK\] cells) to the tumor site. According to preclinical data, trifunctional antibodies activate these different immune effector cells, which can trigger a complex anti-tumor immune response.