Tislelizumab Consolidation After Liver-Directed Therapy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The investigators hypothesize that the addition of Tislelizumab after definitive local therapy for locally advanced inoperable Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) will synergize with local therapy as well as treat micro metastatic disease and improve one year progression-free survival rates for participants and optimize local control.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular|Liver Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Tislelizumab
Safety as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events, Number of participants experiencing adverse events grade three or higher, as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (NCI-CTCAE v5.0). Severity is a measure of intensity (eg, grade of a specific AE, mild \[Grade 1\], moderate \[Grade 2\], severe \[Grade 3\], or life-threatening \[Grade 4\]), whereas seriousness is classified by the criteria based on the regulatory definitions. Seriousness serves as the guide for defining regulatory reporting obligations from the Investigator Sponsor to applicable regulatory authorities as described in CTCAE version 5.0., 48 months
Response and progression will be evaluated in this trial using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee (v1.1)., Changes in only the largest diameter (uni dimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions are used in the RECIST criteria.

Measurable Disease:

Tumor lesions: Must be accurately measured in at least 1 dimension (longest diameter in the plane of measurement is to be recorded) with a minimum size of:

* 10 mm by CT scan (irrespective of scanner type) and MRI (no less than double the slice thickness and a minimum of 10 mm)
* 10 mm caliper measurement by clinical exam (when superficial)
* 20 mm by chest X ray (if clearly defined and surrounded by aerated lung) Malignant lymph nodes: To be considered pathologically enlarged and measurable, a lymph node must be ≥ 15 mm in short axis when assessed by CT scan (CT scan slice thickness recommended to be no greater than 5 mm). At baseline and in follow up, only the short axis will be measured and followed., 48 months
Primary Objective:

To determine if consolidation therapy with Tislelizumab following local therapy improves one year progression-free survival in patients with locally advanced, unresectable Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC). Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first administration of Tislelizumab until the criteria for disease progression is met by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST)1.1 or death as a result of any cause, whichever occurs first.

Secondary Objectives:

1. To determine if consolidation therapy with Tislelizumab after definitive therapy improves time to metastatic disease and overall survival (OS) in subjects with localized, inoperable Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
2. To assess objective response rate, disease control rate, duration of response with consolidation therapy with Tislelizumab after local therapy in subjects with localized, inoperable Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
3. To assess the safety profile of Tislelizumab after definitive therapy.
4. To assess biomarker response as measured by Alpha fetoprotein (AFP), should the patient's tumor produce AFP.

Exploratory objectives:

1. To determine the association of the tumor molecular profile from next-generation sequencing (NGS), of the tissue prior to the initiation of therapy with the treatment response.
2. To analyze Circulating tumor DNA (ct DNA) as a biomarker of response to therapy and early detection of disease progression.