A Study to Investigate Safety and Efficacy of Osimertinib and Amivantamab in Participants With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer With Common Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutations
This study will assess the safety and efficacy of Osimertinib with Amivantamab as First-line Treatment in Participants with Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutation-Positive, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Osimertinib|DRUG: Amivantamab
Number of participants with adverse events (AEs), To assess the safety and tolerability of osimertinib plus amivantamab in participants with EGFR mutation-positive, locally advanced, or metastatic NSCLC., From screening (Day-28) to survival follow up (Approximately 52 months after the first participant is dosed)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The time from date of first dose of study intervention until progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at the local site, or death due to any cause. The analysis will include all dosed participants. All events will be included, regardless of whether the participant withdraws from therapy, receives another anti-cancer therapy or clinically progresses prior to RECIST 1.1., From date of first dose of study intervention until radiological disease progression or death due to any cause (Approximately 52 months after the first participant is dosed)
Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of first dose of study intervention until the date of death due to any cause. The analysis will include all dosed participants. All deaths will be included, regardless of whether the participant withdraws from therapy or receives another anti-cancer therapy., From date of first dose of study intervention until death due to any cause. Landmarks at 18 and 24 months. (Approximately 52 months after the first participant is dosed)|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of participants who have a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), as determined by the investigator at local site per RECIST 1.1. The analysis will include all dosed participants with measurable disease at baseline., From screening (Day -28) to radiological disease progression (Approximately 52 months after the first participant is dosed)|Duration of Response (DoR), The time from the date of first documented response until date of documented progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause. The analysis will include all dosed participants with measurable disease at baseline who have a confirmed response., From screening (Day -28) to radiological disease progression (Approximately 52 months after the first participant is dosed)
This is a Phase II, open-label, single-arm, multi-centre study to assess the safety and efficacy of osimertinib with amivantamab as first-line treatment in adult participants with a local preexisting positive approved tissue test result for EGFRm (Ex19del or L858R), locally advanced (clinical stage IIIB, IIIC), metastatic (clinical stage IVA or IVB), or recurrent non-squamous NSCLC.

This study consists of screening period of 28 days, followed by the study intervention period wherein the participant receives treatment from Day 1 until disease progression or study intervention discontinuation. Participants will be followed up at week 6 (± 1 week), week 12 (± 1 week), then every 12 weeks (± 1 week) until radiological disease progression. Survival follow up will be performed every 12 weeks. Upon study intervention discontinuation a 28 day follow up visit will be performed.