Phase II Study of Anlotinib Versus Sunitinib in Patients With Advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma（RCC）
Anlotibib (AL3818) is a kind of innovative medicines approved by State Food and Drug Administration（SFDA:2011L00661） which was researched by Jiangsu Chia-tai Tianqing Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Anlotinib is a kinase inhibitor of receptor tyrosine with multi-targets, especially for VEGFR2、VEGFR3、PDGFRβ and c-Kit. It has the obvious resistance to new angiogenesis. The trial is to compare the efficacy and safety profile between Anlotinib and Sunitinib in patients with advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma(RCC).
Anlotinib|RCC
DRUG: Anlotinib|DRUG: Sunitinib maleate
Progress free survival (PFS), The PFS time is defined as time from randomization to locoregional or systemic recurrence, second malignancy or death due to any cause; censored observations will be the last date of: "death", "last tumor assessment", "last follow up date" or "last date in drug log"., each 42 days up to PD or death(up to 36 months)
Objective Response Rate, To evaluate the effectiveness of Anlotinib Hydrochloric Capsule by enhanced CT/MRI scan every two cycles or Sunitinib maleate by enhanced CT/MRI scan every cycle. Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as participants who had complete response (CR) or partial response(PR) divided by the total number of patients., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 36 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), To evaluate the effectiveness of Anlotinib Hydrochloric Capsule by enhanced CT/MRI scan every two cycles or Sunitinib maleate by enhanced CT/MRI scan every cycle. Disease Control Rate (DCR) defined as the percentage of participants with Disease Control best overall response (complete response, partial response or stable disease)., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 36 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. For participants still alive at the time of analysis, OS time was censored on last date that participants were known to be alive., From randomization until death (up to 36 months)
Anlotibib (AL3818) is a kind of innovative medicines approved by State Food and Drug Administration（SFDA:2011L00661） which was researched by Jiangsu Chia-tai Tianqing Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. Anlotinib is a kinase inhibitor of receptor tyrosine with multi-targets, especially for VEGFR2、VEGFR3、PDGFRβ and c-Kit. It has the obvious resistance to new angiogenesis. The trial is to compare the efficacy and safety profile between Anlotinib and Sunitinib in patients with advanced Renal Cell Carcinoma(RCC).