Real World Study of Lolatinib for Advanced ALK+ NSCLC Patients
This study was a multicenter, prospective, non-interventional clinical study that included first-line and late-line patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with ALK fusions treated with the third generation ALK-TKI lorlatinib until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, investigator or subject decision to withdraw, lost to follow-up, initiation of other antineoplastic therapy, or death. Clinical pathology including sex, age, ALK mutation status at diagnosis, and clinical stage at diagnosis were collected from medical records. Physical condition as assessed by ECOG-PS before administration of lorlatinib was also recorded. Treatment information was obtained from the records, including dose and timing of ALK-TKI therapy and tumor response, number of prior systemic lines of therapy, and local treatment modalities such as radiotherapy and surgery. Quality of life based on the EORTC QLQ C30+LC29 scale (plus the EORTC QLQ BN20 scale in patients with brain/meningeal metastases) was performed at baseline and at each follow-up point. This study will use REDCap platform to collect and manage the study data information of multi-center patients.
ALK-positive Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Real World Study
DRUG: Lorlatinib
PFS, Intracranial and systemic PFS as assessed by the investigators using RECIST V1.1 or RANO-BM Separately., From date of receiving therapy until date of disease progression or death.Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs
OS, Overall survival for first-line and late-line of lorlatinib medication, From date of receiving therapy until date of death.Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs|ORR, the Sum of percentage of participants with CR and PR as assessed by RECIST v1.1 or RANO-BM criteria every 8-12 weeks., From date of receiving therapy until date of disease progression or the end of study, up to approximately 5 years.|AE, Number and percentage of participants with treatment-related AEs as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, and the duration of AEs on every grade., Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs.|PRO1, Change from baseline in quality of life of patients on EORTC QLQ-C30 at every 8-12 Weeks., Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs.|PRO2, Change from baseline in quality of life complemented by EORTC QLQ-LC29 at every 8-12 Weeks., Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs.|PRO3, Change from baseline in activities of daily living of patients with CNS metastases on EORTC QLQ-BM20 at every 8-12 Weeks., Approximately 5 years following the first dose of study drugs.
This study was a multicenter, prospective, non-interventional clinical study that included first-line and late-line patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer with ALK fusions treated with the third generation ALK-TKI lorlatinib until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, investigator or subject decision to withdraw, lost to follow-up, initiation of other antineoplastic therapy, or death. Clinical pathology including sex, age, ALK mutation status at diagnosis, and clinical stage at diagnosis were collected from medical records. Physical condition as assessed by ECOG-PS before administration of lorlatinib was also recorded. Treatment information was obtained from the records, including dose and timing of ALK-TKI therapy and tumor response, number of prior systemic lines of therapy, and local treatment modalities such as radiotherapy and surgery. Quality of life based on the EORTC QLQ C30+LC29 scale (plus the EORTC QLQ BN20 scale in patients with brain/meningeal metastases) was performed at baseline and at each follow-up point. This study will use REDCap platform to collect and manage the study data information of multi-center patients.