Barrett's Esophagus & Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease
This is a study of Barrett's Esophagus (BE) and Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD). It aims to look at the long term efficacy of evidence-based cutting edge diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms and techniques such as radiofrequency ablation, endoscopic mucosal resection and surveillance endoscopy with biopsy. Additionally, biological analyses will be performed in hopes of identifying biomarkers associated with the progression of BE to esophageal cancer.
Barrett's Esophagus|GERD
PROCEDURE: Endoscopy|PROCEDURE: Radiofrequency ablation protocol|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic mucosal resection protocol
To standardize physician recommendations and provide cutting edge technology to patients with BE and GERD, and establish a Valley Hospital Center for Barrett's Esophagus and GERD, Until study complete
To collect and store patient data regarding their Barrett's esophagus, Througout Study|To collect tissue specimens (biopsy and surgical specimens) for use in proteomic analysis to investigate the dysplasia/carcinoma sequence at the protein expression level., throughout Study|To assess clinical outcomes of patients enrolled in The Valley Hospital Center for Barrett's Esophagus and GERD, and modify algorithms as appropriate., Annually
Barrett's esophagus (BE) is a known premalignant condition of the esophagus, predisposing to the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. BE represents a change in the lining (mucosa) of the esophagus which is known to be produced as a result of chronic gastroesophageal reflux. The current standard of care for patients with BE includes serial performance of upper endoscopy with multiple biopsies, performed at designated time intervals. However, the emergence of new technologies for the management of this condition has made the care of these patients non-uniform, and subject to biases of individual treating physicians.

The protocol at The Valley Hospital and Blumenthal Cancer Center aims to standardize the management of patients with Barrett's esophagus, with and without dysplasia, using evidence-based, cutting edge diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms and techniques such as radiofrequency ablation, endoscopic mucosal resection, and surveillance endoscopy with biopsies. If biopsies suggest the development of carcinoma or high grade dysplasia surgical removal of the esophagus is recommended. This study aims to look at the long-term efficacy of these procedures. In addition, data regarding clinical outcomes will be collected as well as blood, tissue and surgical specimens for proteomic analysis in hopes of identifying biomarkers associated with the progression of dysplasia to adenocarcinoma. Although patients will ultimately make their own informed decisions regarding the management of their BE, this protocol serves to unify physician recommendations, and allows for the collection and interpretation of data.