Akt Inhibitor MK2206 in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Advanced Endometrial Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well Akt inhibitor MK2206 works in treating patients with recurrent or advanced endometrial cancer. Akt inhibitor MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Endometrial Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Endometrial Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Endometrial Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinoma
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Objective Tumor Response According to RECIST, Activity will be ascertained by the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or who have objective tumor response. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 6 months|Progression-free Survival According to RECIST, Activity will be ascertained by the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or who have objective tumor response. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, From start of treatment to time of objective disease progression, assessed up to 6 months
Duration of Overall Survival, Estimated by using Kaplan-Meier analysis., Up to 3 years|Duration of Progression-free Survival, Estimated by using Kaplan-Meier analysis., Up to 3 years
Association Between Select Biomarkers and Response to Akt Inhibitor MK2206 Such as Progression-free Survival and Objective Tumor Response, Assessed by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), Up to 3 years|Incidence of Adverse Events as Assessed by NCI CTCAE Version 4.0 [Time Frame: Up to 3 Years] [Designated as Safety Issue: Yes], Data is reported in the Adverse Event table., 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the activity of MK-2206 (Akt inhibitor MK2206) in patients with recurrent or persistent endometrial cancer classified by phosphoinositide-3-kinase catalytic alpha (PIK3CA) mutation. Activity will be ascertained by the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or who have objective tumor response.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of MK2206 in patients with serous tumors using a composite endpoint of complete and partial response by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) and progression-free interval of 6 months or longer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival and overall survival. II. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of MK-2206 as assessed by version 4 of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria For Adverse Events (CTCAE) in these cohorts of patients.

III. To explore the associations between select biomarkers and response to MK-2206 such as progression-free survival, objective tumor response, and overall survival as well as patient characteristics such as histological cell type.

IV. To explore the development of feed-back loop activation (post-treatment biopsy biomarker analysis) and target inhibition using MK-2206 via analysis of pre-treatment and post-treatment biopsies in select patients enrolled in the trial.

V. To determine the duration of progression-free and overall survival, following initiation of therapy with MK-2206.

VI. To determine the toxicities of MK-2206, as assessed with the revised NCI CTCAE version 4.

VII. To explore the association between select biomarkers and response to MK-2206 such as progression-free survival, objective tumor response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Akt inhibitor MK2206 orally (PO) once weekly. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.