Image Guided Reirradiation of High-grade Glioma
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the short- and long term toxicity of radiotherapy to patients with recurrent high-grade glioma who have previously received radiotherapy and to determine the best dose and treatment regimen. Positron emission tomography (PET) using an amino acid tracer, 18-fluoro-ethyltyrosine (18F-FET), is used for target delineation.The study examines, in four sequential treatment groups, the effect of dose, hypofractionation and treatment volume on toxicity. Upon completion of the phase I part, the study progresses to phase II where the best dose- and treatment regimen will be chosen for treatment.
Malignant Glioma|Glioblastoma
RADIATION: External beam radiotherapy
Toxicity, Early (\<4 weeks) and late (\> 4 weeks) toxicity evaluated by Common Toxicity Criteria ver. 3.0 at multiple time points up to one year after treatment. (for phase I part of the study), One year|Diagnostic precision of 18F-FET-PET imaging in recurrent high-grade glioma, Diagnostic accuracy (positive- and negative predictive value) of 18F-FET-PET guided biopsies (optional procedure) in patients who will receive reirradiation for recurrent high-grade glioma in the study. (for phase I part of the study)., Approximately one to two weeks prior to radiotherapy|Time to neurocognitive decline, Time to neurocognitive decline assessed using a test battery comprised of validated tests at multiple time points. (for phase II part of the study), Up to one year|Time to progression, Time to disease progression evaluated by RANO (Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology) criteria (for phase II part of the study)., Up to one year
Value of 18F-FET-PET in reirradiation of high-grade glioma, Prognostic value of 18F-FET-PET scan at baseline, value of 18F-FET-PET as an early response marker and correlations between 18F-FET-PET scans and magnetic resonance imaging., One year|Objective response rate, Rate of objective tumor responses following treatment evaluated by RANO criteria and by 18F-FET-PET., Up to one year
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the short- and long term toxicity of radiotherapy to patients with recurrent high-grade glioma who have previously received radiotherapy and to determine the best dose and treatment regimen. Positron emission tomography (PET) using an amino acid tracer, 18-fluoro-ethyltyrosine (18F-FET), is used for target delineation.The study examines, in four sequential treatment groups, the effect of dose, hypofractionation and treatment volume on toxicity. Upon completion of the phase I part, the study progresses to phase II where the best dose- and treatment regimen will be chosen for treatment.