FBY PET/CT in Patients With Brain Tumors
This study is an open-labeled phase II diagnostic clinical trial to explore the safety and clinical value of FBY in suspected adult brain tumor patients. The investigation regarding the clinical value of FBY includes 1) the metabolic characteristics of FBY in suspected malignant brain tumors; 2) role of FBY to differentiate tumor progression from pseudoprogression. A single dose of 0.10 mCi/kg FBY will be intravenously injected for PET examination. Quantitative features will be extracted to analysis the PET images. Cranial MRI (with contrast enhancement) will also performed as diagnostic comparison with FBY. For patient who took surgery after multiple examination, histopathology, molecular pathology and LAT-1 immunohistochemistry will also be obtained.
Brain Tumor
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: FBY PET Examination
standardized uptake value (SUV) for FBY, SUV reflects the uptake of PET tracers, and quantitative imaging features such as SUVmax, SUVmean, and visually-assessed features will be measured in the evaluation of tumors., 1 week.
Adverse events, Adverse event within 1 week after FBY injection will be documented., 1 week.
FBY is a new PET tracer derived from tyrosine, with the carboxyl group replaced by boron trifluoride, and is transferred across cell membrane through LAT-1. LAT-1 is a sodium independent amino acid transporter and is highly expressed in tumor cells. Considering the significant role in cancer development as well as in nutrient delivery, FBY could be a promising PET tracer to reflect altered metabolism in tumors.

This study aim to observe the safety of FBY, and investigate the diagnostic value of FBY in the patient with suspected brain tumors. Patients who meet the eligibility criteria are included in clinical trials after fully communicating the condition, explaining the benefits and risks of clinical trials, clarifying the patient's willingness to include the clinical trial, and signing informed consent. The cohort number, FBY administrative dose, imaging protocols are decided based on the investigators' preliminary data. The diagnosis and post-examination treatment are based on the recommended guideline, combined with the subject's own situation for standardized diagnosis and treatment.