Optimizing Antitumor Immunity Using Plasmid Electroporation, Pembrolizumab, and Epacadostat
This phase II trial studies how well tavokinogene telseplasmid with electroporation (tavo-EP), pembrolizumab, and epacadostat work in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that cannot be removed by surgery. Tavokinogene telseplasmid with electroporation is a gene therapy that may delay of tumor growth and which may have less toxicity than other methods of gene delivery. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Epacadostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving tavokinogene telseplasmid with electroporation, pembrolizumab, and epacadostat may work better in treating squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Unresectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DEVICE: ImmunoPulse|DRUG: Epacadostat|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: CORVax|DRUG: Tavokinogene telseplasmid
Best Overall Response Rate, The best overall response (BORR) is defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR) is defined as having at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. The combined percentage of participants relative to the total size of the All Treated Subjects population having a demonstrated best response of CR or PR, with a confirmatory scan will be reported., Up to 36 months
Median Months of Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival will be calculated as number of months from the first dosing date until the date of disease progression (i.e the date of the tumor imaging following baseline per central imaging assessment by a radiologist) or death from any cause. Per RECIST version 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). Participants who do not have documented disease progression will have their months of PFS censored on the last date of tumor assessment, or death, whichever comes first. Censoring data on date of last tumor imaging to calculate the median PFS will not occur until the overall survival data collection for all participants has been completed., Up to 36 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the number of months from the date of enrollment until the date of death regardless of cause, last date of follow-up, or date of study closure (if still alive), whichever comes first. Median months of overall participant survival will be reported using descriptive statistics., Up to 36 months|Median Time to Response, Time to response is defined as the number of days from the date of enrollment to the date of the first documented response of CR or PR. The median time to response will be summarized by descriptive statistics., Up to 36 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), The disease control rate is defined as the best response recorded from the start of treatment including stable disease, until disease progression/recurrence (PD). Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR) is defined as having at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Stable Disease (SD) is defined as having neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study. The proportion of participants relative to the total size of the All Treated Subjects population having a demonstrated response of CR, PR, or SD, with a confirmatory scan will be reported., Up to 36 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate (CBR) is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response of CR, PR and SD with a duration of response lasting at least 6 months or longer., Up to 36 months|Median Duration of Response, The duration of response (DOR) will be calculated for participants who achieved a best overall response of CR or PR and calculated as the number of days from the date when CR or PR is first confirmed to the date of progression or death. Participants who do not have a documented progression or death will be censored on the last date of tumor assessment. The median DOR and 95% confidence intervals will be reported., Up to 36 months|Proportion of Participants With Reported Treatment-related Adverse Events (AEs), The proportion of participants with reported treatment-related adverse events, which are adverse events defined as having an attribution of possible, probable, or definite according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4 will be reported., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Dose Escalation Safety Lead-Ins: Assess the safety of tavo-EP and pembrolizumab in combination with epacadostat (CTCAE version 4).

II. Dose Expansion: Determine whether the combination therapy in each arm increases the best overall response rate (BORR) compared with historical data for pembrolizumab monotherapy

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Dose Expansion: Determine the durability of clinical benefits in participants treated with combination therapy in each arm, as assessed by time to progression, median progression-free survival (PFS), median overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effects of combination therapy on treated and untreated lesions by examining paired biopsy specimens for changes in inflammatory gene expression, relative proportion of effector versus regulatory T cells, evaluation of inflammatory cytokines, T-cell activation, clonality, and other hallmarks of immune activation.

II. Explore systemic markers of immune activation by examining circulating T-cell populations for changes in the frequency and effector function of short-lived effector cells and memory T cells.

III. Explore changes in functional immune responses using Elispot and other assays.

IV. To explore biomarkers that inform scientific understanding of this therapeutic treatment through analysis of specimens retained for Future Biomedical Research.

OUTLINE:

This is a multi-center, open label, 2-stage, double-arm, clinical trial in which participants in Stage 1 will receive either tavo-EP with pembrolizumab, and epacadostat (Arm A), tavo-EP and pembrolizumab (Arm B), or CORVax, tavo-EP and pembrolizumab (Arm C). Arms B and C will only open to enrollment if the treatment is determined to be effective in Arm A.

Participants will be followed at 3-month intervals for toxicity and radiographic imaging (1) until start of a new anti-cancer treatment, (2) until 30 days after documented disease progression, (3) until death, or (4) until 36 months from the initiation of treatment on study, whichever comes first. Each subject will be followed for overall survival until death, withdrawal of consent, or at the time of study closure, whichever occurs first.