An Open-Label Study of JZP-458 (RC-P) in Patients With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)/Lymphoblastic Lymphoma (LBL)
This is an open-label, multicenter, dose confirmation, and PK study of JZP-458 in patients (of any age) with ALL/LBL who are hypersensitive to E. coli-derived asparaginases (allergic reaction or silent inactivation). This study is designed to assess the tolerability and efficacy of JZP-458 (only in patients who develop hypersensitivity to an E. coli-derived asparaginase), as measured by asparaginase activity.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: IM JZP-458|DRUG: IV JZP-458
Response Rate During the First Course of JZP-458 Administration, The response rate was defined as the number (proportion) of patients with the last 72-hour nadir serum asparaginase activity (NSAA) level ≥ 0.1 IU/mL during the first course of IM JZP-458. Blood samples were collected for serum asparaginase activity level determination., Baseline up to 2 weeks|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not considered related to study drug. AEs were classified by the Investigator using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0., Date of written informed consent up to 30 days after last dose of last course, up to approximately 2 years 7 months
Number of Participants With Last 48-hour NSAA Level ≥ 0.1 IU/mL During The First Course (6 Doses) of JZP-458 Administration, Blood samples were collected for serum asparaginase activity level determination., Baseline up to 2 weeks|Number of Participants With Last NSAA Levels ≥ 0.4 IU/mL During The First Course (6 Doses) of JZP-458 Administration, Blood samples were collected for serum asparaginase activity level determination., Baseline up to 2 weeks|Mean Serum Asparaginase Activity Levels in First Course of JZP-458 Administration, Serum asparaginase levels serve as a surrogate marker for asparagine depletion. Mean serum asparaginase activity levels in Course 1 are reported., Up to 2 weeks (6 doses)|Number of Participants Who Are Anti-drug Antibody Positive or Negative Against JZP-458, Blood samples were collected for immunogenicity analysis. Anti-drug antibody positive (ADA+) participants were those with a positive result on the first test and also a positive result on the confirmatory test. Anti-drug antibody negative (ADA-) participants had a negative result on the first test., Baseline up to 30 days (ADA- samples) after last dose of last course and up to 6 months (ADA+ samples) after last dose of last course, up to approximately 2 years 7 months
This is an open-label, multicenter, dose confirmation, and PK study of JZP-458 in patients (of any age) with ALL/LBL who are hypersensitive to E. coli-derived asparaginases (allergic reaction or silent inactivation). This study is designed to assess the tolerability and efficacy of JZP-458 (only in patients who develop hypersensitivity to an E. coli-derived asparaginase), as measured by asparaginase activity.