Safety, Dose Tolerance, Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics of CPX-POM in Patients With Newly Diagnosed or Recurrent Bladder Tumors
This is a phase II, single center open label to determine safety, dose tolerance, PK and PD of the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of CPX-POM administered in patients with any newly diagnosed or recurrent bladder tumors.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: CPX-POM
Number of Participants With Any Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Incidence of Serious Adverse Events in subjects receiving CPX-POM as assessed by (CTCAE) version 5.0, 35 days|Number of Participants With Any Adverse Events (AEs), Incidence of Adverse Events in subjects receiving CPX-POM as assessed by (CTCAE) version 5.0, 35 days|Evaluate the Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of CPX-POM, A DLT will include some Grade 3 or 4 AEs if deemed related to study drug. In addition, any patient who is unable to receive 80% of the expected dose of CPX-POM (i.e., patients who are unable to receive at least 4 of the 5 scheduled doses) because of AEs will be considered to have a DLT., 35 days
Incidence of Treatment Related Adverse Events, To determine the number of subjects with treatment related AEs, 35 days
This will be an open-label study to determine the safety, dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of CPX-POM in patients with newly diagnosed or recurrent, untreated or intravesical treatment completed \>6 months before the current diagnosis, resectable tumors. Approximately 12 patients will be enrolled and treated with 900 mg/m2 CPX-POM administered IV over 20 minutes once per day for 5 days followed by TURBT on Day 5 after the fifth dose. TURBT will be performed 2 to 6 hours following drug administration on Day 5.

Pretreatment bladder tumor tissues will be obtained at the time of in-office cystoscopy by cold cup biopsy within 4 weeks of TURBT. Posttreatment bladder tumor tissues will be obtained at TURBT. Bladder tumor tissues will undergo pathological evaluation at each site.

Prior to administration of the first CPX-POM dose on Day 1, pre-dose blood (plasma) and urine (clean catch) samples will be collected. At the time of TURBT on Day 5, one 3-mL blood (plasma) sample and a urine specimen will be collected for measurement of CPX-POM concentrations.

Patients will be followed for at least 30 days after the last dose of CPX-POM for safety