COPARIME: Pilot Study of a Target Detection of Malignant Melanoma
Melanoma is nowadays an important public health problem because its growing incidence. Mass screening for melanoma is not recommended worldwide because of its low cost-effectiveness. Nevertheless targeted screening for patients at high risk for melanoma is promoted. This study is designed to assess the effectiveness and the acceptability of a melanoma targeted screening of melanoma, to estimate the risk function to develop a melanoma among patients at high risk according to the SAMScore and to estimate the ratio cost/ efficacy of the melanoma targeted screening. A cohort of 7700 patients is carried out in 2 departments covered by a registry of cancers. The recruitment had began in April 2011. Patients assessed at high risk according to the SAMScore were proposed a skin examination by their GP every year.
Patients at Risk for Melanoma
OTHER: SAMScore questionnaire
Prevalence ratios between those of the COPARIME cohort and those of the general population., Number of melanomas detected / Number of patients at high risk of melanoma defined by our selection tool., 5 years
Probability to develop a melanoma at one year., 1 years|Cost ratio for a screened melanoma., 5 years
Melanoma is nowadays an important public health problem because its growing incidence. Mass screening for melanoma is not recommended worldwide because of its low cost-effectiveness. Nevertheless targeted screening for patients at high risk for melanoma is promoted. This study is designed to assess the effectiveness and the acceptability of a melanoma targeted screening of melanoma, to estimate the risk function to develop a melanoma among patients at high risk according to the SAMScore and to estimate the ratio cost/ efficacy of the melanoma targeted screening. A cohort of 7700 patients is carried out in 2 departments covered by a registry of cancers. The recruitment had began in April 2011. Patients assessed at high risk according to the SAMScore were proposed a skin examination by their GP every year.