Laparoscopic or Abdominal Radical Hysterectomy for Cervical Cancer(Stage IB3,IIA2)
The purpose of this study is to confirm whether there is a difference between laparoscopic radical hysterectomy (LRH) and abdominal radical hysterectomy (ARH) in patient survival for Cervical Cancer (Stage IB3, IIA2).
Cervical Cancer
OTHER: Total Laparoscopic or Robotic Radical Hysterectomy|OTHER: Total Abdominal Radical Hysterectomy
the rate of OS at 5 years, Compare between groups(Cox proportional hazards model will be used to estimate the hazard ratio and 95% CI for the effect of treatment on the 5-year OS rate.), 5 years from surgery
the rate of PFS at 5 years, The curves of PFS at 5 years will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The logrank test will be used to test the above hypothesis, the 5-year PFS rate difference and its 95% confidence interval (CI) for the comparison between the two groups will be estimated., 5 years from surgery
Analysis of continuous outcomes, Compare these between groups(The continuous outcomes include operative duration(min), anesthesia time(min), blood loss during operation(ml), postoperative pain score and postoperative hospital stay(day). The outcomes with normal distribution will be summarised using mean and standard deviation (SD), while the outcomes with non-normal distribution will be summarised using median and interquartile. The differences in the outcomes and 95% CIs will be analysed by generalised linear model (GLM) with treatment as fixed effect and with normal distribution and identity link function.), 1 years from surgery|Analysis of binary outcomes, Compare these between groups(The intraoperative complications, postoperative complications, one-month and one-year postoperative quality of life and sexual life will be treated as binary outcomes and will be summarised by number (%) of participants with the event. The differences in the outcomes and 95% CIs will be analysed by GLM with treatment as fixed effect and with binomial distribution and identity link function.), 5 years from surgery|Safety analysis, Adverse events (AEs) will be summarised using the number of AEs, the number (%) of participants with AEs by groups., 5 years from surgery
The purpose of this study is to compare LRH (or robotic-assisted) and ARH in patients with cervical cancer (Stage IB3, IIA2), by a multicenter stratified randomized controlled study, mainly including the following aspects:

1. To compare the differences in PFS and OS between patients receiving LRH and ARH.
2. To investigate whether PFS and OS in LRH can be improved by more rigorous specification of surgical details (including tumor-free principles and standard surgical scopes).
3. To assess postoperative complications and quality of survival.