To Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of TQB2858 Injection to the Subjects With Recurrent/Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This study is a single-arm, randomized, open-label, multi-cohort Phase Ib clinical trial. The experimental drug is TQB2858 Injection. The trial was divided into 3 cohorts. Cohort 1 included patients with advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma who had previously failed platinum-based chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors (programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/ Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), etc.). Cohorts 2 and 3 were randomized into patients with advanced, untreated nasopharyngeal carcinoma who had not received prior systemic therapy. A total of 60-90 subjects are required.
Recurrent / Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: TQB2858 Injection|DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride Capsule|DRUG: Gemcitabine hydrochloride injection|DRUG: Cisplatin Injection
Adverse event rate, The occurrence of all adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs) and treatment-related adverse events (TEAEs)., Baseline up to PD/die, about 20 months
Objective Response Rate(ORR), The percentage of participants with a best overall response defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., Baseline to CR/PR, about 16 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time from enrollment to the date of the first documentation of objective progression of disease or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Baseline to PD/die, about 20 months|Disease Control rate (DCR), Calculated as the percentage of participants with best overall response of CR, PR, stable disease (SD) and Non-CR/Non-progressive disease (PD)., Baseline to CR/PR/SD, about 16 months|Duration of Overall Response (DOR), The time from the date of participants with a first overall response defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to the date of the first documentation of objective progression of disease or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Baseline up to PD/die, about 20 months|Overall survival (OS), The time from enrollment to the time of death from any cause., Baseline up to die, about 46 months
This study is a single-arm, randomized, open-label, multi-cohort Phase Ib clinical trial. The experimental drug is TQB2858 Injection. The trial was divided into 3 cohorts. Cohort 1 included patients with advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma who had previously failed platinum-based chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors (programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/ Programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), etc.). Cohorts 2 and 3 were randomized into patients with advanced, untreated nasopharyngeal carcinoma who had not received prior systemic therapy. A total of 60-90 subjects are required.