Infusion of PD1/PDL1/CTLA4 Inhibitors Via Hepatic Arterial for Immunotherapy of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This trial was designed to investigate the survival outcomes, response rates, and safety of patients with Barcelona-Clinical Hepatocellular Carcinoma (BCLC)-C-stage liver cancer by hepatic artery versus vein infusion of PD1/PDL1/CTLA4 inhibitor or their combinations.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: PD1/PDL1 inhibitor
Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) will be defined as the elapsed time from the enrollment to death from any cause. For surviving patients, follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact (or last date known to be alive). Follow-up for OS will occur every 12 weeks (±1 month) until death or withdrawal of consent from the study., 2 years
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the elapsed time from the first date of study treatment until documented disease progression (as per mRECIST) or death from any cause, whichever is earlier. For patients who remain alive without progression, follow-up time will be censored at the date of last disease assessment., 2 years|Adverse event rate, Adverse event rate will be defined as the rate of patients who developed adverse event., 2 years
Liver cancer is the fifth most common malignancy worldwide, but the mortality rate ranks third. China has a large population base, with more than 400,000 new cases each year, and more than half of the world's new liver cancer and deaths. More than 70% of liver cancer patients in China are diagnosed at mid-to-late stage and have lost the chance of surgery. Only 10%-15% of newly diagnosed patients can undergo radical resection, and the recurrence rate after 5 years is as high as 50%-80%. So far, sorafenib is still the only standard treatment that can prolong the overall survival of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. SHARP's latest research shows that sorafenib can only extend patients with advanced liver cancer for 2.8 months, and many adverse reactions; regofenib can be used in patients with advanced liver cancer after taking sorafenib resistance, but the overall efficiency is still low. It is difficult to be widely used in patients with advanced liver cancer, and more alternative therapies are urgently needed.

PD1/PDL1 inhibitor is widely used in treatment of various cancers in China now. The hepatic arterial chemotherapy infusion for advanced liver cancer, through the "first pass effect" of drug treatment, can significantly increase the local drug concentration of the tumor, improve the efficacy, reduce systemic adverse reactions, meanwhile Folfox regimen has been confirmed by the hepatic arterial chemotherapy infusion program. To the investigator's knowledge, no studies have been developed on the survival benefit of hepatic arterial infusion of immunotherapeutic agents in patients with advanced liver cancer. This phase III clinical trial was designed to compare the effects of PD1/PDL1/CTLA4 inhibitor or their combinations via IA and IV on the survival benefit of patients with advanced liver cancer, including ORR, DCR, median survival time, and safety.