Intracerebral EGFR-vIII CAR-T Cells for Recurrent GBM
The goal of this protocol is to transfer autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) transduced with genes encoding a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that recognizes epidermal growth factor receptor variant III (EGFRvIII) tumor-specific antigen into patients with recurrent glioblastoma (GBM) following stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). The CAR used is targeted to a tumor-specific mutation of the epidermal growth factor receptor, EGFRvIII, which is expressed on a subset of patients. Normal PBMCs derived from patients with GBM are genetically engineered with a viral vector encoding the CAR and infused directly into the patient's tumor with the aim of mediating regression of their tumors. Despite our CAR being targeted to a tumor specific antigen, given the prior toxicity using CARs that were not targeted to tumor-specific antigens, the investigators elected to begin with very low doses of cells. Enrollment on this study was suspended in April 2020 while an amendment to reduce the anticipated number of participants was under review and approved. The decision to terminate the study was made in January, 2021 to shift toward the next iteration of a related CAR T cell trial.
Recurrent Glioblastoma|Recurrent Gliosarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: EGFRvIII-CARs
Determination of Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD of EGFRvIII-CAR gene-modified T cells when administered intracerebrally by CED after SRS in patients with recurrent GBM, 4 weeks
Assessment of T Cell trafficking within the brain tumor, Change in volume of distribution and maximal percentage of enhanced tumor volume covered, 2 days|Assessment of T cell trafficking systemically, Change in the volume of distribution of 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CARs present in each body area (neck, chest, abdomen, pelvis, and extremities), 2 days|Median survival, The time between SRS / CAR treatment and death or last follow-up, 1 year|Median progression-free survival, The time between SRS / CAR treatment and first failure (death or disease progression), 1 year
Patients with evidence of radiographic recurrence who expressed EGFRvIII on their original tumor diagnosis had autologous PBMCs harvested by leukapheresis. These autologous PBMCs were transduced with a retrovirus containing the sequences for the EGFRvIII CAR and sent to the Duke Radiopharmacy for radiolabeling with 111Indium (111In). Within 2-3 weeks of leukapheresis, on Day -4 to -2, patients had a BrainLab MRI to prepare for biopsy and catheter placement. On Day -1, the patient underwent standard of care (SOC) stereotactic biopsy under local anesthesia to confirm tumor recurrence. At the time of biopsy, prior to catheter insertion and administration of study drug, the presence of recurrent tumor was confirmed by histopathology. If tumor recurrence was confirmed, a catheter was placed intratumorally for delivery of EGFRvIII-CARs by Convection Enhanced Delivery (CED).

SRS will took place on Day 0 (+1 day) and 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CARs were infused on the same day over a 6 to 6.5 hour period immediately after SRS.

On days 1 and 2 after 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CAR infusion, whole planar imaging followed by Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) Computed Tomography (CT) imaging assessed the intracerebral and systemic localization of the 111In-labeled EGFRvIII-CARs that described the distribution of EGFRvIII-CARs within the brain and systemically.

This protocol was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of a novel, tumor-specific treatment with autologous EGFRvIII-CARs. The proposed starting dose was 2.5 x 10\^8 of 111In-labeled cells in 3 milliliters (mL). The infusion flow rate was fixed at 0.5 mL/hr.

Enrollment on this study was suspended in April 2020 while an amendment to reduce the anticipated number of participants was under review and approved. Upon approval of this amendment, the enrollment suspension remained due to a change in access to necessary equipment for CAR manufacturing. The decision to terminate the study was made in January, 2021 to shift toward the next iteration of a related CAR T cell trial. The knowledge gained from this study experience is directing our next CAR T-cell platform and will be used to secure additional funding.