Itraconazole in Treating Patients With Biochemically Relapsed Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well itraconazole works in treating patients with biochemically relapsed prostate cancer. Itraconazole may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Itraconazole|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Number of Patients Who Achieve a Greater Than or Equal to 50% Decline in Serum Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), The number of patients with biochemically relapsed disease after prior definitive local therapy who achieve a ≥ 50% decline from baseline in serum PSA after 12 weeks of therapy with itraconazole, confirmed by repeat measurement at least 2 weeks later., At 12 weeks after start of treatment
Mean Percent Change in PSA Doubling Time, The mean percent change in PSA doubling time from pre-treatment to after 12 weeks of protocol therapy, Up to 12 weeks|Median Time to PSA Progression, PSA progression defined as: 1. If no PSA decline is observed on therapy, PSA progression will be defined as an increase in serum PSA \> 50% above the baseline PSA, and an absolute increase of \> 2 ng/mL above baseline, confirmed by repeat measurement at least 2 weeks later. 2. If PSA declines on therapy, PSA progression will be defined as an increase in serum PSA \> 50% above the nadir PSA on therapy, and an absolute increase \> 2 ng/mL above the nadir, confirmed by repeat measurement at least 2 weeks later. The probability distribution of the time to PSA progression will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method measured from the start of protocol therapy. The results will be summarized by the estimated median with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Median Time to Clinical Progression, Clinical progression will be defined as the first occurrence of either the development of metastases or initiation of non-protocol therapy, and will exclude PSA-only progression.

The probability distribution of the time to clinical progression will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method measured from the time of start of protocol therapy. The results will be summarized by the estimated median with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Median Metastasis-free Survival, The probability distribution of the time to first metastasis will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method measured from the time of start of protocol therapy. The results will be summarized by the estimated median with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related, Adverse Changes in Vital Signs, All patients who receive at least one dose of study drug will be analyzed for safety endpoints. All adverse events will be graded and classified according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4. Percentage of patients with grade 1 or higher, treatment-related adverse events based on the following vital sign assessments will be reported: blood pressure, pulse, respiration rate and temperature., Up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related, Clinical Laboratory Adverse Events, All patients who receive at least one dose of study drug will be analyzed for safety endpoints. All adverse events will be graded and classified according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v. 4.. Percentage of patients with grade 1 or higher, treatment-related adverse events based on the following labs will be reported: potassium, sodium, alkaline phosphatase, total bilirubin, alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), Hematocrit, Hemoglobin, platelets, white blood cells, atypical lymphs, basophils, eosinophils, monocytes, neutrophils, blood urea nitrogen, and creatinine., Up to 2 years|Mean Steady-state Trough Level of Serum Itraconazole, Descriptive statistics including the mean, standard deviation, and range of steady-state trough serum levels of itraconazole and its active metabolite hydroxy-itraconazole will be determined., Up to 4 weeks|Mean Steady-state Trough Level of Hydroxy-itraconazole, Descriptive statistics including the mean, standard deviation, and range of steady-state trough serum levels of itraconazole and its active metabolite hydroxy-itraconazole will be determined., Up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the proportion of patients who achieve a \>= 50% decline in serum prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after 12 weeks of protocol therapy with itraconazole dosed at 300 mg orally (PO) twice daily (BID) is superior to a historical control based upon the observed PSA response proportion in prior studies of non-castrating systemic therapy in men with biochemically relapsed hormone sensitive prostate cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the median time to PSA progression from the start of protocol therapy with itraconazole among men with biochemically relapsed prostate cancer.

II. To determine the median time to clinical progression measured from the start of protocol therapy with itraconazole among men with biochemically relapsed prostate cancer.

III. To determine the median metastasis-free survival measured from the start of protocol therapy in patients treated with itraconazole for biochemically relapsed prostate cancer.

IV. To determine the mean percent change from baseline after 12 weeks of protocol therapy compared with pre-treatment in PSA doubling time.

V. To characterize the safety profile of itraconazole in the biochemically relapsed hormone sensitive prostate cancer population, as graded by Common Toxicity Criteria (CTCAE) version 4.03. All adverse events will be tabulated by grade according to the worst grade experienced.

VI. To determine the mean steady-state itraconazole and hydroxy-itraconazole serum levels after 4 weeks of therapy with itraconazole.