A Comparison of Three Chemotherapy Regimens for the Treatment of Patients With Newly Diagnosed Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial compares three chemotherapy regimens consisting of bendamustine, rituximab, high dose cytarabine, and acalabrutinib and studies how well they work in treating patients with newly diagnosed mantle cell lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as bendamustine and cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Acalabrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. This study is being done to find out if one the drug combinations of bendamustine, rituximab, high dose cytarabine, and acalabrutinib is better or worse than the usual approach for mantle cell lymphoma.
Liver Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Bendamustine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Cytarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Composite of positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) complete response (CR) and peripheral blood (PB) minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate, MRD status is defined as positive, negative, or indeterminate as measured from PB specimens following completion of treatment. Measures of frequencies and proportion, and location and dispersion will be used to describe categorical, and continuous variables respectively; 90% confidence intervals around these estimates will be computed. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to describe time-to-event endpoints and log-rank test to assess difference in time-to-event endpoints by levels of a categorical predictor. Cox proportional hazards (PH) regression model would be used to model the impact of baseline and other relevant variables on time-to-event endpoints., Up to 8 weeks post treatment
Progression-free survival (PFS), From randomization to earliest of disease progression or death, assessed at 36 months|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE). The cumulative dose of high dose cytarabine and proportion of patients that discontinued treatment due to toxicity will be assessed., Up to 10 years post randomization|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a best response to treatment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). ORR and PET/CT CR will be estimated in each treatment arm in the efficacy population, as well as among all treated patients, regardless of informative tissue status., Up to 10 years post randomization|Overall survival (OS), Patients that are alive will be censored at the time of last follow-up. OS will be described using the Kaplan-Meier method and log-rank test will be used to compare survival by treatment arm., From randomization to death, assessed at 36 months|Mobilization failure rate, Defined as a yield \< 2 x10\^6 CD34+ stem cells/kg with a maximum of 4 course of apheresis will be summarized as a categorical variable, and compared, between treatment arms using Z- test., Up to 10 years post randomization
PET/CT negative rate between the three arms, Up to 10 years post randomization|PET quantitative assessment (qPET), Will evaluate the association between baseline qPET and MRD status., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Change of qPET parameters, Will evaluate the association between the change of qPET parameters and MRD and compare this association across all 3 arms., Baseline to end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Incremental prognostic value of baseline qPET to standard risk markers (Mantle Cell Lymphoma International Prognostic Index [MIPI]), Will assess the incremental prognostic value of baseline to standard risk markers (MIPI) in predicting MRD status., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Interim PET status, Interim PET status both qualitatively (Deauville) and quantitatively will be correlated with MRD status. Will fit a logistic regression model to evaluate this aim with binary MRD status at end of treatment (EOT) as the response variable and interim PET status as the predictor., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to standard risk markers (MIPI), Will assess the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to standard risk markers (MIPI) in predicting MRD status., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to Ki67, Will assess the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to Ki67 in predicting MRD status., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)|Incremental prognostic value of baseline qPET to Ki67, Will assess the incremental prognostic value of baseline qPET to Ki67 in predicting MRD status., At end of treatment (within 6 months after the "8 weeks post treatment" timeframe)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Positron mission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) complete response (CR)/peripheral blood minimal residual disease (MRD) negative rate.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Progression-free survival at 36 months. II. Toxicity rates (incidence of grade 3/4 infections, renal and neurologic toxicities, cumulative dose of cytarabine \& acalabrutinib, dose reduction, and treatment discontinuation due to toxicity).

III. Objective response rate (ORR). IV. Overall survival at 36 months. V. Mobilization failure rate (defined as a yield \< 2 x 10\^6 CD34+ stem cells/kg with a maximum of 4 courses of apheresis).

VI. To compare PET/CT negative rate between the three arms. VII. To evaluate the association between baseline PET quantitative assessment (qPET) and MRD status at end of treatment (EOT).

VIII. To evaluate the association between the change of qPET parameters from baseline to EOT and MRD, and compare this association across all 3 arms.

IX. To determine the incremental prognostic value of baseline qPET to standard risk markers (Mantle Cell Lymphoma International Prognostic Index \[MIPI\]) in predicting MRD status at EOT.

X. To determine the prognostic value of baseline, interim and EOT PET in predicting progression-free survival (PFS).

EXPLORATORY IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

I. Interim PET status both qualitatively (Deauville) and quantitatively will be correlated with MRD status at EOT (end of induction).

II. Explore the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to standard risk markers (MIPI) in predicting MRD status at EOT.

III. Explore the incremental prognostic value of interim qPET to Ki67 in predicting MRD status at EOT.

IV. Explore the association of interim and EOT PET with overall survival (OS).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive bendamustine intravenously (IV) on days 1 and 2 and rituximab IV on day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 4, patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 and cytarabine IV every 12 hours (Q12 hours) on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive acalabrutinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, bendamustine IV on days 1 and 2, and rituximab IV on day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning cycle 4, patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID on days 1-7 and 22-28, rituximab IV on day 1, and cytarabine IV Q12 hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C: Patients receive acalabrutinib PO BID on days 1-28, bendamustine IV on days 1 and 2, and rituximab IV on day 1 or 2. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years, and then every 6 months until year 10.