Efficacy and Safety of OncoGel™ Added to Chemotherapy and Radiation Before Surgery in Subjects With Esophageal Cancer
OncoGel is a new experimental drug delivery system that allows the slow continuous release of paclitaxel (an approved intravenous anticancer drug), from a gel (ReGel) over a long period of time. The gel will disappear in 4 to 6 weeks as it releases the paclitaxel.

The protocol is directed towards evaluating the efficacy and safety of paclitaxel delivered as a local, intralesional treatment when used in combination with chemotherapy (cisplatin and 5-FU) and radiation therapy before surgery.
Esophageal Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: OncoGel (Paclitaxel gel)|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: 5-FU|RADIATION: radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: esophageal resection
Overall Tumor Response at the Primary Tumor Site Based on Measurement of Primary Tumor Volume (Excluding Involved Lymph Nodes) by Spiral CT, Per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and by Spiral CT assessment:

Complete Response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) is a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Screening and Week 12
The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of OncoGel given in combination with standard chemotherapy (cisplatin and 5-FU) and radiation therapy in patients with previously untreated, resectable, local or local-regional adenosarcoma or squamous cell carcinoma.

All patients will receive IV cisplatin on Day 1 and Day 29 and IV 5-FU given continuously for 96 hours starting on Day 1 and Day 29. All patients will also receive out-patient radiation therapy for 28 treatments once per day for 5 1/2 weeks starting on Day 1.

Patients randomized to the OncoGel treatment group will have the OncoGel dose injected into their esophageal tumors during an endoscopic procedure just before starting systemic chemotherapy and radiation therapy.

All patients will have CT scans for tumor measurements before starting chemotherapy and 12 weeks later after completion of the radiation therapy and both cycles of chemotherapy.

During the chemotherapy and radiation therapy, physical exams, vital signs, routine blood tests will be performed. Patients will also be asked about their quality of life and ability to swallow.

In-patient surgery will be scheduled 4 to 6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy and radiation therapy. The resected esophagus and lymph nodes will be evaluated for the presence of residual tumor.

Patients will be followed at months 4, 5, 6, and then every 3 Months thereafter for survival and esophageal cancer status and treatment until the last patient enrolled has completed their Month 12 visit.