Classical Procedure Versus Intrahepatic Glisson's Approach
The purpose of this research is to compare the classical procedure with intrahepatic Glisson's approach for laparoscopic anatomical hepatectomy. The validity, feasibility and limitations were assessed objectively through our clinical prospective study. The investigators expect laparoscopic anatomical hepatectomy with intrahepatic Glisson's approach is safe, effective and feasible.
Liver Diseases|Liver Neoplasms|Hepatic Haemangioma
PROCEDURE: intrahepatic Glisson's approach|PROCEDURE: classical hepatectomy
Number of participants with operation complication, Operation time, intraoperative blood loss, volume of blood transfusion, complications and mortality, postoperative liver function were collected and analysed to evaluate the safety of the operation., Duration hospitalization(an expected average of 8 days)
Number of participants with abnormal liver function or discomfort symptoms induced by the operation, Liver function, quality of life and survival time were collected and analysed to evaluate the postoperative curative effect. The examination of ultrasound , CT and/or MR were perfomed in outpatient if necessary. The follow up interval time: every six months., up to 3 years postoperation
Background: China is the high incidence area of liver disease, some of which need to be treated by surgical liver resection. The development of minimal invasive techniques opened up a new situation for hepatectomy. Intrahepatic Glisson's approach and the classical procedure are the two major operation procedures used in laparoscopic hepatectomy. The intrahepatic Glisson's approach has the advantages of less intraoperative bleeding and shorter operation time in our experience and as previous studies. The investigators expect further comparison of the safety and efficacy through this prospective controlled study by using two kinds of operation procedures.

Intervention: Classical procedure versus intrahepatic Glisson's approach: a prospective randomized study. Eighty patients with liver disease need undergo hepatectomy were selected and divided into intrahepatic Glisson's group and classical procedure group randomly, each group contains 40 cases. Total laparoscopic hepatectomy were performed, with the intrahepatic Glisson's approach or classical procedure respectively.

Results:

1. Clinical data include: operation time, intraoperative blood loss, volume of blood transfusion, complications and mortality, postoperative liver function,long-term curative effect were collected and analysed.
2. Statistical method: groups t-test univariate/multivariate analysis, logistic regression analysis, mixed linear regression, Cox survival analysis were used.