Role of Antisecretory Factor in Curative Radiochemotherapy for Anal Carcinoma
Curative radiochemotherapy (RCT) for anal carcinoma (AC) is associated with considerable acute and long-term toxicity. The acute toxicity derives from the combined effects of radiation and chemotherapy and is dominated by localized skin mucositis, diarrhoea and pain from radiation and nausea, fatigue, anemia/leukopenia, diarrhoea and general skin dryness from chemotherapy. Cholera induced diarrhoea, as well as other forms of diarrhoea-inducing agents, has been shown to elicit a stimulated, endogenous production of a protein, named "antisecretory factor" (ASF). This protein has been chemically characterized in detail. ASF acts by modulating secretion of water and ions but also counteracts inflammatory processes. With this background the present study will investigate if induction of endogenous ASF by intake of SPC-flakes might be beneficial in AC patients to prevent RCT induced adverse events (AEs) and if administration of ASF from Salovum provides additional benefit (explorative).
Anal Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Salovum and SPC-flakes or corresponding placebo
Incidence of diarrhoea, fecal urgency, anal skin toxicity/mucositis and anal pain CTCAEv5.0 ≥ grade 2 during and up to 6 months after RCT. Anal skin toxicity/mucositis is to be verified by photos., Treatment related toxicity, Through study completion, approximately 6 months
Incidence and severity of other AEs according to CTCAEv5.0 during and up to 6 months after RCT., Other treatment related toxicity, Through study completion, approximately 6 months|Change from baseline in patient reported hQoL and abdominal symptoms assessed by EORTC QLQ- 30 and the ANL27 subscale questionnaires as well as the Bristol Stool Form Scale., PROMS, Through study completion, approximately 6 months|Increase in plasma (P)-ASF concentration from baseline to the day of start of RCT and to the end of treatment., Pharmacodynamic outcome and compliance check, Days -1, 6 and 42|Relationships between P-ASF concentration, biomarkers reflecting inflammation and adverse events., Biomarker assessments, Through study completion, approximately 6 months|Differences in primary and secondary endpoints between Salovum and placebo subgroups., Assessment of added value of Salovum, Through study completion, approximately 6 months|Tumour response rate according to RECIST v1.1 and clinical examination at 2, 3 (radiology) and 6 months after stop of RCT., Assessment of benefit, if any, from study products on clinical outcome, Through study completion, approximately 6 months|Disease free and overall survival at 3 and 6 months after stop of RCT., Assessment of benefit, if any, from study products on clinical outcome, At 3 and 6 months after stop of treatment
Incidence of AEs CTCAEv5.0 grade ≥ 2 considered probably related to investigational products/placebo., Adverse effects from study products, Through study completion, approximately 6 months
Curative RCT for AC is associated with considerable acute and long-term toxicity.

The acute toxicity derives from the combined effects of radiation and chemotherapy and is dominated by localized skin mucositis, diarrhoea and pain from radiation and nausea, fatigue, anemia/leukopenia, diarrhoea and general skin dryness from chemotherapy. These adverse effects are treated symptomatically with mostly modest effect and sometimes leads to the need for in-patient care and temporary stop of the RCT. Long-term toxicity is caused by radiation fibrosis and is dominated by impaired anal sphincter function leading to faeces incontinence, pelvic pain and reduced sexual function. Thus, new ways to efficiently counteract the RCT induced adverse effects are urgently needed.

Cholera induced diarrhoea, as well as other forms of diarrhoea-inducing agents, has been shown to elicit a stimulated, endogenous production of a protein, named "antisecretory factor" (ASF). This protein has been chemically characterized in detail. ASF acts by modulating secretion of water and ions but also counteracts inflammatory processes . ASF is also produced by hens fed on a diet of fermented grains or a specific diet of sugars and amino acids, leading to an accumulation of the ASF protein in the egg yolk. Spray dried yolk in the form of a powder is commercialized as Salovum registered by the EU authorities as "Food for specific medical purposes", i e is not adrug from a regulatory perspective.

Salovum rapidly increase the plasma (P-) ASF-concentration. Another way to increase ASF and, thus, to achieve benefit, is to induce its production/conversion by ingestion of oat flakes, specially processed (similar to malting) to contain the proper mix of sugars and amino acids. Such flakes are also commercially available (named SPC flakes) as "Food for specific medical purposes" and has been recommended or considered for a number of secretory pathological conditions, e g for treatment of Mb Meniére.

With this background the present study will investigate if induction of endogenous ASF by intake of SPC-flakes might be beneficial in AC patients to prevent RCT induced adverse events (AEs) and if administration of ASF from Salovum provides additional benefit (explorative).