Ultrasound Elastography of Breast Lesions
Our hypothesis is that the addition of ShearWave Elastography (SWE) to a conventional breast ultrasound examination provides useful information for the radiologist when imaging lesions in the breast, as compared to conventional grayscale ultrasound alone.
Breast Neoplasms
Estimates of Effect of Selectively Upgrading BIRADS Category 3 and Downgrading BIRADS 4a Masses Based on SWE Features. Overall Specificity and Sensitivity of BI-RADS Score Using Conventional B-mode Ultrasound vs. B-mode + Certain SWE Characteristics, Positive reference standard = malignant cytologic or histopathologic result. Negative reference standard = BIRADS 2 lesions, BIRADS 3 lesions with benign histopathology, or a 1 year follow-up ultrasound exam showing resolved or decreased lesion size.

Conservative strategy:features of E-homogeneity, E-max and E-color were used to upgrade BIRADS 3 lesions to BIRADS 4a' or downgrade BIRADS 4a lesions to BIRADS 3'. Aggressive strategy used the same features but upgraded and downgraded more lesions.

Based on 939 lesions., 2 years
Qualitative Intraobserver Reproducibility of SWE Related to Homogeneity Feature, 614 benign and 144 malignant breast lesions were scanned in SWE 3 consecutive times, and the similarity of the 3 images was evaluated by the investigator., performed on the same day, within 2 years from study start date|Intraobserver Reliability of Quantitative SWE Measurements, 614 benign and 144 malignant lesions. Each category's measurement (diameter, area, etc..) is performed 3 times. These 3 measurements are then compared with each other in order to calculate the interclass correlation coefficient., performed on the same day, within 2 years from study start date|Interobserver Agreement of B Mode Ultrasound and SWE Features, 614 benign and 144 malignant breast masses., performed on the same day, after study completion
Our hypothesis is that the addition of ShearWave Elastography (SWE) to a conventional breast ultrasound examination provides useful information for the radiologist when imaging lesions in the breast, as compared to conventional grayscale ultrasound alone.