Extended Peri-operative Tinzaparin to Improve Disease-free Survival in Patients With Resectable Colorectal Cancer
The human body has a natural stress response to surgery, including the formation of blood clots. This response to surgery has been shown to increase metastases (the spread of cancer cells to other organs in the body). These metastases cannot be seen at the time of surgery but when they grow into new tumors, the cancer has recurred (come back). A blood thinner called "low molecular weight heparin" (LMWH) can suppress the development of metastases after surgery in animal experiments. The investigators want to see if giving patients with colorectal cancer the blood thinner, LMWH, around the time of surgery can decrease the chance of their cancer spreading to other organs (metastases) and coming back (recurrence).

The investigators need 1075 patients to answer our scientific question. Patients who give informed consent will be randomly put into one of two groups, the experimental group and the control group. The patients in the control group will be treated with LMWH starting a few hours after surgery and every day until they leave the hospital. This is how most patients are treated after colon cancer surgery (standard care). The patients in the experimental group will be treated with LMWH for a longer period of time, starting on the day they agree to have surgery and continuing for two months after surgery. All the patients will be followed for at least three years after surgery to find out if their cancer has recurred (come back). If LMWH treatment around the time of surgery reduces the chance of recurrence in patients with colorectal cancer, it would improve the health and quality of life for these patients.
Adenocarcinoma of the Colon
DRUG: Tinzaparin|DRUG: Tinzaparin
Disease Free Survival, Disease free survival is measured from the time of randomization until local disease recurrence, distant disease recurrence, a new primary colon cancer malignancy, other second primary cancer or death from any cause., measured at 3 years
Overall Survival, Death from any cause, measured at 5 years|Venous Thromboembolism events, • VTE events defined as:

a. Deep vein thrombosis: i. non-compressibility of any vein segment from the common femoral vein to the trifurcation of the popliteal vein on compressive ultrasonography ii.persistent intra-luminal filling defect of the iliac, common femoral, superficial femoral, popliteal, posterior tibial or peroneal veins on contrast venography b. Pulmonary embolism: i.high probability V/Q scan ii.positive pulmonary angiogram iii.spiral CT demonstrating intraluminal filling defect in a vessel larger than a segmental artery, From randomization until 56 days post-surgery|Major surgical site bleeding events, • Major surgical site bleeding events defined as bleeding at the surgical site associated with:

1. requirement for ≥4 units of packed red blood cells
2. a drop in Hb of \>40 g/L during the first post-op week
3. bleeding requiring re-operation
4. fatal bleeding, From randomization until 56 days post-surgery|Major bleeding events (not including the surgical site), • Major bleeding events (not including the surgical site) defined as:

1. fatal bleeding, and/or
2. symptomatic bleeding in a critical area or organ, such as intracranial, intraspinal, intraocular, retroperitoneal, intraarticular or pericardial, or intramuscular with compartment syndrome, and/or,
3. bleeding causing a fall in hemoglobin level of ≥20 g/L, or leading to transfusion of ≥2 units of whole blood or red cells., From randomization until 56 days post-surgery|• Clinically relevant bleeding events prior to surgery and during the • Clinically relevant bleeding events, Clinically relevant bleeding events prior to surgery and during the follow-up period will be defined as overt bleeding episodes not meeting the inclusion for major bleeding but associated with one of the following:

1. medical intervention;
2. an unscheduled contact with a physician;
3. temporary cessation of anticoagulant treatment, From randomization to 56 days post-surgery|Transfusion requirements, Transfusion requirements using the number of units transfused:

1. Red blood cells
2. Platelets (Adult dose)
3. Frozen Plasma, From randomization to 56 days post-surgery|Correlative endpoints, The correlative endpoints seek to evaluate the pro-metastatic mechanisms of surgery and the antimetastatic mechanisms of LMWH in subjects undergoing surgical resection for colon cancer., 5 years|Other post-operative (day 0 - day 28) complications, Other post-operative (day 0 - day 28) complications as defined using the modified Clavien Classification, Measured from Day 0 until day 28 post-operatively
The human body has a natural stress response to surgery, including the formation of blood clots. This response to surgery has been shown to increase metastases (the spread of cancer cells to other organs in the body). These metastases cannot be seen at the time of surgery but when they grow into new tumors, the cancer has recurred (come back). A blood thinner called "low molecular weight heparin" (LMWH) can suppress the development of metastases after surgery in animal experiments. The investigators want to see if giving patients with colorectal cancer the blood thinner, LMWH, around the time of surgery can decrease the chance of their cancer spreading to other organs (metastases) and coming back (recurrence).

The investigators need 1075 patients to answer our scientific question. Patients who give informed consent will be randomly put into one of two groups, the experimental group and the control group. The patients in the control group will be treated with LMWH starting a few hours after surgery and every day until they leave the hospital. This is how most patients are treated after colon cancer surgery (standard care). The patients in the experimental group will be treated with LMWH for a longer period of time, starting on the day they agree to have surgery and continuing for two months after surgery. All the patients will be followed for at least three years after surgery to find out if their cancer has recurred (come back). If LMWH treatment around the time of surgery reduces the chance of recurrence in patients with colorectal cancer, it would improve the health and quality of life for these patients.