Helping Patients and Providers Make Better Decisions About Colorectal Cancer Screening
Precision prevention holds great promise for colorectal cancer (CRC) screening but has not been adequately explored. A patient's chance of having an advanced colorectal neoplasm (ACN), i.e. a cancer or precancerous polyp in the colon, significantly affects the comparative effectiveness of approved tests. Giving patients a decision aid with information about their risk for ACN, and giving their providers similar information, could help patients and providers decide if colonoscopy or a non-invasive test (such as the fecal immunochemical test) is more appropriate. This could improve decision making and increase uptake of CRC screening, which are the investigative team's long-term goals.
Cancer Screening Tests
BEHAVIORAL: Decision aid without personalized message|BEHAVIORAL: Decision aid with personalized message|BEHAVIORAL: Provider notification without personalized message|BEHAVIORAL: Provider notification with personalized message
Number of Participants Who Completed Colorectal Cancer Screening, Patients' completion of colonoscopy, fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), or other CRC screening within 6 months, based on documentation in the participants' electronic health record., 6 months after patient enrollment|Number of Participants Who Made a High Quality Decision Using the Multi-dimensional Measure of Informed Consent (MMIC) Which Incorporates Knowledge, Intent, and Behavior., Decision quality will be assessed using the multi-dimensional measure of informed consent (MMIC), where a high-quality decision is one where the individual has adequate knowledge regarding the available options and undergoes the screening test that he or she has chosen or that fits his or her values ("values concordance"). Patient knowledge of colorectal cancer and screening will be assessed by a 12-item test made up of 6 multiple choice questions and 6 true-false questions. Adequate knowledge = 9 correct. Concordance will be measured between the patient's test choice at the post-provider survey and the screening test underwent, if any, within 6 months after patient enrollment., 6 months after participant enrollment
Number of Participants Who Completed Colorectal Cancer Screening by Type of Screening Test Completed, Colorectal cancer (CRC) screening uptake and type of screening test completed within 6 months of enrolled was assessed, as documented in the electronic health record (EHR)., 6 months after participant enrollment|Average Intention to Get a Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Screening Test of Participants: Change Between Baseline, Post-intervention, and Post-provider Visit, Patients' intention to be screened for CRC with any CRC screening test will be measured with 1 item: "Do you plan to get any type of colon cancer screening test within the next 6 months?". The response options were: 5=Definitely; 4=Probably; 3=May or may not; 2=Probably not; and 1=Definitely not. Higher positive change means CRC screening intention increased. Increased intention to be screened is a better outcome., 1 day (immediately before viewing intervention [baseline/T1] and after viewing intervention [post-intervention/T1]); and approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit (post-provider visit/T2)|Number of Participants Intended Colorectal Cancer (CRC) Screening Behavior, For those patients who answer the screening intent item with "definitely not," "probably not," or "may or may not", test choice will be categorized as "no screening". Those who answer Screening Intent with "Probably" or "Definitely" have Test Choice categorized based on their answer to a single item: "If you have a colon test, which one would you choose?" Response options are: Stool test (FIT or Cologuard), Colonoscopy, Another test, or Don't know., 1 day (immediately before viewing intervention [baseline/T1] and after viewing intervention [post-intervention/T1]); and approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit (post-provider visit/T2)|Average Correct Responses of Participants to Knowledge Questions About Colorectal Cancer (CRC) and CRC Screening: Change Between Baseline, Post-intervention, and Post-provider Visit., Knowledge was assessed with six multiple choice and six true/false questions regarding general information (including risk factors, screening test options, and test frequency) of CRC and CRC screening. Knowledge scores were derived by summing correct responses to the 12 individual knowledge questions (range, 0-12), and change was calculated from baseline (T0) to post-intervention (T1), post-intervention (T1) to post-provider visit (T2), and from baseline (T0) to post-provider (T2) by using the knowledge score at the later time point minus the knowledge score of the former time point. The range for change could be -12 to 12 with higher values meaning an increase in knowledge which is a better outcome., 1 day (immediately before viewing intervention [baseline/T1] and after viewing intervention [post-intervention/T1]); and approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit (post-provider visit/T2)|Average Perceived Personal Colorectal Cancer Risk of Participants: Change Between Baseline, Post-intervention, and Post-provider Visit, Multiple choice questions assessing the patients' perception of how likely they are to get colon cancer in the next 5 years, in the next 10 years, and sometime during their lifetime. Each has response options: 4=very likely, 3=somewhat likely, 2=somewhat unlikely, and 1=very unlikely. The mean of the 3 questions was calculated (each combined score has a range of 1 to 4) at each time point. We calculated the change from baseline (T0) to post-intervention (T1), post-intervention (T1) to post-provider visit (T2), and from baseline (T0) to post-provider (T2) by using the mean of the later time point minus the mean of the former time point.

The range for change could be from -3 to 3 with higher values meaning an increase in perceived risk., 1 day (immediately before viewing intervention [baseline/T1] and after viewing intervention [post-intervention/T1]); and approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit (post-provider visit/T2)|Average Decision Conflict of Participants: Change Between Baseline, Post-intervention, and Post-provider Visit, Patients' decision conflict is assessed using the low literacy version of the Decision Conflict Scale, a ten-item instrument that assesses patients' subjective feeling regarding the decision process over five areas. Each item has three response categories (yes, no, unsure). Scores are summed; divided by 10; and multiplied by 25. Scores range from 0 \[no decisional conflict\] to 100 \[extremely high decisional conflict\]. Negative change means decision conflict decreased. A decrease in decision conflict is a better outcome., 1 day (immediately before viewing intervention [baseline/T1] and after viewing intervention [post-intervention/T1]); and approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit (post-provider visit/T2)|Number of Participants Who Perceive Being Involved in Shared-Decision Making as Assessed by the Shared Decision Making Process Survey-4, Patients answered four items assessing the extent to which they were involved in the decision-making process. Each item had response options: 1= A lot; 2=Some; 3=A little; 4=Not at all. Each item was analyzed separately and responses "A lot", "Some" and "A little" were considered "enough" and received 1 point. The response "Not at all" was considered "not enough" and received 0 points., approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit [post-provider visit/T2]|Number of Participants Who Perceive Being Involved in Shared-Decision Making as Assessed by the Decision Quality Instrument, A single-item measure taken from the Colon Cancer Testing Decision Quality Worksheet v.2.0 assessing if the patients' primary care provider asked them which type of colon cancer screening test they wanted., approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit [post-provider visit/T2]|Participant's Average Perception of Shared-Decision Making as Assessed by CollaboRATE, A 3-item measure assessing how much effort was made by their provider to: explain colon cancer screening, ask for screening preferences, and incorporate those preferences into the decision. Response options ranged from 0="No effort was made" to 9="Every effort was made". The three items were summed and a mean was calculated. Scores can range from 0-9. A higher score indicates more perceived shared decision making. Higher perceived shared decision making is a better outcome., approximately 4-30 days after viewing intervention and 4-14 days after provider visit [post-provider visit/T2]|Number of Participants With Orders for a Colorectal Cancer Screening (CRC) Test, A FIT, colonoscopy, or other CRC screening test ordered within 6 months of each participants' enrollment based on documentation in the electronic health record (EHR)., 6 months after patient enrollment|Number of Providers Who Open Their Provider Notification, Opening the provider notification sent for each patient was assessed by reviewing the electronic health record (EHR)., 6 months after patient enrollment
The research team has developed and pilot tested a decision aid and provider message that discloses the patient's current risk of ACN, based on a prediction rule developed and validated by Dr. Thomas Imperiale, a member of the study team. The Imperiale Prediction Rule uses five variables (gender, age, CRC family history, waist circumference, and smoking history) and identifies a wide range of risk for current ACN among average risk patients. For patients with "high-average" risk (22%), personalized messages in the decision aid and provider notification highlight the advantage of colonoscopy because of the likelihood of finding and removing an ACN. For patients at low risk for ACN (2% or 4%), personalized messages highlight the advantage of stool testing, due to the relatively low chance of failing to detect ACN.

The investigators' long-term goal is to increase uptake of CRC screening by informing and improving patient and provider discussion and decisions. The main objective of this project is to test whether providing patients and their providers with personalized messages about ACN risk results in higher screening uptake and higher decision quality, compared to an approach that does not utilize ACN risk.