Antineoplaston Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
Current therapies for Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer provide very limited benefit to the patient. The anti-cancer properties of Antineoplaston therapy suggest that it may prove beneficial in the treatment of Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer.

PURPOSE: This study is being performed to determine the effects (good and bad) that Antineoplaston therapy has on patients with Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer.
Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Antineoplaston therapy (Atengenal + Astugenal)
Number of Participants With Objective Response and Stable Disease, An objective response can be complete or partial. A complete response is complete disappearance of all tumor(s) by physical examination and radiographic studies for a minimum of 4 weeks. A partial response is \> 50% reduction in the sum of the products of the greatest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions compared to the corresponding baseline evaluation, lasting for a minimum of four months. Stable disease is \< 50% change in the sum of the products of the greatest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions compared to the corresponding baseline evaluation, for a minimum of 12 months., 14 months
Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer patients receive gradually escalating doses of intravenous Antineoplaston therapy (Atengenal + Astugenal) until the maximum tolerated dose is reached. Treatment continues up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

OBJECTIVES:

* To determine the efficacy of Antineoplaston therapy in patients with Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer, as measured by an objective response to therapy (complete response, partial response or stable disease).
* To determine the safety and tolerance of Antineoplaston therapy in patients with Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer.
* To determine objective response, tumor size is measured utilizing MRI scans, which are performed every 8 weeks for the first two years, every 3 months for the third and fourth years, every 6 months for the 5th and sixth years, and annually thereafter.