iExosomes in Treating Participants With Metastatic Pancreas Cancer With KrasG12D Mutation
This phase I trial studies the best dose and side effects of mesenchymal stromal cells-derived exosomes with KrasG12D siRNA (iExosomes) in treating participants with pancreatic cancer with KrasG12D mutation that has spread to other places in the body. iExosomes may work better at treating pancreatic cancer.
KRAS NP_004976.2:p.G12D|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Mesenchymal Stromal Cells-derived Exosomes with KRAS G12D siRNA
Maximum Tolerated Dose Determined by Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicity graded according to the NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0, First 4 weeks of treatment|Minimal residual disease rate in high-risk patients, Will be modeled using logistic regression., Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), Estimated using Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived exosomes loaded with small interference RNA (siRNA) against KrasG12D (iExosomes) in metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients with KrasG12D mutation.

II. To identify the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived exosomes loaded with siRNA against KrasG12D (iExosomes) in metastatic PDAC patients with KrasG12D mutation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of iExosomes. II. Assess the overall response rate of iExosomes in the chosen patient population.

III. Assess the disease control rate (partial response + stable disease) with therapy.

IV. Determine median progression-free survival (PFS) with this treatment. V. Determine the median overall survival (OS) with this treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate optional tissue collection and serum-derived exosomes and circulating-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) for detection of DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA) showing KrasG12D sequence; evaluate DNA and RNA showing KrasG12D sequence in optional tissue collection.

II. Evaluate the siRNA content in blood and optional tissue collection.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Participants receive mesenchymal stromal cells-derived exosomes with KrasG12D siRNA intravenously (IV) over 15-20 minutes on days 1, 4, and 10. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants who respond may continue 3 additional courses.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, then every 3 months for up to 1 year.