Effectiveness of Sacral Neuromodulation in Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) is a complex disorder suffered by patients who undergo rectal resection mainly due to rectal cancer. It is characterized by fecal incontinence, fragmented defecation, constipation, defecatory urgency among others, which induce an impairment in quality of life.

LARS treatment armamentarium is scarce and with no long-term relief, being a difficult challenge for surgeons. There is evidence showing that sacral neuromodulation (SNM) improves patients' symptoms and quality of life. However, no prospective randomized studies have supported this improvement.

This is a prospective randomized cross-over study which evaluates the effectiveness of SNM in LARS, specifically analyzing intestinal, urinary, sexual symptoms as well as quality of life.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome|Sacral Neuromodulation - Interstim Therapy|Rectal Cancer
DEVICE: Sacral neuromodulation
Proportion of Responders of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome, Low Anterior Resection Syndrome Score (LARS Score). This is a validated specific score for low anterior resection syndrome which ranges from 0 points (normal - best score) to 42 point (LARS major - worst score). Patients should achieve 50% reduction from basal score., 3 months|Proportion of Responders of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome, Low Anterior Resection Syndrome Score (LARS Score). This is a validated specific score for low anterior resection syndrome which ranges from 0 points (normal - best score) to 42 point (LARS major - worst score). Patients should achieve 40% reduction from basal score., 6 months|Proportion of Responders of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome, Low Anterior Resection Syndrome Score (LARS Score). This is a validated specific score for low anterior resection syndrome which ranges from 0 points (normal - best score) to 42 point (LARS major - worst score). Patients should achieve 40% reduction from basal score., 12 months
Fecal incontinence, Fecal continence will be assessed by the St Mark's-Vaizey continence scale, ranging from 0 points (normal - no incontinence, best result) to 24 points (total incontinence, worst result).

Changes will be compared to basal data, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months|Quality of life in patients with cancer, Validated Quality of life Quality of life questionnaire score developed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) named QLQ-C30, which assesses function, symptoms and global health status of cancer patients.

All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100 points. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems.

Changes will be compared to basal data, 6 months and 12 months|Sexual function, Sexual function will be assessed by validated scales according to patient gender.

Males: International Index of Erectile Function (or IFE scale) - Score ranges from 5 to 25 points. A higher score corresponds to normal erectile function.

Female: Female sexual function Index (or FSFI scale) - Minimal score 2 points. Maximum score 36 points. A higher score corresponds to sexual dysfunction.

Changes will be compared to basal data, 6 months and 12 months|Urinary function, Urinary incontinence will be assesed by the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form (or ICIQ-SF).

Scale ranges from 0 to 21 points. Any value above 0 points means urinary incontinence. A higher value corresponds to worse urinary incontinence.

Changes will be compared to basal data., 6 months and 12 months
Low anterior resection syndrome (LARS) is a complex disorder suffered by patients who undergo rectal resection mainly due to rectal cancer. It is characterized by fecal incontinence, fragmented defecation, constipation, defecatory urgency among others, which induce an impairment in quality of life.

LARS treatment armamentarium is scarce and with no long-term relief, being a difficult challenge for surgeons. There is evidence showing that sacral neuromodulation (SNM) improves patients' symptoms and quality of life. However, no prospective randomized studies have supported this improvement.

This is a prospective randomized cross-over study which evaluates the effectiveness of SNM in LARS, specifically analyzing intestinal, urinary, sexual symptoms as well as quality of life.