Broncho-Vascular Lung Sparing Reconstructions and Pneumonectomies in Patients With Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
The aim of this study is to evaluate the medium- to long-term results of patients operated with bronchial and/or vascular sleeves. We will also evaluate the differences in terms of complications and medium-term results with patients undergoing pneumonectomy.
Lung Cancer
Complication rate, Rate of postoperative complication, through study completion, an average of 18 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival, from the date of surgery to the latest follow up or death, through study completion, an average of 18 months|Disease-Free Survival, Disease Free Survival, from the date of surgery to the first appearance of local, regional and/or distant recurrence, through study completion, an average of 18 months
Early postoperative mortality, Mortality rate at 30 and 90 days from the day of surgery, 30 and 90 days from the day of surgery|Re-hospitalization, Rate of rehospitalization in the first 30 days after discharge, 30 days from the date of discharge
Many studies have confirmed the validity in functional and prognostic terms of resections lung 'lung-sparing' or 'broncho-vascular sleeve' resections), i.e. with sparing of lung parenchyma.

This concept is applicable to small peripheral neoplasms for which there is increasing use of segmental resections instead of lobar resections, but above all - and this is the subject of the present study - for larger neoplasms and/or neoplasms that develop in the proximity of hilar structures with involvement of vascular-bronchial afferents. They are widely described in the literature as bronchial and vascular reconstruction techniques that allow both the preservation of a significant portion of lung parenchyma and consensually guarantee the surgical procedure's oncological radicality.

In addition to the preservation of a functionally valid and effective portion of the lung, with the unquestionable benefits in terms of quality of life for the patient, this type of technique surgical technique with reconstruction offers an additional advantage, making it possible to avoid sacrificing sacrifice of the entire lung (pneumonectomy procedure), an operation that has a considerably higher morbidity and mortality rate.

However, these techniques can also be associated with complications, some of them specific and inherent to (a) the bronchial anastomosis (which may go into dehiscence or stenosis) or b) arterial plastics (in its different forms and with different types of complications); finally, they are procedures that may entail technical surgical difficulties not negligible and are for this reason usually the prerogative of high-volume thoracic surgery centres.

high-volume thoracic surgery centres.

The scientific literature has often focused on long-term oncological outcomes, many studies are available in this regard. In contrast, fewer studies have focused on the short-to-medium-term results (peri-operative period and period within \<5aa) and the quality of life of life experienced by the patient after surgery. For example, the development of stenosis cicatricial stenosis of the bronchial anastomosis as well as other technique-specific issues (effectiveness of pulmonary vascular axis reconstruction) has only rarely been explored in detail.

The aim of this study is to examine the characteristics and risk factors of patients undergoing sleeve surgery who subsequently developed anastomosis stenosis or technical complications in a broader sense and the results in terms of prognosis from an oncological point of view.