Understanding the Post-Surgical Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patient's Symptom Experience
Among 13 core symptoms across 3,106 breast, colorectal, prostate, and lung cancer patients, persons with lung cancer were the most symptomatic, with moderate to severe fatigue being reported with the greatest prevalence. This is a proposed randomized controlled trial of a novel rehabilitative intervention for persons with non-small cell lung cancer after surgery that promotes self-management of cancer-related fatigue (CRF) and is practical, portable, low cost, and safe. The results of the study will provide a novel exercise intervention, and its optimal timing, that helps a vulnerable population by reducing CRF severity and fatigability and is applicable to nearly all post-thoracotomy lung cancer patients.
Fatigue|Self Efficacy|Quality of Life|Physical Activity|Lung Cancer|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Light Physical Activity 1|BEHAVIORAL: Light Physical Activity 2|BEHAVIORAL: Support Education Activity
Cancer-Related Fatigue Severity as assessed using an 11-point rating scale, Degree of cancer-related fatigue severity on an 11-point scale (0-10, 10 = most severe), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Cancer-Related Fatigue Fatigability as assessed using the 6 minute walk test, Average fatigue level while performing the 6 minute walk test on an 11-point scale (0-10, 10 = most severe), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital
Other Symptoms Severity, Severity of multiple symptoms and symptoms interference on daily life on an 11-point scale (0-10, 10 = most severe and most interference), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Perceived Self-Efficacy for Fatigue Self-Management, A persons's perception of ability to manage fatigue on an 11-point scale (0-10, 10 = very certain), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Self-Efficacy for Walking Duration, A person's perception to complete incremental 5-minute periods of walking using an 11-point scale (0-100%, 100% = very confident), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Activities-Specific Balance Confidence, A person's perception of balance during every day activities using an 11-point scale (0-100%, 100% = very confident, about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Steps Per Day, Performance in average number of walking steps taken per day per week, about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Functional Status Performance, Performance of daily mental and physical activities that people do in the normal course of their lives measured with eight subscales that focus on the physical and mental health components producing normative scores (0-100, 100 = higher functional status), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital|Quality of Life as assessed using a 6-point rating scale, Satisfaction with various aspects of life and the importance of each aspect of life to the person using a 6 point-rating scale (1-6, 6 = very satisfied and very important), about 6 weeks after discharge from the hospital
Persons with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) report significantly more unmet supportive care needs than other cancer populations, yet they are among the most vulnerable and least studied. Two of the most prevalent unmet supportive care needs include overcoming fatigue and attaining adequate exercise to meet physical demands of daily living. Cancer-related fatigue (CRF) is a prevalent, persistent, and distressing symptom in the NSCLC population. Cancer-related fatigue correlates with greater severity of 15 other symptoms, leading to lower physical function for persons with NSCLC. Among 13 core symptoms across 3,106 breast, colorectal, prostate, and lung cancer patients, persons with lung cancer were the most symptomatic, with moderate to severe fatigue being reported with the greatest prevalence. While surgery is the standard curative treatment for NSCLC, no formal guidelines exist for post-surgical rehabilitation. This is a proposed randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a novel rehabilitative intervention for persons with NSCLC after surgery. The intervention promotes self-management of CRF and tests the intervention's impact on CRF severity and fatigability with analysis by age. Preliminary data included a two-arm RCT (R21 CA164515) incorporating the proposed intervention, where study goals were exceeded for recruitment (66%), retention (97%), adherence (93%), and acceptability. The 6-wk exercise intervention demonstrated preliminary efficacy in significantly reducing CRF severity and fatigability as compared to usual care, with mean CRF levels restored to levels lower than pre-surgery. The exercise group's functional performance exceeded usual care. No adverse events were reported; participants had a mean age of 67 with a mean of 8 comorbid conditions. The investigator's long-term goal is to develop interventions to increase perceived self-efficacy for CRF self-management in order to improve CRF, symptom status, functional status, and quality of life (QOL) for persons with NSCLC. The objective in this application is to determine the efficacy, optimal timing, and sustainability of this innovative home-based exercise intervention. This study has the potential to transform the current standard by providing a rehabilitative exercise intervention after surgery. The intervention is home-based, self-paced, and builds in duration upon discharge from the hospital after surgery. Aim 1: Determine efficacy by comparing the immediate intervention group with wait-list control (usual care) and attention control by age. Aim 2: Determine efficacy of initiating the exercise intervention 6 wks post-discharge and compare results with the immediate intervention group for all ages. Aim 3: Determine the immediate intervention's sustainability by analyzing 3a) rates of extension, adherence, and retention; 3b) acceptability; and 3c) efficacy of primary and secondary outcomes. IMPACT: The results of this study will provide a novel exercise intervention, and its optimal timing, and fill the gap for a vulnerable population by providing a practical, portable, and low-cost means of reducing CRF severity and fatigability that is enjoyable and applicable to nearly all post-thoracotomy lung cancer patients.