Elotuzumab Plus Lenalidomide (Elo/Rev) for Serologic Relapse/Progression While on Lenalidomide
The purpose of this study is determine Time-to-Progression with elotuzumab plus lenalidomide when elotuzumab is added to multiple myeloma participants with serologic relapse/progression while receiving lenalidomide maintenance for each study arm.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elotuzumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Percentage of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time of randomization to date of death from any cause, date of relapse/progression, or the last follow-up date, whichever comes first. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate PFS for each Study Arm. The method of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be used to construct 95% confidence interval., An average of 8 months
Overall Response, Overall response with elotuzumab and lenalidomide for each study arm. Overall Response is defined as best Overall Response, as Complete Response or Partial Response. Response will be assessed per the uniform response criteria of the International Myeloma Working Group(IMWG). Myeloma participants enrolled in this clinical study will be assessed for disease response after every cycle. Complete Response= Negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow aspirates; Partial Response= ≥50% reduction of serum M-protein plus reduction in 24 h urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg per 24 h;, Up to 60 days post last study treatment|Minimum Response (MR), Minimum response (MR) or better with elotuzumab and lenalidomide for each study arm. The Consensus on Uniform Reporting of Response will be used to evaluate response. Myeloma participants enrolled in this clinical study will be assessed for disease response after every cycle., Up to 60 days post last study treatment
This is a randomized parallel 2-cohort phase 2 study of elotuzumab given at 10 mg/kg weekly during induction in combination with lenalidomide (either 25 mg or 10 mg) in patients with multiple myeloma who progress or relapse serologically while on single agent lenalidomide maintenance.

The combination therapy with elotuzumab and lenalidomide will be continued until further progression of myeloma (based on response criteria) or intolerability.