A Phase II Trial Evaluating an Organ-conserving Strategy by Radiochemotherapy for Muscle-infiltrative Bladder Cancer
If radical cystectomy remains the standard of care for muscle invasive bladder cancer, consequences of this surgical procedure are often harsh. Over the past years, concurrent chemo-radiotherapy has imposed itself as an alternative treatment. Published data on concomitant radiochemotherapy (radiotherapy/cisplatin or radiotherapy/cisplatin/5-fluorouracil combinations) showed local control rates with bladder preservation at 5 years ranging from 40% to 65% according to the disease stage, and overall survival probabilities ranging from 40% to 50% at 5 years. In order to improve local and systemic prognosis, evaluation of other chemotherapy agents with higher radiosensitizing effect, such as gemcitabine, is justified. Gemcitabine possesses its own anti-cancer activities on urothelial diseases and has a synergetic activity with cisplatin. The investigators completed a monocenter phase I study combining radiotherapy, cisplatin, and twice-weekly gemcitabine, and determined a recommended dose of gemcitabine 25 mg/m². The objective of the present study is to evaluate the combination of radiotherapy + cisplatin + gemcitabine in terms of disease-free survival in non metastatic muscle invasive urothelial cancer patients.
Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma
OTHER: Radiation + cisplatin|OTHER: Radiation + cisplatin + gemcitabine
Disease-free survival, The time to relapse is defined as the time from the date of randomisation to the date of the first event. Time to relapse for patients without any event (local, regional, distance, or death) will be censored at the date of latest information., Two years after the end of the complete therapeutic sequence
Overall survival, The time to death is defined as time from the randomization to the date of death from any cause, or to the date on which latest information is obtained., Up to 5 years|Acute and late toxicities, Acute and late toxicities will be scored according to the NCI-CTC v4.0., Up to 5 years|measurement of Quality of life, Questionnaires QLQ C30 + QLQ-BLM30 + QLQ-ELD15 + Oncodage, Up to 5 years|Correlation between lymphocyte apoptosis and severity of late toxicities., Before starting radiotherapy, 5ml of blood will be sampled in a 5ml heparinised tube to prospectively measure the rate of CD8 radio-induced lymphocyte apoptosis before any radiotherapy treatment. A correlation between the low rate of lymphocyte apoptosis and the severity of late toxicities will be studied to confirm the predictive power of this biological test on radio-induced side-effects., Up to 5 years
The objective of the present study is to evaluate the combination of radiotherapy + cisplatin + gemcitabine in terms of disease-free survival in non metastatic muscle invasive urothelial cancer patients.