Repeated HBO Therapy in Myeloma Patients Undergoing High-Dose Therapy and Auto-HCT
Subjects with multiple myeloma (MM) who are considered eligible for high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation by the transplant team at WCI will be enrolled in the study.
Myeloma
DRUG: Hyperbaric oxygen
Number of participants with a treatment-limiting toxicity, Treatment-limiting toxicities (defined as the occurrence of any of the following complications within 24 hours of HBO: Seizure disorder, pneumothorax, death, any irreversible grade Ill or any grade IV toxicity that is determined by the treating physician to be at least likely related to HBO therapy) will be assessed 24-hours post-hyperbaric oxygen therapy., 24 hours|Number of participants with an AE or SAE attributed to HBO therapy., Possible long-term effects of hyperbaric oxygen therapy treatment prior to autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant will be assessed at day +100 post-transplant. AEs and SAEs will be graded using CTCAE version 5., 100 days
Time to neutrophil recovery, Based on the patient having achieved three consecutive days of Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) ≥ 500/microliter, 100 days
Subjects with multiple myeloma (MM) who are considered eligible for high-dose therapy and autologous stem cell transplantation by the transplant team at WCI will be enrolled in the study. Subjects will receive HBO therapy on Days 0, +1 and +2 of the transplant. The treatment consists of exposure to hyperbaric oxygen at 2.5 atmospheric absolutes for a total of 90 minutes after compression to 2.5 atmosphere absolutes in a monoplace hyperbaric chamber (Model 3200/3200R, Sechrist Industries, Inc., USA), breathing 100% oxygen. Subjects will be in the chamber for a total of 120 minutes as approximately 10-15 minutes will be spent during the compression and decompression phases and subjects will have 5-10 minute room air breaks every 30 minutes of hyperbaric oxygen treatment. Subjects will be seen daily until neutrophil recovery is documented . After neutrophil recovery is documented, the subjects will be seen in clinic at least weekly through day +100. A final visit will be scheduled day +100. As part of routine care, subjects will be followed daily or as directed by the treating physician until neutrophil recovery, defined as three consecutive days of achieving a neutrophil count of \>500/mm3. Laboratory testing will occur per institutional guidelines. Follow-up will continue until Day +100. Donor chimerism and disease status will be determined by bone marrow biopsy on Day +30 and day +100 post-transplant.