Sequential TAS-OX Alternating With TAS-IRI Plus Bevacizumab for Late-Line Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This study is to evaluate the disease control rate and time to progression of the sequential combination of oxaliplatin with an alternative anti-metabolite Trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride mixture, TAS-102,(TAS-OX) as well as irinotecan in combination with TAS-102 oxaliplatin(TAS-OX) + Bevacizumab in late-line metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC)
Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: TAS-102, oxaliplatin, irinotecan with bevacizumab
Disease control rate (DCR):, Defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD). The disease control rate will be calculated along with 95% confidence interval. As Simon's two stage design is used in the study, 95% CI will be calculated for the two-stage nature of the study design. Response will be determined by independent radiologists using the RECIST criteria., From baseline until the date of first documented progression of disease, as assessed up to 100 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) Progression will be assessed by a CT scan according to RECIST criteria version 1.1. This criterion will be estimated by the median time based on a Kaplan-Meier method. Patients who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of their latest follow-up with clinically stable disease. This includes participants who withdraw consent., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, on average up to 100 months|Overall Survival (OS), This will be analyzed and plotted using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of randomization until the date of death up to 100 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), This will be calculated along with 95% confidence interval.

Response rate is defined as the percentage of subjects with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) by investigator assessment as per RECIST criteria, version 1.1. A maximum of five measurable lesions in total (and up to 2 per organ) representative of all involved organs should be identified as target lesions at baseline and measured through the course of study treatment. At baseline, the sum of the diameters (longest diameters (LD) for extra nodal target lesions and short axis diameters (SAD) for nodal lesions) will be calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD. This baseline sum LD will be used as the reference by which to characterize the objective tumor response. All other lesions should be identified as non-target lesions and should also be recorded at baseline. Measurements of these lesions are not required, but the presence or absence of each should be noted throughout the study, From the date of randomization and measured through the course of study treatment, assessed up to 100 months|Duration of Response, Response will be determined by independent radiologist using RECIST 1.1. Time to progression for responders will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier methods., From the date of response until the date of first documented disease progression or death, assessed up to 100 months
This phase II trial will evaluate efficacy of TAS-OX alternating with TAS-IRI (sequential TASOXIRI) with Bevacizumab, in the treatment of mCRC. Participants will be treated with the study drugs until radiological evidence of disease progression or until treatment discontinuation secondary to adverse events.