FPI-2265 (225Ac-PSMA-I&T) for Patients With PSMA-Positive Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC)
This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study of FPI-2265 (225Ac-PSMA-I\&T). Patient population is adult participants with PSMA positive mCRPC who have had previous treatment with with 177Lu-PSMA-617 or another 177Lu-PSMA radioconjugate (RC). The purpose of the study is to determine the safety and tolerability, and recommended dose and regiment of FPI-2265.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: FPI-2265
Frequency, duration, and severity of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), Frequencies and percentages of participants with TEAEs will be summarized. Analysis will also be completed regarding duration of TEAEs and their severity., From first dose until end of long-term follow-up, 5 years from end of treatment visit.|Frequency and proportion of participants with PSA50 response, PSA50 response is defined as a decline in PSA levels by at least 50% and is used to evaluate anti-tumor activity., From first dose until 12 weeks after the first administered dose of FPI-2265.
This is an open-label, randomized, multicenter study of FPI-2265 (225Ac-PSMA-I\&T). The purpose of the dose optimization segment (Phase 2) is to determine the recommended FPI-2265 dose and regimen. Conclusions from Phase 2 will be based on safety, tolerability, and anti-tumor activity.

Screening Period: At screening, participants will be assessed for eligibility and undergo a positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan to evaluate PSMA positivity. Only participants with PSMA positive cancer and confirmed eligibility criteria will be randomized.

Participants randomized will enter the treatment period and receive investigational doses of FPI2265 according to the dose level and schedule as specified per proposed dose arm.

Part A participants will enroll 1:1:1 at three dose level/schedules, to arms 1, 2 or 3

Part B participants will enroll after completion of part A, in a 1:1 randomization scheme to arms 6 or 7.

Once Part A is fully enrolled and participants have been followed for at least 12 weeks, data from Arm 1 and 2 will be analyzed to assess the the feasibility of enrolling participants to arms 4 and 5.

All participants will be monitored and assessed for efficacy response, disease progression and adverse events.

Supportive care will be allowed in all arms at the discretion of the investigator and includes available care for the eligible participant according to best institutional practice for mCRPC treatment, including androgen deprivation therapy (ADT).

Follow-up after end of treatment visit will proceed for 5 years.

5 participants will be enrolled into a dosimetry substudy (open at select sites only). Dosimetry substudy participants will be administered one dose at of FPI2265 and proceed with dosimetric assessments will be taken at a number of timepoints after dose administration.