Local Inflammation in Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Cardiomyopathy
The understanding of ARVC pathophysiology remains incomplete. Several clues indicate that disease progression is mediated through inflammation. The present study aim to document the feasibility of detecting the potential presence of intracardiac local inflammatory components in patients with ARVC.
Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia
BIOLOGICAL: Peripheral immunological assessment on venous blood|BIOLOGICAL: Immunological assessment carried out on intracardiac material
Identify the inflammatory components by C-reactive protein, Rate of C-reactive protein in the blood, 24 months|Identify the inflammatory components by interleukine1, Rate of interleukin 1 beta in the blood, 24 months|Identify the inflammatory components by onterleukine6, Rate of interleukin 6 in the blood, 24 months|Identify the inflammatory components by interleukine10, Rate of interleukin 10 in the blood, 24 months|Identify the inflammatory components by Tumor Necrosis Factor, Rate of Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha in the blood, 24 months|Identify the inflammatory components by Transforming Growth Factor, Rate of Transforming Growth Factor beta in the blood, 24 months
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is a heritable condition characterized by right ventricular (RV) dilatation/dysfunction and malignant ventricular arrhythmias. The understanding of ARVC pathophysiology remains incomplete. Several clues indicate that disease progression is mediated through inflammation. First, presence of subepicardial late gadolinium enhancement sharing the same characteristics as the ones found in myocarditis is common on cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR). Second, clinical pathology findings of inflammatory infiltrates of mononuclear cells are frequent and correlate to the extent and severity of ARVC. Finally, from a biological standpoint, the exploratory study conducted by Campian et al. has shown an exaggerated humoral inflammatory response in peripheral blood whilst anti-desmoglein-2 antibodies (targeting a component of the desmosome) emerge as a sensitive and specific biomarker for ARVC. As specific treatments for ARVC are currently lacking, a better understanding of the humoral pathophysiology of the disease could unlock new therapeutic targets. We recently demonstrated that collecting local cardiomyocytes was feasible through irrigated ablation catheters in patients with ARVC. These steerable catheters may easily map the whole right ventricle and locate endocardial or epicardial scars. Aspiration of local blood or cellular material through the inner lumen of the catheter once pressed on the parietal wall may be an interesting technique for retrieving local inflammation markers.