Gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE PET/CT in Predicting Tumor Growth in Patients With Meningiomas
This phase I trial studies how well gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) works in predicting tumor growth in patients with meningiomas. Giving Gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE before PET/CT scan may work better in predicting tumor growth in patients with meningiomas.
Meningioma
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: Gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Imaging with Gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE, Lesions will be defined based on areas of T1 post contrast enhancement as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The largest bidimension measurements of the lesion on post-contrast T1 weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging will be recorded. Regions of interest (ROI) analysis of these regions of abnormal enhancement will be used to assess the max standard uptake values (SUV) of the lesion (tumor) as well as adjacent normal appearing brain parenchyma (background). These calculations will be repeated on the post-treatment scan as well as calculations for tumor to background (T/B) ratios., Up to 1 year|Metabolic response to radiation therapy, Will be measured by a reduction in the tumor to background ratio of the maximum SUV of the tumor compared to background brain parenchyma., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the ability of imaging with gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE (68Ga-DOTATATE) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT).

II. To assess a metabolic response to radiation therapy in meningiomas as measured by a reduction in the tumor to background ratio of the maximum standardized uptake values (SUV) of the tumor compared to background brain parenchyma.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE intravenously (IV) over a few minutes and, after 60 minutes, undergo a PET/CT scan over 5-10 minutes 14 days before starting scheduled radiation therapy and 6 weeks after completion of radiation treatment.