COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway in Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy for Obese Patients
Hypoxia represents the prevailing adverse occurrence during the sedation of patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy with propofol. This is particularly true for obese patients, who have a higher incidence of hypoxia. A recent innovation in this domain is the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway-a multifaceted device that encompasses capnography monitoring, bite block , oxygenation support, and oropharyngeal airway management. This device has been purposefully designed to cater to the unique requirements of endoscopic procedures. The principal objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway in reducing the incidence of hypoxia in obese patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy under sedation.
Hypoxia|Esophageal Cancer|Colon Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DEVICE: the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway
The incidence of hypoxia, 75% ≤ SpO2 \< 90% for \<60 s, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
The incidence of sub-clinical respiratory depression, 90% ≤ SpO2 \< 95%, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours|The incidence of severe hypoxia, SpO2 \< 75% or 75% ≤ SpO2 \< 90% for ≥60 s, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
The incidence of other adverse events, Other adverse events recorded by tools proposed by the World Society of Intravenous Anesthesia International Sedation Task Force, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average about 2 hours
Hypoxia represents the prevailing adverse occurrence during the sedation of patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy with propofol. This is particularly true for obese patients, who have a higher incidence of hypoxia. A recent innovation in this domain is the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway-a multifaceted device that encompasses capnography monitoring, bite block , oxygenation support, and oropharyngeal airway management. This device has been purposefully designed to cater to the unique requirements of endoscopic procedures. The principal objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of the COMBO Endoscopy Oropharyngeal Airway in reducing the incidence of hypoxia in obese patients undergoing gastrointestinal endoscopy under sedation.