Se-Methyl-Seleno-L-Cysteine or Selenomethionine in Preventing Prostate Cancer in Healthy Participants
This randomized phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine or selenomethionine in preventing prostate cancer in healthy participants. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine or selenomethionine, two different types of selenium compounds, may prevent prostate cancer from forming.
No Evidence of Disease|Prostate Carcinoma
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Selenium|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Methylselenocysteine
Clinical toxicity of Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The safety and tolerability data will be summarized using descriptive statistics, by cohort and for all cohorts combined compared to placebo. Reported adverse events will be looked at for possible differences, where appropriate, using graphical methods., Up to 112 days|Clinical toxicity of Se-methyl-L-cysteine compared to selenium after multiple doses, according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The safety and tolerability data will be summarized using descriptive statistics, by cohort and for all cohorts combined compared to placebo. Reported adverse events will be looked at for possible differences, where appropriate, using graphical methods., Up to 112 days
Characterization of the pharmacokinetics of Se in the forms Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine and selenium at multiple doses, The pharmacokinetic variables will be tabulated, and descriptive statistics calculated for each cohort, using established pharmacokinetic analysis methods. Plasma and urine pharmacokinetic parameters will be summarized graphically and by arithmetic or geometric means and coefficients of variations for each cohort., At baseline, and at and .5, 1, 1.5, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 hrs after dosing on days 1 and between days 70 and 84
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the individual toxicity profiles of Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine (methyl selenocysteine; MSC) and selenomethionine (SeMet) administered to cohorts of men daily for twelve weeks, with dose escalation with each successive cohort.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the pharmacokinetics of selenium, according to form (MSC vs SeMet): MSC and SeMet impacts on plasma, albumin, and urinary concentrations of selenium over 48 hours on dosing days 1 and 84.

II. To evaluate the pharmacodynamics of selenium by form (MSC vs SeMet): plasma, albumin, and urinary Selenoprotein P (Sepp1) concentrations and glutathione peroxidase (GPx) activity over 48 hours on dosing days 1 and 84.

III. To store plasma and formed elements (red cells plus platelets) for future analysis of methyl selenol and other key selenium species, when those assays become available.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Participants are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Participants receive Se-methyl-seleno-L-cysteine orally (PO) on days 1-84.

ARM II: Participants receive selenomethionine PO on days 1-84.

ARM III: Participants receive placebo PO on days 1-84.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up on day 112.