Sintilimab (PD-1 Antibody) and Chemoradiotherapy in Locoregionally-advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The CONTINUUM trial plans to enroll patients with stage III-IVA (AJCC 8th, except T3N0-1 or T4N0) locoregionally-advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (LANPC). Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin and concurrent cisplatin-radiation or the same regimen plus Sintilimab. All patients will receive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). Sintilimab will begin on day 1 of induction chemotherapy and continue every 3 weeks for 12 cycles.
Nasopharyngeal Neoplasms
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Event-free survival (EFS), calculated from randomization to the date of locoregional recurrence, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years
Overall survival (OS), calculated from randomization to the date of death from any cause., 3 years|Distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), calculated from randomization to the date of first distant metastasis, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|Locoregional recurrence-free survival (LRFS), calculated from randomization to the date of locoregional persistence, 1st locoregional recurrence, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., 3 years|Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), Graded according to CTCAE V5.0., 3 years|Quality of life (QoL), The change of QoL from randomization to the start of radiotherapy, the end of radiotherapy, 34 weeks (at the end of sintilimab treatment in the sintilimab arm and the corresponding timepoint in the chemoradiation arm), 2 years and 3 years after randomization. The EORTC QoL questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30）version 3.0 will be used. This questionnaire comprises 30 questions, 24 of which are aggregated into nine multi-question scales, that is, five functioning scales (e.g., physical), three symptom scales (e.g., fatigue) and one global health status scale. The remaining six single-question (e.g., dyspnoea) scales assess symptoms. These 15 scales will be scored according to the official Scoring Manual., 3 years|Event-free survival (EFS) within different subgroups, analyses for EFS will be performed within the following subgroups: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA (\<4000copies/ml vs. ≥4000copies/ml), different PD-L1 expression levels (\<1% vs. ≥1%), tertiary lymphoid structure (+ vs. -), age, gender, performance status, T category, N category, and stage (III vs. IVA)., 3 years
The association of circulation autoimmune antibodies with immune-related adverse events, 1 year|The association of circulation cytokines, chemokines, and growth factors/regulators with immune-related adverse events, 1 year|The association of gene expression with the efficacy of sintilimab, RNA sequencing will be conducted using baseline tumor samples., 3 years|The association of cell populations with the efficacy of sintilimab, Multiplex Immunofluorescence will be conducted to assess tumor and immune-related markers in baseline tumor samples., 3 years
The CONTINUUM trial plans to enroll patients with stage III-IVA (AJCC 8th, except T3N0-1 or T4N0) locoregionally-advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (LANPC). Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin and concurrent cisplatin-radiation or the same regimen plus Sintilimab. All patients will receive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT). Sintilimab will begin on day 1 of induction chemotherapy and continue every 3 weeks for 12 cycles.