Effect of Albumin-bound Paclitaxel Plus Carboplatin Compared With Paclitaxel Plus Carboplatin in Patients Receiving Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Advanced Ovarian, Fallopian Tube or Peritoneal Cancer: A Phase 2 Single Center Clinical Trial
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is an important option for patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Paclitaxel plus carboplatin is the first-line regimen for ovarian cancer NACT patients. However, the efficacy of NACT is controversial, how to improve the efficacy become an urgent problem to be solved in the treatment of ovarian cancer. It has been confirmed that the dose-intensive paclitaxel combined carboplatin regimen can improve the prognosis in Asian patients with advanced ovarian cancer. However, this protocol has a low rate of complete tumor remission after NACT (4%) with toxicities and high probability of severe hypersensitivity reactions. Albumin-bound paclitaxel has the characteristics of tumor targeting, low allergenicity. We propose that dose-dense albumin-bound paclitaxel (ddnab-paclitaxel) (100 mg/m2, days 1, 8, and 15) combined with carboplatin (AUC = 5 days 1, 4 weeks) regimen may be superior to the paclitaxel plus carboplatin regimen. We conducted this Phase II randomized controlled study to testify the efficacy of dd-nab paclitaxel. 57 stage IIIC-IV patients with high-grade epithelial, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer who are unable to undergo optimal cytoreduction and receive NACT after tumor biopsy will be recruited. The regimen for the study group is albumin-bound paclitaxel (100 mg/m2, days 1, 8, and 15 doses) combined with carboplatin (AUC = 5 day 1, 4 weeks), while patients in the control group use paclitaxel (175 mg/m2, day 1) combined with carboplatin (AUC=6, day1). Interval debulking surgery(IDS) will be performed within 3-4 weeks after 3 cycles of NACT. The primary endpoint is the proportion of Chemotherapy Response Score (CRS) of 3 according to the CRS system. The secondary endpoints are progression-free survival(PFS), overall survival(OS) and the rates of complete resection and adverse events(AEs).
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: albumin-bound paclitaxel|DRUG: paclitaxel
chemotherapy response score(CRS) 3, the proportion of chemotherapy response score 3, At the end of cycle 3 NACT (each cycle is 21 days)
PFS, progression-free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 3 years|OS, overall survival, From date of randomization until the time of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|AEs, adverse effects of chemotherapy, during the treatment procedure
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) is an important option for patients with advanced ovarian cancer. Paclitaxel plus carboplatin is the first-line regimen for ovarian cancer NACT patients. However, the efficacy of NACT is controversial, how to improve the efficacy become an urgent problem to be solved in the treatment of ovarian cancer. It has been confirmed that the dose-intensive paclitaxel combined carboplatin regimen can improve the prognosis in Asian patients with advanced ovarian cancer. However, this protocol has a low rate of complete tumor remission after NACT (4%) with toxicities and high probability of severe hypersensitivity reactions. Albumin-bound paclitaxel has the characteristics of tumor targeting, low allergenicity. We propose that dose-dense albumin-bound paclitaxel (ddnab-paclitaxel) (100 mg/m2, days 1, 8, and 15) combined with carboplatin (AUC = 5 days 1, 4 weeks) regimen may be superior to the paclitaxel plus carboplatin regimen. We conducted this Phase II randomized controlled study to testify the efficacy of dd-nab paclitaxel. 57 stage IIIC-IV patients with high-grade epithelial, fallopian tube, and peritoneal cancer who are unable to undergo optimal cytoreduction and receive NACT after tumor biopsy will be recruited. The regimen for the study group is albumin-bound paclitaxel (100 mg/m2, days 1, 8, and 15 doses) combined with carboplatin (AUC = 5 day 1, 4 weeks), while patients in the control group use paclitaxel (175 mg/m2, day 1) combined with carboplatin (AUC=6, day1). Interval debulking surgery(IDS) will be performed within 3-4 weeks after 3 cycles of NACT. The primary endpoint is the proportion of Chemotherapy Response Score (CRS) of 3 according to the CRS system. The secondary endpoints are progression-free survival(PFS), overall survival(OS) and the rates of complete resection and adverse events(AEs).