Botulinum Toxin Type A Blockade of the Sphenopalatine Ganglion in Treatment-refractory Chronic Cluster Headache
Cluster headache is a primary headache condition characterized by clusters of one-sided, high-intensity pain attacks. The headache may be episodic or chronic. Treatment options are limited and their effects unsatisfactory. An important nerve pathway involved in the pain attacks has a switching station at the sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG) located in the depth of the facial bones. SPG is a known therapy target for cluster headache. The area can be identified on CT images, but is difficult to access due to its location. Thus, the Multiguide navigation system has been developed to enable precise delivery of the drugs that target SPG activity. In Trondheim, two phase 1 / Phase 2 study have been carried out using botulinum toxin A (Botox®) against SPG in patient with chronic cluster headache and chronic migraine. The results indicate that such a treatment strategy is safe and beneficial. The current study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, triple-blinded study to investigate whether precise single-injection of botulinum toxin A reduces the frequency of attacks in chronic cluster headache .
Cluster Headache
DRUG: Botulinum toxin type A|DRUG: placebo
Difference in change from baseline week 5-8 in mean number of cluster headache attacks per week at weeks 5-8 post-intervention in the treatment group versus the placebo group, Change from baseline to weeks 5-8 post-intervention in number of cluster headache attacks per week in the active group versus the placebo group. The number of cluster headache attacks is collected in a headache diary., week 5 through week 8 in the post-injection period
Difference in occurrence of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) in the active group versus the placebo group, All adverse events and serious adverse events occurring in the 3 months follow up are registered in an electronic case report form (CRF). Frequency of AE and SAE are compared between the placebo group and the treatment group, week 1 through week 12 in the post-injection period|Difference in change from baseline week 5-8 in mean number of cluster headache attacks per week during weeks 9-12 post-intervention in the active group versus the placebo group, Change from baseline to weeks 9-12 post-intervention in number of cluster headache attacks per week in the active group versus the placebo group. The number of cluster headache attacks is collected in a headache diary, week 9 through week 12 in the post-injection period|Difference in change from baseline week 5-8 in mean number of cluster headache attacks per week at weeks 5-8 post-intervention in the active group versus the placebo group, in the prespecified subgroups, Change from baseline to weeks 5 - 8 post-intervention in number of cluster headache attacks per week comparing high versus low attack frequency and low versus high attack frequency variation in the entire baseline period. Comparisons are done between the active and the placebo group. The number of cluster headache attacks is collected in a headache diary, week 5 through week 8 in the post-injection period|Difference in change from baseline week 5-8 in mean number of cluster headache attacks per week during weeks 9-12 post-intervention in the active group versus the placebo group, in the prespecified subgroups, Change from baseline to weeks 9-12 post-intervention in number of cluster headache attacks per week comparing high versus low attack frequency and high versus low attack frequency variation in the entire baseline period. Comparisons are done between the active and the placebo group. The number of cluster headache attacks is collected in a headache diary, week 9 through week 12 in the post-injection period|Difference in the number of therapeutic responders in the active group versus the placebo group., Number of therapeutic responders as defined as a ≥ 30% reduction in attack frequency, intensity or both during weeks 5 - 8 post-intervention compared to baseline week 5-8. The number in the placebo and intervention group are compared, week 5 through week 8 in the post-injection period|Difference in the number of attack frequency responders, Number of attack frequency responders as defined as a ≥ 30% reduction in attack frequency during weeks 5-8 post-intervention compared to baseline. The number in the placebo and intervention group are compared, week 5 through week 8 in the post-injection period|Difference in change from baseline week 5-8 in mean attack intensity week 5 - 8 post-intervention in the active group versus the placebo group., Mean attack intensity (10-point numerical response scale - NRS) week 5-8 post intervention compared to baseline in the intervention group versus the placebo group., week 5 through week 8 in the post-injection period
Cluster headache is a primary headache condition characterized by clusters of one-sided, high-intensity pain attacks. The headache may be episodic or chronic. Treatment options are limited and their effects unsatisfactory. An important nerve pathway involved in the pain attacks has a switching station at the sphenopalatine ganglion (SPG) located in the depth of the facial bones. SPG is a known therapy target for cluster headache. The area can be identified on CT images, but is difficult to access due to its location. Thus, the Multiguide navigation system has been developed to enable precise delivery of the drugs that target SPG activity. In Trondheim, two phase 1 / Phase 2 study have been carried out using botulinum toxin A (Botox®) against SPG in patient with chronic cluster headache and chronic migraine. The results indicate that such a treatment strategy is safe and beneficial. The current study is a randomized, placebo-controlled, triple-blinded study to investigate whether precise single-injection of botulinum toxin A reduces the frequency of attacks in chronic cluster headache .