Varlitinib Plus Capecitabine in Chinese Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Biliary Tract Cancer
This protocol for Varlitinib is developed for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Varlitinib (also known as ASLAN001) is a small-molecule, adenosine triphosphate competitive inhibitor of the tyrosine kinases - epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2, and HER4. Varlitinib may be beneficial to subjects with cancer by simultaneous inhibition of these receptors. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Varlitinib in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Eligible patients will receive Varlitinib plus capecitabine.
Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: Varlitinib|DRUG: Capecitabine
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate defined as the proportion of patients with a confirmed best response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR), as defined by RECIST v1.1 criteria, based on an Independent Central Review (ICR) of radiological data., Through study duration, estimated 2 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival defined as the time from the start of treatment until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression). Progression is defined in accordance with the RECIST v1.1 criteria and will be derived using data from the ICR., Through study duration, estimated 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is defined as the number (%) of patients with a confirmed response of CR or PR, or with stable disease for a minimum of twelve weeks (- 5 days) from starting treatment., Through study duration, estimated 2 years|Duration of Response (DoR), The Duration of Response is defined as the time from the date of first documented response until the date of documented disease progression or death in the absence of disease progression, in the subset of patient classified as confirmed responders for the assessment of ORR. The end of response should coincide with the date of disease progression or death from any cause used for the PFS endpoint. DoR will be calculated using the ICR data., Through study duration, estimated 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as time from the start of treatment until death by any cause., Through study duration, estimated 2 years|Safety and tolerability of varlitinib when combined with capecitabine, Incidence of AEs, categorized in accordance to CTCAE 4.03, and changes from baseline in safety parameters, Through study duration, estimated 2 years
This protocol for Varlitinib is developed for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Varlitinib (also known as ASLAN001) is a small-molecule, adenosine triphosphate competitive inhibitor of the tyrosine kinases - epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)2, and HER4. Varlitinib may be beneficial to subjects with cancer by simultaneous inhibition of these receptors. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Varlitinib in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of Biliary Tract Cancer. Eligible patients will receive Varlitinib plus capecitabine.