A Phase 2 Trial of Regorafenib as A Single Agent in Advanced and Metastatic Biliary Tract Carcinoma/Cholangiocarcinoma Patients Who Have Failed First-line Chemotherapy
Based on the facts of multiple pathways involvement in cholangiocarcinoma tumor genesis, including EGFR, Ras, Raf, VEGFR, and PDGFR, with evidence of overexpression of these proteins associated with tumor stage, prognosis and response to therapy. Multikinase inhibitor targeting multiple tumor pathways agent as regorafenib should be the ideal candidate for evaluating the anti-cancer activity for the disease as cholangiocarcinoma. More importantly, regorafenib likely holds promise in this disease setting with known effectiveness either as a single agent or in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy agents in multiple solid tumors as above and the toxicity profile.
Metastatic Biliary Tract Carcinoma
DRUG: Regorafenib
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST version 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 4 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) - Two or More Doses, Duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST version 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., up to 4 years
Proportion of Participants With Overall Response (OR), The number of patients who experienced a Partial Response (PR) + the number of patients who experienced a Complete Response (CR) / total number of response-evaluable patients. Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from the start of study treatment that patients remained alive., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival (OS) - Two or More Doses, The length of time from the start of study treatment that patients remained alive., Up to 4 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Number of patients who achieved Complete Response (CR) + number of patients who achieved Partial Response (PR) + number of patients who achieved Stable Disease (SD) / total number of response-evaluable patients. Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study treatment., Up to 4 years|Changes in Cancer Antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) Level, The difference between the levels of Cancer antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) prior to treatment compared to after treatment., At baseline prior to treatment and after all treatment received, up to 4 years|Change in Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA), The difference between the levels of Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) prior to treatment compared to after treatment. ng/ml, At baseline prior to treatment and after all treatment received, up to 4 years.
Multiple pathways, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Ras, Raf, Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptors (VEGFR), and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFR) appear to be involved in cholangiocarcinoma tumor genesis. Overexpression of these proteins has been shown to be associated with tumor stage, prognosis, and response to therapy. However, therapies targeting a single pathway have shown no clear benefit. A number of Phase 2 trials have been completed, or are underway, studying agents targeted to EGFR or VEGF - both as monotherapy and in combination with chemotherapy. These have shown varying increases in response rate, but have not found marked increases in progression-free or overall survival. This suggests that inhibition of multiple pathways simultaneously may be needed. Regorafenib, is an oral multikinase inhibitor targeting multiple tumor pathways, which has showed effectiveness as a single agent in multiple solid tumors.

Patients with advanced and metastatic biliary tract adenocarcinoma (cholangiocarcinoma) who had been treated with and failed first-line chemotherapy will be treated with regorafenib (120 mg) (160 mg for second and subsequent treatment cycles) orally once daily 21 days (3 weeks) on and 7 days (1 week) off in the 28-day (4-week) cycle.