Improving Emotion Regulation at the End of Breast Cancer Treatment
The end of treatment marks the beginning of a challenging period for breast cancer patients. While this period often provokes a sense of relief, it can also be a source of apprehension and vulnerability regarding the future. Patients may be brought to feel contradictory thoughts and emotions impacting their quality of life such as anxiety linked to uncertainty and fear of cancer recurrence. In order to accompany breast cancer patients during this transition period and to address these emotional difficulties, the Institut Jules Bordet has launched an 8-session psychological multi-component group intervention. Its objective is to bring patients tools and competencies (e.g., hypnosis, treatment of intrusive thoughts, learning to cope with uncertainty, attention reorientation toward positive thoughts) to promote emotion management and well-being.
Breast Cancer|Emotional Disturbances|Emotional Dysfunction|Anxiety Depression|Fear of Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive-Behavioral Group Therapy and Hypnosis|BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive-Behavioral Group Therapy and Hypnosis
Change in Patients' Subjective Emotion Regulation through six 10-cm visual analog scales assessing anxiety, sadness, fear of cancer recurrence, physical fatigue, psychological fatigue, and energy state-levels, Change in patients' subjective emotion regulation will be examined using the Emotion Regulation Task. Patients are asked to self-report their anxiety, sadness, fear of cancer recurrence, physical fatigue, psychological fatigue, and energy state-levels just after both exposures to anxiety triggers (the Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (MAC)) and the Impact of Cancer questionnaire Version 2 (IOCv2)) and regulation exercises (self-relaxation and induced relaxation) using six 10-cm visual analog scales (VAS; with the extreme left defined as "not at all" and the extreme right defined as "extremely"). VAS are used because such scales have been shown to be appropriate and adequate for the assessment of emotional states (Davey et al., 2007; Wewers \& Lowe, 1990)., Change from T1 (baseline) Patients' Subjective Emotion Regulation at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Patients' Subjective Emotion Regulation at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Patients' Objective Emotion Regulation through an ambulatory digital Holter recording heart rate (beats per minute), Change in patients' objective emotion regulation will be examined using the Emotion Regulation Task. Heart rate (beats per minute) is measured throughout the Emotion Regulation Task using an ambulatory digital Holter recorder., Change from T1 (baseline) Patients' Objective Emotion Regulation at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 monts after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Patients' Objective Emotion Regulation at T3 (4 monts after T2) for the CG|Change in Patients' Emotion Regulation in their Everyday Life through an ecological momentary assessment, Change in patients' emotion regulation in their everyday life will be assessed through an ecological momentary assessment (EMA) procedure during 7 days. The EMA procedure will allow to observe the evolution of the ratio between positive and negative emotions in patients' everyday life (Fredrickson \& Losada, 2005)., Change from T1 (baseline) Emotion Regulation in their Everyday Life at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Emotion Regulation in their Everyday Life at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Patients' Anxiety State through the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS) - anxiety subscale and the Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ), Change in patients' emotional state will be assessed in terms of anxiety:

Anxiety is assessed by the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS) - anxiety 7-item ordinal self-report subscale (Duijts et al., 2012 ; Naaman et al., 2009). Each item is scored from 0 to 3. The subscale score ranges from 0 to 21. A subscale score from 0 to 7 is considered as normal, from 8 to 10 as an adaptation disorder, and from 11 to 21 as a mood disorder.

Anxiety is also assessed by the 16-item ordinal self-report Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ; Meyer et al., 1990). Each item is scored from 1 ("not at all typical of me") to 5 ("very typical of me"). The total scale score ranges from 16 to 80, with higher scores reflecting greater levels of pathological worry., Change from T1 (baseline) Anxiety State at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Anxiety State at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Patients' Depression State through the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS), Change in patients' emotional state will be assessed in terms of depression:

Depression is assessed by the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale - depression 7-item ordinal self-report subscale (Duijts et al., 2012 ; Naaman et al., 2009). Each item is scored from 0 to 3. The subscale score ranges from 0 to 21. A subscale score from 0 to 7 is considered as normal, from 8 to 10 as an adaptation disorder, and from 11 to 21 as a mood disorder., Change from T1 (baseline) Depression State at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Depression State at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Patients' Fear of Cancer Recurrence State through the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI), Change in patients' emotional state will be assessed in terms of fear of cancer recurrence: Fear of cancer recurrence is assessed by the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI). It is a 42-item 5-point ordinal self-report scale including seven subscales: triggers, severity, psychological distress, coping strategies, functioning impairments, insight, and reassurance (Simard \& Savard, 2009). A higher score indicates higher levels of fear of cancer recurrence., Change from T1 (baseline) Fear of Cancer Recurrence State at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Fear of Cancer Recurrence State at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG
Change in an adapted Emotion Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS), Patients will complete a self-report adapted Emotion Symptom Assessment Scale (ESAS) assessing from 0 to 10 their usual emotional and symptomatic states (i.e., pain, physical fatigue, psychological fatigue, sleeping difficulties, memory disorder, concentration disorder, feeling of discomfort, hot flushes, depression, anxiety, fear of cancer recurrence, and ruminations)., Change from T1 (baseline) ESAS at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 ESAS at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) Questionnaire, Patients will complete the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) - anxiety and depression 14-item ordinal self-report subscales (Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983). Each item is scored from 0 to 3. The total score ranges from 0 to 42. A total score from 0 to 12 is considered as normal, from 13 to 18 as an adaptation disorder, and from 19 to 42 as a mood disorder., Change from T1 (baseline) HADS at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 HADS at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI) Questionnaire, Patients will complete the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI) (Simard \& Savard, 2009). It is a 42-item 5-point ordinal self-report scale including seven subscales: triggers, severity, psychological distress, coping strategies, functioning impairments, insight, and reassurance (Simard \& Savard, 2009). A higher score indicates higher levels of fear of cancer recurrence., Change from T1 (baseline) FCRI at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 FCRI at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the White Bear Suppression Inventory (WBSI), Patients will complete the White Bear Suppression Inventory (WBSI) (Schmidt et al., 2009 ; Wegner \& Zanakos, 1994). The WBSI is a 15-item ordinal self-report measure of thought suppression. Each item is scored from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). Higher scores indicate greater tendencies to suppress thoughts., Change from T1 (baseline) WBSI at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 WBSI at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (MAC), Patients will complete the Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (MAC) (Watson et al., 1988). The MAC is a 40-item ordinal self-report ordinal measure of five psychological dimensions of mental adjustment in cancer patients (fighting spirit, anxious preoccupation, helpless-hopelessness, fatalism, and avoidance). Each item is scored from 1 (definitely does not apply to me) to 4 (definitely applies to me)., Change from T1 (baseline) MAC at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 MAC at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ), Patients will complete the 16-item ordinal self-report Penn State Worry Questionnaire (PSWQ; Meyer et al., 1990). Each item is scored from 1 ("not at all typical of me") to 5 ("very typical of me"). The total scale score ranges from 16 to 80, with higher scores reflecting greater levels of pathological worry., Change from T1 (baseline) PSWQ at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 PSWQ at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Five Facet of Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ), Patients will complete the Five Facet of Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ) (Baer et al., 2008). The FFMQ is 39-item ordinal self-report measure of five facets of mindfulness: observing, describing, acting with awareness, non-judging of inner experience, and non-reactivity to inner experience. Each item is scored from 1 (never or very rarely true) to 5 (very often or always true), with higher scores indicating more mindfulness., Change from T1 (baseline) FFMQ at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 FFMQ at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Metacognitions About Health Anxiety Questionnaire (MCQ-30), Patients will complete the Metacognitions About Health Anxiety Questionnaire (MCQ-30) (Wells \& Cartwright-Hatton, 2004). The MCQ-30 is a 30-item self-report measure of metacognitive beliefs (beliefs about thinking). The MCQ-30 have five subscales: cognitive confidence, positive beliefs about worry, cognitive self-consciousness, negative beliefs about uncontrollability of thoughts and danger, and beliefs about the need to control thoughts. Each item is scored from 1 (do not agree) to 4 (agree very much). Subscale scores range from 6 to 24, and total scores range from 30 to 120, with higher scores indicating higher levels of unhelpful metacognitions., Change from T1 (baseline) MCQ-30 at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 MCQ-30 at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), Patients will complete the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) (Morin et al., 2011). The ISI is a brief 7-item self-report measure of insomnia. A total score from 0 to 7 is considered as no clinically significant insomnia, from 8 to 14 as a subthreshold insomnia, from 15 to 21 as a moderate clinical insomnia, and from 22 to 28 as a severe clinical insomnia., Change from T1 (baseline) ISI at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 ISI at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Impact of Cancer Scale (IOCv2), Patients will complete the Impact of Cancer Scale (IOCv2) (Zebrack et al., 2006). The IOCv2 is a 37-item self-report measure of the quality of life of long-term cancer survivorship. The IOCv2 consists of two higher-order scales, a Positive Impact Scale and a Negative Impact Scale, each with four subscales: Altruism and empathy, health awareness, meaning of cancer, and positive self-evaluation subscales for the Positive Impact Scale, and appearance concerns, body change concerns, life interferences, and worry subscales for the Negative Impact Scale. The IOCv2 also have three additional subscales measuring employment and relationship impacts. Each item is scored from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). A higher score on a subscale/scale implies stronger endorsement of that content area., Change from T1 (baseline) IOCv2 at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 IOCv2 at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Cognitive Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (CERQ), Patients will complete the Cognitive Emotion Regulation Questionnaire (CERQ) (Jermann et al., 2006). The CERQ is a 36-item self-report measure of cognitive emotion regulation strategies someone uses after having experienced negative events or situations. The CERQ distinguishes 9 cognitive coping strategie: Self-blame, acceptance, rumination, positive refocusing, refocus on planning, positive reappraisal, putting into perspective, catastrophizing, and other-blame. Each item is scored from 1 ((almost) never) to 5 (always). The higher the score on a subscale, the more the patient uses this cognitive coping strategy., Change from T1 (baseline) CERQ at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 CERQ at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20), Patients will complete the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20) (Smets et al., 1995). The MFI-20 is a 20-item self-report measure of fatigue which covers the five following dimensions: General fatigue, physical fatigue, mental fatigue, reduced motivation and reduced activity. Each item is scored from 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree). Higher scores indicating greater fatigue., Change from T1 (baseline) MFI-20 at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 MFI-20 at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in a Life Event Questionnaire, Patients will complete a life event questionnaire assessing hours of physical activity practice, hours of sleep, drugs use, cafeine, theine and alcohol intake, psychogical background, and health care use., Change from T1 (baseline) Life Event Questionnaire at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Life Event Questionnaire at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Ecological Momentary Assessment through the use of a pedometer and a measure of cardio frequency (Garmin vívoactive® HR), Patients are provided with an armband (Garmin vívoactive® HR) to continuously record during nine days (two days of test and seven days of assessment), their heart rate levels, physical activity levels (pedometer and accelerometer) and sleep patterns., Change from T1 (baseline) Heart Rate, Physical Activiy and Sleep Patterns at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Ecological Momentary Assessment at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG|Change in Attentional Bias through a dot probe task, The attentional dot probe computer task will provide a dynamic picture of patients' attentional orientation., Change from T1 (baseline) Attentional Bias at T2 (4 months after T1) and maintenance at T3 (4 months after T2) for the EG; Change from T2 Attentional Bias at T3 (4 months after T2) for the CG
1. Introduction

   At the end of treatment, breast cancer patients are confronted with the short- and long-term physical (e.g., fatigue, pain, hot flashes) and psychological (e.g., anxiety, fear of recurrence, depressive symptoms) consequences of cancer diagnosis and treatment (Costanzo et al., 2007 ; Stanton et al., 2005). Emotion dysregulation (e.g., anxiety, fear of recurrence (Devine \& Westlake,1995), depressive symptoms (Stanton, 2006)) is, with fatigue (Jacobsen \& Jim, 2008) and cognitive dysfunctions (Duijts et al., 2011), one of the three most common complaints. Nevertheless, few psychological interventions have focused on this period (Jacobsen \& Jim, 2008 ; Stanton et al., 2005 ; Stanton, 2006) and no intervention has specifically addressed emotion regulation of breast cancer survivors (Devine \& Westlake, 1995 ; Duijts et al., 2011 ; Sheard \& Maguire, 1999).

   Little is known about the required components of psychological interventions designed to support patients facing these challenges. Meta-analyses (Naaman et al., 2009 ; Osborn, 2006 ; Sheard \& Maguire, 1999) and one review (Traeger et al., 2012) have described various components of interventions used to address anxiety and depressive symptoms in cancer care, such as mindfulness (Lengacher et al., 2009 ; Würtzen et al., 2013), education (Björneklett et al., 2012 ; Dolbeault et al., 2009 ; Duijts et al., 2011 ; Fors et al., 2011 ; Osborn, 2006 ; Scheier et al., 2005), cognitive-behavioral therapy (Dolbeault et al., 2009 ; Duijts et al., 2012 ; Fors et al., 2011 ; Osborn, 2006 ; Savard et al., 2005 ; Savard et al., 2005), support groups (Björneklett et al., 2012 ; Fors et al., 2011 ; Montazeri et al., 2001), and relaxation training (Björneklett et al., 2012 ; Elsesser, Van Berkel \& Sartory, 1994 ; Hidderley \& Holt, 2004). These interventions taken individually presented moderate effect sizes (Naaman et al., 2009), suggesting the need to combine components.

   During the last four years, our team conducted a study designed to compare the benefits in terms of emotion regulation of a 15-session single-component group intervention (SGI) based only on support with those of a 15-session multi-component group intervention (MGI) combining support with cognitive-behavioral and hypnosis components. The cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) components were chosen because interventions using such components have shown larger effect sizes than interventions using other components in previous studies on the treatment of anxiety-related conditions (Chambless \& Ollendick, 2001 ; Deacon \& Abramowitz, 2004 ; Norton \& Price, 2007 ; Osborn, 2006 ; Stewart \& Chambless, 2009). The hypnosis component was chosen because some reviews have suggested that self-hypnosis training is a rapid, cost-effective, and safe alternative to medication for the treatment of such conditions. Moreover, a meta-analysis showed that the addition of hypnosis to cognitive-behavioral component enhances effect sizes of interventions (Kirsch, Montgomery \& Sapirstein, 1995) . Results of this study have shown the acceptability of such an intervention after active treatment (Merckaert et al., 2015). They have also indicated that an MGI combining support with CBT and hypnosis is clinically useful for patients with breast cancer after radiotherapy. Our results confirm the need to design specific interventions targeting anxiety regulation, fear of recurrence, and depressive symptoms. They also underline the necessity of intensifying interventions through including other components (e.g., emotion regulation, repetitive exposures to fear, treatment of intrusive thoughts, attention reorientation).
2. Objectives of the study

   The primary aims of this study are to evaluate in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) the efficacy of an 8-session multi-component group intervention extended over 4 months in promoting emotion regulation (in an emotion regulation task and in everyday life) and patient emotional well-being compared with a waiting-list control group. The secondary aims are to evaluate patients' satisfaction with the program, hypnosis/relaxation practice in everyday life, mental adjustment, and changes in patients' level of attentional bias toward cancer threat and physical activity.
3. Participants

   Patients who have been treated for a non-metastatic breast cancer will be approached at the end of active cancer treatment (i.e., surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy) in order to be screened for emotion dysregulation. Patients experiencing moderate to high emotion dysregulation (one to four scores = or \> 4 on a 11-point Likert adapted Edmonton symptoms evaluation scale assessing anxiety, fear of recurrence, depression, and intrusive thoughts) will be offered the intervention.
4. Intervention

4.1. Theoretical framework

This is a multi-component group intervention integrating an emotion regulation and an exposure to fear component.

4.1.1. The emotion regulation component builds upon the Adaptive Coping with Emotions Model which was developed to provide a conceptualization of adaptive emotion regulation. It aims to help patients to better identify their physical, emotional and behavioral responses to their positive and negative emotions in order to be able to better regulate or acknowledge those emotions. This component integrates a self-regulation component. The self-regulation component relies on a phone app-based coaching intervention aiming at promoting changes in patients' ability to regulate their emotions in their everyday life. It aims at promoting patients' self-awareness of their internal states, orientating their attention consciously toward positive stimuli and at developing physical activity. Hypnosis is used as hetero-hypnosis in each session and aims at deepening the development of patients' emotion regulation skills. Recordings of the exercises done in session are transmitted to the patients in order to promote use of the technique at home. Helping patients develop autohypnosis skills is important as it may allow them to better regulate their emotions in everyday life.

4.1.2. The exposure to fear component aims at helping patients deal with their fear of death. Just as anxiety is a normal emotion, anxiety concerning death is also a normal experience. The modest level of death anxiety that most people experience in everyday life may increase dramatically when one experiences a period of health problems, illness, or death of someone close (Kastenbaum, 2000). This part of the intervention will be based on worry exposure. This part of the intervention targets cancer-related worry and is based on Borkovec's avoidance theory of worry (Borkovec et al., 1998). Worry is a predominantly cognitive-verbal activity that inhibits full emotional processing. As a result, disturbing emotional meanings of potentially dangerous and anxiously anticipated events cannot be fully tested or altered, making the repetitive processing of the feared stimuli probable (Foa \& Kozak, 1986). Given that cancer-recurrence related-worry is typically characterized by the focus on one hypothetical future event, it follows that exposure with imagined stimuli could be a crucial component of the treatment of fear of recurrence. The intervention will be based on two exercises. In the first, patients will be accompanied through a hypnosis based exposure to a major trigger of fear of recurrence that is the anticipation of the cancer check-up. This exercise is designed to help patients experience the emotions which may arise in this context while being guided through their resolution and regulation. The second exercise aims at helping them overcome their fear of recurrence through discussing their worst-case scenario in the group. The scenario are then discussed in order to highlight which part of them could be modified because it is unrealistic or because patients have more resources than they anticipate.

4.2. Study design and assessment schedule

This is a two-armed, randomized, waiting-list controlled trial. Patients who agree to participate will be randomly assigned to two groups: 1) the experimental group (EG) where six patients will receive one individual pre-group session and 8 sessions of group intervention combining cognitive-behavioral therapy and hypnosis; and 2) the waiting-list control group (CG) where six patients will receive the same intervention 4 months later. Patients will be assessed at three time points: 1) at baseline (T1), 2) 4 months later (T2), that means just after the intervention for the experimental group (EG) and just before the intervention for the control group (CG), and 3) 4 months later (T3), that means 4 months after the T2 for the experimental group and just after the intervention for the control group (CG).

4.2.1. Pre-assessment screening

Before inclusion in the study, during the last weeks of treatment (T0), approached patients will complete a socio-demographic questionnaire, a screening of life habits and difficulties questionnaire, an adapted Edmonton symptom evaluation scale (Chang, Hwang \& Feuerman, 2000) (assessing pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, fatigue, difficulty concentrating, memory loss, feeling of malaise, hot flashes, depression, anxiety, fear of recurrence, and worry), the Hospital anxiety and depression scale (HADS) (Zigmond \& Snaith, 1983), and the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory Severity sub-scale (Simard \& Savard, 2009). Patients will report medical information about their disease, previous and current treatment and prognosis. This screening allows checking for inclusion and exclusion criteria and comparing patients who accept and refuse the intervention.

4.2.2. Assessment procedure

Each assessment procedure (i.e., T1, T2, T3) includes three parts: an emotion regulation task, an ecological momentary assessment and an attentional bias task. Two months after T1 and T2, the experimental (EG) and control (CG) groups will be contacted once by phone to complete a phone-based questionnaire to assess their usual care use.

4.2.2.1. Emotion regulation task

This assessment procedure has been used in a previous project and provides a dynamic picture of patients' emotion regulation. Each assessment session will first involve completion of questionnaires and two emotion regulation exercises: (1) 4 min exposure to anxiety triggers through completion of the Mental Adjustment to Cancer Scale (Watson et al., 1988), followed by a 12-min self-relaxation exercise in which patients will be asked to relax by using their own strategies; and (2) 4 min exposure to anxiety triggers through completion of the Impact of Cancer Questionnaire (Zebrack et al., 2006), followed by a 12-min guided hypnosis exercise in which patients will be asked to listen to an audio recording of a hypnotic induction script. The subtasks will be separated by a period of questionnaires completion. Patients' emotion regulation will be measured physiologically (heart rate measurement) and psychologically (anxiety, sadness, fear of recurrence and energy state-levels).

4.2.2.2. Ecological momentary assessment (EMA)

Patients' emotion regulation in their everyday life will be assessed during 9 days through an ecological momentary assessment (EMA) procedure. Firstly, patients will be asked 5 times a day to select on a list of 20 emotions the 2 or 3 that they were experiencing during the minutes before they saw the notification. For each emotion experienced, they will have to report its intensity on a 10-point Likert scale ranging from 1 to 10. They will have to report to what extent they have felt able to control those emotions and have felt submerged by those emotions. They will report whether during those minutes they had been thinking about something other than what they were currently doing. They will have to answer with one of four options: no; yes, something pleasant; yes, something neutral; or yes, something unpleasant (Killingsworth \& Gilbert, 2010). Finally, they will be asked their level of fatigue and energy. Prompts will be sent randomly from 9 AM to 7,5 PM through the use of the software from http://www.lifedatacorp.com/. Secondly, each evening for 9 consecutive days, patients will have to indicate on the same list of 20 emotions (10 positive and 10 negative emotions), the extent to which they have felt each of the 20 emotions in the past 24 hours and their level of fatigue, from 0 (not at all) to 4 (extremely) (Fredrickson et al., 2003). In order to insure confidentiality, subjects will be provided with an iPod Touch. The two first days of data collection will be used as a training for participants and only their responses on the 7 following days will be taken into consideration. Thirdly, patients will be provided with an armband to continuously record during those 9 days, their heart rate levels, physical activity levels (pedometer and accelerometer) and sleep patterns (Garmin vívoactive HR).

4.2.2.3. Attentional bias task

Patients will complete an attentional bias computer task assessing attentional orientation toward emotional information. An adaptive function of biased attentional orientation toward negative information is to facilitate detection of danger in the environment and to help the organism respond effectively to threatening situations (Bar-Haim et al., 2007). When anxiety symptoms become excessive, biased attentional orientation toward negative information may have detrimental effects on patients' cognitive (e.g., intrusive thoughts, misinterpretation), behavioral (e.g., body screening, future planning difficulties), emotional (e.g., negative affects, panic attacks), and physiological status (e.g., physiological stress activation), and may play a prominent role in the etiology and maintenance of anxiety disorders (Bar-Haim et al., 2007). Computer tasks have been used to study the threat-related attentional bias in anxiety.