Apixaban as Treatment of Venous Thrombosis in Patients With Cancer: The CAP Study
This study is a single-arm, phase IV trial, of apixaban as treatment of venous thrombosis in patients with cancer. The current standard treatment of venous thrombosis in cancer patients is subcutaneous injections with low molecular weight heparin. During the last 5 years several new direct acting oral anticoagulants have been tested out as treatment of venous thrombosis. But very few cancer patients were included in the phase III clinical trials of the direct acting oral anticoagulants. Thus, there is a lack of information on how cancer patients with venous thrombosis will respond to treatment with direct acting oral anticoagulants. The current study will investigate the direct acting oral anticoagulant apixaban in cancer patients with venous thrombosis.
Neoplasms|Venous Thrombosis
DRUG: Apixaban
Recurrent objectively confirmed venous thrombosis or death related to venous thrombosis, 6 months after inclusion|Major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding, 6 months after inclusion
All cause mortality, 6 months after inclusion|All cause mortality, 24 months after inclusion|Recurrent objectively confirmed venous thrombosis or death related to venous thrombosis, 24 months after inclusion|Major or clinically relevant non-major bleeding, 24 months after inclusion
This study is a single-arm, phase IV trial, of apixaban as treatment of venous thrombosis in patients with cancer. The current standard treatment of venous thrombosis in cancer patients is subcutaneous injections with low molecular weight heparin. During the last 5 years several new direct acting oral anticoagulants have been tested out as treatment of venous thrombosis. But very few cancer patients were included in the phase III clinical trials of the direct acting oral anticoagulants. Thus, there is a lack of information on how cancer patients with venous thrombosis will respond to treatment with direct acting oral anticoagulants. The current study will investigate the direct acting oral anticoagulant apixaban in cancer patients with venous thrombosis.