A Study of Atezolizumab Compared With Docetaxel in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Failed Platinum-Containing Therapy
This global, multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled study evaluated the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab (an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 \[anti-PD-L1\] antibody)compared with docetaxel in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure with platinum-containing chemotherapy. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive either docetaxel or atezolizumab. Treatment may continue as long as participants experienced clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator, i.e., in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration attributed to disease progression.
Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel
Percentage of Participants Who Died: PP-ITT, Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Percentage of Participants Who Died: Tumor Cells (TC)1/2/3 or Tumor-Infiltrating Immune Cells (IC)1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, Percentage of participants who died among TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 subgroup of PP-ITT were reported. TC1 = presence of discernible programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) staining of any intensity in \>/=1% and \<5% TCs; TC2: presence of discernible PD-L1 staining of any intensity in \>/=5% and \<50% TCs; TC3 = presence of discernible PD-L1 staining of any intensity in \>/=50% TCs; IC1 = presence of discernible PD-L1 staining of any intensity in ICs covering between \>/=1% and \<5% of tumor area occupied by tumor cells, associated intratumoral, and contiguous peri-tumoral desmoplastic stroma; IC2 = presence of discernible PD-L1 staining of any intensity in ICs covering between \>/=5% and \<10% of tumor area occupied by tumor cells, associated intratumoral, and contiguous peri-tumoral desmoplastic stroma; IC3 = presence of discernible PD-L1 staining of any intensity in ICs covering \>/=10% of tumor area occupied by tumor cells, associated intratumoral, and contiguous peri-tumoral desmoplastic stroma., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Overall Survival (OS): PP-ITT, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.25 years)|OS: TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.25 years)|OS: SP-ITT, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.87 years)|OS: TC1/2/3 Or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of SP, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death from any cause (approximately 2.87 years)|OS: TC2/3 or IC2/3 Subgroup of SP, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.87 years)|OS: TC3 or IC3 Subgroup of SP, OS duration is defined as the difference in time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Data for participants who were not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. Participants who had no post-baseline information were censored at the date of randomization plus 1 day. OS was estimated using KM methodology., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to approximately 2.87 years)
Percentage of Participants With Disease Progression (PD) as Determined by Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) or Death: PP-ITT, PD: at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm), or presence of new lesions., Baseline up to PD or Death (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Percentage of Participants With PD as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1 or Death: TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, PD: at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or presence of new lesions., Baseline up to PD or Death (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: PP-ITT, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented PD or death, whichever occurs first. Participants who are alive and have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment. Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day. PD: at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or presence of new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|PFS as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented PD or death, whichever occurs first. Participants who are alive and have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment. Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day. PD: at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or presence of new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response as Determined Using RECIST v1.1: PP-ITT, Objective response is defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1 on 2 consecutive occasions at least 6 weeks apart. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis less than \[\<\] 10 mm). No new lesions. At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. No new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response as Determined Using RECIST v1.1: TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, Objective response is defined as a CR or PR as determined by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1 on 2 consecutive occasions at least 6 weeks apart. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis \<10 mm). No new lesions. At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. No new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Duration of Response (DOR) as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: PP-ITT, DOR:Duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response to PD or death due to any cause,whichever occurs first.CR:complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease.All nodes,both target and non-target,must decrease to normal. No new lesions.PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR.Participants who have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment.Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day.PD:at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm,progression of existing non-target lesions,or presence of new lesions.DOR was estimated using KM methodology., From first objective response of CR or PR to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|DOR as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: TC1/2/3 or IC1/2/3 Subgroup of PP, DOR:Duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response to PD or death due to any cause,whichever occurs first.CR:complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease.All nodes,both target and non-target,must decrease to normal. No new lesions.PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR.Participants who have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment.Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day.PD:at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm,progression of existing non-target lesions,or presence of new lesions.DOR was estimated using KM methodology., From first objective response of CR or PR to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.25 years)|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Therapeutic Antibodies (ATAs) Against Atezolizumab, Baseline up to approximately 2.25 years (assessed at predose [Hour {Hr} 0] on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 16, then every 8 cycles up to end of treatment (EOT) [approximately 2.25 years]; 120 days after EOT [approximately 2.25 years] [1 Cycle=21 days])|Maximum Observed Serum Atezolizumab Concentration (Cmax), Predose (Hr 0), 30 minutes (min) post-infusion (infusion duration: 60 min) on Cycle 1 Day 1 (1 Cycle=21 days)|Minimum Observed Serum Atezolizumab Concentration (Cmin), Predose (Hr 0) on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 16, 24, 32, EOT (approximately 2.25 years); 120 days after EOT (approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle=21 days)|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in Patient-Reported Lung Cancer Symptoms, Using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (QLQ) Lung Cancer Supplemental Module 13 (LC13), TTD in patient-reported lung cancer symptoms (pain in chest or in arm/shoulder, dyspnea, or cough) was a composite endpoint defined as the time from randomization to the earliest time the participant's scale scores showed a 10 point or greater increase after baseline in any of the symptoms. A \>/=10-point change in the score perceived by participants was considered as clinically significant. The QLQ-LC13 consisted of 1 multi-item scale and 9 single items that assessed the specific symptoms (dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, and site specific pain), side effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, neuropathy, and alopecia), and pain medication use of lung cancer participants receiving chemotherapy. Scale score range: 0 to 100. Higher symptom score = greater degree of symptom severity., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle = 21 days)|EORTC QLQ Core 30 (C30) Questionnaire Score: Single Items, EORTC QLQ-C30 included global health status (GHS)/quality of life (QOL), functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Most questions from QLQ-C30 were a 4-point scale (1/Not at All to 4/Very Much), except Items 29-30, which comprise GHS scale and were a 7-point scale (1/Very Poor to 7/Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement). Symptom scales/items were also linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where higher scores indicate worse symptoms (e.g., more severe/worsened) and lower scores indicate less symptoms (e.g., less severe/improvement)., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire Score: Functional Subscales, EORTC QLQ-C30 included GHS/QOL, functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Most questions from QLQ-C30 were a 4-point scale (1/Not at All to 4/Very Much), except Items 29-30, which comprise GHS scale and were a 7-point scale (1/Very Poor to 7/Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement). Symptom scales/items were also linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where higher scores indicate worse symptoms (e.g., more severe/worsened) and lower scores indicate less symptoms (e.g., less severe/improvement)., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire Score: GHS Scale, EORTC QLQ-C30 included GHS/QOL, functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Most questions from QLQ-C30 were a 4-point scale (1/Not at All to 4/Very Much), except Items 29-30, which comprise GHS scale and were a 7-point scale (1/Very Poor to 7/Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement). Symptom scales/items were also linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where higher scores indicate worse symptoms (e.g., more severe/worsened) and lower scores indicate less symptoms (e.g., less severe/improvement)., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire Score: Symptom Subscale, EORTC QLQ-C30 included GHS/QOL, functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, social), symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting), and single items (dyspnea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). Most questions from QLQ-C30 were a 4-point scale (1/Not at All to 4/Very Much), except Items 29-30, which comprise GHS scale and were a 7-point scale (1/Very Poor to 7/Excellent). For this instrument, GHS/QOL and functional scales were linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where lower scores indicate poorer functioning (e.g., worsening) and higher scores indicate better functioning (e.g., improvement). Symptom scales/items were also linearly transformed so each score ranged 0-100, where higher scores indicate worse symptoms (e.g., more severe/worsened) and lower scores indicate less symptoms (e.g., less severe/improvement)., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Alopecia, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for alopecia., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Coughing, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for coughing., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Dysphagia, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for dysphagia., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Dyspnea, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for dyspnea., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Hemoptysis, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for hemoptysis., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD ( Pro Week 6 Pd) (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Pain in Arm or Shoulder, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for pain in arm or shoulder., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Pain in Chest, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for pain in chest., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Peripheral Neuropathy, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for peripheral neuropathy., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Pain in Other Parts, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for pain in other parts., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|EORTC QLQ-LC13 Questionnaire Score: Sore Mouth, QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 questions relating to disease symptoms specific to lung cancer and treatment side effects typical of treatment with chemotherapy and radiotherapy experienced during past 1 week. The 13 questions comprised 1 multi-item scale for dyspnea and 10 single-item symptoms and side effects (coughing, hemoptysis, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, pain in chest, pain in arm or shoulder, pain in other parts. Response range: (1) not at all to (4) very much. Scores for each item were transformed to 0 to 100, where higher symptom score = greater degree of symptoms. Results have been reported for sore mouth., Day 1 of each treatment Cycle up to EOT (up to approximately 2.25 years); 6 week following PD (up to approximately 2.25 years); survival follow-up-1 (up to approximately 2.25 years) (1 Cycle= 21 days)|PFS as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: SP-ITT, PFS is defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of first documented PD or death, whichever occurs first. Participants who are alive and have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment. Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day. PD: at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or presence of new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.87 years)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response as Determined Using RECIST v1.1: SP-ITT, Objective response is defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1 on 2 consecutive occasions at least 6 weeks apart. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis less than \[\<\] 10 mm). No new lesions. At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. No new lesions., Baseline up to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.87 years)|DOR as Determined by Investigator Using RECIST v1.1: SP ITT, DOR:Duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response to PD or death due to any cause,whichever occurs first.CR:complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease.All nodes,both target and non-target,must decrease to normal. No new lesions.PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR.Participants who have not experienced PD at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment.Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the randomization date plus 1 day.PD:at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions compared to the smallest sum of diameters on-study and absolute increase of at least 5 mm,progression of existing non-target lesions,or presence of new lesions.DOR was estimated using KM methodology., From first objective response of CR or PR to PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first (up to approximately 2.87 years)
This global, multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled study evaluated the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab (an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 \[anti-PD-L1\] antibody)compared with docetaxel in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after failure with platinum-containing chemotherapy. Participants were randomized 1:1 to receive either docetaxel or atezolizumab. Treatment may continue as long as participants experienced clinical benefit as assessed by the investigator, i.e., in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or symptomatic deterioration attributed to disease progression.