ADMIRAL Trial: Adaptive Mediastinal Radiation With Chemo-Immunotherapy
This phase II trial studies two questions in patients with stage III NSCLC: 1) does it improve cancer control to add the drug Durvalumab, a type of immunotherapy, earlier in the treatment course; and 2) by intensifying treatment with durvalumab, is it possible to avoid mediastinal radiation to decrease side effects, without decreasing cancer control?
Locally Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Cisplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Etoposide|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Pemetrexed
1 Year Progression-free Survival Rate (PFS), Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., Study enrollment to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, for up to 1 year
Frequency and Severity of Pneumonitis, The primary toxicity of interest is grade 3 or higher pneumonitis. The incidence of grade 3 or worse pneumonitis attributable to treatment will be evaluated and compared against the PACIFIC trial results. All toxicities of all grades will be monitored on study and reported. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as toxicity., Through study completion (up to 4 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., From study registration to death due to any cause|Response Rate, Will be evaluated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals for median times will be determined using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method. Confidence intervals around landmark times will be determined using Greenwood's formula for the variance and based on a log-log transformation applied on the survival function. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as response. Means and/or medians will be calculated for continuous outcomes. Confidence bounds will be provided for means and quartiles and ranges for median values. All confidence bounds will be presented as 95% bounds., Through study completion (up to 4 months)|Frequency of Adverse Events, Frequency and severity of toxicities will be graded with Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5. Toxicities will be summarized as the proportion of patients with such toxicities, in addition to total number of toxicities (allowing for multiple toxicities within a patient) among all patients. All toxicities of all grades will be monitored on study and reported. Binary proportions will be calculated with associated confidence intervals for binary outcomes, such as toxicity., Through study completion (up to 4 months)
OUTLINE:

Patients will receive platinum doublet chemotherapy per standard of care with durvalumab for 8 weeks, concurrent with a short course of radiation to the primary lung tumor. Patients will then undergo repeat evaluation of the mediastinal lymph nodes. If there is no cancer in the lymph nodes, patients will receive 2 years of adjuvant durvalumab. If there is still cancer in the lymph nodes, patients will receive 6 weeks of radiation to the mediastinal lymph nodes, and 2 years of adjuvant durvalumab.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 12 months.