DUMAS: Neo-Adjuvant Immunotherapy for Pancoast Tumors
The goal of this clinical trial is to test the efficacy of induction treatment of immunotherapy and chemotherapy depending on the resection status for the treatment of non small cell lung cancer patients diagnosed with pancoast tumor.

The main objectives it aims to answer are:

* Complete resection rate after induction treatment with chemotherapy plus nivolumab
* Overall Survival and Progression Free Survival at 24 months

The sample size is 40 patients.
NSCLC|Pancoast Tumor
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nivolumab
Estimate progression-free survival (PFS), The PFS is defined as the time from diagnosis to relapse, progression or death, whichever occurred first, From the date randomization until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months
Overall survival, The length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of the treatment that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., From the date of randomization until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), It will be measured by the incidence of AE, SAE, immune-related AEs, deaths, and laboratory abnormalities. Adverse events will be graded according to CTCAE v5.0, From the subject's written consent to participate in the study through 100 days after the final administration of the drug|Complete resection (R0) rate, Defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death, From the date of completion of induction treatment until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months
This is an open-label, phase II, single-arm, multi-centre clinical trial.

The total sample size is 40 patients. The population to be included are previously untreated patients with histologically- or cytologically- documented NSCLC diagnosed with Pancoast tumor.

Patients will receive Nivolumab 360mg + Paclitaxel 200mg/m2 + Carboplatin AUC6 for 3 cycles every 21 days (+/- 3 days) as neoadjuvant treatment followed by surgery and 6 months of adjuvant treatment with Nivolumab 480 mg Q4W (+/- 3 days) if applicable and depending on surgery results. Patients that will not receive adjuvant treatment will start follow up phase after end of treatment visit. Follow up for all patients must be done for 2 years.

The primary objective is to evaluate the complete resection (R0) rate after induction treatment defined as the absence of residual tumor in patients treated with neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy.Secondary objectives and endpoint are Overall survival rate at 24 months and disease-free survival rate at 24 months.

Patient accrual is expected to be completed within 2 years excluding a run-in-period of 3 months. Treatment and follow-up are expected to extend the study duration to a total of 5 years. The study will end once survival follow-up has concluded.