Stereotactic Operation Integrating With Thrombolysis in Basal Ganglion Hemorrhage Evacuation II
Spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage is one of the main causes of death and disability all over the world, accounting for 20%-30% of all cerebrovascular diseases. Minimally invasive surgery of cerebral hemorrhage, especially puncture aspiration, can improve early and long-term neurological recovery in patients with cerebral hemorrhage. Until now, no standardized practice for minimally invasive surgery of spontaneous cerebral hemorrhage has been established. Hematoma puncture and drainage based on CT scans without precise localization and personalized approach design, which may lead to poor efficacy and high risk of complications. The investigators' hospital has much experience in treating cerebral hemorrhage with stereotactic puncture and aspiration. So the investigators conduct a prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial across the country to determine the therapeutic effects of puncture aspiration plus thrombolysis treatment for the perioperative and long-term recovery of patients with small hematoma in deep basal ganglia via computerized precision coordinates and personalized approach design.
Basal Ganglia Hemorrhage
PROCEDURE: Minimally invasive puncture aspiration plus rt-PA|DRUG: Conservative medical treatment
Change of ADL score, ADL: Activities of Daily Living, ranges from 0-100, a higher ADL score means a better situation., at 6 months of follow-up
Hematoma clearance rate, at 1 day and 1 month after treatment|Change in GCS score, GCS: Glasgow Coma Scale, ranges from 3-15, a higher GCS score means a better situation., at 1 month after treatment|Mortality rate, at 6 months of follow-up|Improvement of the muscle strength of the hemiplegic limbs and aphasia, after 6 months of follow-up|Change in GCS score, GCS: Glasgow Coma Scale, ranges from 3-15, a higher GCS score means a better situation., at 6 months after treatment|Length of hospital stay, at 6 months after treatment|All costs of the hospital stay, at 6 months after treatment
1. Prospective enrollment of patients with small spontaneous basal ganglia hematoma according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria in 14 major neurosurgical centers across the country to establish a multi-center clinical database of spontaneous small basal ganglia hematoma with data maintenance and update.
2. Random allocation of the patients enrolled into control group (conservative treatment with conventional drugs) or intervention group (minimally invasive puncture aspiration plus rt-PA); long-term follow-up for 6 months to compare the recent and long-term mortality rate, disability rate and related complications of the two groups.