A Trial to Compare the Incidence of Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) and Other Skin Neoplasia on Skin Areas Treated With Ingenol Disoxate Gel or Vehicle Gel for Actinic Keratosis on Face and Chest or Scalp
One of the main reasons for treating actinic keratoses (AK) is the wish to lower the risk of progression of AK to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). This risk is in the order of 1 per 1000 AKs per year, which is in itself a small risk, but since patients can have dozens of AKs and the disease is chronic the cumulative risk for a patient can be substantial.

In this extension protocol of trials LP0084-1193, -1194, -1195 and -1196, LEO will study the incidence of SCCs and other skin neoplasia in vehicle and ingenol disoxate treated patients over a period of 2 years, so that the total follow-up time for each patient will be 3 years and 2 months.
Actinic Keratosis|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: ingenol disoxate gel 0.018%|DRUG: ingenol disoxate gel 0.037%|OTHER: Vehicle gel
Time to First Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) in the Treatment Area, Time to first squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) in the treatment area. Relative difference between groups (ingenol disoxate vs vehicle) expressed as hazard ratio.

The indicated measured values are the observed incidence rates of the SCC in the treatment area which form the basis of the statistical analysis of the time to event analysis, From Visit 2 (6 months after Month 14 of main trial) to first SCC in the treatment area, up to 24 months
Time to First Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) or Other Skin Neoplasia in the Treatment Area, Time to first squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) or other skin neoplasia in the treatment area. Relative difference between groups (ingenol disoxate vs vehicle) expressed as hazard ratio.

The indicated measured values are the observed incidence rates of the SCC in the treatment area which form the basis of the statistical analysis of the time to event analysis, From Visit 2 (6 months after Month 14 of main trial) to first SCC or other skin neoplasia in the treatment area, up to 24 months
One of the main reasons for treating actinic keratoses (AK) is the wish to lower the risk of progression of AK to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). This risk is in the order of 1 per 1000 AKs per year, which is in itself a small risk, but since patients can have dozens of AKs and the disease is chronic the cumulative risk for a patient can be substantial.

In this extension protocol of trials LP0084-1193, -1194, -1195 and -1196, LEO will study the incidence of SCCs and other skin neoplasia in vehicle and ingenol disoxate treated patients over a period of 2 years, so that the total follow-up time for each patient will be 3 years and 2 months.