Fludarabine Phosphate, Cyclophosphamide, Total-Body Irradiation, and Donor Bone Marrow Transplant Followed by Donor Natural Killer Cell Therapy, Mycophenolate Mofetil, and Tacrolimus in Treating Patients With Hematologic Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of donor natural killer (NK) cell therapy and to see how well it works when given together with fludarabine phosphate, cyclophosphamide, total-body irradiation, donor bone marrow transplant, mycophenolate mofetil, and tacrolimus in treating patients with hematologic cancer. Giving chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate and cyclophosphamide, and total-body irradiation before a donor bone marrow transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Giving an infusion of the donor's T cells (donor lymphocyte infusion) may help the patient's immune system see any remaining cancer cells as not belonging in the patient's body and destroy them (called graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus after the transplant may stop this from happening.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Recurrent Indolent Adult Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|BIOLOGICAL: Natural Killer Cell Therapy|DRUG: Tacrolimus|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities, Defined as having at least one of the following adverse events, independent of the attribution to the Natural Killer cell infusion: grade IV infusional toxicity (based on the Adapted Common Toxicity Criteria); grade IV regimen-related toxicity (based on Adapted Common Toxicity Criteria); grade IV acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease; non-relapse mortality., Day 35 (28 days after NK cell infusion)|Number of Participants With Relapsed Disease, CML New cytogenetic abnormality and/or development of accelerated phase or blast crisis. The criteria for accelerated phase will be defined as unexplained fever greater than 38.3°C, new clonal cytogenetic abnormalities in addition to a single Ph-positive chromosome, marrow blasts and promyelocytes \>20%.

AML, ALL \>5% marrow blasts by morphologic or flow cytometric, or appearance of extramedullary disease.

CLL ≥1 of: Physical exam/Imaging studies (nodes, liver, and/or spleen) ≥50% increase or new, circulating lymphocytes by morphology and/or flow cytometry ≥50% increase, and lymph node biopsy w/ Richter's transformation.

NHL \>25% increase in the sum of the products of the perpendicular diameters of marker lesions, or the appearance of new lesions.

MM

≥100% increase of the serum myeloma protein from its lowest level, or reappearance of myeloma peaks that had disappeared w/ treatment; or definite increase in the size or number of plasmacytomas or lytic bone lesions., At 1 year|Number of Participants With Grades III-IV Acute GVHD, Number of patients who developed acute GVHD post-transplant. aGVHD Stages

Skin:

a maculopapular eruption involving \< 25% BSA a maculopapular eruption involving 25 - 50% BSA generalized erythroderma generalized erythroderma with bullous formation and often with desquamation

Liver:

bilirubin 2.0 - 3.0 mg/100 mL bilirubin 3 - 5.9 mg/100 mL bilirubin 6 - 14.9 mg/100 mL bilirubin \> 15 mg/100 mL

Gut:

Diarrhea is graded 1 - 4 in severity. Nausea and vomiting and/or anorexia caused by GVHD is assigned as 1 in severity. The severity of gut involvement is assigned to the most severe involvement noted. Patients with visible bloody diarrhea are at least stage 2 gut and grade 3 overall.

aGVHD Grades Grade III: Stage 2 - 4 gut involvement and/or stage 2 - 4 liver involvement Grade IV: Pattern and severity of GVHD similar to grade 3 with extreme constitutional symptoms or death, Day 100|Number of Non-relapse Participant Mortalities, Defined as death in any patient for whom there has not been a diagnosis of relapse or disease progression., Day 200|Number of Participants Who Experienced Graft Failure, Graft failure is defined as grade IV thrombocytopenia and neutropenia after Day +21 that lasts \>2 weeks and is refractory to growth factor support., Day 100
Number of Subjects Surviving Post-transplant., Number of subjects surviving post-transplant., Up to 1 year|Number of Participants Who Experienced Chronic Extensive GVHD, Number of patients who developed chronic extensive GVHD post-transplant. The diagnosis of chronic GVHD requires at least one manifestation that is distinctive for chronic GVHD as opposed to acute GVHD. In all cases, infection and others causes must be ruled out in the differential diagnosis of chronic GVHD., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identification of the maximal feasible dose of NK cells that can be infused one week after nonmyeloablative, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-haploidentical hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT). (Phase I)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

Once the maximal feasible dose has been identified, accrual will be limited to the cohort containing this cell dose to determine:

I. Incidence of relapse. (Phase II)

II. Incidence of grades III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). (Phase II)

III. Incidence of non-relapse mortality. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of donor NK cell therapy followed by a phase II study.

CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2 and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on days -6 and -5. Patients undergo total-body irradiation on day -1.

DONOR BONE MARROW TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo donor bone marrow transplantation on day 0.

POST-TRANSPLANTATION IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day 3 and mycophenolate mofetil orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days 4 to 40, followed by a taper until day 84 in the absence of GVHD. Patients also receive tacrolimus IV continuously or IV once daily (QD) over 1-2 hours or PO twice daily (BID) on days 4 to 84, followed by a taper until day 180 in the absence of GVHD.

DONOR NK CELL INFUSION: Patients undergo donor lymphocyte infusion of NK cells on day 7.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months, 1 year, 1.5 years, and then every year thereafter.