Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Lenalidomide, to the Usual Combination Chemotherapy Treatment ("EPOCH") for Adult T-Cell Leukemia-Lymphoma (ATLL)
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with usual combination chemotherapy (etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate \[Oncovin\], cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrochloride \[hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride\], or "EPOCH") in treating adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma. Lenalidomide may help shrink or slow the growth of adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Anti-inflammatory drugs such as prednisone lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Giving lenalidomide and the usual combination chemotherapy may work better in treating adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma compared to the usual combination chemotherapy alone.
Acute Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Chronic Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|HTLV-1 Infection
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Lenalidomide|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Will determine the MTD for lenalidomide in combination with etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate (Oncovin), cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride) (EPOCH) chemotherapy., Up to the end of induction therapy
Overall response rate, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Binomial proportions and their 95% confidence intervals will be used to estimate the response rates of therapy., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Duration of response, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to evaluate the response duration., From the time measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival, Profession-free survival will be determined by the number of weeks from the time of initiation of therapy until there is evidence of tumor progression by acute T-cell leukemia (ATL) response criteria of Tuskasaki, 2009., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Overall survival, Over survival will be determined by the number of week of weeks from the time of initiation of therapy until death., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|T-cell receptor pathway gene mutational spectrum, T-cell receptor pathway gene mutation will be determined by targeted next-generation sequence after hybridization to specific oligonucleotide capture probes corresponding to the sequence most commonly mutation in ATL as defined by Kataoka et al, 2015., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) proviral deoxyribonucleic acid and ribonucleic acid loads, Analysis of variance methods will be used to evaluate the effects of treatment and time on the viral load measurements, as well as measurements of viral transcripts., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|HTLV-1 clonality, HTLV-1 clonality will be determined by next generation sequence analysis of viral integration sites resulting in a distribution of the number of reads for each integration site plotted per integration site, as described by Gillet et al. 2011., Up to 2 years after completion of study treatment|Incidence of toxicities, The incidence of toxicities will be estimated using the binomial proportion and its 95% confidence interval., Up to the end of induction therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safest and most tolerable dose and schedule of lenalidomide to combine with etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate (Oncovin), cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrochloride (hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride) (EPOCH) chemotherapy in adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma (ATL/ATLL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine if lenalidomide and EPOCH activity results in significant improvement in remission rates, duration of remissions, and overall survival (OS) as compared to historical controls.

III. To determine if lenalidomide and EPOCH activity correlates with T-cell receptor (TCR) pathway gene mutational spectrum.

IV. To determine effects of lenalidomide and EPOCH on human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1) proviral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) loads.

V. To determine effects of lenalidomide and EPOCH on HTLV-1 clonality.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a dose-expansion study.

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of 21 day cycles or days 1-21 or 1-28 of 28 day cycles. Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-4, vincristine sulfate IV continuously on days 1-4, etoposide IV continuously on days 1-4, prednisone PO on days 1-5, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1-4 hours on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 or 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) may receive up to 2 additional cycles of lenalidomide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide at the discretion of the investigator and/or up to an additional 2 years of lenalidomide in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy at baseline and as clinically indicated. Patients undergo positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) or CT, tissue and blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years from end of induction. Patients who do not continue on lenalidomide maintenance are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years from the end of induction, progression, withdrawal, or until death, whichever occurs first.