Isolated Limb Perfusion With Melphalan in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB-IV Melanoma or Sarcoma
This pilot clinical trial studies isolated limb perfusion with melphalan in treating patients with stage IIIB-IV melanoma or sarcoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as melphalan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Heating a chemotherapy solution and infusing it directly into the arteries around the tumor may kill more tumor cells.
Basal Cell Carcinoma of the Skin|Eccrine Carcinoma of the Skin|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Melanoma|Recurrent Skin Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: isolated limb perfusion|DRUG: melphalan|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Overall response rate (complete and partial response) assessed by the RECIST v1.1, Rates of complete and partial response will be computed and reported with their 95% confidence intervals., Up to 12 weeks
Time to recurrence, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used. 95% confidence intervals will be computed using Greenwood's formula., Up to 4 years|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used. 95% confidence intervals will be computed using Greenwood's formula., Time of ILP procedure to date of recurrence, assessed up to 4 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used. 95% confidence intervals will be computed using Greenwood's formula., Time of ILP treatment to time of death, assessed up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. This prospective trial will evaluate total response rate, including complete and partial response, in patients with unresectable extremity melanoma (or other skin cancer including but not limited to Merkel cell carcinoma) or soft tissue sarcoma treated with hyperthermic-isolated limb perfusion (ILP) with melphalan.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the technical parameters including achievement of regional hyperthermia, arterial blood gas (ABG), tourniquet time, and their association with tumor response.

II. To evaluate time to recurrence and progression free survival (PFS) for patients with advanced extremity melanoma or sarcoma who achieved complete response after treatment with ILP with melphalan.

III. To evaluate overall survival rate and duration of survival for patients with advanced melanoma or sarcoma limited to extremity undergoing ILP with melphalan.

IV. To assess quality of life (QOL) score for patients undergoing ILP with melphalan.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo ILP with melphalan intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, and then periodically thereafter.