Cetuximab & Nivolumab in Patients With Recurrent/Metastatic Head & Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to find out if the combination of two established anti-cancer therapies are beneficial in participants with Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (HNSCC). Specifically, investigators want to determine if the combination of Cetuximab and nivolumab can help people with advanced cases of HNSCC. Both cetuximab and nivolumab have been used separately to treat HNSCC and are Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved in this type of cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Cancer|Head and Neck Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Cetuximab
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose, Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD).. The target Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) rate is \<25%. The MTD will be defined as the dose of cetuximab and nivolumab in which \<1 of 3 patients experience a DLT or \<2 of 6 patients experience a DLT with the next higher dose having at least 2 patients experiencing a DLT. The MTD is the highest dose at which at most 1 of 6 patients has a DLT. This study will utilize the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program CTCAE version 4.1 for toxicity and event reporting. Dose-limiting toxicities will be observed until patients have completed Cycle 1 (4 weeks)., Up to 12 months|Phase II: Overall Survival (OS), One year overall survival of concurrent cetuximab and nivolumab in patients with recurrent and/or metastatic HNSCC. OS: The length of time from the start of treatment until death by any cause., Up to 24 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Complete Response (CR): The disappearance of all measurable lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of measureable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. To be assigned a status of stable disease, measurements must have met the stable disease criteria at least once after study entry at a minimum interval of 6 weeks., Up to 48 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s)., at 12 months|Number of Study Treatment Related Adverse Events, Related adverse events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.1. An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence, including an exacerbation of a pre-existing condition, in a patient in a clinical investigation who received a pharmaceutical product.

A serious adverse event (SAE) is defined as any AE that results in death, is immediately life-threatening, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, requires or prolongs patient hospitalization, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or is to be deemed serious for any other reason if it is an important medical event when based on appropriate medical judgement that may jeopardize the patient and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the other outcomes listed in the above definitions., Up to 48 months
PHASE I: Participants will be enrolled sequentially and treated at Dose Level 1, or Dose Level -1, every 2 weeks for 12 cycles or until discontinuation.

Each cycle is 4 weeks. Cetuximab is given alone in lead-in period at Day -14 before Cycle 1 only. In all subsequent doses starting Cycle 1 Day 1, nivolumab and cetuximab will be given concurrently. Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) assessment will be performed during Cycle 1 and will start with the initiation of the combination of cetuximab and nivolumab (4 weeks).

PHASE II: Once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the recommended phase II dose of cetuximab is determined in Phase I, accrual to the phase II will begin.

FOLLOW-UP: Participants will be followed for 2 years from End of Treatment. The imaging studies will be performed every 8 weeks (2 cycles) of the treatments during Cycle 1-6 and then every 12 weeks during Cycle 7-12 as per standard of care. Patient will be followed by treating physicians as per standard of care.