Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to compare the combination of pemetrexed and carboplatin with the combination of docetaxel and carboplatin in terms of survival without Grade 3 or 4 toxicity in previously untreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: carboplatin
Survival Without Grade 3 or 4 Toxicity, Defined as the time from date of randomization to first date of a Grade 3 or 4 treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE; as graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\], version 3.0) or death due to any cause. Grade 3 TEAE: Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated. Grade 4 TEAE: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated.

Participants who were alive without experiencing Grade 3 or 4 toxicity were censored at the date of last contact., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).
Overall Survival (OS), OS is the duration from enrollment to death. For participants who are alive, OS is censored at the last contact., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from date of first dose to the first observation of disease progression (PD), or death due to any cause., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).|Percentage of Participants With Tumor Response (Response Rate), Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR)=at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD)=at least a 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD)=small changes not meeting above criteria. Response rate (%)=Number of participants with CR+PR/Number of participants analyzed \*100. Disease Control rate=Number of participants with SD+PR+CR/Number of participants analyzed \*100., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).|Survival Without Clinically Important Grade 3 or 4 Toxicity, Survival without Grade 3 or 4 toxicity is the time from date of randomization to the first date of the following clinically important Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs graded by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\], version 3.0: neutropenia (lasting \>5 days), febrile neutropenia, documented infections related to neutropenia, anemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomatitis, and neurosensory events; or death due to any cause. Participants who were alive without experiencing Grade 3 or 4 toxicity were censored for this analysis at the date of last contact., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).|Survival Without Grade 4 Toxicity, Survival without Grade 4 toxicity is the time from the date of randomization to the first date of a Grade 4 TEAE or death due to any cause. Participants who are alive without experiencing Grade 4 toxicity will be censored for this analysis at the date of last contact., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Summaries of serious AEs (SAEs) and all other non-serious AEs are located in the Reported Adverse Event Module., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).
Duration of Response, The duration of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause. Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. CR=disappearance of all target lesions; PR=at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., Baseline to until 218 events (defined as death or Grade 3 or 4 toxicity) have been observed (up to 33.3 months).
The purpose of this study is to compare the combination of pemetrexed and carboplatin with the combination of docetaxel and carboplatin in terms of survival without Grade 3 or 4 toxicity in previously untreated patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).