Comparing Proton Therapy to Photon Radiation Therapy for Esophageal Cancer
This trial studies how well proton beam radiation therapy compared with intensity modulated photon radiotherapy works in treating patients with stage I-IVA esophageal cancer. Proton beam radiation therapy uses a beam of protons (rather than x-rays) to send radiation inside the body to the tumor without damaging much of the healthy tissue around it. Intensity modulated photon radiotherapy uses high-energy x-rays to deliver radiation directly to the tumor without damaging much of the healthy tissue around it. It is not yet known whether proton beam therapy or intensity modulated photon radiotherapy will work better in treating patients with esophageal cancer.
Clinical Stage I Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage I Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage I Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage II Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage I Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage I Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage I Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IB Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IC Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IC Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage II Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIB Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage I Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage I Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage I Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage II Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage II Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage II Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIB Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIB Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Esophageal Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Thoracic Esophagus Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Esophagectomy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: FOLFOX regimen|DRUG: CAPOX regimen|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: 5FU
Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The distributions of OS between treatment arms will be compared using the log rank test., From the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause or date of last follow-up for patients without an OS event reported. This analysis occurs after 173 deaths; estimated to occur 4 years after accrual completion|Incidence of specific grade 3+ cardiopulmonary adverse events (AEs) that are definitely, probably, or possibly related to protocol treatment, Will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. Difference in proportion of defined cardiopulmonary AEs will be analyzed with a chi-squared test., From baseline up to 8 years
Pathologic response rate, A Chi-square test will be used to compare the pathologic response rates between the treatment arms., At time of surgery|Grade 4 lymphopenia during chemoradiation, Will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. The proportion of patients experiencing grade 4 lymphopenia during chemoradiation will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-squared test., From the start of chemoradiation to the end of chemoradiation treatment assessed up to 31 days|Lymphocyte counts, Mean lymphocyte counts at first post chemoradiation follow-up will be compared between treatment arms using a t-test. If the data do not satisfy the normality assumption, a Wilcoxin test may be used instead., From the last date of chemoradiation up to 8 weeks post chemoradiation|Locoregional failure (LRF), Will be defined as local/regional recurrence or progression. Will be estimated by the cumulative incidence method, with death as a competing risk. The distribution of LRF estimates between the two arms will be compared using Gray?s test. The Fine-Gray regression model will be used to analyze the effects of factors, in addition to treatment, which may be associated with LRF., From the date of randomization to the date of first LRF or date of last follow-up for patients without an LRF event reported, assessed up to 8 years|Distant metastatic-free survival (DMFS), Will be defined as appearance of distant metastasis or death due to any cause. Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and estimates between the two treatment arms will be compared using the log rank test. The Cox proportional hazard regression model will be used to analyze the effects of factors, in addition to treatment, which may be associated with DMFS., From the date of randomization to the date of first DMFS failure or last follow-up for patients without a reported DMFS event, assessed up to 8 years|Progression-free survival, Will be defined as appearance of local/regional/distant failure or death due to any cause. Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and estimates between the two treatment arms will be compared using the log rank test. The Cox proportional hazard regression model will be used to analyze the effects of factors, in addition to treatment, which may be associated with PFS., From the date of randomization to the date of first PFS failure or last follow-up for patients without a reported PFS event, assessed up to 8 years|Quality-adjusted life years (QALY), Will be evaluated and compared using EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D) only if the primary endpoint is met., Assessed up to 8 years|Cost-benefit economic analysis of treatment, Will be calculated by the visual analog scale (VAS) and index scores form the EQ-5D-5L only be done if primary endpoint is met. Will be compared between treatment arms using a t-test with a 2-sided significance level of 0.05. If there are significant differences, then a cost analysis will be conducted., Assessed up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if overall survival (OS) is improved with proton beam radiation therapy (PBT) treatment as compared to intensity modulated photon radiation therapy (IMRT) as part of planned protocol treatment for patients with esophageal cancer.

II. To determine if OS with PBT is non-inferior to IMRT as part of planned protocol treatment and that there will be less grade 3+ cardiopulmonary toxicity with PBT than with IMRT.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the symptom burden and impact on functioning of patients between treatment modalities based on Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) measures of symptoms using MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) and Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-Fatigue.

II. To compare the Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALY) using EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire (EQ5D) as a health outcome between PBT and IMRT, if the protocol primary endpoint is met.

III. To assess the pathologic response rate between PBT and IMRT. IV. To assess the cost-benefit economic analysis of treatment between radiation modalities.

V. To compare the length of hospitalization after protocol surgery between PBT and IMRT.

VI. To compare the incidence of grade 4 lymphopenia during chemoradiation between PBT and IMRT.

VII. To compare lymphocyte nadir at first follow-up visit after completion of chemoradiation between PBT \& IMRT.

VIII. To estimate the locoregional failure, distant metastatic free survival, and progression-free survival of patients treated with PBT versus IMRT.

IX. To compare incidence of both early (\< 90 days from treatment start) and late (≥ 90 days from treatment start) cardiovascular and pulmonary events between PBT versus IMRT.

X. To compare the Total Toxicity Burden (TTB) of IMRT versus PBT based on a composite index of 9 individual cardiopulmonary toxicities.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect biospecimens for future analyses, for example to assess cardiac and inflammatory biomarkers in association with treatment complications.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo PBT over 28 fractions 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) and carboplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 while undergoing PBT.

GROUP II: Patients undergo IMRT over 28 fractions 5 days a week for 5.5 weeks. Patients also receive paclitaxel IV and carboplatin IV on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36 while undergoing IMRT.

In both groups, within 4-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy and radiation therapy, patients may undergo an esophagectomy per physician discretion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 3 years and then annually thereafter.