Fast-track Rehabilitation After Elective Colorectal and Small Bowel Resection
The purpose of this study is to address the question of whether or not oral alimentation and ambulation exercise should be begun early in patients following laparoscopic colorectal surgery compared to the classical diet and ambulation which depends on reappearance of functional intestinal transit. Early oral alimentation following laparoscopic colorectal surgery may decrease hospital stay and facilitate earlier discharge with comparable postoperative morbidity.
Colorectal Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: fast-track rehabilitation
the Length of Hospital Stay, discharge criteria

1. Tolerance of consecutive 3 soft bland diet
2. Unassisted ambulation
3. No necessity of analgesics
4. Afebrile without major complication
5. Willing to discharge, at discharge|Pain, score measured by the Visual Analog Scale, at discharge|Quality of Life, measured by SF-36, at discharge|Postoperative Complication During the First Admission, at discharge|Recovery, recovery criteria must include all of the following

1. Tolerance of consecutive 3 soft bland diet
2. Unassisted ambulation
3. No necessity of analgesics
4. Afebrile without major complication, at discharge
Readmission Rate, at postoperative day 30|Pain, score measured by the Visual Analog Scale, at postoperative day 30|Quality of Life, measured by SF-36, at postoperative day 30|Postoperative Complication, at postoperative day 30
Traditionally, patients who received laparoscopic colorectal surgery were treated with the classical protocol including the use of a naso-gastric tube and starvation for several postoperative days till the recovery of bowel movement, or bed resting at immediate postoperative period followed by ward ambulation at the postoperative day 1 or 2. Restarting the oral alimentation is based on gas or feces reappearance after surgery and usually this is possible at several days following surgery. However, prolonged starvation might be uncomfortable for the patient as well as increasing his postoperative hospital stay. Recently, several studies reported the efficacy of early rehabilitation protocols after intestinal surgery, showing that early oral alimentation could reduce the length of hospital stay and cost of hospitalization without significant increase of postoperative complications, compared to traditional management.

This prospective, randomized study was designed to evaluate the effectiveness of a postoperative care pathway using rehabilitation with early ambulation and diet for patients undergoing elective laparoscopic colorectal resection compared with the traditional postoperative care.

In order to conduct this study, patients having a laparoscopic colon resection will be randomly attributed to enhanced recovery program group or control group, which is divided based on the postoperative management protocol.