Diagnostic Performance of PET/CT-PSMA in Patients With Non-prostatic PSMA-expressing Neoplasms
Study to collect data from PET/CT-PSMA performed in patients with neoplasms expressing PSMA, other than prostate cancer.

Objectives The primary objective is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of PET/CT-PSMA in the staging and management of patients with non-prostatic neoplasms expressing PSMA.

The secondary objective is to analyze the prognostic value of PET-PSMA in such neoplasms and the possible use in the selection of patients eligible for target therapies against neovascularization (i.e. monoclonal anti-VEGF antibodies) and radiopharmaceutical treatments (i.e. 177Lu-PSMA).
PSMA Positive Tumors or Tumor Tissues|Cancer
OTHER: 68Ga-PSMA-11
PSMA PET/CT performance, the evaluation of diagnostic performance of PSMA PET/CT and the positivity rate (%) globally and stratified by specific pathology in staging, re-staging and management of patients with non-prostatic neoplasms expressing PSMA., From the enrollment up to 10 years
Prognostic and predictive value, Prognostic and predictive values (%) of PSMA PET/CT in such cancers and the possible use in the selection of patients eligible for target therapies against neovascularization and radioligand treatment according to specific score of PSMA expressing cells (%)., From the enrollment up to 10 years
Purpose of the register: This single-centre observational register is intended to collect data from PET/CT-PSMA performed in patients with neoplasms expressing PSMA, other than prostate cancer.

Design of the register: observational, pharmacological, non-profit, prospective, monocentric.

Duration of the record: The expected duration for the collection of PET/CT-PSMA examinations is 10 years.

Objectives The primary objective of the following registry is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of PET/CT-PSMA in the staging and management of patients with non-prostatic neoplasms expressing PSMA.

The secondary objective is to analyze the prognostic value of PET-PSMA in such neoplasms and the possible use in the selection of patients eligible for target therapies against neovascularization (i.e. monoclonal anti-VEGF antibodies) and radiopharmaceutical treatments (i.e. 177Lu-PSMA).