Utility of Perfusion MRI to Detect Radiation Necrosis in Patients With Brain Metastases
This trial studies how well dynamic susceptibility contrast-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) works in determining radiation necrosis and tumor progression in participants with cancer that has spread to the brain and are being treated with radiation therapy. Diagnostic procedures, such as dynamic susceptibility contrast-MRI, may improve the ability to determine indeterminate post-treatment changes seen on imaging after radiation therapy.
Invasive Malignant Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain
PROCEDURE: Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast-MRI (DSC-MRI)|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
Change in dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters: relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV), Image processing will occur in a blinded manner using nordicICE software (NordicNeuroLab AS, Bergen, Norway). Signal-intensity curves will be created per voxel. Regions of interest will be designated around the contrast enhancing lesion as seen on T1-post contrast MR. An additional contralateral area of normal-appearing white matter will be designated in the same axial plane to standardize the data. rCBV is calculated as the ratio of the CBV within the enhancing region to the CBV within the contralateral normal-appearing white matter., Baseline up to 1 year|Change in dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters: relative peak height (rPH), Image processing will occur in a blinded manner using nordicICE software (NordicNeuroLab AS, Bergen, Norway). Signal-intensity curves will be created per voxel. Regions of interest will be designated around the contrast enhancing lesion as seen on T1-post contrast MR. An additional contralateral area of normal-appearing white matter will be designated in the same axial plane to standardize the data. rPH is defined as the maximal change in contrast signal intensity from pre-contrast baseline compared to the lowest signal intensity during contrast bolus, normalized to the signal in the contralateral normal-appearing white matter., Baseline up to 1 year|Change in dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters: percentage of signal intensity recovery (PSR), Image processing will occur in a blinded manner using nordicICE software (NordicNeuroLab AS, Bergen, Norway). Signal-intensity curves will be created per voxel. Regions of interest will be designated around the contrast enhancing lesion as seen on T1-post contrast MR. An additional contralateral area of normal-appearing white matter will be designated in the same axial plane to standardize the data. PSR is defined as the percentage of the difference between lowest signal intensity during contrast bolus and the recovery post-contrast signal intensity compared to the peak height., Baseline up to 1 year|Change in dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters: mean transit time (MTT), Image processing will occur in a blinded manner using nordicICE software (NordicNeuroLab AS, Bergen, Norway). Signal-intensity curves will be created per voxel. Regions of interest will be designated around the contrast enhancing lesion as seen on T1-post contrast MR. An additional contralateral area of normal-appearing white matter will be designated in the same axial plane to standardize the data. MTT is defined as the average time in which contrast passes through a given region of brain tissue and is estimated from the contrast concentration-time course curve (CC-TCC) as width of the curve at half maximum height., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To prospectively determine the sensitivity and specificity of dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC)-MRI parameters in detecting tumor recurrence versus radiation necrosis for brain metastases treated with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate radiographic diagnoses with pathologic diagnoses when surgical resection is clinically indicated.

II. To correlate baseline relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) values and other hemodynamic parameters with tumor primary histology.

III. To assess overall survival, local failure, distant brain failure and neurologic death.

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo a diagnostic MRI with and without contrast and treatment planning DSC perfusion MRI series before receiving SRS at 4-6 weeks after SRS, and then every 3 months unless clinically indicated sooner.