Phase 2 Study: An Open-Label, Randomized, Phase 2 Dose-Finding Study of Pacritinib in Patients With Primary Myelofibrosis, Post-Polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis, or Post- Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis Previously Treated With Ruxolitinib
This was an open-label, randomized, dose-finding study in patients with primary or secondary MF (Dynamic International Prognostic Scoring System \[DIPSS\] risk score of Intermediate-1 to High-Risk) who were previously treated with ruxolitinib. The study was designed to support a pacritinib dosage selection decision with evaluation of 3 dosages.
Primary Myelofibrosis|Post-Polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis|Post- Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis
DRUG: Pacritinib
Spleen Volume Reduction Response (≥ 35%), Number of patients achieving a ≥ 35% spleen volume reduction (SVR) as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI, preferred) or computed tomography (CT) scans, From Baseline to Weeks 12 and 24|Percent Change in Spleen Volume, Percent change from baseline, From Baseline to Weeks 12 and 24|Total Symptom Score Analysis, Proportion of patients with ≥ 50% reduction in Total Symptom Score from baseline as assessed by the validated PRO instrument MPN-SAF TSS 2.0, From Baseline to Weeks 12 and 24|Patient Global Impression Assessment, Number of patients with improvement in PGIA. The Patient Global Impression Assessment questionnaire was completed at the end of Week 12 and end of Week 24. The scores were summarized by treatment group at each visit., From Baseline to Weeks 12 and 24
Spleen Length Reduction, Rate of reduction in spleen length from baseline, From Baseline to Weeks 24|Frequency of RBC's or Platelet Transfusions, Number of patients, At week 24|Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status, 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction

1. = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work
2. = Ambulatory and capable of all selfcare but unable to carry out any work activities; up and about more than 50% of waking hours
3. = Capable of only limited selfcare; confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours
4. = Completely disabled; cannot carry on any selfcare; totally confined to bed or chair
5. = Dead, At weeks 4, 12, 24, and 30 days post End-of-Treatment visit|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Randomization through 30 days post End-of-Treatment visit
This was an open-label, randomized, dose-finding study in patients with primary or secondary MF (Dynamic International Prognostic Scoring System \[DIPSS\] risk score of Intermediate-1 to High-Risk) who were previously treated with ruxolitinib. The study was designed to support a pacritinib dosage selection decision with evaluation of 3 dosages.