Study of XL888 With Vemurafenib for Patients With Unresectable BRAF Mutated Stage III/IV Melanoma
This is a multi-cohort, dose-escalation study of XL888 with a fixed dose of vemurafenib. New dose escalation or de-escalation cohorts will be assigned by the Principal Investigator (PI) with discussion with appropriate co-investigators once safety and tolerability is known for a given cohort in accordance to dose escalation rules. Participants will be defined to be enrolled within a cohort upon receipt of first dose of XL888/vemurafenib.
Melanoma
DRUG: XL888|DRUG: Vemurafenib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D), MTD and RP2D of XL888 when administered orally with vemurafenib to patients with BRAF V600 mutated melanoma, and evaluate the safety and tolerability of this combination. Safety will be assessed by evaluation of adverse events (AEs), vital signs, electrocardiogram (ECG), laboratory tests and concomitant medications. Adverse event terms recorded on the case report forms (CRFs) will be standardized using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). Severity grade will be defined by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0. Summaries will be directed toward treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), defined as events that start or worsen after the first dose of study treatment. TEAEs will be tabulated in accordance with system organ class and preferred term by overall incidence, worst reported severity, and relationship to study treatment., Average of 36 weeks
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate, Progression Free Survival at 6 months. The median time and its 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for the same cohort. The corresponding Kaplan-Meier curves will also be generated., 6 months|Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Overall Survival at 1 year. The median time and its 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method for the same cohort. The corresponding Kaplan-Meier curves will also be generated., 1 year|Best Overall Response Rate (ORR), The best overall response is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until the end of treatment taking into account any requirement for confirmation. In general, the patient's best response assignment will depend on findings of both target and non-target disease and will also take into consideration the appearance of new lesions. Tumor response for all participants will be assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST, V1.1)., 18 months
In this study, the investigational drug XL888 will be given along with the drug vemurafenib. The investigators want to learn more about the safety and side effects of XL888 and hope to find out what dose of the drug can be given safely without serious side effects. Based on research done in a laboratory on tissue samples (cells collected from living things), the researchers think that XL888 might help to make vemurafenib work to fight cancer cells in the body for a longer period of time.