Study Estimating Association Between Germline Mutations and PD-L1 Expression in Breast Cancer
This is a multicentre, non-interventional, prospective study to be carried out in representative oncology departments / institutions in order to determine the association between the presence of germline DNA-repair genes mutations and PD-L1 expression level in tumour and immune cells in breast cancer. No additional procedures besides those already used in the routine clinical practice will be applied to the patients.
Hereditary Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PD-L1 expression
Diagnostic performance of PD-L1 expression in breast cancer, Number of samples of PD-L1 high expression in tumor and immune cells in FFPE breast tumor tissue and number of samples of PD-L1 low expression in tumor and immune cells in FFPE breast tumor tissue .

The report will be represented as "PD-L1 high" or "PD-L1 low"., January 2018-January 2019
Diagnostic performance of inherited gene mutations in breast cancer, Mutations will be determined by "pathogenic" and "non pathogenic". Number of samples with "pathogenic" and "non pathogenic" mutations ., January 2018-January 2019|Association between germline DNA-repair genes mutations and PD-L1 expression level in in breast cancer, To reveal the differences (percentages) of PD-L1 high tumor rate between patients with hereditary BC ( pathogenic mutations) who have clinically significant germline mutations in DNA-repair genes (HR- deficiency) and patients with sporadic BC without such mutations (non pathogenic mutations)., January 2018-January 2019
Breast cancer (BC) occupies the first place among malignancy in females (29.9% of all tumors in female patients in Russian Federation in 2015) \[1\].

One of the most perspective direction of the oncotherapy is anticancer immunotherapy - employment of inhibitors of immune checkpoints. Immune checkpoints inhibitors (such as anti-PD-1 and anti-PD-L1 antibodies) have shown good clinical efficiency in clinical research to cure such malignant tumor with high mutation load, as melanoma, lung cancer, and others.

One of the hypothesis of such effect states that, usually, more cancer neoantigens are synthetized in the tumors with high mutation load (driven by genome instability), causing severe lymphoid infiltration \[2-3\]. This situation is balanced by overexpression of such inhibitors of the immune response as PD-1 and PD-L1 \[4 - 6\].

Breast cancer - is relatively heterogenic tumor, with different genetic, morphological and phenotypic forms.

Despite relatively low expression of PD-L1 in BC in general, there are reasons to believe that genetic instability, driven by mutations in genes involved in DNA repair, can increase the immunogenicity and, thus, the expression of PD-L1 in BC.

To date, it is widely accepted that 5-10% of BC cases are represented by hereditary types, i.e. mediated by germline pathogenic mutations in genes of DNA reparation pathways. Hereditary breast cancer (HBC), as well as ovarian cancer (OC), сaused by mutations in genes BRCA1, BRCA2, CHEK2, TP53 и PTEN, and others. Thus, one of the promising directions here is to understand the inter-relation among germline pathogenic mutations associated with HBC, and activity of PD-L1. It would allow to optimize selection of anti-PD-L1 therapy, by forming group of patients (matching criteria of HBC) with high level of PD-L1 expression in cancer cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes.