Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging of Pancreatic Cancer: a Feasibility and Reproducibility Study
Novel predictive markers are needed to determine treatment efficacy in pancreatic cancer at an early stage. Preferably, these markers could be determined non-invasively and provide insight into the biology of pancreatic cancer. Several MR techniques can serve for this purpose. However, optimalisation of these techniques is needed and their reproducibility should be assessed.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Gadobutrol
Reproducibility of DCE, T2* and DWI MRI in pancreatic cancer., To assess reproducibility, 15 patients will undergo the MR measurement protocol twice within one week before start of any treatment.

Reproducibility of; DWI: mean ADC of the whole tumor. DCE: mean Ktrans of the whole tumor. T2\*: average value of the whole tumor., Within 1 week
Compare in vivo measurements of tumor vascularity, hypoxia and stroma using DCE-MRI, T2* MRI and DWI with immunohistochemically determined markers of vascularity, hypoxia and stroma in pancreatic tumor tissue, In those patients for whom tumor tissue is available which has not been treated with radiation or chemotherapy, DCE-MRI, T2\* MRI and DWI will be compared with immunohistochemical markers of vascularity, hypoxia and stroma (e.g. CD-31, HIF1-alfa, CA9, GLUT1, PAI-1, VEGF, anti-SMA)., Within 1 week|To explore the relation between in vivo measurements of tumor vascularity, hypoxia and stroma using DCE-MRI, T2* MRI and DWI and treatment outcome., 1 year
Background of the study:

Novel predictive markers are needed to determine treatment efficacy in pancreatic cancer at an early stage. Preferably, these markers could be determined non-invasively and provide insight into the biology of pancreatic cancer. Several MR techniques can serve for this purpose. However, optimalisation of these techniques is needed and their reproducibility should be assessed.

Objective of the study:

To optimize DCE-MRI, T2\* MRI and DWI in pancreatic cancer at 3T and investigate its reproducibility.

Study design:

In the first part of the study, patients with pancreatic cancer will undergo an MR measurement protocol once at 3T, to optimize MR techniques (DCE-MRI, T2\* MRI and DWI). In the second part of the study, to assess reproducibility patients will undergo the MR measurement protocol twice within one week before start of any treatment.