Mosunetuzumab and Polatuzumab Vedotin for the Treatment of Patients with Relapsed or Refractory Grade 1-3a Follicular Lymphoma
This phase II trial tests how well mosunetuzumab and polatuzumab vedotin works in treating patients with grade 1-3a follicular lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Mosunetuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Polatuzumab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, polatuzumab, linked to a toxic agent called vedotin. Polatuzumab attaches to CD79B positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. Giving mosunetuzumab and polatuzumab vedotin may kill more cancer cells in patients with relapsed or refractory grade 1-3a follicular lymphoma.
Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Mosunetuzumab|DRUG: Polatuzumab Vedotin|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs), Unacceptable toxicity will be defined as events occurring during the first 2 cycles of treatment that is at least possibly related to study treatment. Observed toxicities will be summarized by type, severity, and attribution., Up to completion of first 2 cycles of treatment - each cycle is 28 days|Complete response (CR) rate, CR rate will be defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of CR after the start of protocol therapy and prior to disease progression and/or start of other anti-lymphoma therapy. CR rate will be estimated along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy
Incidence of AEs, AEs will be graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS) will be graded according to the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) CRS Consensus Grading Criteria. Immune Effector Cell Associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome (ICANS) will be graded according to the ASTCT ICANS Consensus Grading Criteria. Observed toxicities will be summarized by type, severity, and attribution., Up to 30 days from last dose of protocol therapy|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of CR or partial response (PR) after the start of protocol therapy and prior to disease progression and/or start of other anti-lymphoma therapy. ORR will be estimated along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Time to first CR, Time to first CR will be defined as the time from start of protocol therapy until the time the patients first achieve CR. Time for first CR will be summarized by descriptive statistics., At start of protocol therapy to CR up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Time to best response, Time to best response will be defined as the time from start of protocol therapy until the time the patients achieve first best response (CR or PR). Time to best response will be summarized by descriptive statistics., At start of protocol therapy to first best response up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be defined as the time from first achievement of PR or CR to time of progression or death, whichever is earlier. DOR will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error. The 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median DOR will be estimated when available., At first PR or CR to progression or death up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Duration of response among CR (DORC), DORC will be limited to patients who achieve a best response of CR. DORC will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error. The 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., At CR up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the duration of time from start of protocol treatment to time of disease relapse or progression to death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier. PFS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error. The 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median PFS will be estimated when available., At start of protocol treatment to disease relapse/progression or death up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as the duration of time from start of protocol treatment to time of death due to any cause.OS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error. The 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median OS will be estimated when available., At start of protocol treatment to death up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy|Patient reported quality of life (QOL), Patient reported QOL will be assessed using the European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level scale. Changes in QOL measures will be summarized by each timepoint and longitudinally., At baseline and up to 24 months of follow-up|Use of tocilizumab, Use of tocilizumab will be defined as the need to administer tocilizumab. Use of tocilizumab for CRS will be summarized by descriptive statistics., Up to 36 months after last dose of protocol therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin in patients with relapsed/refractory (R/R) follicular lymphoma (FL). (Safety lead-in) II. Estimate the complete response (CR) rate to mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin in R/R FL patients. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the overall response rate (ORR), time to first CR, time to best response, duration of response (DOR), duration of response among CR (DORC), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and quality of life (QOL) in R/R FL patients treated with mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin.

II. Evaluate the toxicity of mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin for R/R FL. III. Examine the use of tocilizumab for cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in R/R FL patients treated with mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess baseline and on-treatment biomarkers, and evaluate association with anti-tumor activity and safety.

II. Examine the type and incidence of CD20 gene mutations/ downregulation at relapse in R/R FL patients treated with mosunetuzumab plus polatuzumab vedotin.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive polatuzumab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive mosunetuzumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8 and 15 of cycle 1 and day 1 of remaining cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 8-17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection and computed tomography (CT), positron emission tomography (PET)/CT, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then for 3 years.