Lenvatinib Following Liver Transplantation in Patients With High-Risk Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The aim of this study is to observe the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib in preventing high-risk recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma patients after liver transplantation.The cases are from patients with hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent liver transplantation in the liver surgery department of Shanghai Renji Hospital. Patients enrolled in the study were randomly allocated in the lenvatinib group (54 patients) and the control group (54 patients) after stable condition.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Immunosuppressive regimen
Tumor free survival rate, The 1, 3, 5-year of tumor free survival rate, 5 years
Overall survival rate, The 1, 3, 5-year of overall survival rate, 5 years
the side effects, The side effects during treatment were recorded. At the same time, patients status will be scored according to ECOG PS score. Acute or subacute toxicity is classified as level of 0-4, 0 as non-response, 1 as mild, 2 as moderate, 3 as severe and 4 as life-threatening. The severity of adverse events was judged, reported and handled according to GCP requirements of clinical trials., 5 years
The research is an open, randomized, single-center study. Patients with high-risk recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma who underwent liver transplantation are included according to the criteria of admission. After operation, the regimen of calcineurin inhibitors, mycophenolate mofetil, sirolimus or everolimus with glucocorticoids removed at an early stage are used. Patients enrolled in the study were randomly allocated in the lenvatinib group (54 patients) and the control group (54 patients) after stable condition. Patients in the control group are given supportive treatment and regular follow-up. Patients in the lenvatinib group are given lenvatinib within 1-2 months after operation (dose: body weight \< 60 kg: 8 mg/day, body weight ≥ 60 kg 12 mg/day). The baseline data of patients are collected before allocation. Serum and imaging examination are checked regularly every month to monitor the recurrence of hepatocellular carcinoma and the side effects of lenvatinib. The efficacy and safety of lenvatinib in patients of high-risk hepatocellular carcinoma are observed, and the clinicopathological factors affecting the efficacy of lenvatinib are analyzed. When side effects of lenvatinib occur, the dosage can be reduced according to the patients' condition until discontinuation. When tumor recurrence occurs, a multidisciplinary team will draw up specific treatment plans according to the patients' condition, including surgical resection, interventional therapy, radiofrequency therapy, radiotherapy and targeted therapy (Patients in the control group can add lenvatinib, and patients in the lenvatinib group can decide whether to continue using it according to the patients' condition).