Bacteriostatic Saline as a Local Anesthetic in Minor Eyelid Procedures
The investigators aim to assess whether bacteriostatic saline provides the same level of anesthesia as traditional local anesthesia while reducing pain associated with medication infusion in minor eyelid procedures
Eyelid Tumor|Eyelid Bump|Eyelid Deformity|Eyelid Abscess|Eyelid Boil|Eyelid Papilloma|Anesthesia, Local|Ophthalmology
DRUG: 0.9% Bacteriostatic Local Anesthetic Injection|DRUG: 1% Lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine Local Anesthetic Injection|PROCEDURE: Eyelid Lesion Removal
Pain on injection, Pain on a scale of 0-10 during injection process (0 being no pain, 10 being worst pain ever experienced). These will be patient-reported verbally and recorded immediately after injection., 5 minutes|Pain of procedure, Pain on a scale of 0-10 during procedure (0 being no pain, 10 being worst pain ever experienced). These will be patient-reported verbally and recorded immediately after procedure., 10 minutes
Additional Anesthesia, Need for additional anesthesia to complete procedure, 10 minutes|Bleeding level, Physician-assessed level of bleeding after procedure (mild, moderate, severe). These will be physician-reported verbally and recorded immediately after procedure., 10 minutes
Benzoyl alcohol is an aromatic alcohol that has been used in healthcare primarily as an antibacterial preservative agent in bacteriostatic saline. It has also been shown to have anesthetic properties, and has been demonstrated to cause less pain with infusion compared to lidocaine, while maintaining adequate pain relief. The use of bacteriostatic saline alone as an anesthetic for incisional procedures in the periocular area has not yet been studied. The purpose of this study was to determine whether bacteriostatic saline provides an adequate level of anesthesia for minor in-office eyelid procedures while allowing for reducing pain associated with medication infusion compared with traditional local anesthetic agents. To assess this, the investigators will recruit 150 patients aged 18 or older undergoing minor eyelid procedures including eyelid biopsies, chalazion removal from outpatient oculoplastics clinics at UCSF. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to undergo local anesthetic with either 1% lidocaine with 1:100,000 epinephrine or 0.9% bacteriostatic saline. Primary outcome measure will be pain level on a scale of 1-10 with regards to injection and procedure itself. These will be compared between the two groups. The investigators hypothesize that bacteriostatic saline is superior to lidocaine with epinephrine in terms of pain with injection, but will result in a similar pain level during the procedure.