Clinical Trial of a Novel Small Molecule EBNA1 Inhibitor, VK 2019, in Patients With Epstein Barr Virus (EBV)-Positive Nasopharyngeal Cancer (NPC) and Other Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV)-Associated Cancers, With Pharmacokinetic and Pharmacodynamic Correlative Studies
To evaluate the anti cancer effect of VK 2019 in subjects with EBV related nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) for whom there is no other standard treatment available
Nasopharyngeal Cancer|Epstein-Barr Virus Related Carcinoma
DRUG: VK-2019
Response rate, Response rate to VK 2019 in EBV related NPC subjects will be assessed using RECIST v 1.1 criteria. Response Evaluable Subjects: All treated subjects with measurable disease at baseline and one of the following: 1) at least one post dose tumor assessment, 2) discontinuation prior to the first efficacy assessment due to clinical disease progression or toxicity or 3) death either on treatment or within 28 days of last VK 2019 dose., 12 months
Progression free survival, Progression free survival (PFS) per RECIST v 1.1 from time of subject registration. Reported as the number of subjects remaining alive at the assessment timepoint, without progression., 24 months|Overall survival, Overall survival from time of subject registration. Reported as the number of subjects remaining alive at the assessment timepoint., 24 months|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration (AUC) for VK 2019 and metabolites will be estimated using non compartmental analysis. Analysis population is defined as all enrolled subjects treated who have at least one of the PK parameters of interest. The median AUC values by cohort, with standard deviation, obtained after 2 cycles will be reported., Day 56 (ie, Day 0 Cycle 3 after 2, (each cycle is 28 days)|Time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax),, Time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax) for VK 2019 and metabolites will be collected, Analysis population is defined as all enrolled subjects treated who have at least one of the PK parameters of interest. The median value of Tmax by cohort, with standard deviation, obtained after 2 cycles will be reported., Day 56 (ie, Day 0 Cycle 3 after 2, (each cycle is 28 days)|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) will be collected. Analysis population is defined as all enrolled subjects treated who have at least one of the PK parameters of interest. The median value of Cmax by cohort, with standard deviation, obtained after 2 cycles will be reported., Day 56 (ie, Day 0 Cycle 3 after 2, (each cycle is 28 days)|Safety profile, Measure the number of adverse events (AEs), Serious adverse events (SAEs), and Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) by cohort, for up to 12 months., 12 months|Pharmacodynamic EBV DNA, Median difference from treatment to Day 56 (ie, Day 0 Cycle 3 after 2 28-day cycles) for the levels of cell free plasma EBV DNA by cohort, with standard deviation will be measured, Day 56 (ie, Day 0 Cycle 3 after,2 (each cycle is 28-day)
Primary Objective: To characterize the anti tumor effect of VK 2019 in subjects with EBV related cancer.

Secondary Objective: 1. To characterize the safety profile, survival, PK and PD in the studied subject populations 2. To explore clinical activity and safety on subjects with post transplant lymphoproliferative disorder (PTLD) and EBV related lymphoma.