Intravital Microscopy in Human Solid Tumors
This study will investigate the tumor-associated vasculature of patients with solid tumors. The investigators will use a technology known as intravital microscopy (IVM) in order to visualize in real-time the vessels associated with solid tumors. The IVM observations may determine if an individual patient's tumor vessels would be amenable to receiving systemic therapy, based on the functionality of the vessels.
Solid Tumor, Adult|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Gastric Carcinoma|Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma|Metastatic Gastric Carcinoma|Metastatic Primary Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Metastatic Sarcoma|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Resectable Colorectal Carcinoma|Resectable Liver and Intrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Carcinoma|Resectable Sarcoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
DEVICE: Diagnostic Microscopy|DRUG: Fluorescein Sodium Injection
1. Tumor vessel identification (# tumor vessels visualized per high power field), Identify and measure vessels associated with solid tumors, 12-15 minutes|2. Tumor vessel density (# tumor vessels per square cm area observed), Determine vessel density per 10x field, 12-15 minutes|3. Fluorescent dye uptake (# tumor vessels with fluorescent dye uptake and # tumor vessels without dye uptake), Visualize vital dye within the vessels (fluorescein), 12-15 minutes|4. Tumor blood flow (velocity, mm/sec), Calculate the blood flow velocity of the vessels and tissue penetration of fluorescent dye as a marker of vessel permeability., 12-15 minutes
5. Post-operative comparison of the microvasculature of tumor with normal tissue, Post-operative comparison of the microvasculature of tumor with normal tissue (e.g. peritoneum) in each individual subject using vessel diameters, vessel density, detection of intravital dye and flow rates., 15-20 minutes|6. Post-operative correlation of the microvasculature with pathologic features of the tumor implants (i.e. tumor grade) at the time of the final pathology report (5-7 days after surgery)., The investigators will determine if there is a correlation between the microvasculature with pathologic features of the tumor implants (i.e. tumor grade) at the time of the final pathology report (5-7 days after surgery)., 5-7 days|Post-operative correlation of the microscopic observation of the tumor microvasculature tumor-specific and overall survival., The investigators will determine if there is a correlation between the microscopic observation of the tumor microvasculature tumor-specific and overall survival., 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: To determine the feasibility and clinical utility of performing HIVM in patients with solid tumors during standard course of treatment (surgical resection).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. Compare the microscopic observation of the tumor-associated vessels with normal tissue (e.g. peritoneal surface or normal brain tissue) in each individual subject.
2. Correlate the microscopic observations of the tumor-associated vessels with pathologic grade of tumor.
3. To correlate the microscopic observation of the microvasculature with tumor-specific and overall survival.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fluorescein intravenously (IV) and undergo HIVM over 1-2 minutes per field.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2-3 weeks after surgery.