Study on Laparoscopic D2 Lymphadenectomy Plus Complete Mesogastrium Excision（D2+CME）for Advanced Gastric Cancer
Radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer with D2 lymph node dissection has been widely applied in advanced gastric cancer. However,for most patients,tumor local-regional recurrence has been proven unavoidable.

Recently, many clinical studies have proved that some cancer cells and cancer nodes exist in the mesogastrium which can be hardly removed by conventional radical gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy. It is suggested that Complete mesogastrium excision (CME) is imperative and should be added to D2 lymphadenectomy in order to reduce the risk of local recurrence.

Thus, the comparison of short-term and long-term outcome between laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy plus complete mesogastrium excision and conventional laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy for locally advanced gastric cancer based on a well designed randomized controlled trial is needed.
Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy plus CME|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy
3-year disease free survival, 3-years disease-free survival of the enrolled patients, 36 months
Postoperative recovery course, Time to first ambulation, flatus, liquid diet, soft diet, and duration of hospital stay. The amount of abdominal drainage and blood transfusion are also recorded., 10 days|Morbidity and mortality, The early postoperative complication and mortality are defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery, while the time frame for late complication is the period from postoperative day 31th to the end of month 36th.

* 3-year overall survival rate \[ Time Frame: 36 months \] \[ Designated as safety issue: No \]
* 3-year recurrence pattern \[ Time Frame: 36 months \] \[ Designated as safety issue: No \]

Recurrence patterns are classified into five categories at the time of first diagnosis: locoregional, hematogenous, peritoneal, distant lymph node, and mixed type., 30 days; 36 months|3-year overall survival, 3-years overall survival of the enrolled patients, 36 months
Postoperative intraperitoneal free cancer cell (IFCC), Positive rate of cancer cells from intraperitoneal wash samples after gastrectomy, within 1hour
Radical gastrectomy for gastric cancer with D2 lymph node dissection has been widely applied in advanced gastric cancer. However,for most patients,tumor local-regional recurrence has been proven unavoidable.

Recently, many clinical studies have proved that some cancer cells and cancer nodes exist in the mesogastrium which can be hardly removed by conventional radical gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy. It is suggested that Complete mesogastrium excision (CME) is imperative and should be added to D2 lymphadenectomy in order to reduce the risk of local recurrence.

Thus, the comparison of short-term and long-term outcome between laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy plus complete mesogastrium excision and conventional laparoscopic D2 lymphadenectomy for locally advanced gastric cancer based on a well designed randomized controlled trial is needed.