Embryonal Tumor With Multilayered Rosettes
This is an open-label, comprehensive, iterative investigation of evaluating the use of induction chemotherapy, high-dose chemotherapy, and focal radiation therapy in children with newly diagnosed Embryonal Tumor With Multilayered Rosettes (ETMR).
Embryonal Tumor With Multilayered Rosettes|Embryonal Tumor With Multilayered Rosettes, Nos
RADIATION: Radiotherapy (RT)|DRUG: Chemotherapy Drug, Cancer - Physician's Choice|PROCEDURE: Non-Investigational Surgical Resection|DRUG: Temozolomide|PROCEDURE: Tumor Tissue Sample|PROCEDURE: Blood Sample|PROCEDURE: Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Sample
Median Progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS6) (Cohort 1), The median PFS6 is defined as the median number of months for participants in Cohort 1 who have remained progression-free from the date of initial surgical resection until 6 months., Up to 6 months
Median Progression-free survival at 2 years progression-free survival (PFS), The median PFS6 is defined as the median number of months for participants by cohort who have remained progression-free from the date of initial surgical resection until 2 years post-surgery., Up to 2 years|Median Overall Survival at 2 years (OS), The median OS is defined as the median number of months for participants by cohort who are still alive from the date of initial surgical resection until 2 years post-surgery., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. To determine the six-month progression-free survival (PFS6) of participants with newly diagnosed, gross-totally resected, non-metastatic ETMR, treated using a regimen of induction chemotherapy and early focal radiotherapy (Cohort 1)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES I. To determine the two-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of participants with newly diagnosed, gross-totally resected, non-metastatic ETMR (Cohort 1).

II. To determine the two-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of participants with newly diagnosed, gross-totally resected, non-metastatic ETMR (Cohort 2).

III. To determine the two-year progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and objective response rate of participants with newly diagnosed, incompletely resected and/or metastatic ETMR (Cohort 3A and 3B)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To validate the utility of a liquid miRNA biomarker in blood and Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) as a correlative marker of a participant's disease status.

II. To better define the genomic landscape of ETMR.

OUTLINE:

Participants with newly diagnosed ETMR will obtain either gross total, or sub-total resection surgery prior to enrollment. After surgery, participants will be assigned to 1 of 4 possible cohorts:

Cohorts 1 and 2: Participants with newly diagnosed, gross-totally resected, non-metastatic ETMR.

Cohorts 3A and 3B: Participants with newly diagnosed, incompletely resected and/or metastatic ETMR.

Participants will be assessed for survival outcomes for up to 2 years. Follow-up procedures are to be captured under the PNOC COMP protocol. Participants will be followed under the Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Consortium (PNOC) COMP protocol until death or withdrawal from study.