Phase II Study of MEDI4736, Tremelimumab, and MEDI4736 in Combination w/ Tremelimumab Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of investigational medical products (MEDI4736 monotherapy, tremelimumab monotherapy, and MEDI4736 + tremelimumab combination therapy) in the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic carcinoma of the head and neck who have progressed during or after treatment with a platinum containing regimen for recurrent/metastatic disease.
Recurrent/Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head & Neck
DRUG: MEDI4736|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: MEDI4736 + Tremelimumab
Objective Response Rate at 6 Months, Objective response rate, primary analysis, based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1. The number (%) of patients with a response excludes unconfirmed responses, After 6 months|Objective Response Rate at 12 Months, Objective response rate (per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by blinded independent central review \[BICR\]) is defined as the number (%) of patients with a confirmed complete response or confirmed partial response and will be based on all treated patients who are PD-L1-positive with measurable disease at baseline per BICR. Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1. criteria are: Complete response \[CR\] = disappearance of all target lesions since baseline; and partial response \[PR\] = at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions., After 12 months
Best Objective Response, The best response a patient has had during their time in the study, After 12 months|Duration of Response - Participants Remaining in Response, Participants remaining in response - based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1. An ongoing response was defined as a patient who had documented objective response and was still alive and progression-free at the time of the data cut-off., After 12 months|Time to Response, Time to response in patients with objective response based on BICR assessments according to RECIST 1.1, After 12 months|Time to Onset of Response From First Dose, Time to onset of response in patients with objective response based on BICR assessments according to RECIST 1.1, After 12 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) at 6 months based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1. DCR at 6 months was evaluated using 2 different approaches to the length of stable disease (SD). -Method 1: Patients who had a best objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) within 24 weeks or had demonstrated SD for a minimum interval of 24 weeks following randomization. -Method 2: Patients who had a best objective response of CR or PR in the first 24 weeks or who had demonstrated SD for a minimum interval of 16 weeks following randomization., After 6 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) at 12 months based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1. DCR at 6 months was evaluated using 2 different approaches to the length of stable disease (SD). -Method 1: Patients who had a best objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) within 24 weeks or had demonstrated SD for a minimum interval of 24 weeks following randomization. -Method 2: Patients who had a best objective response of CR or PR in the first 24 weeks or who had demonstrated SD for a minimum interval of 16 weeks following randomization., After 12 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression status at 6 months based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1 at time of Progression Free Survival (PFS) analysis. Progression was defined as the time from the data of randomization until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression) regardless of whether the patient withdrew from therapy or received another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression. -Target Lesions, Non Target Lesions and New Lesions are not necessarily mutually exclusive categories. -Progression death refers to death in the absence of RECIST 1.1 progression., After 6 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression status at 12 months based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1 at time of Progression Free Survival (PFS) analysis. Progression was defined as the time from the data of randomization until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression) regardless of whether the patient withdrew from therapy or received another anti-cancer therapy prior to progression. -Target Lesions, Non Target Lesions and New Lesions are not necessarily mutually exclusive categories. -Progression death refers to death in the absence of RECIST 1.1 progression., After 12 months|Overall Survival, Survival status at time of overall survival analysis. 'Still in survival follow-up' includes patients known to be alive at data cut-off. 'Terminated prior to death' includes patients with unknown survival status or patients who were lost to follow-up., After 12 months|Quality of Life, Improvement in quality of life was assessed using European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) questionnaires: -The impact of treatment on Health-Related Quality of Life, functioning, and symptoms was evaluated using the EORTC QLQ-C30 v3. -Head and neck cancer-specific symptoms were evaluated using the EORTC QLQ-H\&N35. The symptom and QoL/function improvement rate was defined as the number (%) of patients with 2 consecutive assessments at least 14 days apart that showed a clinically meaningful improvement (a decrease from baseline score ≥10 or EORTC QLQ-C30 scales) in that symptom/function from baseline. For QLQ-H\&N35A a minimum clinically meaningful change was defined as a change in the score from baseline of \>10 for scales/items, After 12 months|Duration of Response, Duration of objective response in patients with objective response based on BICR assessments according to RECIST v1.1. Duration of response was the time from the first documentation of Complete response/Partial response (which was subsequently confirmed) until the date of progression, death, or the last evaluable RECIST assessment for patients that did not progress. An ongoing response was defined as a patient who had documented objective response and was still alive and progression-free at the time of the data cut-off (per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by BICR)., After 12 months
This is a randomized, open-label, multi-center, global, Phase II study to determine the efficacy and safety of MEDI4736 + tremelimumab combination therapy, MEDI4736 monotherapy and tremelimumab monotherapy in the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic PD-L1-negative squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) who have progressed during or after treatment with only 1 systemic palliative regimen for recurrent or metastatic disease, that must have contained a platinum agent.

Patients will be randomized in a stratified manner according to prognostic factors, including human papillomavirus (HPV) status and smoking status to achieve a balance between treatments for each of the factors. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1:2 fashion to receive MEDI4736 monotherapy, tremelimumab monotherapy, or MEDI4736 + tremelimumab combination.

All treatments will be administered beginning on Day 0 for 12 months or until confirmed progression of disease; unless, in the Investigator's opinion, the patient continues to receive benefit from the treatment), initiation of alternative cancer therapy, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or another discontinuation criterion is met. Patients with confirmed progression of disease who, in the Investigator's opinion, continue to receive benefit from their assigned investigational product and who meet the criteria for treatment in the setting of progression of disease may continue to receive their assigned investigational product treatment for a maximum of 12 months after consultation with the Sponsor and at the Investigator's discretion. The monotherapy arms (tremelimumab and MEDI4736) should be discontinued if there is confirmed progression of disease following a previous response in target lesions (complete response or partial response).

Tumor assessments will be performed using computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Efficacy for all patients will be assessed by objective tumor assessments every 8 weeks (q8w) for the first 48 weeks (relative to the date of the first infusion) then q12w in patients who have disease control after 12 months until confirmed objective disease progression.

Following completion or discontinuation of treatment, patients will enter a follow-up period.