An Efficacy and Safety Study of Bortezomib in Participants Previously Treated for Multiple Myeloma With Limited Kidney Function
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of bortezomib in participants previously treated for multiple myeloma (cancer of plasma cells in bone marrow causing numerous tumors and characterized by the presence of abnormal proteins in the blood) with limited kidney function.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Bortezomib
Percentage of Participants With Renal Compromised Multiple Myeloma by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria, The IMWG uniform response criteria define; Complete response(CR) as negative immunofixation on serum and urine, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow(BM). Stringent CR as CR+normal free light chain ratio and absence of clonal cells in BM Very good partial response (PR) as serum and urine M-protein (monoclonal paraprotein) detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or 90% or \>reduction in serum and urine M-protein level \<100 milligram(mg) per 24 hour(hr).PR as \<=50% reduction of serum and \<= 90% of urine M-protein or up to \<200 mg/24 hr., Week 24 or Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)
Best Response to Treatment, It was assessed by IMWG criteria. It defines complete response as negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas and \<5% plasma cells in bone marrow. Very good partial response as serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or 90% or \> reduction in serum and urine M-protein level\<100 mg per 24 hour. Partial Response as \<=50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein by \<=90% or to \<200mg per 24 hr., Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6, 7, 8 and Final/Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)|Time to Progression (TTP) of Disease, The TTP was defined as the time from the date of starting treatment until the date of first documented evidence of progression of disease or death., Day 1 (Start of treatment) until the date of first documented evidence of progression of disease or death|Duration of Response, The duration of Response was defined as the time of first recorded achievement of a particular response level, which was defined according to IMWG uniform response criteria, as either complete response, stringent complete response, very good partial response or partial response included only responding participants, until the participants were assessed to have progressive disease., Day 1 (Start of treatment) until the date of first documented achievement of response|Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) Score, The ECOG PS Score 0 versus 1, wherein 0 signifies fully active, able to carry all pre-disease performance without restriction and 1 signifies restriction in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory (able to walk) and able to carry out work on a light or sedentary nature., Day 1 of Cycle 1, 3, 5, 7 and Final visit/Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)|Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) Score, The KPS is used to quantify participant's general well-being and activities of daily life and participants are classified based on their functional impairment. KPS score is 11-level score which ranges between 0 (death) to 100 (no evidence of disease). Higher score means higher ability to perform daily tasks., Day 1 of Cycle 1, 3, 5, 7 and Final visit (30-45 days after last dose) or early termination visit|Quality of Life Assessment by QLQ C-30, The quality of life was assessed by the questionnaire QLQ C-30 designed by European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life in cancer participants. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'Very Poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores are averaged, and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score for a symptom scale like the fatigue scale is equal to higher level of symptomatology or problems., Final Visit/Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)|Quality of Life Assessed by Euro Quality of Life (EQ-5D), The EQ-5D is a participant rated questionnaire to assess health-related quality of life in terms of a single utility score. It assesses level of current health for 5 domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety and depression where 1=better health state (no problems), 3=worst health state. Scoring formula was developed by Euro quality of life group which assigns a utility value for each domain in profile. Score is transformed and results in a total score range -0.594 to 1.000; higher score indicates a better health state., Quality of Life (EQ-5D) Final Visit/Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)|Renal Function, Renal function was analysed by creatinine clearance. Creatinine clearance was calculated by Cockroft-Gault fourmula. Creatinine clearance is equal to 140 minus age multiplied by weight and constant (1 for men and 0.85 for women) divided by creatinine in (micro mole per liter), Day 1 of Cycle 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6, 7, 8 and Final/Early termination visit (30-45 days after last dose)
This is an open label (all people know the identity of the intervention), multi-center (study conducted at multiple sites), non-comparative, single arm study of bortezomib. The study consists of 3 phases: Screening phase (21 days before Day 1 of cycle 1); Treatment phase (consist of 8 cycles each cycle of 21 days or until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity); and a Follow-up phase (for participants with positive treatment response or stable disease at the final visit). Follow-up for disease progression will be done in every 3 months up to 2 years. Participants who will experience disease progression after completing at least 2 cycles of bortezomib treatment or have no change from baseline in stable disease after completing at least 4 cycles or as per Investigator's discretion will receive dexamethasone. Efficacy will be primarily evaluated by percentage of participants with renal compromised Multiple Myeloma by International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) uniform response criteria. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.