OsseoScrew Versus Fenestrated Pedicle Screws Augmented With Polymethylmethacrylate
The purpose of this clinical investigation was to collect clinical evidence of the safety and efficacy of the OsseoScrew System. The OsseoScrew System is intended to provide immobilization and stabilization of spinal segments in skeletally mature patients as an adjunct to fusion. The study was designed to compare the safety and efficacy of OsseoScrew compared to any other commercially available fenestrated pedicle screw system augmented with PMMA for posterior spinal fixation after surgical correction of spinal deformity or pathology.
Osteoporosis|Poor Bone Quality
DEVICE: OsseoScrew Spinal Fixation System
Safety Endpoint: Rate of device-related or PMMA-related complications, The proportion of patients who were free from device-related or PMMA-related complications leading to revision, supplemental fixation, non-elective removal, or reoperation throughout the study. Complications included, but were not limited to device or PMMA fracture, device or PMMA-related loosening, device or PMMA-related device disassembly, device migration or PMMA extravasation., 24 months|Efficacy Endpoint: Successful radiographic fusion, Presence of continuous bridging bone across the implant, 24 months
Oswestry Disability Index, This is a measure of the patient's self reported permanent functional disability. Each section is scored on a 1-5 scale with 5 representing the greatest disability., 24 months|Visual Analogue Scale for back pain, This is a measure of the characteristic or attitude that is believed to range across a continuum of values to measure pain intensity. The range of score is from 0 - 100. The patient marks on the line the point that they feel represents their perception of their current state. A higher score indicates greater pain intensity., 24 months|Adverse events, Adverse event rates, 24 months
This was a randomized, open-label, controlled, multi-center study in which patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive either the OsseoScrew or any commercially available fenestrated screw augmented with polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) (Control group) for posterior spinal fixation after surgical correction of spinal deformity or pathology. The study was planned to include up to 150 skeletally mature patients with spinal instability and osteopenia at up to 10 sites. Patients were to return postoperatively at 6 weeks (± 2 weeks) and at 6, 12, and 24 months (± 2 months) for assessments.