High-Dose Combination Chemotherapy and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Metastatic Rhabdomyosarcoma or Ectomesenchymoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vincristine, irinotecan, ifosfamide, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving high-dose combination chemotherapy together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase III trial is studying how well giving high-dose combination chemotherapy together with radiation therapy works in treating patients with newly diagnosed metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma or ectomesenchymoma.
Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: dactinomycin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: ifosfamide|DRUG: irinotecan hydrochloride|DRUG: vincristine sulfate|PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|RADIATION: radiation therapy|BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim
Number of Patients With Complete or Partial Response Assessed by RECIST Criteria, Volumetric measurements of the primary tumor using an elliptical model (0.5 x the product of the 3 largest perpendicular diameters) to assess response to neoadjuvant therapy. The RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) from the NCI will be used for assessment of the size of measurable metastases, including nodal metastases. Primary Tumor Measurement: Technical guidelines for cross-sectional imaging computed tomography (CT) slice thickness should be 5mm or less and the diameter of the "measurable" mass should be at least twice the reconstructed slice thickness. Smaller masses are considered detectable, but will be counted as "non-measurable." Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of the tumor confirmed at \>4 weeks. Partial Response (PR): At least 64% decrease in volume compared to the measurement obtained at study enrollment. Progressive Disease (PD): At least 40% increase in tumor volume compared to the smallest volume obtained since the beginning., Protocol week 6 evaluation|Percentage of Patients Experiencing Adverse Events Due to Concurrent Therapy, Adverse events are reported for patients receiving concurrent irinotecan hydrochloride and radiotherapy., From enrollment to up to 2 years
Percentage of Patients Event Free at 4 Years Following Study Entry, Event-free survival: Time to recurrence, second malignancy, or death as a first event, estimated from a Kaplan Meier curve, 4 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Improve the early disease control interval for patients with newly diagnosed, high-risk, metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma or ectomesenchymoma using intensive, interval-compression therapy (comprising vincristine, irinotecan hydrochloride, ifosfamide, etoposide, doxorubicin hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, and dactinomycin) that permits maximal early exposure to known effective agents.
* Determine the feasibility and assess immediate- and short-term side effects of concurrent irinotecan hydrochloride and radiotherapy in these patients.

Secondary

* Expand the available data for response to irinotecan hydrochloride and vincristine in previously untreated patients with high-risk rhabdomyosarcoma.
* Evaluate, prospectively, and validate gene expression values with the intent to define the best diagnostic predictors and more powerful prognostic classifiers.

OUTLINE: This is a prospective, nonrandomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prognostic factors predictive of outcome (e.g. histology, bone/bone marrow involvement, and number of metastatic sites).

Patients receive high-dose chemotherapy comprising vincristine IV over 1 minute on day 1 of weeks 1-5, 7, 8, 11, 12, 15, 16, 20-24, 28, 29, 32, 33, 35, 38, 41-44, 47, 48, 50, and 51; irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1-5 of weeks 1, 4, 20, 23, 47, and 50; and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour and etoposide IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1-5 of weeks 9, 13, 17, 26, and 30. Patients also receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1 and 2 of weeks 7\*, 11, 15, 28, and 32; cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of weeks 7, 11, 15, 28, 32, 35, 38, 41, and 44; and dactinomycin IV over 1-5 minutes on day 1 of weeks 35, 38, 41, and 44 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously in weeks 7-9, 11-13, 15-17, 22, 26, 28-30, 32, 33, 35, 38, and 41-44 beginning 24-36 hours after the last chemotherapy dose and continuing until blood counts recover.

NOTE: \*Patients undergoing early radiotherapy for intracranial extension do not receive doxorubicin in week 7.

Beginning at week 20 (or week 1 for patients with parameningeal tumors with intracranial extension \[or spinal cord compression\] requiring emergency radiotherapy), patients also undergo radiotherapy once a day, 5 days a week, for approximately 5½ weeks. Some patients may also undergo second-look surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for ≥ 10 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 75 patients will be accrued for this study.