Chidamide Plus CHOEP Combined With Upfront ASCT in Untreated Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to determine determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety of the combination of Chidamide combined with CHOEP(cyclophosphamide， epirubicin,vindesine, etoposide and prednisone) regimen as first line treatment in newly-diagnosed T-NHL.
T Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Chidamide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Vindesine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Prednisone
2 years progression-free survival, from recruiting the first subject until the last recruited subject finished his 2 years follow-up phase or the disease relapsed, the overall time frame is up to 48 months
5 years overall survival（OS）, from recruiting the first subject until the last recruited subject finished his 5 years follow-up phase, the overall time frame is up to 84 months|overall response rate(ORR) and complete remission rate(CR）, the last recruited subject finished 4 cycle C-CHOEP regimen, the overall time frame is up to 30 months|adverse events, throughout the treatment and until 30 days after the administration of the last dose of a study drug, the overall time frame is up to 84 months
maximum tolerated dose of chidamide, from recruiting the first 9 subjects to all of them received 1 cycle C-CHOEP regiment, the overall time frame is up to 6 months
Chidamide+Cyclophosphamide+Epirubicin+Vindesine+Etoposide+Prednisone Six cycles of therapy administered every 28 days were planned. Cyclophosphamide 750mg/m2 IV d1; epirubicin 70mg/m2 IV d1; Vindesine 4mg IV d1; etoposide 100mg IV d1-3; prednisone 60mg/m2 PO d1-5.

Chidamide:

Phase I: Patients were treated at the following bortezomib dose levels: 15, 20, and 25 mg twice per week.

Dose escalation and reduction were on the basis of the continual reassessment method, with at least two patients per dose level and no dose level skipped. No intrapatient dose escalation will be allowed. If one patient experienced dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), three additional patients were added to the dose level. If two of six patients experienced DLT, the previous dose level was declared the MTD. If only one of six patients experienced DLT, dose escalation was permitted to continue. DLT refers only to toxic events that occur during the first cycle of treatment.

At least 9(3+3+3) patients will be enrolled in Phase I study. Phase II: If MTD was not reached at 25mg dose level of Chidamide. The followed study will use 20mg twice per week as experimental dose.

After 3 Cycles, patients who become PD should withdraw the trial and receive other regimens; patients who become CR and eligible for auto-SCT will undergo auto-SCT; patients who get PR will receive 3 more cycles C-CHOEP regimen treatment, CR patients in them undergo auto-SCT, non-CR patients undergo follow-up phase.

All the patients will continue to receive chidamide treatment until progression of the disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion.

During follow-uo phase, surveillance imaging with CT scans can be performed every 6 months up to the first 2 years, followed by doctor visit every 6 months up to 5 years or the disease relapses.

from recruiting the first subject until the last recruited subject finished his 2 years follow-up phase or the disease relapsed