Induction Chemotherapy Combined With Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy for MSS Colon Cancer
This study aims to elucidate the regression effects of neoadjuvant chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy and adjuvant therapy in locally advanced MSS colon cancer.
Colon Neoplasm
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Anti-PD-L1 Monoclonal Antibody|DRUG: Clostridium butyricum|PROCEDURE: Colectomy
TRG0/1, The sum of tumor regression grades TRG0(disappearance of tumor) and TRG1(scattered residual tumor)(AJCC standard)., 1 day of postoperative pathological examination.
AE, the rate of adverse event（AE)., Adverse events (NCI CTC AE 5.0) that occurred from the first day of induction chemotherapy to one day before the surgery date(up to half a year).|Surgical Complication, the rate of surgical complication during or after operation., From the day of surgery to 30 days after the operation, including intraoperative and postoperative complications.|DFS, 3-year Disease-free survival., From date of the patient signs the informed consent form until the date of earliest occurrence of the patient's tumor recurrence or death，whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|OS, 5-year Overall survival., From the date of the patient signs the informed consent form until the date of the patient's death, assessed up to 60 months.|Concentration of FLT3L, Fms Related Receptor Tyrosine Kinase 3 Ligand is a marker of immunogenic cell death., blood tests for FLT3LG at initial diagnosis, after induction chemotherapy, before and 3 months after surgery.|Concentration of cytokines, Blood density measurement of immunoreaction associated cytokines., Blood tests of cytokines such as IFN-γ are conducted using techniques such as immunofluorescence and ELISA at initial diagnosis, after induction chemotherapy, before and 3 months after surgery.|T lymphocyte, Cells with cellular immune function., The types and counts of T cells are analyzed using flow cytometry at initial diagnosis, after induction chemotherapy, before surgery, and 3 months after surgery.|Molecular pathological analysis of tumor tissue., Whole exome sequencing and Nanostring to analyze changes in the tumor microenvironment immune status., Nanostring and Whole exome gene sequencing is performed on tumor specimens to analyze the changes in immune cell types, counts, and other immune status-related factors in the tumor microenvironment before and after treatment (up to half a year).|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), Minimal Residual Disease which is a potential source of tumor recurrence and distant metastasis., Collect plasma after surgery for MRD detection (up to half a year).
The standard treatment for locally advanced colon cancer is surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy containing oxaliplatin. The MOSAIC and 16968 studies have shown that approximately 30% of patients experience recurrence and metastasis within 6-7 years after surgery. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy may improve the prognosis of patients with malignant tumors. The significant tumor shrinkage after neoadjuvant therapy indicates a greater likelihood of long-term survival for patients. The OPTICAL and FoxTROT studies have shown that approximately 35% of patients are resistant to oxaliplatin-containing neoadjuvant chemotherapy, with a pCR rate of less than 10% and uncertain survival improvement. In addition, immunotherapy has poor efficacy for microsatellite stable (MSS) patients. Therefore, it is necessary to explore new and effective neoadjuvant treatment modalities for tumor regression.

The study will screen for individuals who are sensitive to oxaliplatin-containing regimens through induction chemotherapy. Immunogenic cell death will be enhanced by oxaliplatin-induced immunogenicity and combined with anti-programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1) monoclonal antibodies for neoadjuvant therapy. In the context of cancer, the role of the intestinal microbiome in mediating immune activation induced by chemotherapy drugs has been demonstrated. Clostridium butyricum will be introduced as an adjuvant to explore the possibility of further increasing the significant response rate of neoadjuvant therapy.

The study will first conduct 2 cycles of Capox induction chemotherapy to screen for patients sensitive to chemotherapy. Patients will be randomized into three cohorts: one chemotherapy standard control cohort (continuing Capox chemotherapy for 2 cycles) and two enhancement design cohorts (Capox chemotherapy + Anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody for 2 cycles/Capox chemotherapy + Anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody + Clostridium butyricum for 2 cycles), followed by CME surgery. The study's primary endpoint is the proportion of Tumor regression grade(TRG)0/1 in the pathological specimens of surgically resected tumors.