Stress Reduction in Improving Quality of Life in Patients With Recurrent Gynecologic or Breast Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies stress reduction in improving quality of life in patients with recurrent gynecologic or breast cancer. Participating in a stress reduction program may help improve quality of life in patients with gynecologic or breast cancer.
Anxiety Disorder|Depression|Fatigue|Leydig Cell Tumor|Ovarian Sarcoma|Ovarian Stromal Cancer|Pain|Peritoneal Carcinomatosis|Pseudomyxoma Peritonei|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Recurrent Cervical Cancer|Recurrent Endometrial Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Cancer|Recurrent Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Uterine Sarcoma|Recurrent Vaginal Cancer|Recurrent Vulvar Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care|BEHAVIORAL: behavioral intervention|OTHER: cognitive intervention|OTHER: educational intervention
Quality of life(QoL), Quality of life as assessed by Short Form (SF)-36, up to 28 weeks
Mood as assessed by the Profile of Mood States (POMS), Up to 28 weeks|Depressive symptoms as assessed by the Center for Epidemiological Studies, Depression scale (CES-D), Up to 28 weeks|Stress as assessed by the Impact of Event Scale (IES), Up to 28 weeks|Pain as assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Up to 28 weeks|Fatigue as assessed by the Fatigue Severity Index (FSI), Up to 28 weeks|Diurnal cortisol slope, Study participants will also collect saliva samples at home 4 times a day for 3 days. Saliva samples will be collected at the baseline, mid-treatment, post-treatment and 3-month follow-up assessments. These samples will be used to measure cortisol., Up to 28 weeks|Inflammation, Blood samples will be used to measure levels of inflammatory markers. Blood draws will be coordinated with the participants' regularly scheduled blood draws to minimize discomfort., Up to 28 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To refine the intervention. II. Test the acceptability, feasibility, and clinical appropriateness of the intervention.

III. To provide a preliminary test of its efficacy.

OUTLINE:

Patients participate in a multi-component intervention based on cognitive and behavioral principles comprising mindfulness-based stress reduction (MBSR), an intervention to promote hopefulness, and a problem solving approach which navigates around obstacles or generates alternatives when goals become blocked. Additional topics may be covered as indicated by clinical need and patients goals. Biobehavioral components include addressing social and disease-specific quality of life, and pain education. Intensive treatment sessions continue weekly for 16 weeks followed by 2 biweekly and 2 monthly maintenance sessions.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 28 weeks.