Treatment of Relapsed and/or Chemotherapy Refractory B-cell Malignancy by CART19
RATIONALE: Placing a tumor antigen chimeric receptor that has been created in the laboratory into patient autologous or donor-derived T cells may make the body build immune response to kill cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying genetically engineered lymphocyte therapy in treating patients with B-cell leukemia or lymphoma that is relapsed (after stem cell transplantation or intensive chemotherapy) or refractory to chemotherapy.
Hematopoietic/Lymphoid Cancer|Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia in Remission|B-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|B-cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Stage III Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage III Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Stage III Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage III Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Stage IV Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Stage IV Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage IV Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage IV Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Stage IV Mantle Cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: anti-CD19-CAR vector-transduced T cells
Occurrence of study related adverse events, defined as \>= Grade 3 signs/symptoms, laboratory toxicities, and clinical events) that are possibly, likely, or definitely related to study treatment, Until week 24
Anti-tumor responses to CART-19 cell infusions, up to 24 weeks
in vivo existence of CART19, 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and feasibility of the chimeric antigen receptor T cells transduced with the anti-CD19 (cluster of differentiation antigen 19 ) vector (referred to as CART-19 cells).

II. Determine duration of in vivo survival of CART-19 cells. RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) analysis of whole blood will be used to detect and quantify survival of CART-19 TCR (T-cell receptor) zeta:CD137 and TCR zeta cells over time.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-tumor response due to CART-19 cell infusions.

II. To determine if the CD137 transgene is superior to the TCR zeta only transgene as measured by the relative engraftment levels of CART-19 TCR zeta:CD137 and TCR zeta cells over time.

III. Estimate relative trafficking of CART-19 cells to tumor in bone marrow and lymph nodes.

IV. For patients with stored or accessible tumor cells (such as patients with active chronic lymphocytic leukemia(CLL), acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL), etc) determine tumor cell killing by CART-19 cells in vitro.

V. Determine if cellular or humoral host immunity develops against the murine anti-CD19, and assess correlation with loss of detectable CART-19 (loss of engraftment).

VI. Determine the relative subsets of CART-19 T cells (Tcm, Tem, and Treg).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 group according to order of enrollment.

Patients receive anti-CD19-CAR (coupled with CD137 and CD3 zeta signalling domains)vector-transduced autologous T cells on days 0,1, and 2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed intensively for 6 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and annually thereafter for 13 years.