An Assessment of Intra-lesional 3% Polidocanol Solution in the Treatment of Digital Myxoid Cyst
Digital myxoid cysts arise from degeneration in the connective tissue of the digit joint, usually the last joint of the finger or toe, often due to underlying joint arthritis. They may connect with the joint. Pressure from the cyst can result in deformity of the digit's nail and trauma to the cyst results in leakage of the fluid, representing a potential source of entry for infection. Cysts can be tender and interfere with the digit's function. A variety of treatments are available, from simple extrusion which is rarely successful, to more destructive cryotherapy, infra-red coagulation and formal excision under local anaesthetic. These latter three approaches can result in considerable scarring. Sclerosant injection of polidocanol in one small non-randomised trial has been reported to be a well tolerated efficacious treatment with minimal scarring and long-term resolution. Following a pilot study, the investigators aim to trial this treatment to assess efficacy in a larger population.
Ganglion Cysts
DRUG: polidocanol|PROCEDURE: infra-red coagulation|PROCEDURE: cryotherapy
cyst resolution at 6 weeks, Is there a difference in the percentage of participants with cyst resolution at 6 weeks post treatment in those treated with polidocanol compared to those treated with the current conventional treatments of cryotherapy and infra-red coagulation?, 6 weeks
cyst resolution at 12 and 52 weeks, In those participants treated with polidocanol compared to cryotherapy and also compared to infra-red coagulation is there a difference in the percentage of participants with cyst resolution at 12 and 52 weeks post initial treatment, 1 year|difference in scarring, In those participants treated with polidocanol compared to cryotherapy and also compared to infra-red coagulation is there a difference in clinically apparent scarring, 1 year|pain scores on a visual analogue scale, In those participants treated with polidocanol compared to cryotherapy and also compared to infra-red coagulation is there a difference in procedure pain/discomfort, 1 year|procedure satisfaction on a visual analogue scale, In those participants treated with polidocanol compared to cryotherapy and also compared to infra-red coagulation is there a difference in procedure satisfaction, 1 year
Digital myxoid cysts arise from degeneration in the connective tissue of the digit joint, usually the last joint of the finger or toe, often due to underlying joint arthritis. They may connect with the joint. Pressure from the cyst can result in deformity of the digit's nail and trauma to the cyst results in leakage of the fluid, representing a potential source of entry for infection. Cysts can be tender and interfere with the digit's function. A variety of treatments are available, from simple extrusion which is rarely successful, to more destructive cryotherapy, infra-red coagulation and formal excision under local anaesthetic. These latter three approaches can result in considerable scarring. Sclerosant injection of polidocanol in one small non-randomised trial has been reported to be a well tolerated efficacious treatment with minimal scarring and long-term resolution. Following a pilot study, the investigators aim to trial this treatment to assess efficacy in a larger population.