Optimal Duration of Hormonal Therapy for Unfavorable Intermediate-risk Prostate Cancer Patients: 6 Versus 12 Months.
Patients with unfavorable intermediate-risk prostate cancer will be randomized between 6 versus 12 months of hormone therapy with radiation therapy. Patients may choose to receive hypofractionated radiation therapy or hypofractionated radiation therapy with high-dose rate brachytherapy. Hypofractionated radiation therapy refers to radiation therapy given fewer treatments, however higher doses per treatment.
Prostate Cancer (Adenocarcinoma)
DRUG: 6 months of Eligard|DRUG: 12 months of Eligard|RADIATION: prostate SBRT or prostate brachytherapy with radiation therapy
biochemical progression-free survival, rate of survival without a biochemical relapse. The definition of biochemical relapse is the PSA nadir + 2. The rates of biochemical relapse will be compared between the patients receiving 6 months vs 12 months of hormonal therapy., 5 years
overall survival, rate of survival (death due to any cause), 5 years|biochemical progression-free survival, rate of survival without a biochemical relapse. The definition of biochemical relapse is the PSA nadir + 2. The rates of biochemical relapse will be compared between patients receiving stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) vs hypofractionated radiation therapy with high-dose rate brachytherapy., 5 years|disease-specific survival, compare death rates due to prostate cancer between patients that received 6 months of hormone therapy versus those that received 12 months of hormone therapy., 5 years|CTCAE version 5 acute and late toxicity, Acute and delayed toxicity differences measured by CTCAE version 5, at or before 90 days for the acute and 90-180 days and after for the delayed toxicity., 5 years
A total of 400 patients with unfavorable intermediate-risk prostate cancer will be randomized into 2 arms: The first arm will receive the standard 6-month duration of hormone therapy with concomitant radiation therapy. The second arm will receive 12 months with concomitant radiation therapy. Radiation treatment will consist of either concomitant prostate SBRT to a dose of 40 Gy/5fractions over 2 weeks or a combination of external beam radiotherapy dose of 25 Gy in 5 fractions with a high-dose rate brachytherapy boost of 15 Gy. The choice of radiation treatment will be to the investigator's discretion..Patients will be stratified according to the number of intermediate-risk factors and according to the radiation therapy type.