Node-Sparing Short-Course Radiotherapy Plus First-Line Therapy and PD-1 Inhibitor in Unresectable/Metastastic pMMR/MSS Gastric Cancer (MODIFI-GC)
For patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, systemic anti-tumor therapy remains the mainstay of treatment. Combining chemotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors has gradually become the standard first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Radiotherapy can enhance the release of tumor-associated antigens, thereby improving the responsiveness of MSS/pMMR tumors to PD-1 inhibitors. Tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) are key sites for the anti-tumor activity of PD-1 blockade; however, radiation-induced damage and fibrosis may impair lymphatic drainage and local immune responses. Previous studies have suggested that irradiation of the primary tumor combined with immune checkpoint blockade can produce an abscopal effect, mediating regression of distant metastases. This study aims to evaluate whether node-sparing modified short-course radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy and PD-1 blockade can improve 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma.
Immune Checkpoint Therapy|Radiotherapy|Metastatic Gastric Carcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Node-Sparing Radiotherapy plus first-line therapy|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: First-line treatment
Progression-free survival (PFS), From initiation of treatment until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed over a period of up to 24 months
Objective response rate, From the start of treatment until disease progression, assessed over a period of up to 24 months|Duration of response, From the first documented occurrence of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) to the first documented disease progression (per RECIST v1.1) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed over a period of up to 24 months|Disease control rate, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|Overall survival (OS) rate, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|Treatment related adverse effect, From treatment start to 30 days after the end of treatment|R0 resection rate, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|Quality of life by EORTC QLQ-C30, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years|EORTC QLQ-STO22, From treatment start to the end of study at 2 years
For patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer, systemic anti-tumor therapy remains the mainstay of treatment. Combining chemotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors has gradually become the standard first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Radiotherapy can enhance the release of tumor-associated antigens, thereby improving the responsiveness of MSS/pMMR tumors to PD-1 inhibitors. Tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) are key sites for the anti-tumor activity of PD-1 blockade; however, radiation-induced damage and fibrosis may impair lymphatic drainage and local immune responses. Previous studies have suggested that irradiation of the primary tumor combined with immune checkpoint blockade can produce an abscopal effect, mediating regression of distant metastases. This study aims to evaluate whether node-sparing modified short-course radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy and PD-1 blockade can improve 2-year progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma.