Effects of Nurse-led Supportive Care Programme on Caregiver Burden and Resilience of Family Caregivers
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with a mortality rate of 18%. The prognosis of lung cancer is progressive and devastating, which may cause patients to experience problems during the treatment and care process. Due to the problems experienced by lung cancer patients, their need for support increases and the care process is provided mostly in the home environment, causing family members to take on important roles as caregivers. Therefore, the resilience of family caregivers decreases and they feel burden.
Nurse-led Supportive Care
BEHAVIORAL: Nurse-led Supportive Care Programme
Zarit Burden Interview (ZBI), The ZBI is a measure of caregiving burden developed by Zarit et al. (1980). The Turkish version of this scale has been validated by Inci and Erdem (2018). It consists of 22 items, and responses are recorded on a five-point Likert scale. The level of caregiver burden can be ascertained based on the total scale scores, which range from 0 to 88. Higher scores indicate a higher level of caregiver burden.The Cronbach's α of the Turkish version of this scale was 0.91 in Inci and Erdem (2018) validation study., The scale was filled in the baseline (before the beginning of the nurse-led supportive care), 8th and 12th weeks.
Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale Short Form (CDRSSF), The CDRSSF was developed to determine the psychological resilience of individuals, which enables them to return to their former state after negative events they have experienced.It is a 5-point Likert-type scale with 10 items.The level of resilience can be ascertained based on the total scale scores, which range from 0 to 40. High scores obtained from the scale are considered as high psychological resilience. The Turkish validity and reliability of the scale was conducted by Kaya and Odacı (2020)., The scale was filled in the baseline (before the beginning of the nurse-led supportive care), 8th and 12th weeks.
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with a mortality rate of 18%. The prognosis of lung cancer is progressive and devastating, which may cause patients to experience problems during the treatment and care process. Due to the problems experienced by lung cancer patients, their need for support increases and the care process is provided mostly in the home environment, causing family members to take on important roles as caregivers. Therefore, the resilience of family caregivers decreases and they feel burden.