Gossypol Acetic Acid With Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Relapsed Symptomatic Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid when given together with lenalidomide and dexamethasone and to see how well it works in treating patients with multiple myeloma, also known as plasma cell myeloma, that has come back after a period of improvement or has gotten worse after treatment. R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid may stop the growth of cancer cells by recognizing certain proteins and stimulating programmed cell death. Lenalidomide may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid with lenalidomide and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: R-(-)-Gossypol Acetic Acid
Maximally tolerated dose of AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (Phase I), The number and severity of all adverse events (overall and by dose-level) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The Grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to day 28 of course 2|Overall response rate, with response defined to be a stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response (Phase II), Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 3 years
Incidence of adverse events, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event, regardless of causality, will be recorded and reported for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine adverse event patterns., Up to 30 days after the last day of study drug treatment|Overall survival (Phase II), Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Progression free survival (Phase II), Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assesse up to 3 years
Biochemical response, measured by change in serum/urine M-proteins and light chains, The degree of response of these tumor biomarkers will be evaluated (percentage and absolute decrease), Baseline to day 28 of course 1|Change in basal expression of Bcl-2 and its family members, Basal expression will be summarized descriptively for each target. Changes in expression over time will be evaluated for each target using Wilcoxon's signed rank test., Baseline to after completion of 2 courses of treatment (56 days)|Change in basal expression pattern of protein kinase B (Akt), mitogen-activated protein kinase 1 (Erk), and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK), Basal expression will be summarized descriptively for each target. Changes in expression over time will be evaluated for each target using Wilcoxon's signed rank test, Baseline to after completion of 2 courses of treatment (56 days)|Change in Cereblon expression, Analyzed to determine if clinical response to lenalidomide/dexamethasone is linked to Cereblon expression. The expression will be summarized descriptively., Baseline to time of relapse/resistance (relapse after a clinical response or progressive disease while on therapy, up to 3 years)|Resistance to AT-101, measured by change in basal Bcl-2 and Mcl-2 binding domain sequence, These targets will be summarized descriptively. The baseline values will be compared with the values at the time of relapse/resistance using Wilcoxon's signed rank test., Baseline to time of relapse/resistance (up to 3 years)|Resistance to lenalidomide/dexamethasone, measured by change in expression of signaling molecules Akt, Erk1/2, and MAPK, Comparison will be drawn between the pre-treatment samples and those obtained at time of resistance using Wilcoxon's signed rank test. Correlation will be made with clinical response to therapy (responder vs. non-responder) using Wilcoxon's rank sum test., Baseline to time of relapse/resistance (up to 3 years)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid (AT-101) that can be combined with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM). (Phase I) II. To determine the overall response rate (partial response or better) of AT-101 when used in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed symptomatic MM. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with relapsed symptomatic MM following treatment with AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

II. To determine the toxicities associated with AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed symptomatic MM.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine in vivo the anti-myeloma effect of AT-101 alone by assessing extent of decrease in M-protein (serum and/or urine) after 1 cycle of AT-101 alone.

II. Determine the pharmacodynamics effect of AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone treatment on primary myeloma cell in vivo.

III. Explore potential mechanism of resistance to AT-101 in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone therapy and the role of B-cell CLL/lymphoma 2 (Bcl-2).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study of R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive R-(-)-gossypol acetic acid orally (PO) once a day (QD) on days 1-21. Beginning in course 2, patients also receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 3 years.