Bintrafusp Alfa Monotherapy in Platinum-Experienced Cervical Cancer
The main purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical efficacy and safety of bintrafusp alfa in participants with advanced, unresectable cervical cancer with disease progression during or after platinum-containing chemotherapy.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
DRUG: Bintrafusp alfa
Number of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Confirmed objective response was defined as the number of participants with a confirmed objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Confirmed CR = at least 2 determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression. Confirmed PR = at least 2 determinations of PR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression (and not qualifying for a CR). Confirmed objective response was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and as adjudicated by IRC., Time from first treatment up to 688 days
Duration of Response (DOR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), DOR was defined for participants with confirmed response, as the time from first documentation of confirmed objective response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]) according to RECIST 1.1 to the date of first documentation of progression disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the SLD of all lesions. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. DOR was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and assessed by IRC. Results were calculated based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|Durable Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), Durable Response was defined as the number of participants with confirmed objective response (CR or PR) according to RECIST 1.1, determined by IRC with duration of at least 6 months. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the SLD of all lesions. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-Related TEAEs, Including Adverse Event of Special Interests (AESIs), Adverse Event (AE) was defined any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered with a study drug, which does not necessarily had a causal relationship with this treatment. Serious AE was defined AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial/prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs: TEAEs was defined as events with onset date or worsening during the on-treatment period. TEAEs included serious AEs and non-serious AEs. Treatment-related TEAEs: reasonably related to the study intervention. AESIs included Infusion-related reactions, Immune-related AEs, Transforming growth factor- beta (TGF-ß) inhibition mediated skin AE, bleeding and anemia., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST Version 1.1) Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC), PFS was defined as the time from first administration of study intervention until date of the first documentation of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Kaplan-Meier estimates was used to calculate PFS., Time from first administration of study drug until the first documentation of PD or death, assessed up to 688 days|Number of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by the Investigator, Confirmed objective response was defined as the number of participants with a confirmed objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Confirmed CR = at least 2 determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression. Confirmed PR = at least 2 determinations of PR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression (and not qualifying for a CR). Confirmed objective response was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and as adjudicated by Investigator., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from first administration of study intervention to the date of death due to any cause. The OS was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from first administration of study drug up to data cutoff (assessed up to 688 days)|Serum Pre-Dose Concentrations (Ctrough) of Bintrafusp Alfa, Ctrough was defined as the concentration observed immediately before next dosing (corresponding to pre-dose or trough concentration for multiple dosing)., At Day 15, Day 29, Day 43, Day 85, Day 127, Day 169, Day 253, Day 337, Day 421, Day 505 and Day 589|Serum Concentration at End of Infusion (CEOI) of Bintrafusp Alfa, Serum Concentration at End of Infusion (CEOI) of bintrafusp alfa is reported., At Day 1 and Day 29|Number of Participants With Positive Antidrug Antibodies (ADA), Serum samples were analyzed by a validated assay method to detect the presence of antidrug antibodies (ADA). Number of participants with positive ADA were reported., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC) According to Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Expression, Confirmed objective response was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Confirmed CR = at least 2 determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression. Confirmed PR = at least 2 determinations of PR at least 4 weeks apart and before progression (and not qualifying for a CR). Confirmed objective response was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and as adjudicated by IRC through PD-L1 Subgroup. Participants with PD-L1 positive tumors (Combined positive score (CPS) \>=1) and PD-L1 negative tumors (CPS\<1)., Time from first treatment up to 688 days|PFS According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC) According to Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Expression, PFS was defined as the time from first administration of study intervention until the first documentation of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PFS was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and as adjudicated by IRC through PD-L1 Subgroup. Participants with PD-L1 positive tumors (Combined positive score (CPS) \>=1) and PD-L1 negative tumors (CPS\<1)., Time from first administration of study drug until the first documentation of PD or death, assessed up to 688 days|Overall Survival (OS) as Assessed According to Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Expression, OS was defined as the time from first administration of study intervention to the date of death due to any cause. The OS was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method. Participants with PD-L1 positive tumors (Combined positive score (CPS) \>=1) and PD-L1 negative tumors (CPS\<1)., Time from first administration of study drug up to 688 days
The main purpose of this study was to evaluate clinical efficacy and safety of bintrafusp alfa in participants with advanced, unresectable cervical cancer with disease progression during or after platinum-containing chemotherapy.