Efficacy and Safety of Oral HBI-8000 in Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Adult T Cell Lymphoma (ATL)
Phase 2b, open-label, non-randomized, single arm study to evaluate the safety, and efficacy of HBI-8000 40 mg BIW in patients with relapsed or refractory ATL (R/R ATL)
Adult T-Cell Lymphoma (ATL)
DRUG: HBI-8000
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate (CR+CRu+PR) was determined based on the response of all compartments (lymph nodes, extranodal masses, spleen \& liver, skin, peripheral blood, and bone marrow) per Tsukasaki criteria and skin lesions were evaluated according to modified SWAT.

CR: The disappearance of all disease whereby all criteria met; All compartments are normal.

CRu: Lymph nodes ≥75% decrease and extranodal masses ≥75% decrease, but presence of residual lesion; spleen, liver, skin, peripheral blood and bone marrow are normal.

PR: Lymph nodes and extradnodal masses - Reduction rate of the sum of 2 dimension products of ≥50% and ≤75%, no increase spleen /liver, skin lesion ≥50% decrease and peripheral blood ≥50% decrease., Tumor response was assessed until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, up to 15 months.
Objective Response Rate by Disease Subtype, Objective response rate (CR+CRu+PR) by disease subtype (acute ATL, lymphoma ATL, unfavorable chronic ATL) was determined based on the response of all compartments (lymph nodes, extranodal masses, spleen \& liver, skin, peripheral blood, and bone marrow) per Tsukasaki criteria and skin lesions were evaluated according to modified SWAT., Tumor response was assessed until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity, up to 15 months.|Median Duration of Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of the first study drug dose to the disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. Evaluation of progression/progressive disease is performed according to the modified criteria of the International Consensus Meeting. Progression is defined as a 50% increase in the sum of 2-dimension products of nodal and/or extra nodal lesions, or 25% increase of mSWAT score in skin lesion, or 50% increase of absolute count of abnormal lymphocyte, or the appearance of new lesions., From the first day of HBI-8000 dose to the day of disease progression or death, which ever came first, through the end of the study (up to 15 months).|Median Duration of Response (DOR), Median duration of response from first response CR, CRu, PR, date to progression, death or last available tumor assessment., Through the end of the study (up to 12 months).
Median Duration of Overall Survival (OS), Median duration of overall survival is from start of the study to death., Until death, assessed every 3 months up to 12 months after last treatment through the end of the study (up to 30 months).|Safety and Tolerability, Evaluated as Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Safety and tolerability, evaluated as number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., From date of first subject's consent until 30 days after last treatment, assessed up to 25 months.
This is a Phase 2b, open-label, non-randomized, single arm study to evaluate the safety, and efficacy of HBI-8000 40 mg BIW in patients with relapsed or refractory ATL (R/R ATL). HBI 8000 will be administered orally approximately 30 minutes after any regular meal twice a week. There will be 3 to 4 days between dosing. A treatment cycle is defined as 28 consecutive days. HBI-8000 administration will be continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities are observed despite appropriate dose reduction or treatment interruption.