A Multi-Center Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of KX01 Ointment 1% on Actinic Keratosis on Face or Scalp
This Phase III study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of KX01 Ointment in adult participants when applied to an area of skin containing more than 1, clinically typical Actinic Keratosis (AK) lesions on the face or scalp.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: KX01 ointment 1%|DRUG: Placebo
Percentage of participants with complete (100%) clearance of Actinic Keratosis (AK) lesions, Complete clearance rate is defined as the percentage of participants at Day 57 with no clinically visible AK lesions in the treatment area., Day 57
Partial Clearance Rate of AK Lesions at Day 57, Partial clearance rate of AK lesions is defined as the proportion of subjects on Day 57 with a ≥ 75% reduction in the number of AK lesions identified at Baseline (Day 1 predose) in the treatment area., Day 57|Recurrence rate of AK lesions in subjects who achieved complete clearance at Day 57, For subjects who achieve 100% clearance of AK lesions in the treatment area on Day 57, a Investigator or Sub-investigator will perform a count of clinically visible AK lesions (lesion count) during the Recurrence Follow-up Period at the 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month visits. In principle, the Investigator or Sub-investigator performing the lesion count should be the same Investigator or Sub-investigator who evaluated the subject previously during the study., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months post-Day 57|Number of participants with local skin reactions (LSR) in the treatment area, At Baseline (Day 1 predose), LSRs on the treatment area will be assessed by the Investigator or Sub-investigator. The same Investigator or Sub-investigator will conduct the LSR assessment at all visits for an individual subject. LSR signs on the treatment area include the following: erythema, flaking / scaling, crusting, swelling, vesiculation / pustulation, and erosion / ulceration. These signs will be assessed using a 4-point grading scale., Baseline (Day 1 predose), Days 5, 8, 15, 29 and 57|Number of participants with pigmentation and scarring in the treatment area, At the time of LSR assessment, hypo- and hyper-pigmentation and scarring on the treatment area will be assessed by the Investigator or Sub-investigator as being present or absent. Pigmentation and scarring will be assessed at Baseline (Day 1 predose). In principle, the same Investigator or Sub-investigator will assess pigmentation and scarring at all visits for an individual subject., Baseline (Day 1 predose), Days 5, 8, 15, 29 and 57|Number of participants with Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), events of special interest, From Baseline (Day 1 predose) up to Day 57|Number of participants with AEs within the treatment area after Day 57 up to 12 months post-Day 57, After Day 57 up to 12 months post-Day 57
This study is a double-blinded, multicenter, activity, and safety study of KX01 Ointment administered topically to the face or scalp of participants with actinic keratosis. The study consists of Screening, Treatment, Follow-up, and Recurrence Follow-up Periods. Eligible participants received 5 consecutive days of topical treatment, to be applied at the study site. Activity (lesion counts) and safety evaluations is performed.