Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Plus Lenvatinib (E7080/MK-7902) Versus Chemotherapy for Endometrial Carcinoma (ENGOT-en9 / MK-7902-001) - China Extension Study
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy of pembrolizumab + lenvatinib to chemotherapy in female participants with Stage III, IV, or recurrent endometrial carcinoma. It is hypothesized that the combination of pembrolizumab + lenvatinib will be superior to chemotherapy for progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) by blinded independent central review (BICR). It is also hypothesized that the combination of pembrolizumab + lenvatinib will be superior to chemotherapy for overall survival (OS).

As of Amendment 7 eligible participants on study completion will be able to transition to an extension study, if available, in which they can continue to receive pembrolizumab monotherapy, lenvatinib monotherapy, or a combination of both pembrolizumab and lenvatinib as received in the parent study.
Endometrial Neoplasms
DRUG: Lenvatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) in Mismatch Repair Proficient (pMMR) Participants, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum had to demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. The PFS of pMMR participants was presented., Up to approximately 45 months|PFS Based on RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in All Randomized Participants, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented PD per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum had to demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD. The PFS of all randomized participants was presented., Up to approximately 45 months|Overall Survival (OS) in pMMR Participants, OS was measured from the time of randomization up to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were to be censored at the date of the last follow-up. The OS for pMMR participants is presented., Up to approximately 45 months|OS in All Randomized Participants, OS was measured from the time of randomization up to death due to any cause. Participants without documented death at the time of the final analysis were to be censored at the date of the last follow-up. The OS for all randomized participants is presented., Up to approximately 45 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in pMMR Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed using RECIST 1.1. The percentage of pMMR participants who experienced a CR or PR is presented., Up to approximately 45 months|ORR Based on RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR in All Randomized Participants, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a CR: Disappearance of all target lesions or a PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions as assessed using RECIST 1.1. The percentage of all randomized participants who experienced a CR or PR is presented., Up to approximately 45 months|Mean Change From Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life Score of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (QLQ-C30) in pMMR Participants, The EORTC QLQ-C30 was developed to assess the quality of life of patients with cancer. It contains 30 questions (items), 24 of which aggregate into nine multi-item scales representing various aspects, or dimensions, of quality of life (QoL): one global scale, five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea, pain), and six additional single-symptom items assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by cancer patients (dyspnoea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation and diarrhoea) and perceived financial impact of the disease. Individual items are scored on a 4-point scale (1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). Raw scores for each scale are standardized into a range of 0 to 100 by linear transformation; a higher score on the global and functional scales represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, and a higher score on the symptom scale represents a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Baseline and up to approximately 18 weeks|Mean Change From Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life Score of the EORTC QLQ-C30 in All Randomized Participants, The EORTC QLQ-C30 was developed to assess the quality of life of patients with cancer. It contains 30 questions (items), 24 of which aggregate into nine multi-item scales representing various aspects, or dimensions, of QoL: one global scale, five functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea, pain), and six additional single-symptom items assessing additional symptoms commonly reported by cancer patients (dyspnoea, loss of appetite, insomnia, constipation and diarrhoea) and perceived financial impact of the disease. Individual items are scored on a 4-point scale (1=not at all, 2=a little, 3=quite a bit, 4=very much). Raw scores for each scale are standardized into a range of 0 to 100 by linear transformation; a higher score on the global and functional scales represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, and a higher score on the symptom scale represents a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., Baseline and up to approximately 18 weeks|Percentage of Participants Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 27 months (through 90 days after the last dose of study treatment)|Percentage of Participants Experiencing a Serious Adverse Event (SAE), An SAE is an AE that results in death, is life-threatening, requires or prolongs hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability, is a congenital birth defect, or is another important medical event., Up to approximately 28 months (through 120 days after the last dose of study treatment)|Percentage of Participants Experiencing an Immune-related AE (irAE), Immune-related AEs will be monitored in both arms., Up to approximately 27 months (through 90 days after the last dose of study treatment)|Percentage of Participants Discontinuing From Study Treatment Due to an AE(s), Discontinuations related to AEs will be monitored in both arms., Up to approximately 24 months (through the last dose of study treatment)
This China extension study will include participants previously enrolled in China in the global study for MK-7902-001 (NCT03884101) plus those enrolled during the China extension enrollment period.