The Real World Efficacy and Safety of Niraparib in Korean Women With Primary and Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
1. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of niraparib in Korean women with primary and recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer who underwent niraparib maintenance therapy
2. To evaluate the efficacy and safety of salvage niraparib therapy in Korean women with heavily pretreated epithelial ovarian cancer.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Progression-free survival, Obtain a survival curve using the Kaplan-Meir method in all cohorts, and compare the survival rates between cohort A vs cohort B in total patients, BRCA WT and mutation patients using the log-rank test. Multivariate survival analysis will be performed using Cox's proportional hazard model., 3 years|Safety analysis, The fraction that adverse events occurred, the fraction that dose modification occurred, the fraction that dose delay occurred, and the fraction that treatment discontinuation occurred were calculated, respectively. The comparison of the fractions between groups will be done by the Chi-square test or the Fisher exact test. Comparison of means between groups will be done by Student t test or Mann-Whitney U test., 3 years|Overall survival analysis, Obtain a survival curve using the Kaplan-Meir method in all cohorts, and compare the survival rates between cohort A vs cohort B in total patients, BRCA WT and mutation patients using the log-rank test. Multivariate survival analysis is performed using Cox's proportional hazard model., 3 years
It has been three years since niraparib was introduced into Korea, and about 600 Korean patients with epithelial ovarian cancer have been treated with this drug. The efficacy and safety of niraparib in primary and recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer were well demonstrated in the NOVA trial and the PRIMA trial, and the efficacy and safety of niraparib in heavily pretreated epithelial ovarian cancer patients were confirmed in the -QUADRA trial. However, safety and efficacy data in Korean women are still scanty. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in Korean women with primary and recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer.