Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Hodgkin's Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage cancer cells. Combining more than one drug with radiation therapy may kill more cancer cells. It is not yet known which combination chemotherapy regimen is most effective in treating Hodgkin's lymphoma.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying two different combination chemotherapy regimens and comparing how well they work, with or without radiation therapy, in treating patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Lymphoma
DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Bleomycin|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Mechlorethamine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Failure-free Survival at 5 Years, Failure-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the earlier of progression/relapse or death. The 5-year failure-free survival is the probability a patient is failure-free and survives 5 years.

Progression is defined as an increase in size of 25% of the sum of the products of the pretreatment measurements or appearance of new lesions. Significant enlargement of the liver or spleen is evidence of progression. A significant increase in size is defined as \> 2.0 cm in distance between costal margin and the inferior margin of either organ.

Relapse is defined as the re-appearance of any clinical evidence of Hodgkin's disease in a patient who has had a complete response. Relapse for partial responders is defined as progressive disease relative to disease status during the partial remission., Assessed every 2 months if patient is < 1 year from study entry, every 3 months for the second year, every 4 months for the third year, every 6 months for years 4 and 5
5-year Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or last known alive. The 5-year survival rate is the probability a patient survives 5 years., Assessed every 2 months if patient is < 1 year from study entry, every 3 months for the second year, every 4 months for the third year, every 6 months for years 4 and 5, and yearly for 5 years|Incidence of Second Cancers, Number of patients who developed second primary cancers, Assessed every 2 months if patient is < 1 year from study entry, every 3 months for the second year, every 4 months for the third year, every 6 months for years 4 and 5, and yearly for 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the failure-free survival of patients with locally extensive or advanced Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine (ABVD) vs doxorubicin, vinblastine, vincristine, bleomycin, mechlorethamine, etoposide, and prednisone (Stanford V) with or without radiotherapy.
* Compare the overall survival and freedom from progression in these patients at 5 and 10 years after treatment with these regimens.
* Compare pulmonary function, incidence of second cancers, reproductive function, and deaths from causes other than Hodgkin's lymphoma in patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to number of adverse risk factors (0-2 vs 3-7), disease characteristics (locally extensive vs advanced) and time of entry (before addendum 6 vs. after addendum 6). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm A (ABVD): Patients receive doxorubicin (25 mg/m²), bleomycin (10 u/m²), vinblastine (6 mg/m²), and dacarbazine (375 mg/m²) IV on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days. Patients are restaged after 4 courses. Patients who are in complete remission receive 2 additional courses. Patients with a partial response or less are evaluated after 6 courses, and if there is an ongoing response, patients may receive 2 additional courses for a total of 8. If no ongoing response is observed, patients are removed from the study. All patients with massive mediastinal disease, regardless of stage, receive radiotherapy 2-3 weeks after completion of chemotherapy.
* Arm B (Stanford V): Patients receive Stanford V chemotherapy comprising doxorubicin (25 mg/m²) and vinblastine (6 mg/m²) IV on day 1 of weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11; vincristine (1.4 mg/m²) and bleomycin (5 u/m²) IV on day 1 of weeks 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12; mechlorethamine (6 mg/m²) IV on day 1 of weeks 1, 5, and 9 (if mechlorethamine is unavailable, may substitute with cyclophosphamide \[375 mg/m²\] IV); etoposide (60 mg/m²) IV on days 1 and 2 of weeks 3, 7, and 11; and oral prednisone (40 mg/m²) every other day of weeks 1-9 followed by a taper. All patients with bulky disease receive radiotherapy 2-3 weeks after completion of chemotherapy.

Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 850 patients will be accrued for this study within 4.3 years.