Erector Spinae Plane Block vs. PECS I-II Blocks After Breast-conserving Surgery
The goal of this study is to compare the analgesic effects of ESPB and PECS II blocks in patients undergoing BCS. The main question it aims to answer is:

* Whether these two different block procedures will create a difference in postoperative pain scores.
* Comparison of total opioid consumption during the 24-hour postoperative period.

Our study included patients who were female, who were going to undergo elective breast-conserving surgery between March 2022 and August 2022.
Breast Cancer Surgery|Breast Conserving Surgery|Erector Spinae Plane Block|Pectoral Nerve (PECS) Block|Visual Analog Scale|Opioid Consumption|Postoperative Pain, Acute
PROCEDURE: Erector Spinae Plane Block|PROCEDURE: Pectoral Nerve Block
Early postoperative Visual Analog Scale (VAS) scores, The postoperative pain level that evaluated with evaluated with VAS at 0, 15, 30 and 60 minutes.

Patients were asked to indicate their pain on a scale where 0 represented "no pain" and 10 represented "unbearable pain"., First hour after surgery
Additional opioid analgesic requirement in the postanesthesia care unit, Patients who scored 4 and above in the pain score were administered 10 mg meperidine., First hour after surgery|Total opioid consumption after discharging from postanesthesia care unit, The PCA device, which was applied to the patients at the 60th minute postoperatively, was left for patient use until the 24th hour postoperatively., Between 1-24 hours after surgery|Visual Analog Scale (VAS) during 24 hours follow-up after surgery, VAS values after discharge from the postanesthesia care unit

Patients were asked to indicate their pain on a scale where 0 represented "no pain" and 10 represented "unbearable pain"., 1th, 4th, 6th, 12th, and 24th hours postoperatively
The patients to be included in our study were divided into two groups as ESPB group or PECS II group by an anesthesia assistant independent of the study using a computer-based randomization program one day before the operation. All patients were informed about the block in the preoperative period, the use of the patient-controlled analgesia device to be used after the operation, and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) assessment. (Patients were asked to indicate their pain on a scale where 0 represented "no pain" and 10 represented "unbearable pain.)

On the day of the operation, group envelopes were placed in the patient files to indicate the groups in sealed envelopes. The appropriate anesthesia method was applied to the patient according to the group written on the patient's envelope by the relevant anesthesiologist on duty in the study. Our study was conducted as a randomized controlled and prospective study.

VAS scores at 0, 15, 30, 60 minutes postoperatively recorded for the primer output of the study. For the secondary outputs the total amount of analgesic used was recorded from the records of the PCA device. All patients' demographic data, intraoperative hemodynamic data, anesthesia duration, surgical duration and hospital stay, VAS at 4, 6, 12, 24 hours in the service follow-up, rescue analgesic requirements and numbers, nausea-vomiting and developing complications were evaluated and recorded. The evaluations were made by the anesthesiologist who was blind to the groups.