Comparison of Molecular-Genetic Concordance of the Primary Tumor and Brain Metastases of Colorectal Cancer
GENCONCOR-1 study is translational research aimed to investigate the concordance of the molecular genetic profile of the primary tumor and brain metastases (BM) of colorectal cancer (CRC). The study was conducted by post hoc analysis of pairs of samples of histological material with determination of the mutational status of genes KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, HER2 and MSI.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic|Brain Metastases, Adult|Ras (KRAS or NRAS) Gene Mutation|BRAF Gene Mutation|HER2 Gene Mutation|MSI
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Tumor samples will be tested for mutation status of KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, HER2 and MSI
Concordance rate (%), Concordance rate (%) between mutational status of the brain lesions and their corresponding primary tumor. Calculated as the ratio of concordant cases to total cases., 1 month
Intracranial progression-free survival (CNS-PFS1), Time from the date of cancer diagnosis to the date of detection of brain metastases., 3 months|Overall survival (OS), Time from the date of detection of brain metastases to the date of death., 6 months|Intracranial progression-free survival (CNS-PFS2), Time from the date of neurosurgical resection to the date of intracranial progression (continued growth or distant brain metastases) or death., 3 months
Brain metastases (BM) from colorectal cancer (CRC) are a rare event reported in less than 3% of patients with CRC (the reported incidence ranges from 0.27 to 3%). This course is associated with a poor prognosis. Treatment of these patients remains challenging. Nevertheless, given the rarity of the event, at this time not enough is known about molecular biology of BM from colorectal cancer and its concordance with matched primary tumors.

In N.N. Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology over 26 years (1998-2024) identified 108 patients with BM from CRC. Of this number, 72 patients had a history of neurosurgical resection of BM. In turn, for 32 patients access to a pair of tumor samples: from the primary tumor and from intracranial metastases. Tumor samples will be tested for mutation status of genes KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, HER2 and MSI. Analysis was limited to this pool of genes because of their clinical relevance and potential prognostic information. The molecular profile of the BM will be compared with the corresponding primary tumor with calculation of concordance rate (%).