Surgery With HIPEC in Treating Patients With a High Risk of Developing Colorectal Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
Multicentric randomised trial. The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) will help to decrease the rate of peritoneal carcinomatosis(PC) in patients with high risk of developing PC of colorectal cancer. The safety of this treatment will also be studied.
Malignant Neoplasm of Large Intestine TNM Staging Primary Tumor (T) T4|Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
PROCEDURE: Surgery and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy with MMC
Disease-free survival, DFS, Three years from the date of randomization
3 year overall survival, 3-OS, 3 years|Peritoneal disease-free survival, PDFS, 3 years|5 year overall survival, 5-OS, 5 years|morbidity, Toxicity induced by HIPEC using the NCI CTC criteria; one month and six months morbidity.

Subgroup analysis: pT4; pts. ≤ 40yrs., Baseline before any treatment,3 months post operation, 1 year post operation|QOL, Duration of operation; return of bowel function; length of hospital stay; return to normal activity; six months and one year QOL, using the SF-36 v1.0; percentage of patients in both arms completing the scheduled postoperative chemotherapy; Subgroup analysis: pT4; pts. ≤ 40yrs., Baseline before any treatment,3 months post operation, 1 year post operation
Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy(HIPEC) is a recently validated option for the treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis from colorectal or ovarian origin. This therapeutic program demonstrated a significant improvement of overall survival of the disease. It is not yet known whether surgery followed by HIPEC is effective on decreasing the rate of peritoneal carcinomatosis(PC) in patients with high risk of developing PC of colorectal cancer.Patients with a high risk of developing colorectal Peritoneal Carcinomatosis (PC), defined by Colorectal Cancer With a Resected Minimal Synchronous PC or Ovarian Metastases, or identified T4 by intraoperative pathological diagnosis, or Tumour Rupture in the Abdominal Cavity. If patients with a high risk of developing PC identified by preoperative examination, they will be informed and will sign the consent. After complete resection of their tumor, they will be randomised to surveillance alone (control group) or HIPEC (experimental group). All patients will receive the current standard postoperative adjuvant treatment : 6 months of systemic chemotherapy (currently including FOLFOX4, mFOLFOX6, CapeOx or Capecitabine regimen which could be modified if the standard is modified). Then a work-up is done to find recurrence. If the recurrence occurs, the patient will be treated with the best known treatment.