Methylene Blue and Postoperative Neurocognitive Disorders
Postoperative Neurocognitive Disorders are the most common neurological complications after major surgery, which are associated with higher increased mortality and morbidity in elderly patients undergoing major surgery. Until now highly effective intervention has not been established yet. Recent preclinical studies suggest neuroinflammation may be linked to pathogensis of (postoperative delirium) POD and postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD). As Methylene blue(MB) has neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties, and it is a safe drug with long history of clinical use, we propose that inflammation-targeted interventions may be useful to prevent POD/POCD in surgical patients.
Postoperative Delirium
DRUG: Methylene Blue|DRUG: Placebo
Incidence of postoperative delirium(POD), the effectiveness of MB in reducing the incidence of POD compared with placebo in patients undergoing pancreatic tumor surgery., Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 7 days.
type and duration of POD, Participants will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 7 days|Safety Assessments: incidence of perioperative adverse events, the incidence of perioperative adverse events to reflect safety of MB administration, the whole perioperative period|neuroinflammation biomarkers, the changes in levels of neuroinflammation biomarkers ( IL-6 and IL-8 )between MB group and control group, on the day of surgery (before anesthesia and at the end of surgery) and postoperative one day|expressions of inflammatory and adhesion genes in cerebral endothelial cells, TNF-α, monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1), Claudin 5 (CLND5) and adhesion factors including vascular cell adhesion protein 1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 (ICAM-1), before anesthesia and at first day after surgery|numbers of PBMCs adhesion to cerebral endothelial cells, before anesthesia and at first day after surgery|Incidence of postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD), the effectiveness of MB in reducing the incidence of POCD compared with placebo in patients undergoing pancreatic tumor surgery., Up to the 7th day after surgery|overall survival, the effectiveness of MB on overall survival compared with placebo in patients undergoing pancreatic tumor surgery., up to 3 years after surgery|disease-free survival, the effectiveness of MB on disease-free survival compared with placebo in patients undergoing pancreatic tumor surgery., up to 3 years after surgery
Pancreatic cancer is one of the most common incident cancers that causes cancer death in China. The patients undergoing pancreatic cancer surgery not only have a low survival rate, but also have high postoperative complications, including postoperative delirium(POD) characterized by an acute change in cognition with altered consciousness and impaired attention, and postoperative cognitive dysfunction(POCD) mainly manifested as reduced ability of learning and memory. It is reported that POD occurred in 10% - 60% of elderly surgical patients, varying by surgical procedure, while the incidence of POCD is approximately 25%-40%. Although it was reported that small dosage of intravenous dexmedetomidine maybe reduce the incidence of POD/POCD, a large number of studies had also shown that dexmedetomidine would promote breast cancer, liver cancer and lung cancer cells' proliferation and migration, which urged to find more effective and safer treatment strategies to reduce the incidence of postoperative neurocognitive dysfunction in elderly cancer patients.

The preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated anesthesia/surgery-induced neuroinflammation and oxidative stress are strongly associated with postoperative neurocognitive disorders. The systemic inflammation plays a central role in neurodegenerative diseases, leading to neuronal death, metabolic disturbance, and excessive reactive oxidative species(ROS) production. Actually, recent experimental evidences have linked anesthesia/surgery-induced inflammation to POCD, and the available data support that restoration of neuroinflammation could reduce postoperative cognitive impairments in developing and aging animals. Therefore, we propose those inflammation-targeted interventions may be useful to prevent POD/POCD in elderly surgical patients.

Methylene blue(MB) is a diaminophenothiazine with a long history of clinical use due to its safe profile. The studies have indicated that MB, as a redox mediator in the electron transfer chain (ETC), restores mitochondrial function and enhances brain metabolism. In recent years its role as a mitochondrial protective agent has elicited much of its renewed interest, especially its neuroprotective effects in clinical studies against ischemic stroke, chemotherapy-induced encephalopathy and neurodegenerative disorders associated with psychoses. MB has been proposed to protect selective regions of the brain, wherein memory is encoded and processed in various models of brain dysfunction-induced amnesia, and importantly, enhances learning and memory in patients with mental diseases and healthy human through its beneficial brain network effects. Now its emerging role as neuroprotection and memory-enhancer makes this old drug become a promising cure for neurodegenerative diseases. Our previous clinical study ( NCT04341844) found that the single dosage of 2mg/kg MB was safe to the elderly patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery, and was effective to prevent of the incidence of POD and early POCD. And our experimental study also found that MB inhibited neuroinflammation and improved neurobehavioral deficits in lipopolysaccharide-treated mice via inhibiting the microglial Siah2/Morg1/PHD3 pathway. However, whether the safety and effectiveness of MB could prevent postoperative cognitive impairments in pancreatic tumor patients needs further investigation. Therefore, we design this prospective randomized controlled clinical trial to test whether MB could decrease the incidence of POD/POCD in patients undergoing pancreatic tumor surgery.