Selumetinib in Chinese Paediatric With Post-operative NF1-PNs, PhaseⅡ, Double-Blinded, Placebo-Controlled Study
This is a phase II, multicenter, randomised, parallel, double-blind, placebo-controlled study assessing the efficacy and safety of the MEKi selumetinib compared with placebo in Chinese paediatric participants with post-operative NF1-associated PNs.
Neurofibromatosis Type 1|Plexiform Neurofibromas|Post-operative
DRUG: Selumetinib|DRUG: Placebo
2-year progression-free survival (PFS) Rate, The time from randomisation to MRI assessment of objective disease progression (PD) or death (by any cause in the absence of progression) per REiNS criteria. PD is defined as an increase in target PN volume by 20% or more compared to baseline or compared to the time of best response after documenting a partial response (PR). The appearance of new PN (with the exception of new discrete subcutaneous neurofibromas) or unequivocal progression of existing clinically relevant non-target PN is also considered PD., 2 years
Confirmed Partial Response(cPR) Rate in all participants who are randomised in the study., Confirmed partial response (cPR) is the response of participants who have ≥20% decrease of target tumour volume from baseline confirmed by a consecutive scan within 3 to 6 months after the first response. Durable partial response (dPR) is cPR for at least 12 cycles of treatment. And CR is the response of participants who have the target lesion disappearance., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Durable Partial Response (dPR) rate in all participants who are randomised in the study., Durable Partial Response (dPR) rate is proportion of participants who have cPR for at least 12 cycles of selumetinib., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Complete Response (CR) rate in all participants who are randomised in the study., Complete Response (CR) rate is proportion of participants who have the target lesion disappearance., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Time to Initial Response in all participants who are randomised in the study., Time to Initial Response is the time between randomisation and the first PR., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Time to Best Response in all participants who are randomised in the study., Time to Best Response is the time between randomisation and the documented best efficacy evaluation (firstly occurs)., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Tumour volume growth tracking, A waterfall plot will present the largest percentages of decrease from baseline of tumour volume, as the tumour volumes growth tracking, with the auxiliary lines for -20% and 20%., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Health related quality of life (HRQoL) in all participants who are randomised in the study., In all participants who are randomised in the study, Health related quality of life (HRQoL) measured by Paediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scales, From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Pain index in all participants who are randomised in the study., The FLACC scale is an observer-reported measurement used to assess pain in children aged from 2 months to 7 years, or for individuals that are unable to communicate their pain. In this study, parents will receive a short training on how to do the assessments of pain for their child., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Faces Pain Scale-Revised (4 to 17 years) in all participants who are randomised in the study., The Faces pain scale - revised is a self-reported measure of pain intensity developed for children. In this study, the Faces pain scale will be used to assess pain in children aged from 4 to 17 years of age., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Pain interference index in all participants who are randomised in the study., The Pain Interference Index (PII) is a six-item measure that assesses the degree to which pain has interfered with daily activities in the past week, including paying attention, spending time with friends, doing leisure and physical activities, mood, and sleep. In this study, the Faces pain scale will be used to assess pain in children aged from 4 to 17 years of age. If participants have difficulties reading, it is permissible for site staff to read the instructions to the participant and point to the faces as they read the instructions. If a participant has difficulties remembering the worst pain they had the past week, instructions should be given to assess the worst pain they had today., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Pain Medication Survey (All Participants), A pain medication survey will be used to ensure that potential pain palliation is not the result of increased usage of analgesics.Information on daily and as-needed pain medications will be collected, including dates, pain medication name, dose and frequency., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Strength and Range of Motion, Manual muscle testing was performed by a physiatrist or physical therapist to determine the strength of specific muscle groups at each restaging visit using the Medical Research Council 0-5 strength scale., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.|Disfigurement in all Consenting participants., Consenting participants will have photographic documentation of visible PNs., From begin to the end of treatment, around 2-3 years.
Participant Population:

The target population of interest in this study is Chinese paediatric participants with post-operative NF1-associated PNs who have received sub-total or partial resection of the targeted PN lesion (residue should be \> 20% of pre-operative tumour volume, and measurable, defined as a lesion of ≥3 cm measured in one dimension on ≥3 imaging slices and have a reasonably well-defined contour), at least 4 weeks and up to 3 months after surgery.

Number of Participants:

Approximately 42 Chinese paediatric participants with post-operative NF1-associated PN will be randomised in a 2:1 ratio to receive selumetinib (28 participants) or placebo (14 participants).

Treatment Groups and Duration:

Following the screening period (Day -28 to Day -1), enrolled participants will be randomised in a 2:1 ratio to one of the treatment groups. Randomisation will be stratified by age (\<12 versus ≥12 years old).

Participants will orally receive selumetinib or placebo twice daily (BID) (approximately every 12 hours) at a dose of 25 mg per square meter of body surface area (BSA) on a continuous dosing schedule (28-day per cycle with no rest periods between cycles) for a maximum of 36 cycles. Participants should be instructed to take the dose of selumetinib or placebo on an empty stomach (no food or drink other than water for 2 hours before and 1 hour after dosing) with water only. The capsules cannot be crushed and must be swallowed whole.

Dosing will be performed based on BSA calculated by the equation below, and doses will be rounded to the nearest 5 to 10 mg using a dosing nomogram. BSA should be calculated at screening and every tumour assessment visit. The dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP) will be capped at 50 mg when BSA is ≥1.9 m2.

All participants will be evaluated for safety and efficacy at a regular basis, as defined in Table 1. The safety follow-up visit will be conducted at Day 28 after the end of treatment (EOT) or treatment discontinuation.

Tumour assessments, measured by 3D volumetric magnetic resonance imaging will be determined by investigators according to REiNS criteria. Participants in the placebo group can be transferred to the selumetinib group within the study, when REiNS-defined progression of disease (PD) was detected in a participant. During the intervention period, participants may continue to receive selumetinib beyond REiNS-defined PD as long as they are continuing to show clinical benefit, as judged by the investigators and Sponsor.

Participants should continue on treatment until:

Unacceptable safety \& tolerability event; Participants withdraw from the study; Completing 36 cycles of treatment or 24 cycles after last participant in (whichever comes first).