Golidocitinib Plus CHOP in Newly Diagnosed PTCL
This is single-arm phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of golcadotinib in combination with the CHOP regimen for patients with newly diagnosed peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL). The study adopts a two-stage design, consisting of a Phase I and a Phase II parts. In the phase I study, a standard "3+3" design will be used. The primary endpoints of the Phase I study are the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D). The primary endpoint of the Phase II study is the complete response rate (CRR) of the golcadotinib combined with CHOP regimen.
Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Golidocitinib plus CHOP
Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of phase 1 study, Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) and/or maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be established according to the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of escalated doses of golidocitinib, 4 weeks since the date of first dose]|complete remission rate (CRR) of the phase 2 study, Treatment responses were assessed according to the 2014 Lugano classification criteria., Responses were evaluated after 3 cycles of induction and 1 month after the completion of study therapy (each cycle is 21 days)
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of enrollment until the date of the first documented day of disease progression or relapse, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., From date of enrollment until documented disease progression or death of any reason (up to 3 years)|Overall survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of death from any cause., From date of enrollment until documented death of any reason (up to 3 years)|adverse events, Graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, From enrollment till 28 days post the last induction cycle|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as the proportion of patients with CR or PR., Responses were evaluated after 3 cycles of induction and 1 month after the completion of study therapy (each cycle is 21 days)
This is single-arm phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of golcadotinib in combination with the CHOP regimen for patients with newly diagnosed peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL). The study adopts a two-stage design, consisting of a Phase I and a Phase II parts. In the phase I study, a standard "3+3" design will be used. The primary endpoints of the Phase I study are the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D). The primary endpoint of the Phase II study is the complete response rate (CRR) of the golcadotinib combined with CHOP regimen.