Bempegaldesleukin and Pembrolizumab With or Without Chemotherapy in Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This study is to assess the safety and tolerability, and to assess the preliminary clinical benefit of NKTR-214 when combined with pembrolizumab (KEYTRUDA®) with or without chemotherapy.

The study is comprised of two groups; dose optimization and dose expansion cohorts.

Dose Optimization included first-line and second-line advanced or metastatic solid tumors including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)

The dose expansion cohort will include first-line NSCLC patients.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: NKTR-214|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: NKTR-214|DRUG: NKTR-214|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Number of Participants Experiencing Dose-Limiting Toxicities in Dose Optimization Cohort 1a, DLTs were assesses in the Dose Optimization Cohort 1 a, which had doses of NKTR-214 as 0.008 mg/kg, 0.010 mg/kg, and 0.012 m/kg, I combination with pembrolizumab at 200 mg.

A single DLT (hypotension) was reported in 1 patient in dose optimization Cohort 1a., DLTs were assessed at 21 days from Cycle 1|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability] for Dose Optimization Cohort 1a., Safety and Tolerability of NKTR-214 (starting at dose of 0.008 mg/kg) in combination with pembrolizumab (Keytruda®) as evaluated by incidence of drug-emergent Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), AEs leading to drug discontinuation, and fatal AEs., AEs reported starting immediately after first dose of study drug(s) until 100 days after the last dose of all study drugs, up to approximately 28 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) by RECIST 1.1 of NKTR-214 Plus Pembrolizumab for Dose Expansion Cohorts 2 and 3., ORR per BICR by RECIST 1.1 for the Response Evaluable Population dose expansion Cohorts 2 and 3.

ORR is defined as the proportion of enrolled participants who achieved a Best Overall Response (BOR) of CR or PR. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. ORR is calculated as the sum of CR and PR.

The Response Evaluable Population was subjects who received at least 1 dose (or partial dose) of study drug, had measurable disease (per RECIST 1.1) at baseline, and had at least 1 post-baseline assessment of tumor response., Until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, symptomatic deterioration, Investigator's decision to discontinue treatment, patient withdrew consent or lost to follow-up, or study terminated by Sponsor; or until maximum of 2 years.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Investigator's Assessment by RECIST 1.1 of NKTR-214 at a Dose of 0.006 mg/kg With Pembrolizumab and Platinum-based Chemotherapy for Dose Expansion Cohorts 4+5., ORR per Investigator's Assessment\* by RECIST 1.1 for the Response Evaluable Population dose expansion Cohorts 4 +5. The Response Evaluable Population was subjects who received at least 1 dose (or partial dose) of study drug, had measurable disease (per RECIST 1.1) at baseline, and had at least 1 post-baseline assessment of tumor response.

Objective response is the sum of confirmed complete response and confirmed partial response.

\*Efficacy endpoint for Cohort 4 +5 is per Investigator's Assessment due to the early termination of the study and incompleteness of BICR data for these cohorts., Until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, symptomatic deterioration, Investigator's decision to discont. treatment, patient withdrew consent or lost to follow-up, or study terminated by Sponsor; or until maximum of 2 years.
NKTR-214 is a cytokine (investigational agent) that is designed to target CD122, a protein which is found on certain immune cells (known as CD8+ T Cells and Natural Killer Cells) to expand these cells to promote their anti-tumor effects. Pembrolizumab is a programmed death receptor -1 (PD-1) blocking, fully humanized, engineered monoclonal antibody of IgG1 isotype that promotes anti-tumor effects.

The study will evaluate the clinical benefit, safety and tolerability of combining NKTR-214 with pembrolizumab with or without chemotherapy. Each dose expansion cohort will enroll approximately 100 new patients.

Dose Optimization evaluated an every three-week dose regimen (q3w) of NKTR-214 in combination with pembrolizumab given that the optimal dose and dosing schedule of NKTR-214 in combination with pembrolizumab remains unknown. The previously established recommended Phase 2 dose (0.006 mg/kg) of NKTR-214 was studied in combination with nivolumab.

Dose Expansion: NKTR-214 in combination with pembrolizumab will be evaluated in first-line non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The NKTR-214 dose to be studied is 0.006 mg/kg q3w. This dose is based on the recommended phase 2 dose noted in the monotherapy trial with NKTR-214 (Study 15-214-01, NCT02869295) and an ongoing combination trial (16-214-02, NCT02983045). Pembrolizumab will be administered at a dose of 200mg q3w. Following data review for safety and efficacy, additional patients may be dosed using the findings from the dose optimization cohorts.