Split Course Adaptive Radiation Therapy With Pembrolizumab With/Without Chemotherapy for Treating Stage IV Lung Cancer
This phase I/II trial tests the safety and efficacy of split-course adaptive radiation therapy in combination with immunotherapy with or without chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with stage IV lung cancer or lung cancer that that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). Radiation therapy is a standard cancer treatment that uses high energy rays to kill cancer cells and shrink tumors. Split-course adaptive radiation therapy uses patient disease response to alter the intensity of the radiation therapy. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies such as pembrolizumab, ipilimumab, cemiplimab, atezolizumab or nivolumab may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs like carboplatin, pemetrexed, and paclitaxel work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving split-course adaptive radiation therapy with standard treatments like immunotherapy and chemotherapy may be more effective at treating stage IV or locally advanced lung cancer than giving them alone.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|OTHER: [18-F] (fluoropropyl)-L-glutamate (FSPG) PET scan|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab
Incidence of adverse events, Safety endpoints will be tabulated using descriptive statistics, and by appropriate subgroups. The incidence of adverse events will be summarized according to organ system in terms of severity by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events and relationship to treatment, Up to 2 years|Best overall response rate, By Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Exact binomial test and 95% confidence interval (CI) will be used., Within 6 months
Progression free survival (PFS), Estimation of the treatment effect by a Cox proportional hazards model (stratified by chemotherapy regimen and PD-L1 expression, each stratum defines separate baseline hazard function); ties handled by replacing the proportional hazards model by the discrete logistic model; 95% CI for the hazard ratio will be calculated. Kaplan-Meier estimates and associated statistics (PFS rates at 6, 9, 12; median PFS) and corresponding 95% CI will be presented by treatment group., Time from consent to the date of first documentation of objective progressive disease assessed by RECIST 1.1 or death, assessed at 6, 9, and 12 months|Overall survival, Estimation of the treatment effect by a Cox proportional hazards model (stratified by chemotherapy regimen and PD-L1 expression, each stratum defines separate baseline hazard function); ties handled by replacing the proportional hazards model by the discrete logistic model; 95% CI for the hazard ratio will be calculated. Kaplan-Meier estimates and associated statistics and corresponding 95% CI will be presented by treatment group., Time from consent to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|New metastasis free survival, Any new lesions different from the ones present at screening are considered as new metastases., Time from consent to the date of the first documentation of a new distant metastasis or death, assessed up to 2 years|Quantitative and qualitative markers of planning and treatment resource utilization, Develop real-world clinical and treatment planning workflows for implementation of the Ethos platform for anatomic and biologically adaptive radiation therapy (RT)., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety of adaptive split course hypo-fractionated radiation therapy (RT) with immunotherapy containing systemic regimens.

II. Evaluate efficacy of the use of adaptive split course hypo-fractionated RT with immunotherapy containing systemic regimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate progression and survival benefit of split course adaptive radioimmunotherapy (SiCARIO) regimen.

II. Identify potential functional radiomic biomarkers of response to SiCARIO regimen.

III. Develop real-world clinical and treatment planning workflows for implementation of the Ethos platform for anatomic and biologically adaptive RT.

OUTLINE:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety of adaptive split course hypo-fractionated radiation therapy (RT) with immunotherapy containing systemic regimens.

II. Evaluate efficacy of the use of adaptive split course hypo-fractionated RT with immunotherapy containing systemic regimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate progression and survival benefit of split course adaptive radioimmunotherapy (SiCARIO) regimen.

II. Identify potential functional radiomic biomarkers of response to SiCARIO regimen.

III. Develop real-world clinical and treatment planning workflows for implementation of the Ethos platform for anatomic and biologically adaptive RT.

OUTLINE:

Patients are assigned to 1 of 11 standard treatment regimens, in combination with radiation therapy, as determined by the tumor histology and PD-L1 status.

Patients with non-squamous histology and any PD-L1 status are assigned to arms 1-4.

ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin, pemetrexed, and pembrolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive pemetrexed and pembrolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

ARM II: Patients receive carboplatin, pemetrexed and cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive pemetrexed and cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

ARM III: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel and cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive pemetrexed and cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

ARM IV: Patients receive carboplatin, pemetrexed and nivolumab on day 1 of each cycle and ipilimumab on day 1 of every other cycle. Treatment repeats for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then continue to receive ipilmumab and nivolumab on the same schedule for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

Patients with squamous histology and any PD-L1 histology are assigned to arms 5-7

ARM V: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel, and pembrolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 up to cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions. Patients then receive pembrolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM VI: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel, and cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 4 up to cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions. Patients then receive cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM VII: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel and nivolumab on day 1 of each cycle and ipilimumab on day 1 of every other cycle. Treatment repeats for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then continue to receive ipilmumab and nivolumab on the same schedule for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

Patients with PD-L1 ≥ 50% are assigned to arms 8-10

ARM VIII: Patients receive pembrolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

ARM IX: Patients receive atezolizumab on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

ARM X: Patients receive cemiplimab-rwlc on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

Patients with any PD-L1 status or histology who are not a chemotherapy candidate are assigned to arm 11

ARM XI: Patients receive ipilmumab every 6 weeks and nivolumab every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo radiation therapy on day 1 of each cycle over 5 treatment fractions.

All patients also receive fludeoxyglucose F-18 intravenously and fluorine F 18 florilglutamic acid IV and undergo PET/ CT during screening and on study. Patients also undergo collection of blood samples, as well as CT and MRI throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, 12 weeks, and then every 12 weeks for 2 years.