Exploratory Study of Safety and ex Vivo Fluorescence of BLZ-100 in Adult Subjects With Solid Tumors Undergoing Surgery
Surgery is the primary treatment modality for many types of cancer and the extent of surgical resection is directly related to patient survival. However, it is often difficult for surgeons to distinguish normal from neoplastic tissue or to detect metastatic disease or tumor-infiltrated lymph nodes. In some sites, surgical precision is also required to avoid damage to critical normal tissues. The purpose of this exploratory study is to evaluate the intra-operative and ex vivo fluorescence of BLZ-100 in tumor samples from subjects with breast cancer.
Tumors, Breast
DRUG: BLZ-100
Number of participants with adverse events, Safety will be assessed by physical examination and measurement of vital signs and laboratory safety parameters. These assessments will be used to determine whether a subject experienced an AE., Seven days after study drug administration
Fluorescent signal from excised tumor surgical specimens, Ex vivo fluorescence of excised tumor specimens will be evaluated with the SIRIS or equivalent imaging device and Odyssey imaging system., Post-tumor excision (approximately 2 hours post BLZ-100 dosing)|Change of concentration of BLZ-100 in the blood, BLZ-100 levels in blood will be analyzed by chemical means and these data will be used to calculate pharmacokinetic parameters., 5, 15, and 30 minutes post BLZ-100 administration
Subjects diagnosed to have breast cancer for which surgical resection is clinically indicated will be enrolled in this study.

Upon obtaining signed informed consent, subjects will enter a Screening Period for up to 14 days to determine eligibility. Subjects meeting all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria will be eligible to participate in the study.

All subjects entered into the study will be required to arrive at the hospital (or Phase 1 unit if applicable) for BLZ-100 administration at least 2 hours before their scheduled surgical procedure. Following administration of BLZ-100, subjects will be continuously monitored for safety and any allergic reaction occurrence for 30 minutes; thereafter, subjects will be evaluated for 7 days after drug administration. All subjects will be followed for at least 30 days following drug administration to monitor for SAEs.

Tumor samples will be imaged in situ and ex vivo with the SIRIS imaging system or equivalent device, processed, and sent to a central laboratory to be evaluated for ex vivo fluorescence using the Odyssey® CLx imaging system.