Propranolol Adjuvant Treatment of Bladder Cancer
Bladder cancer (bladder cancer) is the tenth most common cancer in the world, ranking 13th in the number of deaths. There are about 549000 new cases of bladder cancer worldwide, with 200000 deaths and a higher incidence rate in men than in women. In 2013, the incidence rate of bladder cancer was high in China, accounting for 2.02% of all new cases. Bladder cancer has become a major disease threatening people's life and health. Therefore, the exploration of the mechanism of the occurrence and development of bladder cancer and effective drugs has been an important focus of bladder cancer research. The current treatment of bladder cancer is mainly TURBT (transurethral resection of bladder tumour) resection and BCG, chemotherapy adjuvant treatment, but its recurrence and metastasis still exist, so this study aims to explore an effective drug treatment. The purpose of this study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of propranolol in adjuvant BCG therapy, and whether propranolol can effectively alleviate the metastasis and recurrence of bladder cancer and improve the survival time after bladder cancer surgery.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Propranolol Hydrochloride|DRUG: BCG
two-year recurrence-free survival, 24 months
Bladder cancer (bladder cancer) is the tenth most common cancer in the world, ranking 13th in the number of deaths. There are about 549000 new cases of bladder cancer worldwide, with 200000 deaths and a higher incidence rate in men than in women. In 2013, the incidence rate of bladder cancer was high in China, accounting for 2.02% of all new cases. Bladder cancer has become a major disease threatening people's life and health. Therefore, the exploration of the mechanism of the occurrence and development of bladder cancer and effective drugs has been an important focus of bladder cancer research. The current treatment of bladder cancer is mainly TURBT (transurethral resection of bladder tumour) resection and BCG, chemotherapy adjuvant treatment, but its recurrence and metastasis still exist, so this study aims to explore an effective drug treatment. The purpose of this study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of propranolol in adjuvant BCG therapy, and whether propranolol can effectively alleviate the metastasis and recurrence of bladder cancer and improve the survival time after bladder cancer surgery.