Methotrexate Followed by Fludarabine in Patients With T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methotrexate and fludarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well methotrexate works as first-line therapy and fludarabine works as second-line therapy in treating patients with T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia.
T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: MTX followed by fludarabine
Response rate, he remission status was assessed according to the guidelines of the National Cancer Institute Sponsored Working Group (NCI-WG) \[20 Cheson BD, Bennett JM, Grever M, et al. National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group guidelines for chronic lymphocytic leukemia: revised guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. Blood 1996; 87: 4990-4997.\]. Restaging after the end of treatment included evaluation of the peripheral blood and physical examination; use of imaging techniques (ultrasound and conventional radiography or computertomography) and evaluation of the bone marrow were mandatory to assign a complete remission, 12 months after inclusion in the study
Duration of remission, he remission status was assessed according to the guidelines of the National Cancer Institute Sponsored Working Group (NCI-WG) \[20 Cheson BD, Bennett JM, Grever M, et al. National Cancer Institute-sponsored Working Group guidelines for chronic lymphocytic leukemia: revised guidelines for diagnosis and treatment. Blood 1996; 87: 4990-4997.\]. Restaging after the end of treatment included evaluation of the peripheral blood and physical examination; use of imaging techniques (ultrasound and conventional radiography or computertomography) and evaluation of the bone marrow were mandatory to assign a complete remission, up to 24 months after inclusion in the study|Molecular remission rate, 2 months after the last dose of study medication|Adverse events rate and severity, Adverse events were reported according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC version 2.0), up to 28 days after the last dose of study medication
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine remission rates and duration of remission in patients with T-cell large granular lymphocytic (T-LGL) leukemia needing intervention because of anemia or neutropenia and are treated with parenteral methotrexate (MTX) as first-line therapy
* Determine remission rate and duration of remission in patients who fail to respond to MTX therapy and are subsequently treated with fludarabine as second-line therapy.

Secondary

* Determine the side effects of these drugs in these patients.
* Determine the rate of molecular remissions in patients treated with these drugs.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive methotrexate subcutaneously once weekly in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients not achieving a response to methotrexate receive fludarabine IV on days 1-3. Treatment with fludarabine repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.