Efficacy of Electrical Stimulation for Dysphagia in Head & Neck Cancer Patients
The purpose of the investigation is to learn whether intense swallowing exercise or intense swallowing exercise coupled with electrical stimulation (E-Stim) helps patients who had head/neck cancer and currently have dysphagia swallow better.
Dysphagia
DEVICE: Neurotech NT2000 Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES)
Change in Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS) Score, The PAS scale is a validated 8-point ordinal scale (Rosenbek et. al 1996) in which a score of 1 is best (material does not enter the airway) and a score of 8 is worst (material enters the airway, passes below the vocal folds, and no effort is made to eject it).

Difference in mean PAS scores after 12 weeks of therapy was analyzed between the two groups of interest: Active NMES + Swallowing Exercise versus Sham (inactive) NMES + Swallowing Exercise. PAS scores were obtained from fluoroscopy (modified barium swallow) studies adminstered at three time points - enrollment, midway through treatment (6 weeks), and at end of treatment (12 weeks). All fluoroscopy studies were sent to, and analyzed by, a blinded external central laboratory., Before and after treatment
Performance Status Scale for Head and Neck Cancer Patients (PSS); The Head and Neck Cancer Inventory (HNCI), Perceive improved in quality of life and eating ability as measured by 2 validated scales: the Performance Status Scale for Head and Neck Cancer Patients (PSS) and The Head and Neck Cancer Inventory (HNCI).

The PSS (List, et. al., 1990) is a clinician adminsitered scale that has three domains (normalcy of diet, eating in public, and understandability of speech). Each domain as well as overall score is scored on a scale of 0-100, with 0=worst and 100=best.

The HNCI (Funk, et. al., 2003) is patient administered questionnaire that has four domains (social disruption, aesthetics, speech, eating). Each domain as well as overall score is scored on a scale of 0-100, with 0=worst and 100=best., Before and after treatment
Head and neck cancer patients have a better chance of survival in the 21st century because of radiation therapy (RT), either alone or in combination with surgery and/or chemotherapy (CRT). Such therapy has a high rate of local / regional control, and may extend duration of life. Unfortunately the elimination of the cancer can leave devastating side effects, including the inability to eat and swallow normally. Organ preservation, often assumed to be the preferred treatment, has now been shown to magnify dysphagia. Incidence of dysphagia in this group of patients is extremely high, with symptoms continuing to deteriorate for several years after treatment. Conventional therapy for dysphagia yields only minor benefit. Persistence of dysphagia has a major impact on the quality of life of these cancer survivors.

Recently, a new therapy approach has been introduced for dysphagia, called e-stim or Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES). Through low voltage current delivered through the skin, motor nerves are excited, causing muscle contraction. An aggressive marketing campaign has turned e-stim into a very popular and sought-after therapy for dysphagia. However, there are no efficacy studies demonstrating its true benefit.

We have collected preliminary data with Head \& Neck cancer patients using this modality and have seen improved swallow function in 9/15 patients. This is extremely promising and supports the need for a randomized clinical trial. The randomized controlled trial (RCT) proposed here will compare NMES therapy combined with exercise therapy to a sham NMES protocol combined with the same exercise therapy.

These therapies will be given to post-radiated H\&N cancer patients who have moderate to severe dysphagia at least 3 months post-XRT (or post-XRT + post-CRT), to determine whether NMES is efficacious. Therapy will continue for 12 weeks with an intense, daily home program. Objective indicators of a change in swallow function will be taken from modified barium swallow (MBS) studies. Subjective measures of change will be the patients' self-reported diet, eating ability, and quality of life, and will indicate whether they perceived a benefit from the therapy.

This new treatment may represent the first real hope for improved swallowing in this growing population of cancer survivors. We need to determine whether it represents a truly beneficial treatment or whether our resources should be redirected. If successful, this study will stimulate a multitude of additional research to elucidate the mechanisms underlying this new treatment.