The Effects of Observer Presence and Type on Patients' Perception of Exercise in Patients With Soft Tissue Sarcoma
The primary aim of the study is to investigate the effects of supervised exercise, telerehabilitation and home-based exercise on patient perception in patients with soft tissue sarcoma. The secondary aim of the study is to identify the barriers to starting exercise in these patients.
Soft Tissue Sarcoma
OTHER: Supervised Exercise by a physiotherapist via face to face
Semi-structured focus group interviews about Patients' Perception of Exercise, Semi-structured focus group interviews will be held with the participants twice, before and after the 6-week exercise program. . In the semi-structured focus group interviews, the same questions will be asked to all participants and the verbal answers to these questions will be recorded with voice recorders. In the pre-exercise interview, questions will be asked to determine the patient's views about exercises and the barriers to starting the exercise. In the interview held at the end of the exercise program, questions will be asked to learn the views/perceptions of the patients about the results of the exercise program., Change from baseline Patients' Perception of Exercise at week 6
An exploratory-descriptive qualitative study will be conducted. There will be three groups in the study with each of them will consist of ten participants. Within the scope of the study, each group will perform a similar exercise program, 2 sessions a week, for 6 weeks, in one of the 3 groups below; Group 1: Exercising under the supervision of a face-to-face physiotherapist, Group 2: Exercise under the observation of the physiotherapist via video-conference (telerehabilitation), Group 3: Exercising in the absence of the observer (home based exercise program). The exercises to be applied to the groups will include breathing exercises, passive range of motion exercises and strengthening exercises. Semi-structured focus group interviews will be held with the participants twice, before and after the 6-week exercise program. In the semi-structured focus group interviews, the same questions will be asked to all participants and the verbal answers to these questions will be recorded with voice recorders. Compared to taking notes by hand; It will be preferable to record the conversation with a voice recorder because it has advantages such as recording all the interviews and allowing the interviewer to focus on the interview. In the pre-exercise interview, questions will be asked to determine the patient's views about exercises and the barriers to starting the exercise. In the interview held at the end of the exercise program, questions will be asked to learn the views/perceptions of the patients about the results of the exercise program. Thematic analysis method will be used in the evaluation of the data.