Binimetinib With Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Previously Treated, Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase Ib trial studies the safety and best dose of binimetinib when given in combination with docetaxel in treating patients with previously treated, stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Binimetinib and docetaxel may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Binimetinib|DRUG: Docetaxel|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Incidence of adverse events, graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03, Side effects will be tabulated according to grade and will do sub-analysis based on patient demographic categories such as age and ECOG performance status., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities, graded according to the CTCAE v4.03, Side effects will be tabulated according to grade and will do sub-analysis based on patient demographic categories such as age and ECOG performance status., 21 days|Maximum tolerated dose of binimetinib in combination with docetaxel, 21 days
Biomarker analyses, Will determine if there is a correlation of baseline biomarkers and objective tumor response. For categorical markers will use Fisher's exact test to examine the relationship with response and different categorical variables at specific time points. For quantitative markers will use one-way analysis of variance to compare the marker levels between response categories. Correlations between pairs of quantitative markers will be performed using Pearson correlations if the marker distributions are approximately normal. For non-normality will use the Kendall correlation coefficients., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Mutations in KRAS and NRAS, Will determine if there is a correlation of response in patients treated with docetaxel and binimetinib with mutations in KRAS and NRAS., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Objective tumor response rate (the rate of complete response or partial response), as defined by RECIST 1.1, The proportion ever achieving a clinical and objective tumor response will be estimated and will construct an exact one-sided 90% confidence interval to identify the likely range for the underlying tumor response rate. Tumor response will be correlated with biomarkers as well as other patient characteristics such as ECOG performance status, k-ras and neuroblastoma RAS viral oncogene homolog (n-ras) mutational status using a variety of analytic techniques., Up to 5 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile will assess binimetinib (MEK162) levels during treatment cycles, Analyzed by tabulation of PK values with mean and standard deviation at each time point., On days 1 and 8 of course 1 and on day 1 of course 2|Progression free survival, Cox-proportional hazards regression models will be used to correlate time to disease progression to both quantitative and categorical variables. Survival distributions will be estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and significant differences between survival rates will be calculated with the log-rank test., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of increasing doses of MEK162 (binimetinib) with docetaxel 75 mg/m2 every 21 days in patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that have progressed after at least one prior systemic therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine objective tumor response rate (RR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 with MEK162 and standard doses of docetaxel in stage IV NSCLC.

II. Determine progression free survival (PFS) of MEK162 and standard doses of docetaxel.

III. Evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of MEK162 when given along with docetaxel.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate tissue biomarkers in baseline tumors and at the time of progression to correlate with clinical outcome II. Assess the activation status of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), protein kinase B (Akt) and ribosomal protein S6 kinase (S6K) in tumor biopsy samples at baseline and at the time of progression.

III. Determine the cytokine profile before and after treatment in patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of binimetinib.

Patients receive binimetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and docetaxel intravenously (IV) on day 21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have stable disease or better after completing 6 courses of binimetinib and docetaxel may continue receiving binimetinib PO BID in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then annually for up to 5 years.