Primary Chemoprevention of Familial Adenomatous Polyposis With Berberine Hydrochloride
In recent years, Berberine hydrochloride has been reported to inhibit cancer cell proliferation and to be cytotoxic towards cancer cells. Patients with familial adenomatous polyposis have a nearly 100 percent risk of colorectal cancer. The aim of this study is to investigate the chemopreventive effects Berberine hydrochlorid on the regression of colorectal adenomas.
Colorectal Adenomas
DRUG: 100mg Berberine hydrochloride|DRUG: 300mg Berberine hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Cumulative the numbers and diameters of those colorectal adenomas during Berberine hydrochloride or placebo treatment in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, The primary objective of this study is to investigate the number and diameters of colorectal polyps after Berberine hydrochloride or placebo intervention. To ascertain that the same area was scored at base line and at month 6, polyps were counted in pairs of photographs. One investigator, other than the endoscopist, who did not know the treatment, performed the scoring. Videotapes were used to resolve ambiguities and confirm polyp counts. The diameter of those colorectal adenomas was measured in millimeters with a graduated scale passed through the colonoscopy biopsy channel., From baseline to 6 months.
Familial adenomatous polyposis is an autosomal dominant syndrome caused by a germ-line mutation of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) gene located at chromosome 5q21. The disorder is characterized by the development of hundreds of colorectal adenomas during adolescence. Colorectal cancer will develop in nearly all affected persons by the sixth decade of life if prophylactic colectomy is not performed. Because the adenoma-to-carcinoma sequence in familial adenomatous polyposis resembles sporadic colon carcinogenesis, studies of familial adenomatous polyposis may contribute to the prevention of sporadic adenomas and colon cancer.

BBR, an isoquinoline alkaloid, is a natural compound in numerous Chinese herb plants such as Berberisaristata, Coptischinensis, Coptis rhizome, etc. In recent years, Berberine hydrochloride has been reported to inhibit cancer cell proliferation and to be cytotoxic towards cancer cells. The aim of this study is to investigate the regression effect of Berberine hydrochloride on the colorectal adenomas in patients with familial adenomatous polyposis.