A Novel Modified Tracheo-Esophageal Voice Prosthesis for Total Laryngectomy Patients
This study is being conducted at Healthcare Global Enterprises Ltd to evaluate the role of a novel Tracheo-Esophageal voice Prosthesis for total laryngectomy +/- partial pharyngectomy patients. 30 patients will be enrolled as an inpatient or outpatient.

Patients who are planned to undergo total laryngectomy +/- pharyngectomy surgery and trachea-esophageal puncture procedure.(for primary TEP insertion) or patients who have undergone total laryngectomy \> 6weeks prior and are suitable candidates for secondary TEP insertion would be recruited to the study. Insertion of the TEP will be done in primary setting or secondary setting. Patients, who are undergoing primary TEP insertion, will be evaluated for speech/ voice at an interval of 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months after the procedure. Patients who are undergoing secondary TEP insertion to be evaluated on the same day of the procedure along with evaluation at an interval of 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months. All the patients will be evaluated clinically for a fluid leak (through and around the TEP) on the same days of voice analysis by giving test feeds under supervision.
Laryngeal Cancer|Hypopharynx Cancer
DEVICE: Modified Trans-Esophageal Prosthesis
Change in Voice Quality, Voice quality would be assessed by a speech therapist using a standardized questionnaire to assess the functionality of the modified TEP, Assessments would be done 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months post surgery|Change in Presence / Absence of Fluid Leak, Clinical assessment of modified TEP leak after a test fluid feed, Immediately, 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months after the Modified TEP insertion procedure
This study is being conducted at Healthcare Global Enterprises Ltd to evaluate the role of a novel trachea-oesophageal prosthesis for total laryngectomy +/- partial pharyngectomy patients. 30 patients will be enrolled as an inpatient or outpatient.

Patients who are planned to undergo total laryngectomy +/- pharyngectomy surgery and trachea-esophageal puncture procedure.(for primary TEP insertion) or patients who have undergone total laryngectomy \> 6weeks prior and are suitable candidates for secondary TEP insertion would be recruited to the study. Insertion of the TEP will be done in primary setting or secondary setting. Patients, who are undergoing primary TEP insertion, will be evaluated for speech/ voice at an interval of 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months after the procedure. Patients who are undergoing secondary TEP insertion to be evaluated on the same day of the procedure along with evaluation at an interval of 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 6 months. All the patients will be evaluated clinically for fluid leak (through and around the TEP) on the same days of voice analysis by giving test feeds under supervision.