A Study of BNC105P Combined With Ibrutinib
A Phase I Trial of BNC105P in combination with BTK inhibitor ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia(CLL). This study proposes that ibrutinib will have far greater efficacy when it is combined with drugs that kill the CLL cells in peripheral circulation, thereby preventing them from returning to the protective lymph node niche. The study will establish the maximum tolerated dose(MTD) of the combination of BNC105P with ibrutinib, characterize the pharmacodynamic effects of BNC105P alone and in combination with ibrutinib in CLL cells, and provide preliminary assessment of the efficacy of the combination in CLL.

The study consists of a Screening Period with baseline tumor assessment before BNC105P administration, a Treatment Period with up to six 21-day cycles and Follow-up Period. Subjects will receive a total of six cycles of therapy unless treatment is discontinued
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: BNC105P|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Ibrutinib
To establish the maximum tolerated dose and toxicity of BNC105P plus Ibrutinib, The number of relapsed refractory chronic lymphatic leukemia patients, in cohorts of 3-6, who develop treatment related adverse effects from combined therapy with BNC105P and ibrutinib. The treatment related adverse events will be defined based on CTCAE v 4.0, Two years
Evaluating the efficacy of BNC105P combined with Ibrutinib in patients with CLL, The number of relapsed refractory CLL patients in each dosing cohort (n= 3-6 patients) who when treated with BNC105P combined with ibrutinib will have therapeutic benefit based on CLL response criteria using CT imaging, Two years|Determine the Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) will be determined based on the number of study participants who achieve CR, CRi, PR or nPR assessed two months after completion of therapy, as per IWCLL 2008 criteria.

The timeframe is consistent with the Measure Title, Two years|Determine the event free survival, Event-free survival (EFS), defined as the interval between the date of first study treatment and the date of objective signs of disease recurrence, subsequent anti-leukemic therapy, or death, whichever is first reported., Two years
Explore the effects of BNC105P and BNC105P + Ibrutinib on NOXA and JNK in Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Cells, Study the effects of BNC105P as monotherapy and when used in combination with ibrutinib on the activation of NOXA and JNK in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells using Western blots., Two years
A Phase I Trial of BNC105P in combination with BTK inhibitor ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Ibrutinib inhibits the pro-survival BCR signaling of CLL cells in the stromal niche resulting in their egress to the periphery. Importantly, if administration of ibrutinib is stopped, the CLL cells rapidly return to the lymph node. In some patients, the drug-induced increase in circulating CLL cells has been seen for more than a year reflecting the fact that the cells do not readily die once they exit the lymph node. Resistance to ibrutinib has been observed as mutations in the drug-binding cysteine in its target, BTK. This resistance is likely to become far more prevalent as patients remain on ibrutinib for months or years. We propose that ibrutinib will have far greater efficacy when it is combined with drugs that kill the CLL cells in peripheral circulation, thereby preventing them from returning to the protective lymph node niche. BNC105P works through an entirely different mechanism, i.e. tipping the balance of pro-survival and pro-apoptotic BCL2 family member proteins toward the latter, resulting in cell death. This pathway of apoptosis occurs at all stages of the cell cycle which is important considering that the majority of peripheral CLL cells are non-cycling (in G0).

The study consists of a Screening Period with baseline tumor assessment before BNC105P administration, a Treatment Period with up to six 21-day cycles and Follow-up Period. Subjects will receive a total of six cycles of therapy unless treatment is discontinued.