EP Combined With RFA for Ampullary Neoplasms With Intraductal Biliary Extension
Endoscopic papillectomy is the preferred approach for management of ampullary adenomas. Endobiliary radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is an ablative therapy that has been used to treat malignant biliary strictures. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of endoscopic papillectomy combined with endobiliary RFA for ampullary neoplasms with intraductal biliary extension.
Ampullary Adenomas
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Papillectomy|PROCEDURE: Endobiliary Radiofrequency Ablation
Recurrence, Recurrence was defined as discovery of neoplasia after a negative surveillance endoscopy and biopsy, one year
Complete resection of ampullary adenomas, Complete resection of ampullary adenomas was confirmed when no residual tissue was found on ampullary and intraductal biopsies at the 3-month follow-up ERCP., three months|Endoscopic success, Endoscopic success was defined as complete ablation of the lesion without residual neoplasia or recurrence at the 6-month follow-up endoscopy., six months|adverse events, adverse events such as bleeding, acute pancreatitis after procedure, one months
Ampullary neoplasms remain rare, with a reported prevalence of 0.04% to 0.12% in autopsy studies. , endoscopic papillectomy is now recognized as a safe and reliable alternative to surgery for ampullary adenomas and is associated with high success rates (72%-95%), low morbidity (10%-30%), and minimal mortality (0.2%-1%). Typically, however, intrabiliary extension of the adenoma has been regarded as a contraindication for endoscopic papillectomy. Surgical referral is therefore recommended with intraductal extension, particularly when the length of extension exceeds 1 cm. Radiofrequency ablation offers a potentially safe and effective treatment for malignant biliary strictures. The use of RFA as a primary treatment for intraductal dysplasia after endoscopic papillectomy has been shown in few small case series to be feasible with the primary limitation of short follow-up periods. The primary aim of this study was to describe our experience with RFA in patients with ampullary neoplasia and associated intraductal extension who were not surgical candidates.