Etiologies, Investigations and Outcomes of Patients Presenting With Hemoptysis
The study consist of a retrospective analysis of the etiologies, investigations and outcomes of patients presenting between 2005 to 2010 with hemoptysis in a North-American Tertiary center.
Hemoptysis|Haemoptysis|Lung Disease|Pneumonia|Tuberculosis|Bronchiectasis|Respiratory Tract Infections|Respiratory Tract Diseases|Bronchitis|Mycobacterium Infections|Bronchial Disease|Pulmonary Hemorrhage|Signs and Symptoms|Signs and Symptoms, Respiratory|Pathologic Processes|Mycosis|Hemorrhage|Lung Cancer|Pulmonary Embolism|Arteriovenous Fistula
Etiologies of hemoptysis, Defining the prevalence of pulmonary diseases by measuring the percentage of patients presenting with hemoptysis caused by lung cancer, bronchiectasis, pulmonary embolism, arteriovenous fistula, pneumonia, bronchitis, tuberculosis, mycosis, heart failure, pseudohemoptysis, cryptogenic and other causes., 5 years
Sensitivity of chest X-ray, chest CT-scan and CT-angiography, bronchoscopy, ventilation-perfusion with single-photon emission computed tomography and pulmonary angiography., Determining the sensitivity in obtaining the etiology of the hemoptysis episode of each diagnostic modality that follows : chest X-ray, chest CT-scan and CT-angiography, bronchoscopy, ventilation-perfusion with single-photon emission computed tomography and pulmonary angiography in the diagnosis of different etiologies of hemoptysis., 5 years|All-cause mortality at 2 years, All-cause mortality at 2 years after the diagnosis of hemoptysis., 2 years|Smoking status, Determining the percentage of patients who : never smoked, is an active smoker, former smoker or unknown status., Day 1|Age, Determining the average age of the enrolled patients., Day 1|Gender, Determining the percentage of each gender of the enrolled patients., Day 1|International Normalized Ratio, Determining the median of the international normalized ratio (INR)., Day 1|Partial Thromboplastin Time, Determining the median of the partial thromboplastin time (PTT)., Day 1|Platelet count, Determining the average of the platelet count measured per microliter of blood., Day 1
RATIONALE:

Hemoptysis, mild or massive, is worrisome for both patients and physicians. The management is different depending on the causes, which are not well defined for the North American population. Despite the fact that this symptom is commonly reported in clinic, there are only a few studies published on this subject in the North-American population. Tuberculosis was a frequent cause of hemoptysis described in populations overseas, which seems less prevalent in the investigators center.

Also, there are no known official guidelines regarding the investigation and management of hemoptysis. The investigators hypothesized that the use of modern technology in a North American population may result in different findings and provide a more accurate diagnostic approach.

Therefore, the study compares the different etiologies of hemoptysis and investigation modalities used in patients presenting in a North-American tertiary center.

METHOD:

The investigators did a retrospective analysis of medical chart from patients with hemoptysis who visited the investigators center between 2005 and 2010. Each visit has been reviewed individually to describe the characteristics of patients, etiologies of hemoptysis and investigation modalities used. All-cause mortality at 2 years was also recorded.

Descriptive statistical analyses will conducted on the data available.