Sipuleucel-T With or Without Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Hormone-Resistant Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well giving sipuleucel-T with or without radiation therapy works in treating patients with hormone-resistant metastatic prostate cancer. Vaccines may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. It is not yet known whether giving sipuleucel-T vaccine is more effective with or without radiation therapy in treating prostate cancer
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Bone Metastases|Hormone-resistant Prostate Cancer|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Soft Tissue Metastases|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: sipuleucel-T|RADIATION: external beam radiation therapy|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier.

Progression is defined as one or more of the following:

20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease during therapy) using the same techniques as baseline; unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease in the opinion of the treating physician; appearance of any new lesions; PSA increase of 25% from baseline or nadir and by 2ng/uL or greater at 12 weeks; death due to disease without prior documentation of progression and without symptomatic deterioration., Until progression or death, Up to 2 years.
Number of Participants With Grade 2 or Above Adverse Events, Number of participants with specified adverse event that is grade 2 or above and related to treatment. Graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.0, Up to 60 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility, based on percent able or willing to receive all three infusions of sipuleucel-T immunotherapy, when combining sipuleucel-T with radiation therapy to a single site of metastasis delivered one week prior to beginning of sipuleucel-T therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of radiation therapy to single metastasis on immune response (antibody and T-cell proliferation to prostate acid phosphate \[PAP\] and fusion protein PA2024) generated by sipuleucel-T immunotherapy.

II. To assess the effect of external beam radiotherapy to single metastasis on prostate specific antigen (PSA) response to therapy with sipuleucel-T.

III. To assess the effect of external beam radiotherapy to single metastasis on radiographic response rate to therapy with sipuleucel-T.

IV. To assess the time from the onset of therapy with sipuleucel-T +/- radiation to the need for subsequent therapy for prostate cancer.

V. To assess the toxicity associated with sipuleucel-T +/- radiation.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive sipuleucel-T intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes days 22, 36, and 50.

ARM B: Patients undergo external beam radiation therapy in weeks 1-2. Patients also receive sipuleucel-T as in Arm A.

In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up until week 60.