Effect of an Acute Bout of Exercise on Smoking Topography
Smokers will complete questionnaires and smoking behaviour will be examined. After abstaining from smoking for approximately 18 hours, they will be randomized to a moderate intensity exercise group or passive sitting group. Smoking behaviour (time to first puff) will be assessed following treatment.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Exercise Group|BEHAVIORAL: Passive Sitting Group
Smoking topography, Smoking topography will be assessed using the Clinical Research Support System (CReSS) Pocket, a computer-based, battery-powered, hand-held unit by Plowshare Technologies®. The CReSS Pocket has an orifice flow meter mouthpiece, and a pressure drop related to the flow rate that is produced when a puff is taken. From the flow rate, the CReSS derives puff count (number of puffs per cigarette), puff volume (the volume of carbon monoxide take in during each puff), puff duration (length of time for each puff), inter-puff interval (amount of time between puffs), and time to first puff., One week
Withdrawal symptoms, Changes in cravings, positive and negative affect, and mood and physical symptoms will be assessed using three questionnaires., One week
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in Canadians (Canadian Cancer Society, in which cigarette smoking is responsible for 85% of these cases. Smoking topography, a key facet of smoking behaviour, can be subjectively or objectively measured by quantifying puff volume, maximum puff velocity, interpuff interval, puff duration, number of puffs per cigarette, and the time to smoke a single cigarette. Smoking topography can estimate exposure to carcinogenic toxins present in cigarette smoking (Djordjevic, Hoffman, \& Hoffman, 1997). Evidence exists to support that exercise modifies smoking topography (Katomeri \& Taylor 2006; Mikhail, 1983; Reeser, 1983; Zacny \& Stitzer, 1985).

Recently, Faulkner and colleagues (2011; N = 18) were the first to implement a handheld smoking topography device (CReSS Pocket) to measure smoking behaviour in the context of an acute bout of exercise after a temporary period of abstinence. They found that brisk walking influences an individual's smoking topography. In specific, participants assigned to the exercise condition smoked less per puff and took shorter puff durations, compared to the passive sitting condition. Overall, smoking topographical studies require further investigation due to methodological flaws in order to allow for the objective collection of smoking behaviour data and improved external validity in a sufficiently powered study. Furthermore, the role of cravings, withdrawal and affect as potential mediators of topographical changes due to exercise is a novel area of research.