Prevention of Post-operative Pneumonia (POPP)
Postoperative pneumonia is a major complication in patients undergoing thoracic surgery. It leads to considerable morbidity and contributes to perioperative morbidity. There is evidence in literature that supports the use of strategies for improved oral hygiene and specialized endotracheal tubes in preventing ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) in mechanically ventilated patients. This study aims at utilizing a combination of these interventions in the perioperative period in patients undergoing planned thoracic surgical procedures.
Post-operative Pneumonia|Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: 0.12% chlorhexidine solution
Number of Participants Who Develop Postoperative Pneumonia in the Two Groups: Lung Cancer Resection Patients and Esophageal Resection Patients, Patients will be considered to have postoperative pneumonia if they meet three of the following criteria within 30 days after surgery;

1. Fever (Temperature \>38.2 C)
2. Leucocytosis (WBC\>12,000/cu mm)
3. New infiltrate on chest X-ray
4. Positive sputum or bronchial culture
5. Treatment with antibiotics These criteria are utilized by the national Society of Thoracic Surgeons' database., Within 30 days of surgery|Adherence to the Pre-operative Toothbrushing Regimen, Completion of pre-operative toothbrushing (three times a day for 5 days prior to surgery)
Compliance With Oral Hygiene Regimen as Measured by a Daily Brushing Diary, Within 30 days of surgery (comparing pre-op and post-op)|Compliance With Oral Hygiene Regimen as Measured by the Number of Participants Who Completed the Modified Morisky Medication/Intervention Adherence Scale and Knowledge Questionnaire, Compliance is measured by the number of participants who completed the Modified Morisky Medication/Intervention Adherence Scale and Knowledge Questionnaire, Within 30 days of surgery|Perioperative Mortality, Within 30 days of surgery|Postoperative Respiratory Failure, Postoperative respiratory failure = need for postoperative mechanical ventilation, need for bronchoscopy for atelectasis, need for tracheostomy, Within 30 days of surgery|Incidence of Fever, Within 24 hours of surgery
Postoperative pneumonia is a major complication in patients undergoing thoracic surgery. It leads to considerable morbidity and contributes to perioperative morbidity. There is evidence in literature that supports the use of strategies for improved oral hygiene and specialized endotracheal tubes in preventing ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) in mechanically ventilated patients. This study aims at utilizing a combination of these interventions in the perioperative period in patients undergoing planned thoracic surgical procedures.