Screening and Systematic Follow-up for Cardiopulmonary Comorbidity in Patients Having Surgery for Colorectal Cancer
More than one third of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) suffer from comorbidity such as heart and lung diseases. This comorbidity markedly impairs survival after surgical treatment owing to increased mortality within the first weeks to months after surgery. Since the operation itself constitutes a severe challenge to the patient's cardiopulmonary system, this study aims to elucidate whether a more systematic perioperative management and follow-up of colorectal cancer patients with cardiopulmonary comorbidity may improve their outcome as measured by complications, hospitalisation times, and survival.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: Structured medical follow-up after operation
Postoperative mortality at one year, One year
Short-term postoperative mortality, 30 days and 6 months|Medical complications, Incidence of postoperative medical complications as classified in the Danish national bowel cancer database (stroke, ACS, aspiration, pneumonia, heart failure, arrhythmia, pulmonary embolism, lung failure, renal failure, sepsis, deep vein thrombosis, arterial embolism, other) and graded according to Clavien. Particular focus on cardiopulmonary complications, 3 months
Hospitalization time, 30 days|Readmissions, 3 months|Findings and interventions at medical visits, Incidence of intercurrent or present medical complications as described in Outcome 3. Judgement whether the complication was 1. already identified and optimally managed by others, 2. identified but not optimally managed, or 3. was undisclosed until the medical visit. Any interventions by the visiting physician graded (no intervention, change in medication, unplanned outpatient visit, admission to hospital as inpatient), 3 months
Background and overview

More than one third of patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) suffer from comorbidity such as heart and lung diseases. This comorbidity markedly impairs survival after surgical treatment owing to increased mortality within the first weeks to months after surgery, and this increased mortality is related to medical complications such as heart and lung complications. Since the operation itself constitutes a severe challenge to the patient's cardiopulmonary system, this study aims to elucidate whether a more systematic perioperative management and follow-up of colorectal cancer patients with cardiopulmonary comorbidity may improve their outcome as measured by complications, hospitalisation times, and survival within the first year.

All patients scheduled for elective surgical treatment of colorectal cancer at Vejle Hospital are screened by a study nurse for cardiopulmonary comorbidity to determine their eligibility for inclusion. If they fulfil inclusion criteria, they are seen preoperatively by a cardiologist and/or a pulmonary physician and undergo echocardiography and/or spirometry.

Included patients are randomized postoperatively to either standard follow-up alone ("standard" group) or standard follow-up supplemented with structured medical management and follow-up ("intervention" group). Patients in the intervention group are examined on the 4th or 5th postoperative day by an experienced physician from the Department of Internal Medicine. Furthermore, the intervention group is followed up at outpatient visits 1 and 3 months postoperatively. The 1-month visit includes a cardiology visit with echocardiography and ECG, and a pulmonary medicine visit with spirometry. The 3-month visit includes only a pulmonary medicine visit with spirometry.

Mortality, cardiopulmonary complications, hospitalisation time and treatment changes induced by the structured follow-up will be recorded as outcome measures for the intervention.

Hypothesis

Patients with cardiopulmonary comorbidity who have their standard follow-up extended to include a structured medical management and follow-up after surgery for colorectal cancer obtain a better outcome as measured by less cardiopulmonary morbidity and better survival within the first year.

Aim

To test a study design with systematic preoperative screening for cardiopulmonary comorbidity and postoperative randomization of eligible patients to either standard followup alone or standard follow-up supplemented with structured medical management and follow-up after operation for colorectal cancer.

Design

A randomized feasibility study. Based on older data, it will require approximately 400 patients in each arm to demonstrate a 10 % reduction in the expected mortality. This study aims to test the design and acquire more reliable mortality data in each arm in order to establish the basis for a larger multicentre study.