Vocational Rehabilitation for the Return to Work of Breast Cancer Patients: a Feasibility Study
In Italy, 50% of new breast cancer (BC) diagnosis occur in female of working age. Although return to work (RTW) is strongly desired by BC patients, cancer survivors are more likely to be unemployed than healthy individuals. Moreover, work difficulties may hindrance this process. Since 2018, the investigators have planned a local social-healthcare pathway which provides a multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation intervention with the aim to help cancer survivors in their RTW process. To date, the feasibility of the multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation interventions has not been verified for BC patients.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasm
OTHER: Multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation intervention
interception, rate of patients who has been proposed to participate to the feasibility study, 12 months|acceptation, rate of patients (who has been proposed to participate to the feasibility study) who accept to participate, 12 months|adherence, rate of patients who participate in the scheduled meeting and in the multidisciplinary intervention proposed; rate of patients who agree to receive the intervention at the workplace (for those eligible), 12 months|lost to follow-up, rate of patients who will not attend the scheduled meeting (drop-out rate set ≤ 20%), 12 months|satisfaction rate, rate of patients who perceive the modules of the multidisciplinary intervention as supportive for their RTW or work continuation, 12 months|RTW/work continuation, rate of patients who participate in the study and who will RTW or continued to work, 12 months
BC is a public health burden with increasing trends in Western countries. In Italy, 50% of the new BC diagnosis have occurred in female of working age. Even though the return to work (RTW) is strongly desired, cancer survivors are 1.4 times more likely to be unemployed than healthy individuals. Furthermore, work difficulties may occur during this process. To promote the RTW, multidisciplinary interventions have shown moderate quality evidence in cancer survivors.

Since 2018, the investigators have planned a local social-healthcare pathway which provides a multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation intervention with the aim to help cancer survivors in their RTW process. During the implementation of the pathway, BC patients were referred mainly by the physiotherapists of the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit (PMRU). As standard care, BC patients can participate to an educational group session held by the physiotherapists after surgery. During this session, work difficulties have emerged.

Thus, the investigators aim to verify the feasibility of the multidisciplinary vocational rehabilitation intervention for a sample of BC patients whit work difficulties who will participate to an educational group session held by the physiotherapists.