Selinexor, Carfilzomib, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of selinexor and carfilzomib when given together with dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned or does not respond to treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as selinexor and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving selinexor, carfilzomib, and dexamethasone may be a better treatment for multiple myeloma.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: selinexor|DRUG: carfilzomib|DRUG: dexamethasone
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of selinexor, carfilzomib, and dexamethasone, Defined as the dose level below the dose in which greater than or equal to 2 out of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicity. Will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 28 days
Incidence of toxicities related to the combination of selinexor and carfilzomib assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 28 days after completion of study treatment|Efficacy as measured by stable disease or better (including MR, partial response, very good partial response, complete response and stringent complete response) according to IMWG criteria, The number of patients with stable disease or better will be summarized by dose level; 90% confidence intervals will be generated for the RP2D cohort., Up to 2 years|Incidence of toxicities assessed using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 28 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination of selinexor, carfilzomib, and dexamethasone in relapsed and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine safety and tolerability.

II. Determine the efficacy, as measured by the rates of stable disease or better (including minimal response, partial response, very good partial response, complete response, and stringent complete response).

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of selinexor and carfilzomib.

Patients receive selinexor orally (PO), carfilzomib intravenously (IV), and dexamethasone PO QD or IV. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for 2 years.