Comparison of Hypertonic Saline and Mannitol on Brain Relaxation During Supratentorial Tumors Resection
Hyperosmotic agents are used to decrease intracranial pressure. The aim of the study is to compare the effects of continuous 3% hypertonic saline (HS), bolus HS and 20% mannitol on intraoperative brain relaxation in patients with raised intracranial pressure during surgery for supratentorial tumors.
Brain Tumor - Metastatic|Brain Tumor, Adult: Glioblastoma
DRUG: %3 HS bolus|DRUG: %3 HS infusion 20 ml/h|DRUG: 20% mannitol
Brain relaxation score, Brain relaxation score 1: Brain is under the dura, 2: Brain is in the dura level, 3:Brain is above the dura, 4: There is no pulsation in the brain, 1. min before dura closure
Sodium level, Blood sodium levels obtained from arterial blood gases analysis, Baseline and after the drug administration 30. min, 2,4,6,8. hours|Potassium level, Blood potassium levels obtained from arterial blood gases analysis, Baseline and after the drug administration 30. min, 2,4,6,8. hours
After obtaining approval from the ethics committee and informed consent, a total of 90 patients aged 18-70 years, conscious (GCS\>13) and American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I-III, who had intracranial shift \>0.5 cm or glioblastoma multiforme or metastatic tumor and who were scheduled for supratentorial mass resection under elective conditions, will be included in the present prospective, randomized, double-blind and placebo-controlled study. Patients with heart failure, kidney insufficiency, diabetes insipidus, electrolyte imbalance and who are unconscious will be excluded from the study.

The patients will randomized into 3 groups:

Group 1: %3 HS bolus 3 mL.kg-1 Group 2: %3 HS infusion 20 ml/h Group 3: %20 mannitol 0,6 gr.kg-1 After head fixation, all patients will be administered with HS or mannitol (over 20 minutes). Arterial blood gas (ABG) analysis (Cobas b 221 blood gas analyzer, Roche®, Basel, Switzerland) will be made at 30 minute,2,4,6,8. hours. Blood sodium, potassium, chlorine, base excess, lactate levels and blood osmolarity will be recorded in each time intervals. The brain relaxation scale will be recorded at the time of dura opening.