Apatinib Combined With POF for Second-line Treatment of Gastric Adenocarcinoma
In previous studies,the investigators found that POF (A combination of oxaliplatin, fluorouracil and Paclitaxel) regimen appears to be of good efficacy and is well tolerated in patients with advanced gastric cancer. Apatinib is an orally antiangiogenic agent. It was approved and launched in China in 2014 as a 3rd-line treatment for patients with advanced gastric cancer. Therefore, investigators conducted the dose escalation phase I study to explore the safety of combination of apatinib and POF as first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Now the investigators are going to start a phase 2 trial with apatinib 500mg + POF as second-line therapy to investigate the efficacy and safety in the patients with advanced gastric cancer.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: POF
Objective response rate, According to RECIST 1.1, From enrollment to 3 months after treatment
Progression-free survival, The length of time from enrollment until the time of progression of disease, From enrollment to progression of disease. Estimated about 12 months.|Overall survival, The length of time from enrollment until the time of death, From enrollment to death of patients. Estimated about 18 months|Toxicity According to NCI CTCAE 4.03 criteria, According to NCI CTCAE 4.03 criteria, From enrollment to 3 months after treatment
In previous studies,the investigators found that POF (A combination of oxaliplatin, fluorouracil and Paclitaxel) regimen appears to be of good efficacy and is well tolerated in patients with advanced gastric cancer. Apatinib is an orally antiangiogenic agent. It was approved and launched in China in 2014 as a 3rd-line treatment for patients with advanced gastric cancer. Therefore, investigators conducted the dose escalation phase I study to explore the safety of combination of apatinib and POF as first-line treatment for advanced gastric cancer. Now the investigators are going to start a phase 2 trial with apatinib 500mg + POF as second-line therapy to investigate the efficacy and safety in the patients with advanced gastric cancer.