A Study ATG-101 in Patients With Metastatic/Advanced Solid Tumors and Mature B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas
This is a First-in-Human Phase I trial of ATG-101 in Patients with Metastatic/Advanced Solid Tumors and Mature B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas.
Advanced Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor|Mature B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: ATG-101
AEs, To evaluate the safety of ATG-101. It is the responsibility of the investigator to record and document all AEs (occurring from the first dose of study treatment on C1D1) throughout the study. Clinically significant symptoms and signs related to disease progression will be reported as AEs and meet one or more of the following criteria:

1. With clinical symptoms.
2. Leading to the change of study treatment (eg, dose adjustment, dose interruption, or study drug withdraw).
3. Leading to the change of concomitant treatment (eg, adding, interrupting, or terminating concomitant medications, therapies, or treatments, or any other changes)., One year after last patient first dose|SAEs, To evaluate the safety of ATG-101. It is the responsibility of the investigator to record and document all SAEs (occurring from the signing of the informed consent form) throughout the study. A SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs at any dose (including SAEs occurred after the ICF is signed and prior to dosing):

1. Results in death.
2. Is life-threatening (immediate risk of death).
3. Requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization.
4. Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity.
5. Is a congenital anomaly/birth defect. These should also usually be considered serious. Examples of such events are intensive treatment in an emergency room or at home for allergic bronchospasm, blood dyscrasias or convulsive that do not result in hospitalization; or development of drug dependency or drug abuse., One year after last patient first dose|DLT (for Dose Escalation Phase only), The DLTs will be evaluated during Cycle 1 of treatment. Toxicity will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events. The DLTs for this study may include the following: Cytokine release syndrome, Hematologic toxicity, Non-hematologic toxicity., One year after last patient first dose
ORR, To evaluate preliminary anti tumor activity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|DOR, To evaluate preliminary anti tumor activity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|DCR, To evaluate preliminary anti tumor activity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|PFS, To evaluate preliminary anti tumor activity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|OS, To evaluate preliminary anti tumor activity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|The incidence of ADA and NAb, To evaluate the immunogenicity of ATG-101, One year after last patient first dose|Serum concentrations of ATG-101 and derived PK parameters (for Dose Escalation Phase only), To characterize the PK of ATG 101 (for Dose Escalation Phase only), One year after last patient first dose
This is a First-in-Human Phase I trial of ATG-101 in Patients with Metastatic/Advanced Solid Tumors and Mature B-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas. Dose Escalation Phase: Approximately 40-50 subjects with a maximum number of 62; Dose Expansion Phase: Estimated 100-400 subjects depending on the number of cohorts to be expanded.