Efficacy and Safety of IGIV-C in Corticosteroid Dependent Patients With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Immune Globulin (Human), 10% Caprylate/Chromatography Purified (IGIV-C) as a corticosteroid (CS)-sparing agent in subjects with CS-dependent Myasthenia Gravis (MG).
Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: IGIV-C|DRUG: Placebo
Percent of Subjects Achieving a 50% or Greater Reduction in CS Dose (Prednisone or Equivalent) From Baseline to Week 39, The average daily CS dose was derived for each subject at each scheduled visit based on the prescribed dose and the time interval taking into account any prescribed dose changes between routinely scheduled visits. Subjects who discontinued the study early with adverse outcomes related to MG were considered as not achieving a 50% or greater reduction. The missing dose reduction at Week 39 was imputed using the worst observation carried forward (WOCF) method. For subjects who did not have CS dose prescribed at Week 39 due to other reasons, the last observation carried forward (LOCF) method was used to impute the prescribed CS dose at Week 39. Baseline was defined as the last non-missing measurement taken prior to first dose of study medication. The percent of subjects achieving ≥50% reduction in CS dose from baseline to Week 39 is presented for each treatment group overall and for the baseline daily prednisone equivalent dose level stratification categories., Baseline/Week 0 (Visit 1) and Week 39 (Visit 14).
Mean Percent Change in Daily CS Dose (Prednisone or Equivalent) From Baseline to Week 39, The average daily CS dose was derived for each subject at each scheduled visit based on the prescribed dose and the time interval taking into account any prescribed dose changes between routinely scheduled visits. For subjects who discontinued the study early with adverse outcomes related to MG, the missing dose reduction at Week 39 was imputed using the WOCF method. For subjects who had missing CS dose reduction at Week 39 due to other reasons, the missing CS dose was imputed using the LOCF method. Baseline was defined as the last non-missing measurement taken prior to first dose of study medication. The least squares (LS) mean percent change from baseline in daily CS dose to Week 39 is presented for each treatment group., Baseline/Week 0 (Visit 1) and Week 39 (Visit 14).|Median Time to First Episode of MG Worsening, The time to the first episode of MG worsening was defined as the time between baseline and the first instance of QMG total score increase by ≥4 points relative to Baseline/Week 0. The QMG total score is the sum of all 13 items and ranges from 0 to 39. Higher values represent greater severity of illness. If one or more items were missing at a given assessment, the total score was set to missing. The median time to MG worsening was calculated based on Kaplan-Meier methodology. Baseline was defined as the last non-missing measurement taken prior to the first dose of study medication., From Baseline/Week 0 (Visit 1) to Week 39 (Visit 14).
This study consists of 2 phases: IGIV-C Run-in Phase and Corticosteroid Tapering/IGIV-C Maintenance Phase.

In the Run-in Phase, subjects will receive a total of 3 doses of IGIV-C (1 loading dose of 2 g/kg and 2 maintenance doses of 1 g/kg) while maintaining a stable dose of corticosteroids.

In the CS Tapering/IGIV-C Maintenance Phase, subjects will continue 1 g/kg IGIV-C and begin a prescribed CS tapering regimen where the CS dose is decreased every 3 weeks.

Approximately 60 subjects are planned to be enrolled in the study across multiple centers in North America and Europe. The total duration of study participation for each subject is up to 45 weeks.