Checkpoint Blockade Immunotherapy Combined With Stereotactic Body Radiation in Advanced Metastatic Disease
The purpose of this study is to determine whether stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) combined with checkpoint blockaded immunotherapy (CBI) will improve the response to the anticancer treatment compared to CBI alone in patients with advanced metastatic cancer.
Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: Checkpoint blockade immunotherapy|RADIATION: Checkpoint blockade immunotherapy plus SBRT
Objective Response Rate, Complete response plus partial response, Responses measured by RECIST at 16 weeks from baseline
Safety and toxicity of combined CBI plus SBRT, Adverse events assessed from time of first dose to treatment completion (approximately 1 year), Evaluated at each treatment cycle (each cycle is 2 or 3 weeks), then at 8 weeks, 16 weeks, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months, and 24 months, then every 6 months up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival, The time from starting treatment to the time of first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, Assessed at 5 years|Overall Survival, The time from starting treatment until death due to any cause., Assessed at 5 years|Rate of Stable Disease, The rates of stable disease great than or equal to 6 months during and after SBRT in combination with CBI compared to CBI alone., Assessed at 5 years|Change in anti-tumor immune response, Lesion and blood assays performed in the lab., At week 3 or 4 after starting treatment (prior to Cycle 2 of CBI) and at 2 months. Each cycle is 2 or 3 weeks.
Patients who will receive anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy with at least 1 site of measurable metastatic disease which will not be irradiated will be candidates for the study. Patients will be randomized (1:1) to CBI combined with SBRT or CBI alone. SBRT at 9.5Gy x3 fractions will be delivered within 1-21 days of the start of first cycle of CBI. The first six patients will be treated and observed for toxicity in the safety run-in phase for 30 days after radiation before continuing with further accrual. Radiation dose reduction is allowed if necessary to meet tissue constraints (6Gyx3 Minimum Dose). Response rates will be determined from the non-irradiated lesion/lesions. Blood draws will be obtained to analyze anti-tumor immune responses.