Remediation for Mild Cognitive Deficits After Cancer
Cancer survival rates have improved significantly over the past decades and patients now experience a number of side effects including cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI): problems with memory, executive function, attention, and difficulties performing two tasks at the same time. The frequency of CRCI in cancer patients is estimated to be between 10 to 40%, and more than 50% of patients describe difficulties in their daily life. These cognitive difficulties negatively impact the patient's quality of life as well as that of their family, and can also have negative consequences for their social and professional reintegration once cancer treatment is finished. Despite an increasing number of studies on CRCI, a standard of care for patients with CRCI after breast cancer is yet to be established. In the absence of clear directives, and in an attempt to respond to the increasing demand to provide care for breast cancer patients with CRCI, physical medicine and rehabilitation units in France have started providing day-hospital multidisciplinary interventions. The objective of this project is to use the single case experimental design method to investigate the efficacy of two such rehabilitation programs: a group-based program and a one-on-one program.
Cognitive Remediation|Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive remediation program
Self-reported cognitive function, The Fact-COG questionnaire assesses subjective cognitive impairment. The score directly reflects the patient's feelings about/perceptions of their cognitive function over the previous week. A total score out of 132 is obtained as well as 4 subscales: Perceived Cognitive Impairments (0-72), Impact on Quality of Life (0-16), Comments from Others (0-16), and Perceived Cognitive Abilities (0-28)., 16 weeks
Neuropsychological function, Neuropsychological function will be measured using three sub-tests of the Test of Attentional Performance (alertness, covert shift of attention, divided attention), the Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test, the Montreal Cognitive neuropsychological Assessment, and the Symbol Digit Modalities Test., 16 weeks|Psychological distress, Psychological distress will be measured using 4 questionnaires: The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale; the Brief Symptom Inventory-18; the Rosenberg self-esteem scale; the MCQ-30 Meta-cognition self-report questionnaire., 16 weeks|Quality of Life with FACT-B questionnaire, The FACT-B questionnaire assesses cancer-related quality of life. A total score out of 148 is obtained as well as 5 subscales: Physical Well-Being (0-28), Social/Family Well-Being (0-28), Functional-Well-Being (0-28), Emotional Well-Being (0-24), and Breast Cancer Subscale (0-40)., 16 weeks|Fatigue, The FACTIT-Fatigue questionnaire assesses fatigue/ tiredness and its impact on daily activities and functioning in chronic disease. A total score out of 52 is obtained., 16 weeks
Cancer survival rates have improved significantly over the past decades and patients now experience a number of side effects including cancer-related cognitive impairment (CRCI): problems with memory, executive function, attention, and difficulties performing two tasks at the same time. The frequency of CRCI in cancer patients is estimated to be between 10 to 40%, and more than 50% of patients describe difficulties in their daily life. These cognitive difficulties negatively impact the patient's quality of life as well as that of their family, and can also have negative consequences for their social and professional reintegration once cancer treatment is finished. Despite an increasing number of studies on CRCI, a standard of care for patients with CRCI after breast cancer is yet to be established. In the absence of clear directives, and in an attempt to respond to the increasing demand to provide care for breast cancer patients with CRCI, physical medicine and rehabilitation units in France have started providing day-hospital multidisciplinary interventions. The objective of this project is to use the single case experimental design method to investigate the efficacy of two such rehabilitation programs: a group-based program and a one-on-one program.