Veliparib in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well veliparib works in treating patients with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that has come back or does not respond to treatment. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
BRCA1 Mutation Carrier|BRCA2 Mutation Carrier|Ovarian Epithelial Tumor|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Veliparib
Proportion of Patients With Complete and Partial Tumor Response, Patients with complete and partial tumor response by RECIST V1.1 (per response evaluation criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST V1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI (CT scan): Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions (confirmed at \>= 4 weeks); Partial Response (PR) \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (confirmed at \>= 4 weeks); Overall Response = CR + PR., CT scan/MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months, then every 3 months until progression. Repeat at other times if clinically indicated.Responses require confirmation at >= 4 wks from first documentation.|Proportion of Patients With Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Patients with grade 3 or greater Adverse Events (AEs) occurring during treatment and up to 30 days after stopping the study treatment are reported., After every cycle while on study therapy. Followed for late adverse events up to 30 days after completing therapy.
Duration of PFS, The time from randomization until disease progression, death, or date of last contact. Endpoints are progression or death. Patients who are not observed with an endpoint are censored. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (and \>= 5 mm increase of target lesions), or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., CT scan/MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months, then every 3 months until progression. Patients who begin subsequent therapy without progression will be monitored for PFS for 5 years.|Duration of OS, Overall survival, Every cycle while patient is receiving protocol therapy. Patients will be monitored for survival after going off therapy for a 5 year period, every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 months for the last 3 years.|The Proportion of Patients Who Survive Progression-free for at Least 6 Months, This outcome captures whether or not the patient survived progression-free for at least 6 months, and is displayed as a proportion., 6 months
SNPs With DNA Repair Genes, Tumor Response, PFS, OS, and Patient Demographics (e.g. Age, Race, Tumor Grade), If the clinical trial goes to the second stage and there is sufficient variability in the SNPs, then patients can be categorized by the nature of their SNPs and assessed for prognostic value through survival analysis (e.g. log-rank tests and Cox proportional hazards modeling). If the variability in SNPs is relatively low, assessment of prognostic value can be conducted with odds ratios of patients responding or surviving progression-free for at least 6 months. These techniques will use exact methods such as Fisher's exact test., Baseline|BRCA Mutation in Primary Tumor Tissue, BRCA mutational status will be tabulated against the germline mutation to see what proportion of patients have a mutation reversal within the tumor and whether such reversals can explain resistance to the regimen under study., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the proportion of patients who have objective tumor response (complete or partial).

II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events associated with treatment with veliparib (ABT-888) as assessed by the Active Version of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

II. To determine the proportion of patients who survive progression-free for at least 6 months.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair genes (e.g., breast cancer \[BRCA\]1, Fanconi) and clinical characteristics, response, and patient outcome (PFS and OS).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.