MR- PET Guided Biologically Optimised Interstitial Brachytherapy
The proposed two stage study will evaluate patterns of local recurrence after EBRT and brachytherapy in spatial reference to baseline functional MRI and FLT/F-Miso PET scan in patients undergoing chemoradiotherapy for postoperative recurrences of cervical cancer. The first stage of the study will focus on developing MR guided interstitial brachytherapy and validating the concept of high risk gross tumor volume (on the basis of functional imaging features).

The second stage thereafter will focus on developing biologically modulated interstitial brachytherapy.

In the proposed two staged study the investigators intend to prospectively evaluate and validate concept of HRGTV and develop technique of biologically dose modulated brachytherapy. The demonstration of technical feasibility and clinical safety of biologically modulated image guided radiotherapy in this pilot study for may pave the way for improving local control in patients with postoperative recurrences.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: MR PET Guided Brachytherapy
Local Response in spatial reference to High Risk GTV (as identified by functional imaging), 3 months after treatment completion
Incidence of Grade III rectal and bladder toxicity with biologically dose modulated brachytherapy, Stage II involves dose modulated brachytherapy wherein higher dose will be delivered to biologically high risk target volume. Saftey will be assessed initially by an interim analysis undertaken at 50 % accrual(median follow up 1 yr). If incidence of grade III-IV rectal and bladder toxicity \>15% than the trial will be stopped else continued till target accrual. The technique will be considered to be safe if Grade III bladder and bowel toxicity remain to be under 15%., 2 years after treatment conclusion
Aims

Stage I

Aim 1: To spatially characterize biologically heterogenous subvolumes within the gross tumor through multimodality (18 F-Miso/FLT/Functional MR) image fusion.

Aim 2: To evaluate post external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) response in spatial reference to biological heterogeneous sub-volumes on imaging.

Stage II:

Aim 3: To evaluate technical feasibility of delivering dose modulated biologically optimized interstitial brachytherapy.

Aim 4: To evaluate acute and late toxicity and quality of life associated with biologically optimized brachytherapy