Pre-operative SABR With and Without Caloric Restriction for Early Stage Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of calorie reduction while undergoing stereotactic ablative radiation therapy in treating patients with breast cancer. Stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (sABR) is a highly focused radiation treatment that gives an intense dose of radiation concentrated on a tumor, while limiting the dose to the surrounding organ. Giving SABR before surgery may make the tumor smaller. Adding dietary restrictions in combination with radiation therapy may help increase local control and decrease the spread of the cancer to other places in the body. The purpose of this trial is to identify if there is a decrease in tumor tissue in patients undergoing caloric restriction during pre-operative SABR, compared to patients undergoing pre-operative SABR alone.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage 1 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage 2 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage 3 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Ductal Carcinoma in Situ|Invasive Breast Carcinoma|Triple Negative Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Best Practice|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Resection|PROCEDURE: Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy|OTHER: Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Percent reduction in cellularity of breast tumor, The mean percent reduction will be compared between the study arms using a two-sample two-sided t-test with alpha 0.05, 4-16 weeks, depending on the date of surgery
Feasibility of identifying sentinel lymph node (SLN), Sentinel lymph node biopsy performed at the time of surgical resection per standard institutional protocol including dual tracer SLN identification. The first 10 enrolled patients who have a SLN biopsy performed (decided per institutional protocol and surgeon standard practice)will be assessed to determine the feasibility of identifying sentinel lymph node after pre-operative SABR and if the rate of SLN mapping is not at least 95% the trial will be closed to accrual and modified to reflect the safety and feasibility of finding the sentinel node., 4-16 weeks, depending on the date of surgery|Global physiologic assessment, Calculated by following measures- Bioimpedence will be used to measure percent body fat and muscle mass. Weight, height, and body composition will be assessed. Calipers will be used to assess biceps, triceps, scapula, and hips., 3-6 weeks, depending on the radiation schedule|Change in patient-reported health-related quality of life, Calculated using following Scales - Psycho-social evaluation assessed using Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System cancer fatigue short form The National Comprehensive Cancer Network distress thermometer Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast measure, Baseline to 6 months after SABR|Physician cosmesis evaluation, Cosmesis evaluation using the excellent, good, fair, poor scale at the times specified in the Study Schedule., Up to 6 months after SABR|Rate of positive margins and need for re-excision, Positive margin is defined as the presence of invasive carcinoma at the inked margin of the submitted operative specimen that does not appear to have significant radiation effect. The same definition will be applied to ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS); however, there should be a 2mm margin on DCIS from the inked edge of the operative specimen. Will be compared between the study arms using a two-sample two-sided Fisher's exact with alpha 0.05., Up to 6 months after SABR|Rate of post-operative complications, The presence or absence of the following potential adverse effects will be assessed: infection/cellulitis requiring antibiotics, wound dehiscence or open wound, and persistent seroma requiring aspiration. Will be compared between the study arms using a two-sample two-sided Fisher's exact with alpha 0.05., Up to 6 months after SABR|Change in tumor, Stiffness, Angiogenesis, and Tumor size are assessed- Contrast-enhanced mammography and ultrasound shear-wave elastography will be done at baseline and just before surgical intervention to determine if diet improves tumor stiffness and angiogenesis as well as size of tumor. Will be compared between the study arms using a two-sample two-sided t-test with alpha 0.05., 3-6 weeks, depending on the radiation schedule
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To detect a decrease in cellularity of the tumor in participants undergoing caloric restriction during pre-operative SABR as compared to participants undergoing SABR alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Change in miR-21 as defined by baseline and post radiation levels. II. Investigate measurable changes of patient and tumor characteristics from the combination of SABR and caloric restriction (CR) versus SABR alone to inform future trials.

III. To describe pathologic complete response (pCR) rates as defined by no residual carcinoma or no residual invasive carcinoma, but ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) may be present, in each arm as well as by subtype.

IV. To assess response of each treatment arm using contrast-enhanced mammography (CEM) and correlate with pathologic response.

V. To describe short term surgical outcomes including: sentinel lymph node (SLN) identification rate, positive margins requiring return to the operative room for re-excision, and post-operative complications (infection, delayed wound healing, seroma requiring aspiration).

VI. To measure patient reported health-related outcomes and satisfaction with outcome.

VII. To compare patient reported cosmesis to physician reported cosmesis scores, where cosmesis is rated as excellent, good, fair or poor.

VIII. To compare pCR rates between women randomized to SABR alone to women randomized to SABR + CR who are at least 80% adherent to the CR intervention.

IX. To compare pCR rates between women randomized to SABR alone who do not deviate by more than 10% from their baseline caloric intake to women randomized to SABR + CR who are at least 80% adherent to the CR intervention.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Tissue: To determine the downstream molecular effects of diet related to miR-21 such as FAS/FASL, PD-1, LAG3 and STAT3 expression.

II. Microbiome: Compare baseline to post-SABR microbiome species separately for each trial arm.

III. Serum: Determine if anti-tumor immunity has increased with increased CD8 and decreased Treg in tumor. Compare proteomic profiles.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the ipsilateral breast recurrence rate, distant disease-free interval, recurrence free survival, and overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive standard dietary recommendations. Patients undergo SABR every other day for 5 fractions. Within 4-12 weeks of completion of SABR, patients undergo surgical resection with sentinel lymph node biopsy.

ARM II: Beginning 1 week before the start of SABR, patients undergo a caloric restriction diet for 6-12 weeks (for the duration of radiation treatment, until post radiation follow-up appointment) consisting of reducing calorie intake by 25%. Patients undergo SABR every other day for 5 fractions. Within 4-12 weeks of completion of SABR, patients undergo surgical resection with sentinel lymph node biopsy.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 3-6 weeks, and then 6 months after surgery.