Charcoal in Lung Cancer Patients Undergoing TEMLA
This proof-of-concept study serves as the preliminary step to prove safety of oral activated charcoal (OAC) in patients with solid tumors before moving to a hematologic malignancy patient population.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: Activated charcoal
Number of patients who are free from analgesics within 3 days of TEMLA, The duration of analgesic medication use after a standard of care Transcervical Extended Mediastinal Lymphadenectomy (TEMLA) is observed and the number of patients who are free from analgesics is reported, 3 days after surgery
Number of patients experiencing gastrointestinal adverse events, Incidence of gastrointestinal AEs (nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, bloating) within 5 days after ingesting charcoal, 5 days after surgery|Number of patients with C. difficile infection, Incidence of C. difficile infection within 4 weeks after TEMLA, 4 weeks after surgery|Characterization of changes in microbiome diversity, Stool microbiome diversity will be determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of samples. Analyses will include alpha and beta diversity, descriptive microbiota composition at the genus level, and comparing these indices between pre- and post- samples., pre-surgery and through study completion, 21-35 days after surgery|Characterization of changes in microbiome composition, Stool microbiome composition will be determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing of samples., pre-surgery and through study completion , 21-35 days after surgery
TEMLA (Transcervical Extended Mediastinal Lymphadenectomy) is a procedure for mediastinal lymph node sampling to stage patients with lung cancer. All patients receive a dose of IV antibiotic pre-procedure to prevent infection. The concept of the proposed study is to protect the gut microbiome against detrimental effects of the antibiotic using oral activated charcoal as a potent adsorbent with no absorption. Oral activated charcoal (OAC) binds to the fraction of IV antibiotic that reaches the lumen of the gut without interfering with its desired systemic effects. The conceptual goal is to prevent dysbiosis by protecting the gut microbiome. Dysbiosis is the leading cause of C. difficile infection and a number of other adverse clinical outcomes such as antibiotic resistance.