Phase 1 Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability and Pharmacokinetic Profile of XNW7201 in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
The research project is testing this potential new medication for advanced solid tumours. This research project is being done to get more information about the study drug (XNW7201). The study drug is a potential new medication that blocks the activity of a protein found in cancer cells called Wnt. Studies have shown that, in cancer, Wnt is involved in the uncontrolled growth of cancer cells and helping them survive. It is hoped that by blocking the activity of Wnt, the study drug may decrease the growth of cancer cells and their survival. The purpose of this research is to check that the study drug is safe and to see how well it is tolerated in participants with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumours. Another purpose is to find out the highest dose that is well tolerated (called the maximum tolerated dose) and the right dose to use in future clinical research studies with this potential new medication.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: XNW7201 tablets
Safety and tolerability of XNW7201 tablets in subjects with advanced solid tumor;, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, From date of first dosing until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to about 6 months|The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of XNW7201, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as the adverse events these Grade ≥3 related to XNW7201 treatment that occur from single dose to the last day of Cycle 1 in multiple doses in the dose escalation stage (CTCAE, V5.0)., At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 30 days)
The research project is testing this potential new medication for advanced solid tumours. This research project is being done to get more information about the study drug (XNW7201). The study drug is a potential new medication that blocks the activity of a protein found in cancer cells called Wnt. Studies have shown that, in cancer, Wnt is involved in the uncontrolled growth of cancer cells and helping them survive. It is hoped that by blocking the activity of Wnt, the study drug may decrease the growth of cancer cells and their survival. The purpose of this research is to check that the study drug is safe and to see how well it is tolerated in participants with locally advanced or metastatic solid tumours. Another purpose is to find out the highest dose that is well tolerated (called the maximum tolerated dose) and the right dose to use in future clinical research studies with this potential new medication.