Light Dosimetry for Photodynamic Therapy With Porfimer Sodium in Treating Participants With Malignant Mesothelioma or Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With Pleural Disease Undergoing Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and how well light dosimetry system works during photodynamic therapy with porfimer sodium in treating participants with malignant mesothelioma , non-small cell lung cancer or any other malignancy with pleural disease undergoing surgery. Light dosimetry measures the amount of laser light given during photodynamic therapy. Photodynamic therapy uses a drug, such as porfimer sodium, that becomes active when it is exposed to light. The activated drug may kill tumor cells. Using light dosimetry for intraoperative photodynamic therapy may help doctors estimate how much light is delivered during photodynamic therapy and decide if the treatment should be stopped or continued.
Malignant Mesothelioma|Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Pleural Disorder
DEVICE: Light Dosimetry for Intranoperative Therapy|PROCEDURE: Photodynamic Therapy|DRUG: Porfimer Sodium
Incidence of adverse events per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles. All subjects who receive any study treatment will be considered evaluable for toxicity., Up to 30 days
Progression-free survival, The estimated distribution of progression free survival will be obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of quantities such as median survival will be obtained. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., From time of surgery + photodynamic therapy (PDT) or, until start of a new treatment, disease progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Estimates of quantities such as median survival will be obtained. Corresponding confidence intervals using the methodology of Brookmeyer and Crowley will be computed., From the time of treatment (surgery + PDT) until death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Anti tumor response, Monitor immune markers for correlation between the IO PDT treatments and local or distant disease recurrence, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that our light dosimetry system is safe and effective in guiding intraoperative photodynamic therapy with porfimer sodium (Photofrin).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS). II. To examine the relationship between immune biomarkers and response.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive porfimer sodium intravenously (IV) over 3-5 minutes and receive intraoperative photodynamic therapy (IO-PDT) via a light dosimetry system 24-48 hours later.

After conclusion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days, within 4 weeks from surgery and PDT and every 6 months for 2 years.