Eribulin in Angiosarcoma and Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma (EHE)
This research study is studying a drug as a possible treatment for Angiosarcoma or Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHE).

-The drug involved in this study is Eribulin
Angiosarcoma|Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma
DRUG: Eribulin
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a partial response or complete response by RECIST 1.1. Tumor imaging studies were completed using either CT (Computed Tomography) or MRI (Magnetic resonance imaging). The modality chosen for any individual patient was the same from baseline until the end of their time on study.

Per RECIST v 1.1, complete response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and the reduction in any pathological lymph nodes in short axis to less than 10 mm. Partial response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions compared with baseline. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as a 20% increase (5+ mm absolute increase) compared with the smallest sum on study. Stable disease (SD) is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor PD., 2 years
Progression Free Survival, 4 years|Disease Control Rate, Objective Response plus Stable Disease Rate at 24 weeks, 24 weeks|Treatment Related Adverse Events, Summary of the treatment related adverse events experienced by study participants as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4), 4 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Eribulin for your specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

In this research study, the investigators are studying how safe and effective eribulin is in participants with Angiosarcoma or EHE.

Eribulin was created to mimic the structure of a chemical that is released from a sea sponge. The investigators believe that this drug has anti-cancer effects on tumors by blocking proteins called microtubules, among other functions. It may work by preventing the cancer cells from dividing and eventually cause the tumor cells to die similar to other drugs that target microtubules