TIL Therapy in Combination With Checkpoint Inhibitors for Metastatic Ovarian Cancer
Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. Recently, the investigators have completed a pilot study treating 6 patients with metastatic ovarian cancer. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell activation and proliferation in vivo.

The investigators recent pilot study has shown TIL therapy in patients with metastatic ovarian cancer to be feasible and tolerable. Mainly transient clinical responses where observed and therefore the investigators plan to combine TIL therapy with checkpoint inhibitors to potentially increase the clinical effect.
Metastatic Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: TIL infusion|DRUG: Interleukin-2|DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Number of Participants With Reported Adverse Events by Type, Determine the safety of TIL therapy in combination with checkpoint inhibitors for patients with ovarian-, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal cancer by reporting adverse events according to CTCAE v. 4.0., Up to 12 months
Treatment Related Immune Responses, Ex vivo anti-tumor reactivity of expanded TILs after co-culture measured with flow cytometry., Until protocol end, until 6 months after TIL infusion|Objective Response Rate, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CAT scan:

Complete Response (CR) Disappearance of all target lesions (sum of all taget lesions=0) Partial Response (PR) \>=30% decrease (vs baseline) of sum of all target lesions dimension Progressive Disease (PD) new lesions or \>=20% increase (vs smallest sum of target lesions or nadir) Stable Disease (SD) when sum of all target lesions does not qualify for CR/PR/PD, Assessed up to 12 months after therapy.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS), defined as time from TIL infusion to death, Up to 3 years after TIL infusion|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS): Time from TIL infusion to disease progression, relapse or death due to any cause, which ever comes first, will be used as an event., Up to 12 months after TIL infusion
Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. Recently, the investigators have completed a pilot study treating 6 patients with metastatic ovarian cancer. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell activation and proliferation in vivo.

The investigators recent pilot study has shown TIL therapy in patients with metastatic ovarian cancer to be feasible and tolerable. Mainly transient clinical responses where observed and therefore the investigators plan to combine TIL therapy with checkpoint inhibitors to potentially increase the clinical effect.

Objectives:

To evaluate safety and feasibility when treating patients with metastatic ovarian cancer with ACT with TILs in combination with checkpoint inhibitors.

To evaluate treatment related immune responses To evaluate clinical efficacy

Design:

Patients will be screened with a physical exam, medical history, blood samples and ECG.

Patients will be treated with one dose of Ipilimumab 14 days before undergoing surgery to harvest tumor material for TIL production. Patients is admitted on day -8 in order to undergo lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludara starting day -7. On day -2 patients will start treatment with Nivolumab every 2 weeks for a total of 4 doses to increase the activity of the infused TIL product.

On day 0 patients receive TIL infusion and shortly after starts IL-2 stimulation with a daily subcutaneous dose for a total of 14 days.The patients will followed until progression or up to 5 years.