Evaluation of the Archimedes ™ System for Transparenchymatous Access to Pulmonary Nodules.
The aim of this study protocol is to evaluate the feasibility of biopsies using the new system called Archimedes® in 12 patients with solitary pulmonary nodules (SPN) suspicious of malignancy not accessible through current bronchoscopy techniques.
Bronchoscopy|Lung Cancer|Solitary Pulmonary Nodule
DEVICE: Archimedes procedure
Number of diagnostics obtained with the Archimedes system, It will be the biopsy yield defined as the number of patients in whom the results of nodule biopsies performed with the Archimedes® system are consistent with the surgical specimen., Month 1
Scheduling time of the procedure, Procedure scheduling time defined by the number of minutes elapsed between recording the patient's chest scanner on the console and when the tunneling path was examined, selected, and exported, Day 21|Access time to the nodule, Nodule access time defined as the number of minutes elapsed between the start of navigation and the placement of the sheath within the SPN, Day 21|Fluoroscopy time, Fluoroscopy time defined by the number of minutes the patient is exposed to ionizing radiation, Day 21|Patient registration time, Patient recording time defined as the number of minutes required to correlate the patient's position through fluoroscopy with the navigation aid system., Day 21|morbi-mortality, number of hemoptysis and pneumothorax, Month 1
Due to the improvement of screening techniques, the detection of peripheral and isolated lesions is an increasingly frequent situation. However these SPN cause difficulties in obtaining a sample. Indeed, current endoscopic techniques remain insufficient in terms of performance. Moreover, computed tomography-guided percutaneous needle biopsy despite a very good sensitivity has many limitations related to the size of the lesions, the accessibility and important complications. The Archimedes® system is an improved version of LungPoint® and combines 3D reconstruction of chest images with intraoperative radioscopy. It uses a catheter to access through the bronchial wall the pulmonary parenchyma and navigate to the SPN. All included patients will receive anesthesia consultation, biological assessment and chest CT scan in thin sections. A surgical treatment will always be planned after presentation of the file in a meeting of multidisciplinary consultation of thoracic oncology. The Archimedes® procedure will be performed during a bronchoscopy under general anesthesia. Immediate monitoring consisted in a chest x-ray 1hour after the procedure. Patients' participation in the study will stop once they benefit from their thoracic surgery