Glofitamab With Obinutuzumab, Venetoclax, and Lenalidomide for the Treatment of Patients With Newly Diagnosed High Risk Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial tests the safety and effectiveness of glofitamab (with obinutuzumab pretreatment), venetoclax, and lenalidomide in treating patients with newly diagnosed, high risk mantle cell lymphoma. Glofitamab and obinutuzumab are monoclonal antibodies that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Lenalidomide works by helping the immune system kill cancer cells and by helping the bone marrow to produce normal blood cells. Giving venetoclax, glofitamab with obinutuzumab, and lenalidomide together may kill more cancer cells in patients with newly diagnosed, high risk mantle cell lymphoma.
Blastoid Variant Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Pleomorphic Variant Mantle Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Glofitamab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Obinutuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Venetoclax
Progression free survival (PFS), From first dose of combination lenalidomide, venetoclax, and glofitamab to the occurrence of definitive disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of dose limiting toxicity, Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 63 days after initiation of venetoclax
Incidence of adverse events of special interest, Adverse events of special interest including neurotoxicity, cytopenias, and infections are graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. Cytokine release syndrome is graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy criteria., From baseline up until 30 days after last dose of study drug|Median (or mean) PFS, From the first dose of the combination of lenalidomide, venetoclax, and glofitamab to the occurrence of definitive disease progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 5 years|Best overall response, Determined by revised Lugano 2016 criteria. Includes complete response and partial response., Until disease progression or at 1 year after initiating therapy, whichever is sooner|Minimal residual disease status, At the end of 12 cycles of treatment (each cycle is 28 days)|Duration of response, From the time of initial response until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of venetoclax, glofitamab and lenalidomide in newly diagnosed patients with high risk mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) as measured by progression free survival (PFS) at 24 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of lenalidomide, venetoclax and glofitamab in patients with newly diagnosed MCL.

II. To determine overall response rate (ORR) of patients with newly diagnosed MCL who are treated with the combination of lenalidomide, venetoclax and glofitamab.

III. To determine the complete remission rate of the combination in patients with untreated MCL.

IV. To determine the PFS at 24 months of the patients with p53 mutation versus (vs.) those who lack this abnormality.

V. To determine duration of response of patients treated with the combination lenalidomide, venetoclax and glofitamab.

VI. To determine progression free survival of patients who obtain minimal residual disease (MRD) negativity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in T-cell repertoire at baseline and on treatment based on exposure to glofitamab utilizing immune-sequence (seq) assay.

II. To determine if any other baseline genetic feature impacts response and/or duration of response to the treatment regimen.

III. To evaluate outcomes of treated patients based on segregation into distinct MCL clusters using whole exome sequencing (WES).

IV. To determine if rates of cytokine release syndrome (CRS)/immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) are impacted by co-administration of lenalidomide/venetoclax in conjunction with glofitamab.

V. To determine if utilization and efficacy of tocilizumab for CRS is impacted by co-administration of lenalidomide/venetoclax in conjunction with glofitamab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO), obinutuzumab intravenously (IV), glofitamab IV, and lenalidomide IV on study. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy, blood sample collection, and computed tomography (CT) scan and/or positron emission tomography (PET) scan throughout the study. Patients may undergo tumor biopsy throughout the study.

Patients are followed-up every 3 months for the first two years, and then every 6 months starting in the third year until disease recurrence.