Ramucirumab and Pembrolizumab Versus Standard of Care in Treating Patients With Stage IV or Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (A Lung-MAP Non-Match Treatment Trial)
This phase II Lung-MAP non-Match treatment trial studies how well ramucirumab and pembrolizumab work versus standard of care in treating patients with non-small cell lung cancer that is stage IV or has come back. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ramucirumab and pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in standard of care chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer, such as docetaxel, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and pemetrexed, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ramucirumab and pembrolizumab together may work better in treating patients with non-small lung cancer compared to standard of care.
Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., From date of registration to a maximum of 2 years and 11 months or death
Response Rate (RR), Percentage of participants with a complete or partial, confirmed or unconfirmed response.

Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 1.0 cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline.

Partial Response (PR): Applies only to participants with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease as best response.

CR: Complete disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. Any lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0cm. All disease must be assessed using the same technique as baseline.

PR: Applies only to participants with at least one measurable lesion. At least 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of appropriate diameters of all target measurable lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline.

Stable disease: Does not qualify for CR, PR, Progression or Symptomatic Deterioration. All target measurable lesions must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death|Duration of Response (DOR), Time from date of first documentation of response (complete or partial) to date of first documentation of progression assessed by local review or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause among participants who achieve a response. Participants last known to be alive without report of progression are censored at date of last disease assessment. For participants with a missing scan (or consecutive missing scans) whose subsequent scan determines progression, the expected date of the first missing scan (as defined by the disease assessment schedule) is used as the date of progression., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death|Number of Participants With Gr 3 Through 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drugs, Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drugs are reported. CTCAE Version 5.0 was used for all AE reporting., Duration of treatment and follow-up until death or 3 years post randomization|Investigator Assessed-progression-free Survival (IA-PFS), Time from date of registration to date of first documentation of progression assessed by local review or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive without report of progression are censored at date of last disease assessment. For participants with a missing scan (or consecutive missing scans) whose subsequent scan determines progression, the expected date of the first missing scan is used as the date of progression.

Symptomatic deterioration: Global deterioration of health status requiring discontinuation of treatment without objective evidence of progression. Efforts should be made to obtain objective evidence of progression after discontinuation., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death|Overall Survival (OS), Subgroup Analysis by Stratification Factors, Number of participants who died due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death|Investigator-Assessed Progression-Free Survival (IA-PFS), Subgroup Analysis by Stratification Factors, Number of participants with progression assessed by local review or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive without report of progression are censored at date of last disease assessment. For participants with a missing scan (or consecutive missing scans) whose subsequent scan determines progression, the expected date of the first missing scan is used as the date of progression.

Symptomatic deterioration: Global deterioration of health status requiring discontinuation of treatment without objective evidence of progression. Efforts should be made to obtain objective evidence of progression after discontinuation., From date of registration to a maximum of 3 years or death
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare overall survival between patients previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and immunotherapy for stage IV or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer randomized to ramucirumab and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) versus standard of care (SoC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare response rates between the arms, including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) (confirmed and unconfirmed).

II. To compare the disease control rate (CR, PR, confirmed and unconfirmed and stable disease \[SD\]).

III. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR) among responders within each arm.

IV. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities within each arm. V. To compare investigator assessed-progression-free survival (IA-PFS) between the arms.

VI. To evaluate the clinical outcomes (overall survival \[OS\], IA-PFS, response) by randomization stratification factors by comparing outcomes within the ramucirumab and MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) arm, performing a sub-group analysis of the arms, and by evaluating an interaction between the factors and treatment arm.

TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if PD-L1 expression levels are associated with clinical outcomes (OS, IA-PFS, and response).

II. To evaluate if tumor mutation burden (TMB) as determined by the Foundation Medicine Inc (FMI) Foundation One panel is associated with clinical outcomes.

III. To collect, process, and bank cell-free (circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid \[cfDNA\]) at baseline and progression for future development of a proposal to evaluate comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA).

IV. To establish a tissue/blood repository to pursue future studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients may receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 10-30 minutes on day 1, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, pemetrexed IV over 10 minutes on day 1 (non-squamous NSCLC patients only), or ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes combined with docetaxel IV over 10-30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive ramucirumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment (prior to disease progression), patients are followed up every 3 months for the first year, and then every 6 months for up to 3 years from date of randomization. After completion of study treatment (after disease progression), patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, then at the end of year 3 from the date of randomization.