Effects of NMES and Exercise in Hematological Cancer
Physical activity levels of adult hematologic cancer patients are deficient. The resulting physical inactivity causes fatigue, muscle loss, and deterioration in physical performance values. However, physical exercise programs still play a minor role in treating hematological malignancies. In addition, there are no reliable data in the literature regarding risk factors, feasibility, and exercise results in individuals with hematological malignancies. Although it is known that the use of corticosteroids, which are among the drugs given during chemotherapy, causes muscle weakness, there are no physical exercise programs performed with this patient group in the literature. The current study aims to compare the effects of resistance exercise and resistance exercise combined with neuromuscular electrical stimulation on muscle strength, functional lower extremity strength, and mobility in hematological cancer patients during chemotherapy.
Hematologic Malignancy|Muscle Weakness
DEVICE: Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation|OTHER: Structured Exercise
Muscle Strength Evaluation, Participants' muscle strength measurements will be made using a digital hand dynamometer (J Tech Commander Muscle Tester). The patients will be seated in the appropriate position and the dynamometer will be placed in the dominant leg to give resistance to the muscle to be evaluated. While patients press the dynamometer as hard as possible for three seconds, the evaluator will give resistance to prevent any movement to provide an isometric contraction. Following the familiarization test, patients will perform three trials with standardized verbal encouragement and the highest strength (kilogram, kg) sustained for over half a second will be recorded., Change from Baseline Muscle Strength through study completion, an average of 6 weeks|Functional Muscle Strength Evaluation, Lower extremity functional strength will be evaluated using the "Sit and Stand for 30 sec" test. The patient will be instructed to stand up and sit back and forth from a standardized chair as quickly as possible in 30 seconds without using his arms. Participants will be able to use their hands to help them stand as needed, and standardized verbal encouragement will be provided to continue sitting and standing throughout the test., Change from Baseline Functional Muscle Strength through study completion, an average of 6 weeks
Anthropometric Assessment, Thigh circumference measurement will be made from the middle of the thigh over the Quadriceps muscle. By marking the inguinal region and the proximal part of the patella, the midpoint between the two points will be found. All measurements will be made on the right side and by the same physiotherapist., Baseline and Immediately after completion of study, an average of 6 weeks|Mobility Assessment, "Timed Up-Go Test" will be applied before and after treatment to evaluate the patient's mobility and functional exercise capacity. The time taken to complete the task is strongly correlated with the level of functional mobility. In other words, the longer the person completes the task, the more dependent he is on daily life activities., Baseline and Immediately after completion of study, an average of 6 weeks|The Brief Fatigue Scale, The Brief Fatigue Scale will be used to assess cancer-related fatigue in our study. This scale is one of the standard tests used to evaluate fatigue in cancer patients. Evaluates the level of fatigue in the last 24 hours and the effect of fatigue on daily activities (general activity, mood, walking ability, work life, relationships with other people, joy of life), Baseline and Immediately after completion of study, an average of 6 weeks|European Cancer Research and Treatment Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire, The assessment of quality of life will be carried out using the European Cancer Research and Treatment Organization Quality of Life Questionnaire Version 3.0. The scale consists of three subsections: general health status scale, functional scale, and symptom scale, and includes a total of 30 questions., Baseline and Immediately after completion of study, an average of 6 weeks
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status Scale, An overall assessment of activity level will be based on the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status Scale based on the degree of muscle weakness found in the Cancer Treatment Evaluation Program Common Toxicity Criteria, and patients with an ECOG performance status of 1-3 will be treated., Baseline and Immediately after completion of study, an average of 6 weeks
Although people with hematological malignancies have to endure long stages of treatment and inactivity that are known to reduce their physical performance levels, it is still common practice to rest and avoid intense exercise. Although physical activity and exercise are important approaches to many diseases, their effects on cancer have been studied recently. There are still not enough studies in this area and it is not widely used. In recent studies, it is thought that exercise may benefit the symptoms that develop due to treatment in cancer patients. Even in the presence of severe muscle weakness and fatigue, skeletal muscle provides great adaptation when there is an appropriate exercise stimulus. In addition, exercise can increase immune functions, so it is thought that exercise practices in hematological cancer patients can specifically improve cellular functions such as microbial phagocytosis, T-cell proliferation, vaccine response, and killing tumor cells. There are various studies and approaches that try to create a different strategy and include physical exercise in the treatment strategy of hematological malignancies. These exercise programs generally include aerobics, flexibility, and resistance training methods. The necessity of developing alternative methods to exercise is emphasized in the literature due to the development of complications that affect participation in basic exercises such as walking. Resistance exercise training has been effective in improving muscle strength and endurance in cancer survivors, with most of the research on those with breast cancer, prostate cancer, and head and neck cancer. The number of studies providing strengthening training in patients with hematological cancer is limited. Neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) has proven efficacy in improving muscle strength in a variety of populations. NMES training also has applicability for the cancer population to prevent treatment-related complications and improve health-related quality of life. However, there is still no high-level evidence to support the administration of NMES in cancer patients. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the effect of resistance exercise improve muscle weakness in hematological cancer patients receiving intensive chemotherapy after HSCT. In addition, we aimed to evaluate the effect of resistance exercise and NMES training on fatigue, mobility, and quality of life in hematological cancer patients.