Pralatrexate and Fluorouracil in Treating Patients With Recurrent Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Pralatrexate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving pralatrexate together with fluorouracil may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of pralatrexate when given together with fluorouracil in treating patients with recurrent solid tumors
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: pralatrexate|DRUG: fluorouracil|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|GENETIC: DNA analysis|OTHER: high performance liquid chromatography|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|GENETIC: nucleic acid sequencing|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies|GENETIC: polymorphism analysis
Recommended Dose of PDX Given With a Fixed Dose of 5-FU, Recommended dose of PDX given in combination with a fixed dose of 5-FU administered as a 48-hour infusion given every other weekMaximum tolerated dose will have been exceeded when 2 patients entered at a given dose level experience specified dose-limiting toxicities in the initial cycle, During the initial course (day 1 & 15 of a 4 week schedule)
Response to Therapy in Subjects With Measurable Disease, Number of Participants With Response to Therapy in Subjects With Measurable Disease, restaging imaging done after each two 4-week course until time of progression (the maximum duration of PFS = 588 days)|Number of Patients Experiencing Grade 3-4 Toxicity While Receiving the Combination of PDX and 5-FU, Participants remained on study as long as they did not progress, and wished to continue on study (no limit on number of cycles), ., "From the time the subject signs the consent form and ending 4 weeks following the final chemotherapy, an average of 3 years|Pharmacokinetics of PDX- AUClast, Plasma concentrations versus time (at all time points), Pre-treatment, end of infusion, at 15, 30, and 60 min, and then at 2, 4, 6, 8, 12, 22, 23, 24, 45, and 46 hours for PDX.|Polymorphisms in Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase and Thymidylate Synthase, Number of Participants with Polymorphisms in Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase and Thymidylate Synthase, Prior to the first dose of protocol therapy|5-FU Plasma Levels, Pharmacokinetics of 5-FU - Cmax plasma levels, 22, 23, 45 & 46 hours during the 48 hour infusion|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression in all Participants, restaging imaging done after each two 4-week course until time of progression (longest time to progression = 588 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended dose of PDX (pralatrexate) given in combination with a fixed dose of 5-FU (fluorouracil) administered as a 48-hour infusion given every other week.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess clinical response to therapy in subjects with measurable disease and time to disease progression in all subjects.

II. To assess the toxicity profile of the combination of PDX and 5-FU. III. To determine the pharmacokinetics of PDX and 5-FU and correlate with clinical toxicity.

IV. To analyze polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase and thymidylate synthase (TS) and correlate with clinical toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of pralatrexate.

Patients receive pralatrexate intravenously (IV) over 5 minutes on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 48 hours on days 2 and 16. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.