The Effect of Topical Brimonidine Tartrate on Hand-foot Syndrome (HFS) in Cancer Patients
Comparative analysis of the severity of Hand-Foot-Syndrome (HFS) of palms treated with brimonidine tartrate gel or with standard care Urea 10% containing lotion in cancer patients receiving antineoplastic therapy to show a preventive effect of cutaneous brimonidine treatment on severity of HFS symptoms.
Hand-foot Syndrome
DRUG: Brimonidine Tartrate
Number and time of occurence of Palms with HFS severity grade 2 or 3, Palms with HFS severity of grade 2 or 3 during 2 cycles of chemotherapy or over 6 week period by means of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v4.0 grading, weekly up to 6 weeks
NCI-CTCAE v4.0 grading of HFS severity, Severity of HFS after 2 cycles of chemotherapy or 6 weeks by means of the NCI-CTCAE v4.0 grading, weekly up to 6 weeks|Severity of nail toxicity, Severity of nail toxicity after 2 cycles of chemotherapy or 6 weeks by means of the NCI-CTCAE v3.0 grading, weekly up to 6 weeks|modified ppPASI grading of HFS severity, Severity of HFS after 2 cycles of chemotherapy or 6 weeks by means of a modified Palmoplantar Psoriasis Area Severity Index (ppPASI), weekly up to 6 weeks|computer-assisted quantification of HFS severity, Severity of HFS after 2 cycles of chemotherapy or 6 weeks by means of computer-assisted quantification, weekly up to 6 weeks|HFS associated pain (by VAS scale), Level of HFS-associated pain after 2 cycles of chemotherapy or 6 weeks by means of visual analogue scale (VAS), weekly up to 6 weeks|Highest grade of HFS severity (NCI-CTCAE v4.0 grading), Highest grade of HFS severity reached until 2 cycle of chemotherapy or over 6 week period by means of the NCI-CTCAE v4.0 grading, weekly up to 6 weeks
Hand-foot syndrome (HFS) is an adverse event frequently associated with the use of classical chemotherapeutic agents such as capecitabine or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, as well as targeted cancer drugs such as sorafenib or other tyrosine-kinase inhibitors. If the toxicity progresses edematous swelling, blistering and desquamation can lead to ulcerations of the palms and soles. Additionally, patients may be affected by nail-toxicities, such as discoloration, ridging, pitting up to complete onycholysis and pain. Today, cooling of hands and feet during infusion chemotherapy as well as preventive treatment with topical formulations containing urea 10% (e.g. Excipial U10 Lipolotion®) is considered as standard of care. Yet, these strategies are limited by intricateness, patient inconvenience and low efficacy. Hence, at this point the satisfactory treatment of HFS remains an unmet medical need, as until now, no effective therapy is available to prevent or reduce HFS symptoms during the cycle of chemotherapeutic treatment.

Recently, brimonidine 3 mg/g gel (Mirvaso®) has been approved as a topical treatment of facial erythema of rosacea in adult patients. Brimonidine is an effective agonist of α2-adrenoreceptors thereby, in analogy to skin cooling, leading to peripheral vasoconstriction.

Against this background, the following hypothesis was developed:

The topical application brimonidine 3 mg/g gel (Mirvaso®) may prevent or reduce the severity of HFS in cancer patients that receive respective antineoplastic agents.