Effect of a Uterine Manipulator on the Incidence of Lymphovascular Propagation (LVSI) in Treatment of Endometrial Cancer
We retrospectively analyzed data and compared the impact of intrauterine manipulators on incidence of LVSI in endometrial cancer patients treated at our department.
Endometrial Cancer|LVSI
PROCEDURE: hysterectomy
LVSI and intrauterine manipulator, Finding of the difference in the incidence of LVSI in female patients with and without an intrauterine manipulator, oct. 2015 - jan. 2021
LVSI and type of intrauterine manipulator, The effect of a type of an intrauterine manipulator on the incidence of LVSI, oct. 2015 - jan. 2021
LVSI and grading of tumor, Connection between grading of tumor and incidence of LVSI, oct. 2015 - jan. 2021|LVSI and myometrial invasion, Connection between myometrial invasion of tumor and incidence of LVSI, oct. 2015 - jan. 2021|LVSI and primary histology procedure, Method of obtaining primary histology, hysteroscopy or curettage in connection to incidence of LVSI., oct. 2015 - jan. 2021
Endometrial cancers are among the epithelial malignancies of the lining in the uterine cavity. Standard treatment is surgical, which includes a hysterectomy. The invasion of carcinoma into the lymphovascular space (LVSI - lymphovascular space invasion) is considered a risk factor for the course of the disease Based on the recommended procedures of ESGO-ESTRO-ESP (2020) in the management of endometrial cancer, in the event of significant LVSI positivity, the female patients are included in the upper-medium risk group. A confirmation of LVSI in the preparation is of diagnostic, therapeutic and theoretical importance. During endoscopy approach, we use two types of uterine manipulators, namely the Koh-RUMI manipulator (Cooper Surgical) and the Hegar dilatator along with the McCartney tube (LiNA Medical). We analyzed data and compared the impact of intrauterine manipulators on the incidence of LVSI. In addition, we analyzed tumor grading, invasion and primary histology obtaining methods - curettage or hysteroscopy in correlation to incidence of LVSI.