Sacituzumab Govitecan in Primary HER2-negative Breast Cancer
Phase III, prospective, multi-center, randomized, open label, parallel group, study in patients with HER2-negative breast cancer with residual disease after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with 1:1 allocation to:

* Arm A: Sacituzumab govitecan (days 1, 8 q3w for eight cycles);
* Arm B: treatment of physician´s choice (TPC, defined as capecitabine or platinum-based chemotherapy for eight cycles or observation.

Treatment in either arm will be given for eight cycles.

In patients with HR-positive breast cancer, endocrine-based therapy, which includes the use of CDK4/6 inhibitors, will be administered according to local guidelines. The start of endocrine therapy will be at the discretion of the investigator; however, it will be encouraged to start after surgery/radiotherapy in patients without additional cytotoxic agents.

Adjuvant pembrolizumab can be given until the completion of radiotherapy before randomization. Within the study the use of pembrolizumab in patients with TNBC who received pembrolizumab as neoadjuvant therapy is allowed as monotherapy in the TPC arm, according to the approval of pembrolizumab in this setting.
HER2-negative Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Sacituzumab govitecan
Invasive disease free survival (iDFS) between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., iDFS is defined as time from randomization until first iDFS event: local invasive recurrence following mastectomy, local invasive recurrence in the ipsilateral breast following lumpectomy, regional recurrence, distant recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, second non-breast primary cancer (excluding squamous or basal cell carcinoma of the skin), or death from any cause. (according to Hudis (J Clin Oncol 2007) )

There will be one interim analysis for efficacy after 2/3 of the events to allow for early stopping of the trial due to overwhelming efficacy., Assuming 3.25 years of recruitment with 12 months ramp-up and 42 patients per month at peak and 3 years of follow-up after the last patient in, 396 events will be needed and final analysis is expected 75 months after study start.
To compare overall survival (OS) between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., OS is defined as the time from randomization until death from any cause.

One interim analysis of the key secondary endpoint OS will be performed at the time of the final analysis of the iDFS., Assuming 3.25 years of recruitment 398 events will be needed with a power of 80% and final analysis is expected after 99 months (8.3 years after first patient in, 2 years after final analysis of iDFS).|Distant disease-free survival (DDFS) between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., DDFS is defined as the time from randomization until distant recurrence of disease, second primary invasive cancer (non-breast, excluding squamous or basal cell carcinoma of the skin), and death due to any cause., DDFS will be analyzed at the time of the final iDFS analysis (is expected 75 months after study start)|To compare the invasive breast cancer-free survival (iBCFS) between both groups., iBCFS is defined as the time from randomization until first iDFS event excluding any second non-breast primary cancer., iBCFS will be analyzed at the time of the final iDFS analysis (is expected 75 months after study start)|Locoregional recurrences-free interval between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., LRRFI is defined as the time from randomization until any loco-regional (ipsilateral breast (invasive), chest wall, local/regional lymph nodes) recurrence of disease or any invasive contralateral breast cancer whichever occurs first. Distant recurrence, secondary malignancy and death are considered as competing risks and will be accounted for in the analysis., Time-to-Event Outcome Measure up to 75 month after study start.|iDFS in stratified subgroups., HR-negative vs. HR-positive ypN+ vs. ypN0., Will be analyzed at the time of the final iDFS analysis (is expected 75 months after study start)|OS in stratified subgroups., HR-negative vs. HR-positive ypN+ vs. ypN0., Will be analyzed after 99 months (8.3 years after first patient in, 2 years after final analysis of iDFS)|iDFS in exploratory subgroups., Prior platinum therapy (TNBC)

* Prior immune-checkpoint inhibitor therapy (TNBC)
* Experimental arm vs. active TPC in TNBC, overall and in subgroups of different active TPC
* low vs. high TROP2-expression, Will be analyzed at the time of the final iDFS analysis (is expected 75 months after study start)|OS in exploratory subgroups., Prior platinum therapy (TNBC)

* Prior immune-checkpoint inhibitor therapy (TNBC)
* Experimental arm vs. active TPC in TNBC, overall and in subgroups of different active TPC
* low vs. high TROP2-expression, Will be analyzed after 99 months (8.3 years after first patient in, 2 years after final analysis of iDFS)|Safety - To compare safety between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., Frequency and severity of adverse events graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0.

One interim analysis for safety will be performed after first 50 patients completed 4 cycles of treatment., Final safety analysis will take place when interim analysis of the primary endpoint is performed (all patients will have completed treatment, estimated 54 months from study start)|Compliance - To compare dose-density, dose reductions, dose delays, treatment interruptions and treatment discontinuation rates between patients treated with sacituzumab govitecan vs. treatment of physician's choice., Safety, tolerability, and treatment compliance: the number and percentage of patients whose treatment had to be reduced, delayed or permanently stopped will be summarized for each treatment arm, reasons for dose modification, delay and premature termination will be categorized according to the main reason and will be presented in frequency tables. Treatment arms will be compared regarding the occurrence of any adverse events (AE) (grade 1-5), low grade AE (grade 1-2), and high grade AE (grade 3-5) using Fisher's exact test. Those tests are descriptive in nature and no adjustments for multiple comparisons will be made., Analysis with final safety analysis expected 54 months after study start.|Patient reported outcome: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Cancer (FACT-B), For each treatment group and at each time point, the number and percentage of patients who completed the instrument will be summarized, as well as the reasons for non-completion of these questionnaires, if known.

For each of the FACT-B scales (37 items; 5 point Likert-typ scale; scale from 0-148; the higher the score, the better the QOL) the results will be summarized using descriptive statistics for each treatment group at each time point. Results based on the observed values as well as changes from baseline (including both within group and between group differences) will be displayed., Through study completion and until 12 months after End of treatment of single patients.|Patient reported outcome: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Cognitive function issues (FACT-Cog), For each treatment group and at each time point, the number and percentage of patients who completed the instrument will be summarized, as well as the reasons for non-completion of these questionnaires, if known.

For each of the FACT-cog scales (37 items; 5 point Likert-type scale; scale from 0-126; the higher the score, the better the QOL) the results will be summarized using descriptive statistics for each treatment group at each time point. Results based on the observed values as well as changes from baseline (including both within group and between group differences) will be displayed., Through study completion and until 12 months after End of treatment of single patients.|Patient reported outcome: Health Questionnaire 5-Level EQ-5D (EQ-5D-5L), For each treatment group and at each time point, the number and percentage of patients who completed the instrument will be summarized, as well as the reasons for non-completion of the questionnair, if known.

For the EQ-5D-5L instrument (6 items; 5 times 5 point Likert-type scale; 1-digit number that expresses the level selected for the item; 1 visual analogue scale (0-100mm); the higher the score, the better the QOL) the results will be summarized using descriptive statistics for each treatment group at each time point. Results based on the observed values as well as changes from baseline (including both within group and between group differences) will be displayed., Through study completion and until 12 months after End of treatment of single patients.
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) allows monitoring of tumor response to treatment and a pathological complete response (pCR) is associated with superior survival. This association is strongest in the most aggressive subtype, i.e. in patients with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Patients with TNBC not achieving a pCR have a 5-year event free survival rate of about 50%. The association between pCR and prognosis is less pronounced in HR-positive/HER2-negative patients. However, the CPS+EG scoring system for prognosis after neoadjuvant chemotherapy, taking into account clinical stage, post treatment pathological stage, estrogen receptor status and grade, leads to an improved estimate of prognosis allowing to select patients at high risk of relapse for post-neoadjuvant therapy. Patients with TNBC not achieving a pCR as well as those with HR-positive/HER2-negative tumors and a CPS+EG score of 3 or 2/ypN+ are at high risk of relapse, warranting additional experimental therapies after NACT.

There is proof of concept, that post-neoadjuvant therapy can significantly improve survival. First data was provided by the CREATE X trial, randomizing patients with residual tumor after neoadjuvant chemotherapy to either capecitabine or observation. CREATE X included HER2-negative patients and demonstrated a significant improvement in disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) in the overall population, which was confined to the TNBC subgroup.

Recently, the randomized post-neoadjuvant phase III KATHERINE study demonstrated an improved invasive disease-free survival in HER2-positive patients without pCR after trastuzumab +/- pertuzumab treated postoperatively with T-DM1, an antibody-drug-conjugate compared to trastuzumab.

Sacituzumab govitecan has demonstrated unprecedented activity in heavily pretreated patients with metastatic triple-negative and HR-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer, even after prior immune-checkpoint inhibitors or CDK4/6 and mTOR inhibitors. Based on the results of the phase I/II study, sacituzumab govitecan was granted a breakthrough therapy designation for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic TNBC who have received at least two previous lines of treatment for metastatic disease. The efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan in advanced TNBC was confirmed in the phase III ASCENT trial. Based on this study, sacituzumab govitecan received regular approval. Additionally, the TROPiCS-02 study showed an improvement in progression-free survival and OS over single-agent chemotherapy and a manageable safety profile in patients with heavily pre-treated HR-positive/HER2-negative endocrine-resistant, unresectable locally advanced or metastatic BC.