Racial Disparity in Barrett's Esophagus
The goal of the proposed research is to investigate the molecular mechanisms of racial disparity in Barrett's esophagus (BE), the premalignant lesion of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that environmental factors, genetic factors, and potentially gene environment interactions play crucial roles in the observed racial disparity in developing Barrett's esophagus.

Patients are recruited through UNC hospitals prior to scheduled esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD). Participants complete a questionnaire, have body measurements obtained, and have blood, biopsies, and gastric aspirate collected. Participants also complete a 24 hour pH impedance test.
Barrett's Esophagus|Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD)|Intestinal Metaplasia
To examine the association between BE and environmental factors, Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) will be used to estimate the association between gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and Barrett's esophagus (BE) among Caucasian Americans and African Americans, separately, in relation to patterns of the exposures of interest (tobacco use, alcohol consumption, fruit and vegetable intake and other dietary measures, no NSAID use, and various measures of SES), with adjustments made for the frequency matching factors, age at reference (date of diagnosis for cases and date of identification for controls) and sex., Enrollment (day 1)
To investigate the association between BE and genetic and epigenetic status of Cdx1/Cdx2, The promoter regions of Cdxl and Cdx2 genes will be examined for single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). Pyrosequencing will be used to quantitatively determine the methylation status of Cdxl and Cdx2 promoters in esophageal biopsy tissues. For the single functional genotype analyses, conventional unconditional logistic regression will be used and ORs will be estimated for "at-risk" homozygotes and heterozygotes relative to "wild-type" homozygotes by creating indicator variables for each genotype., Enrollment (day 1)
The goal of the proposed research is to investigate the molecular mechanisms of racial disparity in Barrett's esophagus, the premalignant lesion of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Specifically, the investigators hypothesize that environmental factors, genetic factors, and potentially gene environment interactions play crucial roles in the observed racial disparity in developing Barrett's esophagus.

Participants: Patients aged 18-80 presenting at the Gastrointestinal (Gl) Endoscopy Clinic at UNC-Chapel Hill for elective upper endoscopy with a primary or secondary indication of reflux symptoms.

Procedures (methods): Endoscopic biopsy, pH impedance and sampling of gastric secretions will be performed according to our standard protocol. A series of questionnaires assessing demographics, environmental exposure (e.g., smoking, drinking), markers of socioeconomic status (SES), body measurement, previous health history, and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptomatology will be administered to our subjects.