Association of Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation and Hypnosis
At Saint-Antoine's hospital, in CETD a multidisciplinary team takes care of patients with chronic pain. Free-drug techniques are available to reduce their consumption of analgesics. This study is to assess the relief obtained by the simultaneous combination of these two techniques: transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and hypnosis.
Limbs Arthrosis|Non Arthrosic Limbs Arthralgia|Chronic Lomboradiculalgia|Chronic Back Pain|Cervical Radiculopathy|Post-herpetic Neuralgia|Post-surgical Peripheral Neuropathic Pain|Post Trauma Neuropathic Pain|Complex Regional Pain Syndrome Type I or II|Tendinopathy
BEHAVIORAL: Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation|BEHAVIORAL: Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation and hypnosis
Pain intensity, The pain assessment is processed using a Visual Analog Scale (VAS), graduated from 0 to 100mm.

The patient is asked to move a cursor on a line to reflect the severity of his/her pain. The left end indicates "no pain", the right one shows "the most intense pain you can imagine".

On the other side, graduations are only seen by the caregiver. The pain intensity is read on this side, rated in millimetres., between the first visit and three months after the beginning of the strategy.
the patient's observance with the different strategies using a pad., Collections of the data (number and duration of TENS device uses) from the patient log book, from one week after the beginning of the strategy up to 6 months.|the consumption of analgesic, Collection of the concomitant treatments (processing) on the patient pad in every visit., during 6 months.|the quality of life estimated by the patient using the scale(ladder) SF36 and estimating the impression(printing) of change of the patient using the PGIC scale(ladder), These two scales are self-assessment, exploring physical, emotional and social health.

They allow pain impact assessment or professional activities, leisure activities and everyday life.

The final aim is to identify if patients could recover their usual activity faster in one arm of the study versus the other one., at the first visit, one month, three and six months after the beginning of the strategy, except the scale QDSA, which is used one, three and six months later after the beginning of the strategy.
In the pain management centers, patients with chronic pain are supported by a multidisciplinary team. To optimize and reduce drug intake of analgesics, additional techniques (hypnosis, relaxation, cognitive behavioral therapy) and non-drug practices (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation) are offered to patients.

These techniques are most frequently performed by nurses and are used either separately or successively. The time interval during what the patient could expect pain relief is not known.

The hypothesis of the study is that simultaneous practice of two complementary therapies (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) + hypnosis) decreases the intensity of pain in patients with chronic no cancer pain, nociceptive and/or neuropathic pain compared to practice of only one complementary therapy (TENS).

This study is an open randomized trial, comparative in two parallel groups (TENS versus TENS and hypnosis).

Trial design will be explained by the pain management center doctor. Inclusion and randomization performed by the nurse: group with TENS/group with TENS and hypnosis.

The patients will be followed up 8 times between day 0 and day180. Patients benefit from eight visits from day 0th to day 180th. Evaluations are EVA at each visit, SF36 questionnaires and score PGIC at one month, three and six months after the beginning of the strategy.