Safety Study of Elotuzumab in Combination With Thalidomide and Dexamethasone in Relapsed and/or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of elotuzumab administered in combination with thalidomide and dexamethasone in the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma.
Relapsed and/or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Elotuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: Thalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Dexamethasone|BIOLOGICAL: Cyclophosphamide
Percentage of Participants Who Received Treatment Including Cyclophosphamide and Had Grade 3 or Higher Nonhematologic Adverse Events (AEs), AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Treatment-related=having certain, probable, possible, or unknown relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4=Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death., From the first dose of study drug until the last dose of treatment, including cyclophosphamide treatment|Percentage of All Participants Who Received Treatment Without Cyclophosphamide and Had Grade 3 or Higher Nonhematologic Adverse Events (AEs), AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Treatment-related=having certain, probable, possible, or unknown relationship to study drug. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4=Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death., From the first dose of study drug until the earlier of discontinuation from E-Td or the time when cyclophosphamide was initiated
Percentage of All Participants Who Received Treatment Including Cyclophosphamide and Had 1 Dose Reduction or Discontinued Due to an Adverse Event, Elotuzumab dose reduction was not permitted. Thalidomide dose reduction, delay, interruptions, or discontinuation was permitted in the event of toxicity. Dexamethasone dose reduction was also permitted in the event of toxicity and in the setting of infusion reactions;dose delays were allowed as clinically indicated at the discretion of the investigator. Cyclophosphamide dose reduction, delay, interruption, or discontinuation was permitted in the event of toxicity., From the first dose of study drug until the last dose of treatment, including cyclophosphamide treatment|Percentage of All Participants Who Received Treatment Without Cyclophosphamide and Had 1 Dose Reduction or Discontinued Due to an Adverse Event, Elotuzumab dose reduction was not permitted. Thalidomide dose reduction, delay, interruptions, or discontinuation was permitted in the event of toxicity. Dexamethasone dose reduction was also permitted in the event of toxicity and in the setting of infusion reactions;dose delays were allowed as clinically indicated at the discretion of the investigator., From the first dose of study drug until the earlier of discontinuation from E-Td or the time when cyclophosphamide was initiated
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and tolerability of elotuzumab administered in combination with thalidomide and dexamethasone in the treatment of relapsed and/or refractory multiple myeloma.