Telehealth-based Strategies to Increase Oral Chemotherapeutic Agent Medication Adherence
Oral chemotherapeutic agents (OCAs) are increasingly being used as an alternative to traditional intravenous chemotherapy, and factors promoting this trend include increased survival times requiring long-term therapy, acceptability among patients, convenience, and cost savings due to reduced hospital time. Although OCAs are commonly preferred by patients, adherence to these medications vary. Suboptimal medication adherence leads to loss of treatment efficacy, increased toxicity, and increased health care costs. Thus, it is critical to develop and test interventions that effectively improve adherence to OCAs. Although the medication adherence literature has been criticized for methodological issues, some components of interventions have had promising results on adherence such as electronic monitored adherence feedback, cognitive-education, nurse-based interventions, and technology-based or telehealth strategies. The investigators propose to unify components of these effective approaches in a novel way to assess the efficacy and feasibility of two telehealth-based strategies (electronic medication-event monitoring with feedback and tailored nurse coaching which includes cognitive-education) in an effort increase OCA adherence among cancer patients who are at high-risk for non-adherence in rural eastern North Carolina.
Medication Adherence
BEHAVIORAL: Nurse Coach Intervention
Medication Adherence at Baseline and 6-month Follow-up Period, The participant's cancer medication adherence was taken at baseline and within a 6-month follow-up period. We measured the participant's self-efficacy with medication adherence increase with their OCAs using the SEAMS scale.

SEAMS Scale: 21 items scale, ranges from 21-63, higher scores indicate higher level of self-efficacy for medication adherence., Baseline and at 6 months
Health Literacy at Baseline and 6-month Follow-up Period, We measured the participant's cancer health literacy at baseline and at 6 months via the CHLT-30.

The CHLT-30 measures cancer health literacy along a continuum with 0-30 representing the number of correct answers provided to the items. Continuous scores provided by the CHLT-30 do not allow to determine who has limited health literacy or put people in a category, with higher scores indicating a higher degree of cancer health literacy., Baseline and at 6 months
The purpose of this study is to improve cancer patient's adherence to their oral chemotherapy agents. We want to test whether a tailored nurse coaching intervention will significantly improve medication adherence as compared to a control group (standard-of-care). With strong support from our collaborators at the Vidant Cancer Care - Eddie and Jo Allison Smith Tower at Vidant Medical Center (VCC), study participants included cancer patients that were within their first two cycles of a new oral chemotherapy regimen at Vidant Medical Center/Leo W. Jenkins Cancer Center, which serves individuals throughout the 29 counties in rural eastern North Carolina (ENC).

Study Objectives:

Objective 1: To assess the barriers to, and facilitators of, adherence to oral chemotherapeutic agents among cancer patients who are at high-risk of non-adherence. Using the three-stage process of elicitation, intervention, and evaluation, we assessed factors that influenced non-adherence among this population. This formative qualitative assessment was accomplished by conducting interviews with English speaking cancer patients (N=25) and through key informant interviews/focus groups with cancer care providers (N=10). Objective 1 served as a baseline assessment to identify the unique factors that contribute to non-adherence and directly informed the development of tailored medication adherence strategies outlined in objective 2.

Objective 2. To test the effectiveness a telehealth adherence motivation strategy among cancer patients on oral chemotherapeutic agents who are at high-risk of non-adherence.

We conducted a randomized control trial study of 150 subjects where subjects were randomly assigned to control or intervention arm. The Information-Motivation-Behavioral Skills Model of Adherence and the results of objective 1 guided this aim. Controls received the standard-of-care. The intervention arm received the standard-of-care and the nurse coach intervention. Specifically, we assessed whether a tailored nurse coaching intervention component will significantly improve medication adherence at higher rates as compared to the control group. The nurse coach intervention component involved individualized barriers/facilitators screening tool, educational tools, and regular contact with cancer patients via telephone calls across a six-month period. We hypothesize that the nurse-coach intervention would be effective at increasing medication adherence. This hypothesis is supported by existing medication adherence literature that suggests a tailored intervention using multiple adherence strategies can potentially have a significant impact on increasing medication adherence.