Randomized Phase-II Study of Nivolumab Plus Ipilimumab vs. Standard of Care in Untreated and Advanced Non-clear Cell RCC
SUNNIFORECAST (Standard of Care vs. Nivolumab + Ipilimumab as First line treatment of renal cell cancer of non-clear cell subtypes) is a Phase II, randomized, open-label investigator initiated trial (IIT) of Nivolumab (BMS-936558) combined with Ipilimumab vs standard of care in subjects with previously untreated and advanced (unresectable or metastatic) non-clear cell renal cell carcinoma (nccRCC).
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab plus nivolumab|DRUG: Standard Therapy
Overall survival rate at 12 months (OS12) (landmark), The overall survival rate at 12 months will be compared in both arms. OS is calculated from date of randomization to death., 12 months
OS rate at 6 and 18 months in overall population and histological and prognostic subgroups, The overall survival rate at 6 and 18 months will be compared in both arms. OS is calculated from date of randomization to death., 6 and 18 months|Overall survival (OS), The overall survival will be compared in both arms by Kaplan-Meyer plots. OS is calculated from date of randomization to death., 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFs will be compared in both arms. PFS is calculated from date of randomization to progression., 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR will be compared in both both arms. ORR will be assessed by regular tumor imaging as CT or magnetic resonance tomography (MRT)., 4 years|Incidence of treatment related adverse events, Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse event (SAEs) will be recorded in both arms and the frequency will be compared., 5 years|Quality of Life (QoL) as assessed by patient outcome measurement (FKSI-DRS) questionnaire, Quality of life will be assessed during therapy using the FKSI-DRS questionnaire and evaluated over time and in comparison of both arms., 5 years
SUNNIFORECAST (Standard of Care vs. Nivolumab + Ipilimumab as First line treatment of renal cell cancer of non-clear cell subtypes) is a Phase II, randomized, open-label investigator initiated trial (IIT) of Nivolumab (BMS-936558) combined with Ipilimumab vs standard of care in subjects with previously untreated and advanced (unresectable or metastatic) non-clear cell renal cell carcinoma (nccRCC). In the Phase I setting, Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab has demonstrated substantially greater clinical activity, as measured by objective response rate (ORR), than either agent alone in metastatic RCC (mRCC). Given the durability of responses associated with immunotherapies, Nivolumab combined with Ipilimumab is hypothesized to lead to greater clinical benefit, as measured by overall survival (OS) rate at 12 months as primary endpoint and OS at 6 months and 18 months, progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and overall response rate (ORR) as secondary endpoints compared to standard of care in this patient population. This study will allow for direct comparison of OS rate at 12 months between both arms.