Optimized Donor Selection, Nonmyeloablative BMT for B-cell Lymphomas With Post-transplantation Cy and Rituximab
This phase II trial is studying how well giving fludarabine and cyclophosphamide together with total-body irradiation and rituximab works in treating patients with B-cell lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia who are undergoing an allogeneic (donor) bone marrow transplant. The type of bone marrow transplant is a less intensive or "mini" transplant using a relative as the bone marrow donor. The donated bone marrow stem cells may replace the patient's immune system cells and help destroy any remaining cancer (graft-versus-tumor effect). Patients undergoing this type of transplant often have more than one relative who could be a donor. The trial is also studying a new way of choosing amongst possible donors which might improve how the rituximab works.
Lymphoma|B-cell Lymphoma|Non Hodgkin Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|RADIATION: Total body irradiation|DRUG: Tacrolimus|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|DRUG: Rituximab|BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplant (BMT)
Progression-free Survival, Percentage of participants alive and without relapse or disease progression., 1 year post-intervention
Progression-free Survival, Percentage of participants alive with and without relapse., 2 years post-intervention|Overall Survival, Percentage of participants alive., 1 year post intervention|Overall Survival, Percentage of participants alive., 2 years post intervention|Relapse, Percentage of participants alive with relapse or disease progression., 1 year post intervention|Relapse, Percentage of participants alive with relapse or disease progression., 2 years post intervention|Non-relapse Mortality, Percentage of participants who died due to BMT-related reasons., 1 year post intervention|Incidence of Grades II-IV Acute Graft-versus-Host-Disease (GVHD), Percentage of participants who experienced grade II, III, or IV acute GVHD. Acute GVHD is graded using the Przepiorka criteria., 1 year post intervention|Incidence of Grades III-IV Acute GVHD, Percentage of participants who experienced grade II, III, or IV acute GVHD. Acute GVHD is graded using the Przepiorka criteria., 1 year post intervention|Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Percentage of participants who experienced chronic GVHD. Chronic GVHD is graded using NIH consensus criteria and Seattle criteria., 1 year post intervention|Engraftment, Percentage of patients who engrafted neutrophils and platelets., Day 60|Graft Failure, Percentage of participants who failed to engraft., Day 60
This phase II for relapsed or refractory B-cell malignancies builds on the platform of nonmyeloablative, related-donor, HLA (human leukocyte antigen)-matched or HLA-haploidentical BMT with post-transplantation high-dose cyclosphosphamide administered for prophylaxis of graft-versus-host disease and graft rejection. Rituximab is added to the transplant regimen with the goal of augmenting anti-tumor activity. In patients with B-cell lymphomas, specific polymorphisms in the immunoglobulin Fc receptor have been associated with greater sensitivity to rituximab or rituximab-based therapies, translating in some series into higher response rates and improved progression-free survival. This raises the possibility of selecting donors who carry this permissive polymorphism. This trial identifies and selects donors who have the favorable polymorphism at FcgammaR3A-158, thereby potentially conferring greater sensitivity to rituximab in the host after BMT.