Efficacy of Rapamycin (Sirolimus) in the Treatment of Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome
A prospective non-randomized open label single arm clinical trial to examine the efficacy and safety of sirolimus in patients with Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome.
Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome
DRUG: Rapamycin
Total load of PJS-related intestinal polyps Total load of PJS-related intestinal polyps Total load of PJS-related intestinal polyps, Lesion load (cm2) = A+B. A = sum of the product of maximum diameter and maximum height of the largest 3 lesions shown by abdomen and pelvis MRI or small bowel CT reconstruction (in cm2). B = sum of the product of maximum diameter and maximum height of the largest 3 lesions shown by digestive endoscope (in cm2). Remarks: 1. If it is impossible to evaluate 3 or more lesions, results of the actual number of lesions should be taken as valid; 2. Lesions evaluated should be correspondent before and after treatment. If the lesion is difficult to assess after treatment, it should be ruled out from the assessment., The time from start of therapy to 1 year
Concentration of hemoglobin in blood, The value indicates the amount of gastrointestinal bleeding., The time from start of therapy to 1 year|Concentration of albumin in blood, The value indicates the status of nutrition., The time from start of therapy to 1 year|Concentration of hsCRP in blood, The value indicates the level of inflammation., The time from start of therapy to 1 year|Visual analogue score (VAS), The value indicates the level of pain., The time from start of therapy to 1 year|Dermatology life quality index (DLQI), The value indicates the status of hyperpigmented macules on the lips and oral mucosa., The time from start of therapy to 1 year|Adverse events, To evaluate safety, The time from start of therapy to 1 year
PJS (Peutz-Jeghers Syndrome) is mostly caused by mutations in Lkb1 gene, which leads to an increased activity of mTOR pathway, thus making mTOR inhibitor (sirolimus) a promising candidate in treatment and prevention of PJS. The efficacy of sirolimus (rapamycin) on PJS has been demonstrated in mouse model, but no clinical trials have been reported. Our study was designed as a prospective non-randomized open label single arm clinical trial to examine its efficacy and safety.