Evidence-Based Approach to Empower Asian American Women in Cervical Cancer Screening
This is a randomized trial to evaluate the effects of a community-based intervention on increasing cervical cancer screening rates in underserved Asian American (Korean, Vietnamese, and Chinese) women. All women will receive an educational program and navigation assistance. Women in the intervention condition will also receive a self-sampling kit for self-collection of a cervical sample for HPV testing. The investigators will evaluate whether the inclusion of a self-sampling kit increases the proportion of Asian American women who participate in cervical cancer screening.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Community-Based Education|BEHAVIORAL: Navigation to Screening|BEHAVIORAL: HPV Self-Sampling
Participation in screening, The number of women who obtain clinic-based screening or return a self-collected sample, 6 months
Program delivery cost, The costs associated with delivering each program. This will include: (1) Participant costs (time spent participating in educational sessions and time required to complete screening; transportation costs, if incurred); (2) Screening costs (cost of clinic-based screening, or cost of the HPV self-sampling kit); (3) Program delivery costs (community health educator time for conducting the educational programs, time will be valued at wage rates including benefits; costs of educational materials \[flyers, booklets\] and reminder letters); (4) Navigation costs (time and labor involved in navigating women to the clinic for screening will be documented using a log of CHE time and expenses incurred)., 6 months
Aim 1: Compare rates of providing a self-collected sample vs. obtaining clinic-based screening among 1100 Asian American women. It is hypothesized that the proportion of women in the HPV self-sampling program who provide a self-collected sample will be higher than the proportion of women in the clinic-based program who obtain clinic-based screening.

Aim 2: Examine mediators of participation. The investigators will examine both individual- and social/environmental-level factors associated with participation across both programs. It is hypothesized that higher levels of perceived self-efficacy, lower levels of embarrassment, and fewer barriers will be associated with higher rates of participation in both conditions. Further, it is hypothesized that women in the HPV self-sampling program will report greater self-efficacy, less embarrassment, and fewer barriers compared to women in the clinic-based program.

Aim 3: Assess the relative cost-effectiveness of HPV self-sampling vs. clinic-based screening. The investigators will conduct an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective incorporating trial-based direct medical and participant-borne costs associated with HPV self-sampling vs. clinic-based screening. It is hypothesized that the self-sampling program will be less costly to implement and achieve a higher participation rate.