An Exploratory Study to Evaluate Attention Biases in Adults With Multiple Sclerosis, Breast Cancer, and Lung Cancer
CT-100 is a platform that provides interactive, software based therapeutic components that may be used as part of a treatment in future software-based prescription digital therapeutics. One class of CT-100 components are Digital Neuro-activation and Modulation (DiNaMo) components. DiNaMo components target key neural systems (including but not limited to systems related to sensory-, perceptual-, affective-, pain-, attention-, cognitive control, social- and self-processing) to optimally improve a participant's health.
Multiple Sclerosis|Lung Cancer|Breast Cancer
DEVICE: CT-100-D-004-A|DEVICE: CT-100-D-004-B
Change in Patient Reported Outcomes, Change from baseline to Week 4 in quality of life as measured by PROMIS-29+2 (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System), Baseline to Week 4
Change in Pain Severity and Pain Interference, Change from baseline to Week 4 in pain severity and pain interference as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), Baseline to Week 4|Change in Pain Catastrophizing Scale, Change from baseline to Week 4 Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) from 0-30+, Baseline to Week 4|Change in indication-specific measures MS, Change from baseline to Week 4 in indication-specific measures: Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT) for MS, Baseline to Week 4|Change in indication-specific measures Cancer, Change from baseline to Week 4 in indication-specific measures: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog) for cancer, Baseline to Week 4|Proportion of participants with an improvement, Proportion of participants with an improvement as measured by the Global Rating of Change (GRC) score from -5 to 5 at Week 4, Baseline to Week 4|Engagement with Study App, Engagement with the Study App as measured by daily time in the Study App, Baseline to Week 4
CT-100 is a platform that provides interactive, software based therapeutic components that may be used as part of a treatment in future software-based prescription digital therapeutics. One class of CT-100 components are Digital Neuro-activation and Modulation (DiNaMo) components. DiNaMo components target key neural systems (including but not limited to systems related to sensory-, perceptual-, affective-, pain-, attention-, cognitive control, social- and self-processing) to optimally improve a participant's health.

Targeted cognitive training is used to reduce symptoms relevant to multiple sclerosis (MS) and cancer. Biases to direct attention towards or away from certain stimuli can exacerbate a variety of symptoms in many different indications. For example, in chronic pain conditions, patients are more attentive to pain-related stimuli, which can lead to hypersensitization. Similarly, hypersensitivity to threat-related stimuli can exacerbate anxiety.

In this treatment, users are trained to re-orient attention away from negative stimuli, such as pain- or threat-related stimuli.