Celecoxib in Treating Patients With Stage I, Stage II, or Stage IIIA Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Studying samples of tissue, blood, and urine from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in DNA and identify biomarkers related to cancer.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying celecoxib in treating patients with stage I, stage II, or stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: celecoxib|PROCEDURE: biopsy|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Correlation of expression of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity with serum VEGF levels, tumor microvessel density score, tumor PEG2 and MMP levels, and urinary PGE-M, COX-2 will be measured in pre-treatment tumor biopsy tissue as well as tumor microvessel density, MMP-2 and PGE2. VEGF will be measured in pre-treatment blood., Date of pretreatment biopsy surgery (tissue) and day 1 (blood)
Effect of Celecoxib on COX-2 expression and microvascular density in tumor, PGE2 and MMP levels in tumor, serum VEGF levels and urinary PGE-M, Patients with early-stage NSCLC will undergo tumor resection after 5 days of treatment with celecoxib. Tumor tissue will be examined. Post-treatment blood and urine will also be collected and examined., After day 5 of 5 days of treatment
OBJECTIVES:

* To assess cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) activity in patients with early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and correlate the results with serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels, tumor microvessel density score, tumor prostaglandin E2 (PGE_2) and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) levels, and the major urinary metabolite of PGE_2, PGE-M.
* To assess the effect of specific COX-2 inhibitors (celecoxib) on COX-2 expression within the primary tumor, serum VEGF levels and tumor microvascular density, tumor PGE_2 and MMP levels, and urinary PGE-M in a cohort of patients with early-stage NSCLC.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral celecoxib 400 mg twice a day for 5 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity. Patients with early-stage disease then undergo surgery.

Biopsy, serum, and urine samples are obtained at baseline and after celecoxib treatment. The biopsy specimen are examined for the expression of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2), PGE_2, and selected MMPs by immunohistochemistry, western blotting, and northern blotting. Serum and urine samples are analyzed for VEGF and PGE-M expression. COX-2 tumor expression is correlated with serum VEGF levels; tumor MMP-2, MMP-9, and PGE_2 expression; urinary PGE-M and microvessel density scores.