Photodynamic Therapy Using Temoporfin Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Recurrent Oral Cavity or Oropharyngeal Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies photodynamic therapy using temoporfin before surgery in treating patients with recurrent oral cavity or oropharyngeal cancer. Photodynamic therapy uses a drug, such as temoporfin, that is absorbed by tumor cells. The drug becomes active when it is exposed to light. When the drug is active, tumor cells are killed. Giving photodynamic therapy using temoporfin before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage I Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage I Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage II Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage II Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: photodynamic therapy|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DRUG: temoporfin
Frequency of adverse events, graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade., Up to 30 days after surgical resection
Light dose-volume histograms (DVH), defined as the overall light dose (joules) that was delivered to the tumor volume throughout the therapy with the light dosimetry system, Day 3|Ratio of the viable/nonviable tissue in the resected tumor, ex vivo, The area of viable and necrotic tumor will be measured by the number of field of view (1 FOV = 0.196 mm\^2), microscopic area using a 40x objective., Up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the toxicity of dose regimen using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 4.0).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Quantify the relationship between the measured intra-tumor light dose and the pathological tumor response.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Simulate light dose distribution within the treated tumor. II. Immune markers.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive temoporfin intravenously (IV) over at least 6 minutes on day 1 and undergo interstitial photodynamic therapy on day 3. Within 4-6 weeks, patients undergo surgical resection.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 3 years.