Image-guided Targeted Doxorubicin Delivery With Hyperthermia to Optimize Loco-regional Control in Breast Cancer
In this phase I feasibility study, the investigators evaluate the combination of lyso-thermosensitive liposomal doxorubicin (LTLD, ThermoDox) with local hyperthermia and cyclophosphamide (C), for the local treatment of the primary breast tumour in patients with metastatic breast cancer.

When heated to 40-43 degrees Celsius (ºC), LTLD releases a very high concentration of doxorubicin locally within seconds. Hyperthermia of the primary tumour will be induced by Magnetic Resonance guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (MR-HIFU) on a dedicated Sonalleve MR-HIFU breast system.

The investigators hypothesize that by substituting doxorubicin (A) in the AC-chemotherapy regimen for the combination of LTLD and MR-HIFU induced hyperthermia, optimal local tumour control can be achieved without compromising systemic toxicity or efficacy.

This will be the first study to evaluate LTLD with MR-HIFU hyperthermia in breast cancer patients.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasms|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Metastatic Cancer|Invasive Ductal Carcinoma of Female Breast|Invasive Ductal Breast Cancer|Adenocarcinoma Breast
DRUG: LTLD|PROCEDURE: MR-HIFU induced hyperthermia|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Incidence of adverse events assessed by CTCAE v 5.0, Safety and tolerability of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Safety and tolerability of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|Incidence of necessity for dose adjustments, delay or early cessation, Safety and tolerability of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|Incidence and severity of post-procedural pain, Safety and tolerability of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|Patient reported tolerability via an adapted version of the Cancer Therapy Satisfaction Questionnaire (CTSQ), Tolerability of the study treatment. Scores will be described., Baseline, day 49 and day 112|Patient reported tolerability via the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast (FACT-B) questionnaire, Tolerability of the study treatment. Scores will be described., Baseline, and on day 14 of each cycle (with a maximum of six 21-day cycles in 18 weeks)|Incidence of cardiotoxity, Safety and tolerability of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|Description of MR thermometry data (describing the temperatures achieved), Feasibility of the study treatment, On day 1 (study treatment day) of each cycle (with a maximum of six 21-day cycles in 18 weeks)|Duration of procedures on a treatment day, Feasibility of the study treatment, On day 1 (study treatment day) of each cycle (with a maximum of six 21-day cycles in 18 weeks)|Number of completed cycles with MR-HIFU induced hyperthermia, ThermoDox and cyclophosphamide, Feasibility of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175|The number of cycles in which hyperthermia was sufficient: at least 30 minutes at the target temperature of 40-42°C, Feasibility of the study treatment, From first study treatment (day 1) until the end of study visit between day 161 and 175
Radiological objective response locally on breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging, assessed by RECIST 1.1., Efficacy of the study treatment, Assessed after 2 cycles and after 6 cycles of the study treatment. Each cycle is 21 days.|Radiological objective response systemically on Computed Tomography, assessed by RECIST 1.1 or (for patients without RECIST-measurable disease) Positron Emission Tomography Computed Tomography, assessed by PERCIST 1.0, Efficacy of the study treatment, Assessed after 2 cycles and after 6 cycles of the study treatment. Each cycle is 21 days.
Advances in systemic treatment led to improved overall survival in patients with metastatic breast cancer. Various studies suggest that by obtaining loco-regional control, overall survival in advanced disease can further be improved.

Pre-operative chemotherapy can be used in metastatic breast cancer to make radical removal of the primary tumor feasible, while simultaneously maintaining control of already present metastatic sites. The doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide regimen (AC) is well-known both in (neo-)adjuvant setting as in treatment of metastatic breast cancer. At present, optimal local control in advanced breast cancer using adequate dosing of doxorubicin is hampered by its toxic systemic effects. Therefore the investigators aim to increase doxorubicin deposition in the primary tumor without interfering with systemic efficacy and toxicity, by combining lyso-thermosensitive liposomal doxorubicin (LTLD, ThermoDox) with local mild hyperthermia, induced by Magnetic Resonance guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (MR-HIFU). When heated to 40-43 ºC, ThermoDox releases a very high concentration of doxorubicin locally within seconds. In the absence of hyperthermia, ThermoDox leads to a similar biodistribution and antitumor efficacy to free doxorubicin. MR-HIFU allows for controlled heating of deep-seated tumors.

This is a single-arm phase I feasibility study in 12 patients with de novo stage IV (distant metastasis at the time of diagnosis) her2-negative breast cancer, who have not received previous chemotherapy. The study treatment consists of up to 6 cycles at 21-day intervals of ThermoDox (50mg/m2) administered during MR-HIFU induced hyperthermia (60 minutes at 40-42 ᵒC) and cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2) administered afterwards. A dedicated MR-HIFU breast system integrated with a clinical 1.5 Tesla Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanner will be used for safe and controlled heating of the tumour. Primary endpoints are safety, tolerability and feasibility. Secondary endpoint is efficacy, assessed by radiological response of the local tumor and the distant metastases.

In the Biobank side study, extra blood samples will be collected. These samples will be used for further research on not yet determined topics related to breast cancer.