MB-CART19.1 in Patients With R/R ALL
Precursor-B acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common cancer in childhood. Despite major advances in ALL therapy, 20% of children and 40-50% of adults fail state-of-the art first-line treatment. But there is a strong need for alternative treatments to cure chemotherapy-refractory and relapsed B cell malignancies in pediatric patients. Relapsed and refractory B cell malignancies remain a therapeutic challenge, as these diseases are characterized by adverse survival. These cancers share a cell origin from the B-cell lineage and consequent surface expression of B-lineage markers such as CD19 and CD22. Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) engineered T cell therapy has recently emerged as a new modality to target B cell malignancies. CARs couple a single-chain Fv (scFv) domain directed against a B-lineage-specific antigen to T-cell activating intracellular signaling domains. CAR gene-modified T cell interaction with target cells occurs in a HLA-independent fashion, so that a single vector can be used to treat all patients with cancers that express the target antigen. Miltenyi Biotec has established a semi-automated manufacturing process that can be made available to academic settings for systematic exploration of CAR strategies in advanced clinical studies. Closed-system operation, improved robustness, simplified work flows, and reduced labor intensity, while maintaining strict adherence to regulatory guidelines, allows for decentralized manufacturing. In the proposed phase II study, the investigator will explore autologous 2nd generation CD19 CAR T cell products in patients with relapsed and refractory disease incurable with standard therapies.
Precursor B-Lymphoblastic Lymphoma/Leukaemia Refractory
DRUG: MB-CART19.1
Overall response rate, ORR in ALL patients is defined as the rate of complete remission (CR, CRh) on day 28, 1 Month
Overall incidence and severity of adverse events., Overall incidence and severity of adverse events will measure in this trial. Including: 1,Risks related to targeting of CD19+ normal B-cells; 2,Allergic reactions to CAR T cell infusion; 3, Cytokine release syndrome (CRS); 4, neurological toxicities; 5,Risks related to transfer of donor T cells after previous alloSCT; 6, Risks related to lentiviral gene transfer into human cells., 1 Months|Rate of ALL patients achieving MRD negative CR, The rate of ALL patients achieving MRD negative CR in D28; 3,6,12months., 12 Months|Relapse rate and time to relapse, Overall rate of relapse and the time to relapse from CART cell transfused., 12 Months
Disease-free and overall survival at 1 year after adoptive immunotherapy with MB-CART19.1 in patients not receiving alloSCT, CART treatment is an adoptive immunotherapy, and the CART cells will disaper after infusion. Then the patient relapsed. Allo-SCT can rebuild a new immune system to detec and destory cancer cell., 12 Months|Level of circulating CAR T cells, CART treatment is an adoptive immunotherapy, and the CART cells will disaper after infusion. The investigator need to detec the circulating CAR-T cell after infusion regularly., 12 Months
This is an open-label, non-randomized phase II paediatric study. In this study, eligible patients will receive autologous T cells transduced with the lentiviral vector pLTG1563 (MB-CART19.1) at a doesage of 2x10e6 \~2x10e7 CAR-transduced T cells/kg.

Upon enrollment, leukapheresis will be performed for MB-CART19.1 generation. Patients with high disease burden at screening (e.g. ALL with M3 marrow and 10.000/L blasts in peripheral blood) may receive bridging chemotherapy after leukapheresis, to avoid critical tumor lysis syndrome and cytokine release syndrome (CRS) by subsequent lymphodepleting chemotherapy and CAR transfer.

All patients will receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine 30 mg/m2/d intravenously (iv) on days -5,-4,-3 and -2 cyclophosphamide 500 mg/m2/d iv on day -3,-2 before CAR T cell transfer to enhance the in vivo expansion of CAR T cells.

Patients will receive freshly prepared MB-CART19.1 on day 0, corresponding to day 12 (48 hours) of manufacturing, at a dose of 2x10e6 \~2x10e7/kg MB-CART19.1 T cells as defined in the study design section. The appropriate volume for the target cell dose will be drawn up and given as an IV injection over 30 minutes through a large vein peripherally or centrally.

The primary objectives are:

* To assess the safety and tolerability of MB-CART19.1.
* To evaluate the biological activity of adoptive transfer of autologous MB-CART19.1 in patients with R/R CD19-positive B cell lymphoblastic leukemia.

The primary endpoint is Overall response rate (ORR):ORR in ALL patients is defined as the rate of complete remission (CR, CRh) on day 28.