Lung Heart Rate Variability
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of heart-rate variability biofeedback training on lung cancer patients receiving definitive radiation therapy. The target population consists of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving 6 weeks of radiation therapy. The study will utilize the Physiolab GP8 heart rate variability and respiration system to collect data as well as several survey instruments to analyze quality of life measures. The goal is to show the HRV training can improve certain QOL measures like anxiety and sleep quality.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Heart Rate Variability Biofeedback Training
EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire, Questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. The QLQ-C30 is composed of both multi-item scales and single-item measures. These include five functional scales, three symptom scales, a global health status / QoL scale, and six single items.

Each of the multi-item scales includes a different set of items - no item occurs in more than one scale. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level.Thus a high score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning, a high score for the global health status / QoL represents a high QoL, but a high score for a symptom scale / item represents a high level of symptomatology / problems., 2 years
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Measure the quality and patterns of sleep in adults. It differentiates from "poor" and "good" sleep quality by measuring seven areas. The order of the PSQI items has been modified from the original order in order to fit the first 9 items (which are the only items that contribute to the total score). Item 10 does not contribute to the PSQI score. In scoring the PSQI, seven component scores are derived, each scored 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (severe difficulty). The component scores are summed to produce a global score (range 0 to 21). Higher scores indicate worse sleep quality., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to examine the effects of heart-rate variability biofeedback training on lung cancer patients receiving definitive radiation therapy. The target population consists of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients receiving 6 weeks of radiation therapy. The study will utilize the Physiolab GP8 heart rate variability and respiration system to collect data as well as several survey instruments to analyze quality of life measures. The goal is to show the HRV training can improve certain QOL measures like anxiety and sleep quality.