Effect of Music Intervention on Anxiety in Cancer Patients Undergoing Initial Radiation Therapy
This prospective randomized trial evaluated the effect of music interventions on anxiety and nervousness during 10 consecutive days in individuals undergoing their first radiation therapy session.
Cancer Patients|Anxiety|Music Intervention|Radiation Therapy
PROCEDURE: Music
The physiological indicators - Heart rate, Heart rate (Beat per minute ) were measured by a PHILIPS M1205A noninvasive physiological monitor., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The physiological indicators - Blood pressure, Blood pressure (mmHg) were measured by a PHILIPS M1205A noninvasive physiological monitor., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The physiological indicators - Blood oxygen, Blood oxygen (oxygen saturation，SO2 %) were measured by a PHILIPS M1205A noninvasive physiological monitor., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The anxiety status - Distress Thermometer, Distress Thermometer (DT) which screens for psychological distress in patients with cancer as recommended by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN), monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The anxiety status - Brief Symptom Rating Scale (BSRS-5), Brief Symptom Rating Scale (BSRS-5) or "Mood Thermometer," a 5-point Likert scale for assessing symptoms of emotional distress over 1 week. The total score ranges from 0 to 20., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The anxiety status - Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI-C), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI-C, a 21-item self-reported questionnaire to assess anxiety symptoms on a 4-point scale, which has shown excellent internal consistency and test-retest reliability)., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.|The anxiety status - Symptom Distress Thermometer (SDT), Symptom Distress Thermometer (SDT), a 10-point scale by the NCCN to evaluate distress levels., monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment.
A total of 100 participants were enrolled and randomly assigned to either the music group or nonmusic group (n = 50 each). Investigators ensured an equal distribution of men and women, without considering the cancer type. To minimize confounding factors and prevent shared learning experiences or communication between the two groups, the participants in the experimental and control groups were scheduled for treatment at different times throughout the year (from January 1, 2022 to December 31, 2022). Anxiety assessment questionnaires were administered before the treatment began and after 2 weeks of treatment. Physiological parameters, including heart rate, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, and blood oxygen levels, were monitored before and after 2 weeks of treatment. In the music intervention group, the patients received music intervention during RT for 10 consecutive days and listened to music for approximately 10-15 minutes in each session. The music period was then followed by a 10-day period without music during treatment to evaluate the differences in the same individuals. In contrast, the control group did not receive music intervention throughout their entire RT period. Investigators observed the music intervention group for 2 weeks to ascertain any differences.