SMS Messaging as a Tool to Improve Cancer Screening Programs
The aim of this project is to assess the impact on health and economics of the implementation of text messaging (SMS) in cancer screening programs. Three interventions with SMS will be evaluated through community trials. In the colorectal cancer screening program the following interventions will be tested: a) Participation reminder: six weeks after sending the invitation letter of the colorectal cancer program if there has not been a response, a reminder SMS will be sent in front of the usual method by letter; b) Reminder to return the fecal occult blood test: SMS reminder of test delivery versus no intervention. This reminder will be sent to the individuals who have gone to the pharmacy to pick up a fecal occult blood test and they have not returned it after 14 days. The impact on participation will be analyzed and, if applicable, the proportion of advanced neoplasms will be calculated by increase in participation. In the breast cancer screening program, the invitation by SMS versus the usual invitation by letter will be studied in women who had participated in the previous screening round. The impact on participation will be analyzed. A cost-effectiveness analysis of the three interventions will be carried out. The incremental cost ratio of the interventions between cost variation and effectiveness variation will be calculated.
Mass Screening|Colorectal Cancer|Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: SMS reminders to enhance colorectal cancer screening|BEHAVIORAL: SMS reminders to return the fecal immunochemical test at the pharmacy in CRC screening:|BEHAVIORAL: Invitation by SMS to previous participants in breast cancer screening:
Intervention 1: Participation in colorectal cancer screening program, Participation (no/yes) will be gathered prospectively 18 weeks after sending the screening invitation letter (week 0)., 18 weeks|Intervention 2: Participation in colorectal cancer screening program among individuals who pick the test at the pharmacy, Participation (no/yes) among those individuals who pick the screening test for colorectal cancer at the pharmacy 18 weeks after sending the screening invitation letter (week 0)., 18 weeks|Intervention 3: Participation in breast cancer screening program, Participation (no/yes) will be gathered prospectively 8 weeks after sending the screening invitation letter (week 0)., 8 weeks
Incremental cost ratio, A cost-effectiveness analysis of the three interventions will be carried out. The incremental cost ratio of the interventions between cost variation and effectiveness variation will be calculated., 18 weeks
Main Hypothesis:

The implementation of SMS in population-based cancer screening programs will improve participation, especially in colorectal cancer screening, will allow a better resource management and reduce costs in both programs.

Specific Hypothesis:

Sending the reminder SMS will have an impact on participation greater than that obtained with the standard reminder (letter) in the colorectal cancer screening program.

The effect of the colorectal cancer screening reminder SMS will be greater among the individuals who have been invited for the first time and not previous participants.

Participation after receiving the invitation by SMS in breast cancer screening will be equal to or better than the letter invitation.

The alternative that includes sending SMS will be cost-effective in relation to the current alternative that you use postal shipping.