Medical YOga dUring CANcer Treatment in a Digital or Physical Setting - a PREFERensbased Study
To enhance the implementation of yoga in cancer care, studies that explore patients with cancer preferences for the execution of yoga, effects, and the experience of participating in group yoga sessions online compared to in-person sessions is required. The aim of the YouCanPrefer-study is to explore preferences, expectations, implementation, experiences, and effects of participating in in-person group yoga sessions at a yoga studio compared to participating in online-yoga at home for patients with cancer undergoing oncological treatment. Additionally, the aim is to study health-related outcomes of yoga. Patients diagnosed with cancer undergoing oncological treatment at two hospitals in Sweden will be included in the study. A preference-based allocation will be used, participants chose self if they want to participate in in-person yoga at a studio or in yoga online. Regardless of allocation, the yoga sessions will take place in a group setting once a week for a duration of 12 weeks. All participants will also have access to a yoga application on their tablets or cell phones, with a recommendation to engage in self-guided yoga for at least 10 minutes per day.
Cancer
OTHER: Medical yoga
Patients preferences to yoga during oncological treatment, Interviews on choice of yoga setting: physical or digital, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months
Health-related quality of life, Health-related quality of life will be assessed by The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Quality of life Questionnaire C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) which consists of a 30-item questionnaire, covering a global health status/quality of life (QoL) scale, five functioning scales, three symptom scales and six items concerning symptoms. All scales and single-item measures were transformed to scores in the range 0-100. A higher score on the global status scale and the functional scales denotes a high level of health and functioning, while a higher score on the symptomatic scale denotes a high level of symptom burden, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Health, Health will be assessed with EuroQoL which consist of two parts: EuroQoL 5 dimensions 5 levels (EQ 5D 5L) and EuroQoL Visual Analogue Scale (EQ-VAS). EQ-5D 5L comprises five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems. The digits for the five dimensions can be combined into a 5-digit number that describes the patient's health state.

The EQ-VAS records the patient's self-rated health on a vertical visual analogue scale where the endpoints are labelled 'The best health you can image' =100 and 'The worst health you can image' =0., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Anxiety and depression, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) will be used to measure anxiety and depression. The scale consists of 14 items, with seven items related to anxiety and seven related to depression. Each item is scored on a likert scale ranging from 0 to 3, with responses indicating the severity of the symptom from 0=no symptoms to 3= severe symptoms., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Fatigue, Fatigue will be assessed with the Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI). The questionnaire consists of 20 items, measuring five subscales of MFI: General, Physical and Mental Fatigue, Reduced Motivation and Reduced Activity. Each item is scored on a likert scale ranging from 1 to 5. Higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Sleep, Sleep will be measured with Minimal Insomnia Symptom Scale (MISS). The questionnaire consists of 3 items. Each item is scored on a likert scale ranging from 0 to 4, with responses indicating the severity of the symptom from 0=no symptoms to 5= severe symptoms., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Stress, Stress will be measured by the questionnaire The Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) which measures general stress and coping capabilities. The instrument has 14 items with 4 alternatives to each item. A higher score indicates higher stress. Each item minimum 0 and maximum 4., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Physical Activity, Accelerometer, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Adherence to the yoga sessions and the application, Attendance at yoga-class and time spent (minutes) using the application, At 3 months (After completion of the intervention)
To enhance the implementation of yoga in cancer care, studies that explore patients with cancer preferences for the execution of yoga, effects, and the experience of participating in group yoga sessions online compared to in-person sessions is required. The aim of the YouCanPrefer-study is to explore preferences, expectations, implementation, experiences, and effects of participating in in-person group yoga sessions at a yoga studio compared to participating in online-yoga at home for patients with cancer undergoing oncological treatment. Additionally, the aim is to study health-related outcomes of yoga. Patients diagnosed with cancer undergoing oncological treatment at two hospitals in Sweden will be included in the study. A preference-based allocation will be used, participants chose self if they want to participate in in-person yoga at a studio or in yoga online. Regardless of allocation, the yoga sessions will take place in a group setting once a week for a duration of 12 weeks. All participants will also have access to a yoga application on their tablets or cell phones, with a recommendation to engage in self-guided yoga for at least 10 minutes per day.