Study Augmenting TAK-659 Action in Relapsed/Refractory AML by Addition Ofthe Proteasome Inhibitor Ixazomib
This is a Phase I/II study augmenting TAK-659 action in relapsed/refractory AML by addition of the proteasome inhibitor Ixazomib. Phase I of the study will determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of TAK-659 and Ixazomib. During the phase I, dose escalation will be conducted according to a standard 3+3 dose escalation schema, and up to 18 response-evaluable patients will be enrolled. Phase II of the study will evaluate the efficacy of the combination by measuring the overall response rate (ORR).
AML|AML, Adult
DRUG: TAK-659|DRUG: Ixazomib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) and Recommended Phase 2 Dose(s) (RP2D), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose(s) (RP2D) of the combination of TAK-659 and Ixazomib in patients with relapsed or refractory AML., At the end of Cycle 2(each cycle is 28 days)|Overall Response Rate for Phase II Subjects., To evaluate preliminary efficacy of TAK-659 plus Ixazomib in relapsed or refractory AML as measured by overall response rate (ORR).

Overall response rate (ORR) defined as CR, CRp, CRi, and PR per Revised Recommendations of the International Working Group (IWG) for Diagnosis, Standardization of Response Criteria, Treatment Outcomes, and Reporting Standards for Therapeutic Trials in Acute Myeloid Leukemia., Overall Response rate is assessed at the end of 4 cycles ; 4 months.
Duration of Response (DOR) for Phase II Subjects, DOR defined as the time from the date of first documentation of a response to the date of first documented progressive disease, Up to two years after the date of the first documented response.|Time to Progression (TTP) for Phase II Subjects, TTP defined as the time from first dose of study drug until tumor progression as defined by the Revised Recommendations of the International Working Group (IWG) for Diagnosis, Standardization of Response Criteria, Treatment Outcomes, and Reporting Standards for Therapeutic Trials in Acute Myeloid Leukemia, time from first dose of study drug until tumor progression up to two years after the date of the first documented response.|Overall Survival (OS) for Phase II Subjects, OS defined as the time from the date of study entry to death, time from the date of study entry up to two years.|Frequency of Grade 3 and Higher Adverse Events for Phase II Subjects, Summarize Grade 3 and higher adverse events using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5., From date of first dose until 30 days after the last treatment up to 1 year.|Mortality Rate at 3 and 6 Months for Phase II Subjects, Number of deaths at 3 and 6 moths are assessed in Phase II subjects., From start of treatment up to 2 years or until death.
This is a Phase I/II study augmenting TAK-659 action in relapsed/refractory AML by addition of the proteasome inhibitor Ixazomib. Phase I of the study will determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of TAK-659 and Ixazomib. During the phase I, dose escalation will be conducted according to a standard 3+3 dose escalation schema, and up to 18 response-evaluable patients will be enrolled. Phase II of the study will evaluate the efficacy of the combination by measuring the overall response rate (ORR).