Light vs. Moderate Intensity Exercise in Individuals With Myasthenia Gravis
The overall purpose of this pilot study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and tolerability of light and moderate intensity exercise in adults with MGeffect of light vs. moderate intensity exercise on health outcomes. Participants will be enrolled into the NeuroWell exercise program, which is geared toward individuals with neurological disorders or injuries and led by Certified Exercise Physiologists (CEPs) at the HealthPartners Neuroscience Center. A total of 20 people with MG will be enrolled in this study and participate in a small group exercise program 3 times a week for 12 weeks. Participants will be randomized into two exercise groups: 1) Light intensity or 2) Moderate intensity. We hypothesize that light and moderate intensity exercise will be feasible, acceptable, and tolerable in adults with MG and that individuals in the light intensity exercise group will be able to achieve the same improvement in health outcomes as the moderate intensity group.
Myasthenia Gravis
BEHAVIORAL: Light Intensity Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Moderate Intensity Exercise
Feasibility of light and moderate intensity exercise, Percent of participants recruited of potential participants contacted. Range: \[0-100\]. Higher percentage indicates higher feasibility, 12 weeks|Acceptability of light and moderate intensity exercise, Percent of participants who complete the program of participants who start the program. Range: \[0-100\]. Higher percentage indicates higher acceptability, 12 weeks|Tolerability of light and moderate intensity exercise, Percent of classes participants complete during the course of the program. Range: \[0-100\]. Higher percentage indicates higher tolerability., 12 weeks
Cardiovascular Test - 6-minute walk test, Pre-post change in distance a person can walk during the 6-minute walk test. Change = Post distance - pre distance. Larger positive difference in distance indicates a larger improvement in cardiovascular health from pre-post program., 12 weeks|Cardiovascular and Strength test, Pre-post change in time it takes a person to transfer from seated to standing position and then back to seated position 5 times. Change = Post time- pre time. Larger positive difference in time indicates a larger improvement in cardiovascular health and strength from pre-post program., 12 weeks|Strength Test - 1-RM Upper Limb, Pre-post change in weight that can be lifted during the 1-RM test. Change = Post 1-RM upper limb weight -pre 1-RM upper limb weight. Larger positive difference in weight lifted indicates a larger improvement in upper limb strength from pre-post program., 12 weeks|Strength Test - 1-RM Lower Limb, Pre-post change in weight that can be lifted during the 1-RM test. Change = Post 1-RM lower limb weight -pre 1-RM lower limb weight. Larger positive difference in weight lifted indicates a larger improvement in lower limb strength from pre-post program., 12 weeks
The overall purpose of this pilot study is to examine the feasibility, acceptability, and tolerability of light and moderate intensity exercise in adults with MGeffect of light vs. moderate intensity exercise on health outcomes. Participants will be enrolled into the NeuroWell exercise program, which is geared toward individuals with neurological disorders or injuries and led by Certified Exercise Physiologists (CEPs) at the HealthPartners Neuroscience Center. A total of 20 people with MG will be enrolled in this study and participate in a small group exercise program 3 times a week for 12 weeks. Participants will be randomized into two exercise groups: 1) Light intensity or 2) Moderate intensity. We hypothesize that light and moderate intensity exercise will be feasible, acceptable, and tolerable in adults with MG and that individuals in the light intensity exercise group will be able to achieve the same improvement in health outcomes as the moderate intensity group.