OP-1250 (Palazestrant) vs. Standard of Care for the Treatment of ER+/HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer
This phase 3 clinical trial compares the safety and efficacy of palazestrant (OP-1250) to the standard-of-care options of fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor in women and men with breast cancer whose disease has advanced on one endocrine therapy in combination with a CDK4/6 inhibitor.
Breast Cancer|Advanced Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|ER Positive Breast Cancer|HER2 Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Palazestrant|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
Dose-Selection Part: Incidence of adverse events, To evaluate the number of participants with adverse events, From Date of Randomization up to 16 weeks|Dose-Selection Part: Incidence of dose reduction, To evaluate the number of participants reducing the dose of palazestrant, From Date of Randomization up to 16 weeks|Dose-Selection Part: Incidence of drug discontinuation, To evaluate the number of participants discontinuing palazestrant, From Date of Randomization up to 16 weeks|Trial: Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To compare PFS, based on a Blinded Independent Review Committee (BIRC) assessment, between arms of OP-1250 and standard-of-care treatment. This will be assessed separately in populations of ESR1-mutation detected and ESR1-mutation not detected participants., From Date of Randomization until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (estimated as up to 2 years)
Trial: Overall Survival (OS), To compare OS between arms of OP-1250 and standard-of-care treatment. This will be assessed separately in populations of ESR1 mutation detected and ESR1 mutation not detected participants., From Date of Randomization until Death Due to Any Cause (estimated as up to 4 years)
This is an international, multicenter, randomized, open-label, active-controlled, phase 3 clinical trial. The purpose of this trial is to compare the safety and efficacy of palazestrant (OP-1250) as a single agent to the standard of care endocrine therapy: either fulvestrant or an aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole, letrozole, or exemestane).

This trial is seeking adult participants with ER+, HER2- advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose disease has relapsed or progressed on 1 or 2 prior lines of standard-of-care endocrine therapy for metastatic breast cancer. Prior lines of therapy must include one line of endocrine therapy in combination with a CDK 4/6 inhibitor. In the dose-selection part of the trial, approximately 120 participants will be randomized to one of the two doses of palazestrant or to the standard-of-care endocrine therapy. Thereafter, approximately 390 participants will be randomized to palazestrant at the selected dose or to the standard-of-care endocrine therapy.