Core Stability Program in Colorectal Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of physical training program to improve deep stabilizer muscle in colorectal cancer survivors
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: core stability
Abdominal isometric endurance, Isometric endurance of trunk flexors will be used to determine endurance strength of abdominal muscles. Patients will be laid supine, maintaining hips and knees bent at 90 degrees, feet flat approximately 30 inches from the buttocks and arms extended with hands on knees without actually touching. Patients will be instructed to separate the trunk from the stretcher to the inferior angle of the scapula and maintain this position as long as possible. Time (in seconds) will be measured until a maximum of 90 seconds, Baseline- 8 weeks
Fatigue, The Piper Fatigue Scale will be used for it measure. It scale includes 22 items and four dimensions (behavioural/severity, affective meaning, sensory and cognitive mood), Baseline- 8 weeks|Body composition:, It will be obtained with bioelectrical impedance analysis (Inbody 720; Biospace, Seoul, South Korea), Baseline- 8 weeks|Pain:, The participants will be completed a visual analogue scale to assess the presence of lower-back and/or abdominal pain. The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) will be used to assess the interference and the experience of pain., Baseline- 8 weeks|Static balance, The Flamingo Test, Baseline- 8 weeks|Flexibility, The "chair sit and reach test", Baseline- 8 weeks|Functional capacity, The 6-min walk test with treadmill (H-P-COSMOS for graphics; Germany), Baseline- 8 weeks|Fitness perceived, The International Fitness Scale (IFIS), Baseline- 8 weeks|Lower back muscle strength, dynamometer (TKK 5002 Back-A; Takey, Tokyo, Japan), Baseline- 8 weeks
Quality of life, Baseline- 8 weeks|Pressure Pain Thresholds, Baseline- 8 weeks|Muscle structure, An ultrasound device (MyLab™ 25, Esaote Medical Systems, Genova, Italy) and a 12 MHz linear probe will be used in this study. The depth of internal and external oblique and transversus abdominis, and depth and width of lumbar multifidus will be captured when the patient will be relaxed at the end of the expiration movement., Baseline- 8 weeks
Background: Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer when considering both genders. Musculoskeletal alterations have been described related to techniques used during surgery, that it produces an inhibition of deep abdominal muscles. These muscles are in charge of lumbopelvic stabilization muscle linked to reduced ability to maintain independence in daily activity life that could have affected their quality of life

Objective: The aim objective will be evaluated short and long-term effects of physical activity program for muscle stabilization.

Methods: 20 colorectal cancer survivors will be recruited from the Department of Oncology of Clínico San Cecilio Hospital. Patients will be randomized in physical activity program group and usual care group. Physical activity groups will receive an eight week program form improve the muscle stabilization.

Discussion: Researchers attempts to increase the fitness level and reduce musculoskeletal disorders in colorectal cancer survivors through a physical activity interventions focusing in muscle stabilization.