Apalutamide and Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Analog With or Without Abiraterone Acetate in Treating Participants With Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well apalutamide and gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog with or without abiraterone acetate work in treating participants with prostate cancer prior to surgery. Apalutamide and abiraterone acetate may stop the growth of cancer cells either by killing the cells or by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Hormone therapy, using gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog, may fight prostate cancer by lowering the amount of testosterone the body makes. Giving apalutamide, gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog, and abiraterone acetate may work better in treating participants with prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Apalutamide|BIOLOGICAL: Gonadotropin-releasing Hormone Analog|DRUG: Prednisone|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy
The Number of Participants With Rate of Pathologic Stage =< pT2N0 at Prostatectomy, The study will provide a point estimate and 95% confidence interval of the proportion of patients with pathologic stage =\< pT2N0 at prostatectomy for each arm. Patient characteristics will be summarized using descriptive statistics for each arm., At the time of radical prostatectomy
Number of Participants With Incidence of Adverse Events, Will be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. Incidence of serious adverse events and 95% confidence interval will be provided overall as well as for each major affected organ category., From screening up to 4 weeks post-surgery, an average of 7 months|Tumor Epithelium Volume in the Surgical Specimen, Tumor volume will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Secondary categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., At the time of radical prostatectomy|Assessment of Positive Surgical Margins in the Surgical Specimen, Presence of positive surgical margins will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Secondary categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., At the time of radical prostatectomy|Time to Prostate Specific Antigen Recurrence (TTRPSA), TTRPSA will be summarized by Kaplan-Meier estimates and confidence intervals. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Secondary categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., From the date of randomization up to 4 weeks post-surgery
Assessment of Steroid Hormone Metabolome in Blood Plasma and Tissue, Steroid hormone metabolome in blood plasma and tissue will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Exploratory categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., At radical prostatectomy|Assessment of Protein and Ribonucleic Acid (RNA) Analysis Results, Assessment of protein and RNA analysis results will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Exploratory categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., At radical prostatectomy|Citrate Intracellular Tricarboxylic Acid (TCA) Cycle Metabolite Concentrations, Citrate intracellular TCA cycle metabolite concentrations will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Exploratory categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., At radical prostatectomy|Pathological Response, Pathological response will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Exploratory categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., Up to 4 weeks post-surgery|Hyperpolarized 1-13C-pyruvate Imaging Results, Hyperpolarized 1-13C-pyruvate imaging results will be summarized descriptively and graphically. Comparisons between two the arms or patient subgroups will use a t-test or non-parametric alternative as indicated. Exploratory categorical endpoints will be summarized using proportions with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons between the two arms will use a chi-square test or Fisher's exact if indicated., Up to 4 weeks post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of pathologic stage =\< pT2N0 at prostatectomy for Group A (gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog \[luteinizing hormone releasing hormone agonist (LHRHa)\] plus apalutamide 240 mg orally \[PO\] daily for 6 months as preoperative therapy) and Group B (LHRHa plus apalutamide 240 mg PO daily plus abiraterone acetate 1000 mg PO daily and prednisone 5 mg PO once daily \[QD\] for 6 months as preoperative therapy).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the tumor epithelium volume following treatment in groups A and B. II. To assess the rate of positive surgical margins in Group A and Group B. III. To assess the time to prostate specific antigen (PSA) recurrence (TTRPSA). IV. To assess the safety profile of the two treatment arms (apalutamide with and without abiraterone acetate and low dose prednisone) for six months in a preoperative setting.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assessment of the steroid hormone metabolome in blood plasma and tissue by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.

II. Assessment of androgen signaling (canonical and non-canonical) and candidate pathways of resistance to androgen signaling inhibition by protein and ribonucleic acid (RNA) analysis.

III. Assessment of citrate intracellular tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) metabolite concentrations with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LCMS/MS).

IV. Proportion of patients who achieve pathological complete response (CR). V. Hyperpolarized 1-13C-pyruvate imaging at study entry and at 3 months in Arm A and Arm B.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Participants receive gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog (leuprolide, goserelin, or triptorelin as determined by treating physician) intramuscularly (IM) once every 3 months and apalutamide PO QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning no less than 48 hours after completion of therapy, participants undergo radical prostatectomy.

ARM B: Participants receive gonadotropin-releasing hormone analog and apalutamide as in arm A, abiraterone acetate PO QD, and prednisone PO QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning no less than 48 hours after completion of therapy, participants undergo radical prostatectomy.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed for 4 weeks.