Phase II Neoadjuvant Trial of Trastuzumab in Combination With Dose-Dense ABI-007 (Abraxane™)
This is a phase II one arm study. Patients with HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2)positive early stage breast cancer will receive ABI-007 and vinorelbine in combination with trastuzumab before having breast surgery.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pre operativeTrastuzumab|DRUG: ABI-007 (Abraxane)|DRUG: Vinorelbine
Number of Participants With Complete Pathologic Response., Pathologic complete response (pCR): Absence of invasive breast cancer in the breast (mastectomy or lumpectomy) specimen at the time of definitive surgery. Presence of in situ cancer alone will be considered a pCR.

Although clinical examination is the primary method of determining response, radiologic assessments (mammogram, ultrasound ± MRI) may be used to confirm response/non-response., assess at 8 weeks
Number of Participants Who Had Complete Clinical Resposnse, Partial Response and Stable Disease., Complete clinical response (CCR): complete disappearance of all measurable malignant disease. No new malignant lesion, disease-related symptoms or evidence of non-evaluable disease.

Partial response (PR): Reduction by at least 50% of the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions.

Stable disease (SD): For bidimensionally measurable disease, no decrease or \<25% increase in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions., clinic examination every 2 weeks, evaluated every 3 months for 2 years post-op
This is a phase II one arm study. Patients with HER2(Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2) positive early stage breast cancer will receive ABI-007 and vinorelbine in combination with trastuzumab before having breast surgery.

Approximately 50 patients will take part at multi-sites with potentially 20 patients participating at the Emory Winship Cancer Institute, Grady Memorial Hospital, and Emory Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia.