Testing Copanlisib as Potentially Targeting Treatment in Cancers With PTEN Expression (MATCH - Subprotocol Z1H)
This phase II MATCH treatment trial tests how well copanlisib works in treating patients with cancer that has certain genetic changes. Copanlisib is used in patients whose cancer has a mutated (changed) form of a gene called PTEN. It is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals cancer cells to multiply. This helps slow or stop the spread of cancer cells.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Copanlisib|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients whose tumors have a complete or partial response to treatment among analyzable patients. Objective response is defined consistent with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Details about how to define complete response and partial response can be found in the master protocol. 90% two-sided binomial exact confidence interval is calculated for ORR., Tumor assessments occurred at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
6-month Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as time from treatment start date to date of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression. 6 month PFS rate was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, which can provide a point estimate for any specific time point., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles, and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration, from which 6-month PFS rate is determined|Progression Free Survival, PFS was defined as time from treatment start date to date of disease progression or death from any causes, whichever occurred first. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Disease progression was evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1, the Cheson (2014) criteria for lymphoma patients, and the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology criteria for glioblastoma patients. Please refer to the protocol for detailed definitions of disease progression., Assessed at baseline, then every 2 cycles for the first 26 cycles and every 3 cycles thereafter until disease progression, up to 3 years post registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients with objective response (OR) to targeted study agent(s) in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 6 months of treatment with targeted study agent in patients with advanced refractory cancers/lymphomas/multiple myeloma.

II. To evaluate time until death or disease progression. III. To identify potential predictive biomarkers beyond the genomic alteration by which treatment is assigned or resistance mechanisms using additional genomic, ribonucleic acid (RNA), protein and imaging-based assessment platforms.

IV. To assess whether radiomic phenotypes obtained from pre-treatment imaging and changes from pre- through post-therapy imaging can predict objective response and progression free survival and to evaluate the association between pre-treatment radiomic phenotypes and targeted gene mutation patterns of tumor biopsy specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive copanlisib intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening and on study, as well as during follow-up as clinically necessary. Patients undergo biopsies and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

THE MATCH SCREENING TRIAL:

Please see NCT02465060 for information on the MATCH Screening Protocol and applicable documents.