Study in Post-menopausal Women With Hormone Receptor Positive, HER2-negative Advanced Breast Cancer
This international, multi-center, open-label, single-arm study evaluated the safety and tolerability profile of everolimus in post-menopausal women with HR positive, HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after documented recurrence or progression following a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitors (NSAI) therapy in Novartis Oncology emergent growth market (EGM) countries.Data was presented by Asian countries vs Non-Asian countries to confirm no difference in safety and efficacy. Summary statistics were presented.
Post Menopausal Breast Cancer
DRUG: everolimus|DRUG: exemestane
Summary of Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE) - All Grades, Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), changes from baseline in vital signs and laboratory results (hematology, blood chemistry, lipid profile) qualifying and reported as AEs. Although a patient might had two or more adverse events the patient is only counted once in a category. The same patient might appear in different categories. AESI: Adverse events of special interest., Baseline up to approximately 43 weeks for Asian countires and 32 weeks for Non-Asian countries including a 30 day post treatment follow up period
Percentage of Participants Response Rates (Best Overall and Overall), The best overall response for each patient is determined from the sequence of investigator overall lesion responses according to RECIST 1.1: Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of target lesions, Partial Response (PR) was \>=30% decrease in sum of diameter of lesions, Progressive Disease (PD) was \>=20% decrease in sum of diameter of lesions, Stable Disease (SD) does not qualify for PR, CR or PD, Unknown=not documented or assessed. To be assigned a best overall response of CR at least two determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart before progression are required. To be assigned a best overall response of PR at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression (and not qualifying for a CR) are required. The Overall response rate (ORR) is the percentage of patients with a best overall response of confirmed complete (CR) or partial (PR) response. The 95% confidence intervals (CI) were computed using the Clopper-Pearson method, Baseline up to approximately 43 weeks for Asian countires and 32 weeks for Non-Asian countries|Percentage of Participants Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate: Patients with best overall response rate of CR (any duration), PR (any duration) and SD with duration of 24 weeks or longer according to RECIST 1.1 criteria: Complete Response (CR)=disappearance of target lesions, Partial Response (PR) was \>=30% decrease in sum of diameter of lesions, Progressive Disease (PD) was \>=20% decrease in sum of diameter of lesions, Stable Disease (SD) does not qualify for PR, CR or PD, Unknown=not documented or assessed. Best overall response of CR = at least two determinations of CR at least 4 weeks apart before progression are required. Best overall response of PR = at least two determinations of PR or better at least 4 weeks apart before progression (and not qualifying for a CR) are required. The Overall response rate (ORR) is the percentage of patients with a best overall response of confirmed complete (CR) or partial (PR) response. The 95% confidence intervals (CI) were computed using the Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline up to approximately 43 weeks for Asian countires and 32 weeks for Non-Asian countries|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is time from date of start of treatment to date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.

b Percentiles with 95% CIs are calculated from PROC LIFETEST output using method of Brookmeyer and Crowley (1982), Baseline up to approximately 43 weeks for Asian countires and 40 weeks for Non-Asian countries|Percent of Participants Event-free Probability Estimates of Deterioration of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status, Time to deterioration of ECOG performance status, from baseline will be assessed using the ECOG Performance Status Scale (Oken, 1982). Time to deterioration is the time from date of start of treatment to the date of the event defined as deterioration. Deterioration is defined as an increase in performance status from 0 to 2 or greater, an increase in performance status from 1-2 to 3 or greater, or death due to any cause. Event-free probability estimate is the estimated probability that a patient will remain event-free up to the specified time point. Event-free probability estimates were are obtained from the Kaplan-Meier survival estimates., Baseline up to approximately 50 weeks
This international, multi-center, open-label, single-arm study evaluated the safety and tolerability profile of everolimus in post-menopausal women with HR positive, HER2 negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after documented recurrence or progression following a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitors (NSAI) therapy in Novartis Oncology emergent growth market (EGM) countries.Data was presented by Asian countries vs Non-Asian countries to confirm no difference in safety and efficacy. Summary statistics were presented.