Virtual Reality to Promote Relaxation Prior to Simulation
The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of a pre-simulation virtual reality (VR) platform designed to promote relaxation for cancer patients planned for radiation therapy (RT).
Cancer
OTHER: Virtual Reality Program
Feasibility of a pre-simulation VR platform prior to radiation, Feasibility based on the ability of at least 75% patient VR completion rate. Based on the expected accrual of 25 patients, futility and early termination will be triggered if six participants fail to meet the conditions described above., 12 months
Patient feedback on pre-simulation VR program, To collect patient feedback on the usability of and overall satisfaction with the VR program prior to simulation. Post-intervention survey designed to collect qualitative and quantitative patient feedback., 12 months|Patient situational anxiety prior to and after use of VR program (HADS), To evaluate patient-reported situational anxiety levels prior to and after use of the VR headset.

Measure baseline score on Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). The HADS is a 14-item scale with seven items for each anxiety and depression. Subscale scores greater than 8 denotes anxiety or depression., 12 months|Patient situational anxiety prior to and after use of VR program (STAI-6), To evaluate patient-reported situational anxiety levels prior to and after use of the VR headset.

Measure change in the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-6) score at baseline and after VR intervention. The STAI-6 is adapted from the original 20-item STAI. The original STAI scores range from 20-80. A score of 40 or higher is correlated with high anxiety. The STAI-6 consists of six questions rated on a 1-4 Likert scale creating a score range from 6 to 24. In order to generate scores compatible with the original STAI, STAI-6 scores will be multiplied by 20 and divided by 6 to give a range between 20-80., 12 months
The purpose of this prospective feasibility study is to assess the implementation of a VR-based intervention in patients who are pending initiation of RT. The investigators hypothesize that this intervention will be safe and feasible. If 75% of enrolled patients complete the VR intervention (defined as at least 8 min before permanent discontinuation), then feasibility will be met. Ten minutes' length is likely to be tolerated by most patients and likely to provide benefit. The maximum length of the VR video is 11 minutes. Patients will still be evaluable after 8 minutes of the video as this provides ample time to practice mindfulness based breathing exercises.

As this is a feasibility study, investigators and participants will not be blinded to study procedures. Potential study participants will be adult patients who are undergoing simulation for radiation treatment planning at the Perelman Center for Advanced Medicine at Penn Medicine. This is a single site study. No interim analyses or sub-studies are planned. Based on the expected accrual of 25 patients, futility and early termination will be triggered if 6 participants fail to meet the conditions described above.