Mesenchymal Stem Cells After Renal or Liver Transplantation
The immune system of a patient can attack the liver or the kidney received from a donor (organ rejection). This can be prevented by treating these patients long-life with immunosuppressive drugs. Unfortunately, these drugs lead to numerous side effects and fail to prevent the rejection occurring months later after the transplantation (chronic rejection). Recently, it has been shown that a particular type of cells present in the bone marrow, namely Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSC), when injected to a patient, suppress its immune system and increase success rates of blood cells transplantation. This outcome opens doors to investigate the potential of these cells to provide a valuable tool for improving solid organ transplantation without the need of high concentration of immunosuppressive drugs. The present project aims at evaluating the safety and tolerability of MSC administration after liver or kidney transplantation.
Liver Failure|Kidney Failure
BIOLOGICAL: Mesenchymal Stem Cells
Infusional toxicity, Incidence, timing and severity of any clinical complication related to MSC infusion, including pulmonary events or immune reactions., Within 24 hours of infusion|Incidence of infections (bacterial, viral, fungal, parasitic) and cancers, * Incidence, timing and severity of any infection (bacterial, viral, fungal, parasitic) (blood hemoculture, urine culture, PCR CMV, PCR BK virus at month 1,2,3)
* Incidence, timing and severity of malignant disease (Posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder or other), Continuously over 2 years
Patient and graft survivals, Continuously over 2 years|Effects of MSC on graft function, * Liver Transplantation: bilirubin, INR, transaminases, GGT, at day 7, months 1, 3, 6, 9, 12.
* Kidney Transplanttaion: number of post transplant hemodialysis, creatinine at day 7, months 1, 3, 6, 9, 12., over 1 year|Biopsy-proven (Banff classification) rejection rates, At months 3, 6, 9, 12., over 1 year|Feasibility and safety of weaning or decreasing immunosuppression, Decision points at months 3, 6, 9, 12., continuously over 2 years|Recipient's immune function, To evaluate recipient's immune function (T cell blood populations (including T regs) by FACS, TREC quantification, Vβ repertoire diversity, pathogen-specific T cells, anti-organ donor HLA antibodies)., over 1 year|Anti-MSC donor HLA antibodies., To evaluate the potential development of anti-MSC donor HLA antibodies., over 1 year
The present project aims at evaluating the safety and tolerability of third party MSC administration after liver or kidney organ transplantation. Ten patients undergoing liver transplantation and 10 patients undergoing kidney transplantation will be included in the experimental arm to receive a single infusion of MSC. The outcome of each of these 2 subgroups will be compared with that of similar control patients undergoing liver or kidney transplantation but who will not receive MSC.

Liver and kidney transplanted patients will receive standard immunosuppressive therapy, TAC-MMF-steroïds and TAC-MMF-steroïds plus an IL-2-R antibody respectively. Patients enrolled in the experimental arms will be infused with a single dose of 1,5-3,0 10E6 MSC/kg, 3(+/-2) days after the transplantation.

Weaning of immunosuppression will be attempted from month 6 in liver transplant patients who did not present a rejection episode and show normal graft function and graft biopsy.

Kidney transplant patients will continue standard immunosuppressive therapy indefinitely.

Male or female (\>18 years) individuals unrelated to the recipient or the graft donor will be MSC donors. MSC donors need to fulfill generally accepted criteria for allogeneic HSC donation.