KRN5500 in Treating Patients With Solid Tumors
Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of KRN5500 in treating patients who have solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as KRN5500, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: KRN5500|OTHER: pharmacological study
Maximally tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of KRN5500, based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) v2.0, Up to 21 days|Grade 2 or greater toxic effects, based on the NCI CTC v2.0, Up to 1 month after last course of study treatment|Plasma concentration-time levels of KRN5500 as determined by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization mass spectrometric detection, Analyzed by noncompartmental methods and/or nonlinear least squares regression using WinNonlin (Scientific Consulting, Inc.)., Up to 21 days|Response to KRN5500 by fluorothymidine-positron emission tomography (FLT-PET) scanning at the MTD in patients with measurable disease, Up to 5 years
Antitumor activity, Up to 5 years|Pharmacodynamic relationships for the pharmacological effect of the drug upon surrogate markers of activity and host toxicity, Up to 21 days|Comparison among the toxicity profiles between the 1 hr i.v. infusion and 72 hr continuous i.v. infusion administration schedules, Up to 1 month after last course of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the MTD and identify the DLTs of the investigational agent KRN5500 when administered by a 72-hr continuous i.v. infusion to patients with solid tumors who have failed standard therapy or for whom no standard therapy exists.

II. To establish and assess the safety of an appropriate dose for phase II studies.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of KRN5500 in patients when administered by a 72 hr continuous IV infusion.

IV. To characterize the response to KRN5500 by FLT-PET scanning at the MTD.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe any preliminary evidence of antitumor activity. II. Establish pharmacodynamic relationships for the pharmacological effect of the drug upon surrogate markers of activity and host toxicity.

III. To compare the toxicity profiles for the 1 hr i.v. infusion and 72 hr continuous i.v. infusion administration schedules.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive KRN5500 IV over 24-72 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 1-3 patients receive KRN5500 at the starting dose over escalating infusion durations. After the longest duration of infusion time is safely reached, cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of KRN5500 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, additional patients are accrued to receive treatment with KRN5500 at the recommended phase II dose.

Patients are followed every 4 weeks until resolution of all toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 20-40 patients will be accrued for this study within 9-12 months.