Combination Chemotherapy Plus Radiation Therapy With or Without AE-941 in Treating Patients With Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. AE-941 may help shrink or slow the growth of non-small cell lung cancer cells. It is not yet known if combination chemotherapy plus radiation therapy is more effective with or without AE-941 for non-small cell lung cancer. This randomized phase III trial is studying combination chemotherapy and radiation therapy given with AE-941 to see how well they work compared to combination chemotherapy and radiation therapy alone in treating patients with stage III non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery
Adenocarcinoma of the Lung|Adenosquamous Cell Lung Cancer|Large Cell Lung Cancer|Squamous Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: shark cartilage extract AE-941|OTHER: placebo|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: vinorelbine tartrate|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Overall survival, Survival distributions will be compared by use of the log-rank test. The stratified log-rank test (nominal or categorical covariates) may be used to simultaneously control for important prognostic factors. Kaplan-Meier curves will also be plotted to illustrate the comparative survival experience of both groups over the entire study period., From randomization until date of death or last follow-up, assessed up to 7 years
Progression-free survival every 3 months, Will be compared by use of the log-rank test. The stratified log-rank test (nominal or categorical covariates) may be used to simultaneously control for important prognostic factors. Kaplan-Meier curves will also be plotted., From randomization until disease progression, assessed up to 7 years|Tumor response rate, Will be compared by chi-square test., Up to 7 years|Tumor response duration, Will be compared by use of the log-rank test. The stratified log-rank test (nominal or categorical covariates) may be used to simultaneously control for important prognostic factors. Kaplan-Meier curves will also be plotted., From first observation of at least a partial response to detection of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 7 years|Metastasis-free survival, Will be compared by use of the log-rank test. The stratified log-rank test (nominal or categorical covariates) may be used to simultaneously control for important prognostic factors. Kaplan-Meier curves will also be plotted., From randomization until metastasis documented by imaging procedures, assessed up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall survival of patients with unresectable stage IIIA or IIIB non-small cell lung cancer treated with induction platinum-based chemotherapy and radiotherapy with or without AE-941 (Neovastat).

II. Determine the progression-free survival, tumor response, tumor response duration, and metastasis-free survival of patients treated with these regimens.

III. Determine the tolerability of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to stage (IIIA vs IIIB), type of platinum-based induction chemotherapy to be received (cisplatin and vinorelbine vs carboplatin and paclitaxel), and gender. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive oral AE-941 (Neovastat) twice daily beginning on day 1 or within 10 days of initiation of chemotherapy.

Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo twice daily beginning on day 1 or within 10 days of initiation of chemotherapy.

All patients receive induction chemotherapy with 1 of the following platinum-based regimens: cisplatin IV on days 1, 22, 50, and 71 and vinorelbine IV on days 1, 8, 22, 29, 50, 57, 71, and 78 carboplatin IV over 30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days 1, 22, 50, 57, 64, 71, 78, and 85.

All patients receive radiotherapy beginning on day 50 for 6 weeks. Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 756 patients (378 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 36 months.