Trial Using Docetaxel Cytoxan in Breast Cancers With High Recurrence Scores
The purpose of this study is to assess if docetaxel and cytoxan can shrink the size of your breast tumor and allow you to preserve your breast or have less extensive surgery on your breast. Additionally, by receiving chemotherapy before surgery, the investigators will be able to determine if your cancer is responsive to chemotherapy.
Breast Neoplasms|Breast Cancer|Cancer of the Breast
DRUG: Docetaxel with Cytoxan|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Pathologic Response to Pre-operative Docetaxel and Cytoxan (TC), Patients were assessed for surgery after 6 cycles of TC (18 weeks). Pathologic stage was determined based on size of tumor and degree of lymph node involvement at the time of surgery, whereas clinical stage pre-operatively was determined by clinical assessment and imaging.

If pathologic stage was the same as clinical stage, it was called stable; if it was higher, upstaged (worse outcome); if lower, downstaged (better outcome). Pathologic stage was determined by Emory board-certified pathologists., At time of definitive surgery
Previous studies have shown that chemotherapy has the same effect on treating breast cancer whether you receive it before or after surgery. Receiving chemotherapy before surgery, rather than after surgery, may allow you to have less extensive surgery by shrinking the size of your cancer. The purpose of this study is to assess if docetaxel and cytoxan can shrink the size of your breast tumor and allow you to preserve your breast or have less extensive surgery on your breast. Additionally, by receiving chemotherapy before surgery, we will be able to determine if your cancer is responsive to chemotherapy. Prior to entering this study, a special test, called the Oncotype DX assay, will be performed on a small amount of your cancer from the biopsy you had at the time you were diagnosed with breast cancer, to determine the likelihood that your cancer will benefit from and shrink with chemotherapy. You will only be eligible to enter this study if the recurrence score determined using the Oncotype DX assay is 25 or greater. Patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancers with recurrence scores greater than or equal to 25 have been previously demonstrated to obtain a significant benefit from chemotherapy given after surgery.

In addition, researchers would like to examine proteins present in your blood and proteins present in your breast tissue. These additional parts of the study are voluntary and are NOT required to participate in this study.