Interleukin-7 and Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
RATIONALE: Interleukin-7 may stimulate a person's white blood cells to kill tumor cells. Vaccines made from peptides may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Combining interleukin-7 with vaccine therapy may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of interleukin-7 when given with vaccine therapy in treating patients with metastatic melanoma.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: gp100 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|BIOLOGICAL: recombinant interleukin-7
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of interleukin-7 (IL-7) when administered with melanoma peptide vaccine emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 in patients with metastatic melanoma.
* Determine the safety of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* Determine the biological effects of this regimen on T-cell function and phenotype at various doses and at the optimal biological dose in these patients.
* Determine the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic characteristics of IL-7 in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the antitumor effects of IL-7, in terms of a dose-escalation strategy, in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of interleukin-7 (IL-7).

Patients receive IL-7 subcutaneously (SC) on days 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, and 21. Patients also receive melanoma peptide vaccine comprising gp100 antigen and MART-1 antigen emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 SC on days 0, 7, 14, and 21 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IL-7 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. After the MTD is determined, an additional 13 patients are treated at that dose level.

Patients are followed at 1, 2, and 5 weeks, at 3 and 6 months, and then at 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-37 patients will be accrued for this study within 1-12.3 months.