Newly-diagnosed Intermediate/High Risk Pediatric B-cell ALL Protocol
Building upon the results from the CCCG-ALL-2015, CCCG-ALL-2020 multicenter study cohort, concurrent research findings, and the latest clinical trials, the CCCG-ALL-2025 I/HR-B-ALL is thus developed to further improve the event-free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS), and quality of life (QoL) of children with intermediate- and high- risk B-cell childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (I/HR-B-ALL), while decreasing adverse reactions and transplantation rates. This trial primarily aims to explore:

1. The efficacy of two randomized Blinatumomab application scheme on I/HR-ALL as determined by MRD negatvitiy rate.
2. The efficacy of modified mini-hyperCVD + Venetoclax in I/HR-ALL cannot afford blinatumomab, in contrast to historical control as determined by MRD negatvitiy rate.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia ALL|Childhood Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic|B Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (B-ALL)
DRUG: Blinatumomab (Group A)|DRUG: Venetoclax (nonRand Group)|DRUG: Blinatumomab (Group B)
To investigate if Group B[2*(14-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*2)] can result in noninferior event-free survival (EFS) compared to Group A [28-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*4, * The randomization is stratified by hospitals and status of flow-cytometry MRD (positive or negative) immediately prior to the blinatumomab-HDMTX treatment.
* Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates of each EFS function will be computed along with standard error by the default procedure in R. To test noninferiority the investigators consider a noninferiority margin of 0.04 for 5-year EFS as clinically meaningful.
* Assume the EFS in the control group (Arm A) to be the same as the provisional I/HR in the CCCG-ALL2020 trial (preliminary data above), with the 1-year and 3-year EFS possibly 0.837 and 0.768 respectively. A simulation study with 10,000 rounds shows that by randomizing 1800 patients and 1.5 years of follow up, the above decision rule of declaring noninferiority has well controlled probabilities of false positive and false negative errors., Based on the above analysis in this study the investigators will randomize 1800 patients. The analysis will start1.5 years after the last patient is randomized. The expected study duration is approximately 6.5 years.
Event-free survival (EFS) in the two randomized arms [2*(14-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*2)] and [28-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*4], in contrast to historical regimens., EFS functions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator of survival functions along with 95% confidence interval at 5 year. Standard error will be estimated using the default procedure in R. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of EFS will be performed using two-sided log-rank test. Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Cox models., Up to 5 years for every enrolled case|Cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) in the two randomized arms [2*(14-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*2)] and [28-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*4], in contrast to historical regimen., CIR functions of relapse will be estimated by the Kalbafleisch-Prentice method. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of CIR will be performed by Gray's test. Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Fine-Gray models., Up to 5 years for every enrolled case|Overall survival (OS) in the two randomized arms [2*(14-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*2)] and [28-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*4], in contrast to historical regimens., OS functions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator of survival functions along with 95% confidence interval at 5 year. Standard error will be estimated using the default procedure in R. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of OS will be performed using two-sided log-rank test. Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Cox models., Up to 5 years for every enrolled case|EFS in patients who receive 6 alternated venetoclax/Daunorubincin courses of interim continuation therapy., EFS functions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator of survival functions along with 95% confidence interval at 5 year. Standard error will be estimated using the default procedure in R. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of EFS will be performed using two-sided log-rank test.Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Cox models., Up to 5 years for every enrolled case|CIR in patients who receive 6 alternated venetoclax/Daunorubincin courses of interim continuation therapy., CIR functions of relapse will be estimated by the Kalbafleisch-Prentice method. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of CIR will be performed by Gray's test. Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Fine-Gray models., Up to five years for every enrolled case|OS in patients who receive 6 alternated venetoclax/Daunorubincin courses of interim continuation therapy., OS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator of survival functions along with 95% confidence interval at 5 year. Standard error will be estimated using the default procedure in R. Follow up of the historical comparison cohort (CCCG-ALL-2020 and 2015) will continue during the course of the current trial. Comparisons of OS will be performed using two-sided log-rank test. Multivariable regression modeling including trial (CCCGALL-2025 vs. 2020 or 2015) and other known prognostic factors as main effects may also be performed, using the Cox models., Up to five years for every enrolled case|To compare grade 3 or higher adverse effects (AEs; CTCAE v5.0) and estimate their cumulative incidences, Proportions of grade-3 or higher AEs in each treatment phase will be estimated by the sample proportions along with exact 95% confidence intervals. Cumulative incidences of various grade-3 or higher AEs throughout therapy will be estimated by the Kalbafleisch-Prentice method; death, relapse and other events rendering off therapy before completion are regarded as competing risks., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
measurable residual diseases (MRD) positivity by next-generation sequencing of immunoglobulin gene(IgH NGS) after blinatumomab-HDMTX therapy between the two randomized arms [2*(14-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*2)] and [28-day blinatumomab + HDMTX*4]., Proportions of patients with positive IgH NGS MRD in each arm will be estimated by the sample proportion along with the 95% confidence interval. The NGS MRD positive proportions will be compared by the two-sample z test. If the NGS MRD positive proportions are very low in one or both arms, Fisher's exact test will be applied., Up to five years|Cellular immune-status prior to Blinatumomab-HDMTX consolidation therapy, Descriptive statistics on T lymphocytes functions (exhaustion, activation, TCR diversity, etc.) including correlation coefficients (Pearson's or Spearman's) and regression modeling including possibly longitudinal data models will be applied as appropriate to analyze the biological associations., At the end of induction|Cellular immune functions after blinatumomab-HDMTX consolidation, Descriptive statistics on T lymphocytes functions (exhaustion, activation, TCR diversity, etc.).including correlation coefficients (Pearson's or Spearman's) and regression modeling including possibly longitudinal data models will be applied as appropriate to analyze the biological associations., Up to 2 years
The study shown above will lead to the following revisions to the CCCG-ALL2025 I/HR-B-ALL plan, which will be based on the CCCG-ALL2020 plan.

1. After the induction remission phase, all I/HR-B-ALL patients can afford blinatumomab will participate in a blinatumomab+HDMTX randomized controlled trial as consolidation.
2. For patients cannot afford blinatumomab will be treated with venetoclax + modified mini-hyperCVD during the induction phase, then subsequently with CAT as consolidation phase. CAT will removed from induction phase.
3. For patients who received blinatumomab randomization, the CAT+ course was canceled.
4. All patients will continued with 6 cycles of alternated 5-day venetoclax or Dauno-based CCCG-2020 continuous therapy regimen.
5. Adding IgH rearrangement NGS MRD as an evaluation indicator.
6. Adding pharmacotyping study for I/HR B-ALL.
7. Three more bone marrow punctures and IT will be added with the aims to evaluate the CR rate with deepen remission during or after consolidation.