A Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to Determine the Efficacy of a Multidisciplinary CBT Based Pain Management Program for the Treatment of Aromatase Inhibitor Associated Musculoskeletal Symptoms (AIMSS) in Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this research is to evaluate the effectiveness of a multidisciplinary pain management program for AIMSS in reducing pain, subjective cognitive complaints, psychological distress, and impaired functional status resulting in improved adherence to Aromatase Inhibitor medications compared to usual care. We want to identify predictors of improvement in pain, functional status, subjective cognition and mood following participation in the program.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Behavioral Therapy based Pain Management Program
Adherence to Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs), Adherence to Aromatase Inhibitors (AIs) medications will be collected as a self-reported question asking the patients if they have taken their medications as prescribed during the past month (yes vs. no)., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|AIMSS Follow-up Questionnaire, Subjects will complete the study follow-up questionnaire with study staff to indicate whether they are adhering to medications and to report symptoms., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months
Brief Pain Inventory, The Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) allows participants to rate the severity of their pain and the degree to which their pain interferes with common dimensions of feeling and function. Possible scores range from 0 to 10 with higher scores indicating a worse outcome/more severe pain and interference., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Center for Epidemiologic Studies of Depression - Revised Questionnaire, The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale-Revised (CESD-R) is a 20-item, self-reported questionnaire, that measures symptoms of depression. Each item is rated on a Likert scale, with 0 = 'Not at all or less than one day", and 3 = "Nearly every day for 2 weeks". Scores range from 0-60, with a score of 16 or higher indicating a risk of clinical depression., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Pain Catastrophizing Scale, he Pain Catastrophizing Scale (PCS) is a 13-item self-report measure designed to assess catastrophic thinking related to pain. Items are rated on 5-point Likert scale, with 0 = "Not at all" and 4 = "All the time" Higher score indicates higher level of catastrophizing., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Brief Resilience Scale, The Brief Resilience Scale is a 6 item, self-reported questionnaire, measuring how well a person recovers from stress. Each item is rated on a Likert scale, with 1 = "Strongly Disagree" and 5 = "Strongly Agree". The Brief Resilience Scale is scored by adding the value of all responses and dividing by 6. Higher scores indicate higher resilience to stress., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Social Support Survey, The Social Support Survey is a 4 item, self-reported questionnaire, assessing the availability of support. Items are rated on a 4 point Likert scale, with 0 = "None of the time" and 4 = "All of the time". Higher scores indicate a greater level of support., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|World Health Organization (WHO) Disability Assessment Schedule, The WHO Disability Assessment Schedule is a 36-item, self-reported questionnaire, assessing health and disability. The questionnaire cover 6 domains: cognition, mobility, self-care, getting along, life activities, and participation. Each item is rated on a 5 point Likert scale, with 0 = "None" and 4 = "Extreme or Cannot do". Higher scores indicate greater disability., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|State-Trait Inventory, The State-Trait Inventory is a self-reported questionnaire, used to assess anxiety. Participants respond to 40 questions about how they are currently feeling on a scale of 1 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much so". Total possible scores range from 40 to 160. Higher scores indicate higher anxiety (a worse outcome) and lower scores indicate less anxiety (a better outcome)., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Cognitive Functioning Index (CFI), The Cognitive Function Index (CFI) is a 14-item, self-reported questionnaire, used to assess cognitive status. Total scores range from 0-29, with higher scores indicating an increased perception about cognitive difficulties., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months
The purpose of this research is to evaluate the effectiveness of a multidisciplinary pain management program for AIMSS in reducing pain, subjective cognitive complaints, psychological distress, and impaired functional status resulting in improved adherence to Aromatase Inhibitor medications compared to usual care. We want to identify predictors of improvement in pain, functional status, subjective cognition and mood following participation in the program.