Study to Show a Superior Benefit in Terms of Reduction of Ranibizumab Injections in Patients Receiving Ranibizumab Plus Laser Photocoagulation Combination Therapy Without Loss of Efficacy and Safety
This is a Phase IV, randomized, open-label, active-controlled, 2-arm, multicenter study. The primary objective was assessed by the difference in the mean number of ranibizumab injections applied up to Month 11 between the 2 treatment arms. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of the 2 treatment arms; i.e. Arm 1 ranibizumab monotherapy, Arm 2 ranibizumab with Grid\&Direct short pulse laser photocoagulation combination therapy. There were 3 periods in this study: Screening Period (visit 1), Treatment Period (visit 2 to Visit 13) and Follow-up Period (visit 14). In addition to screening and Baseline (visit 2), there were monthly visits from Month 1 to Month 12. This study included male and female patients (≥20 years old) diagnosed with visual impairment due to ME secondary to BRVO.
Macular Edema Secondary to Branch Retinal Vein Occlusion (BRVO)
BIOLOGICAL: Ranibizumab|RADIATION: Grid&Direct short pulse laser photocoagulation
Difference in Mean Number of Ranibizumab Injections, Number of ranibizumab treatments from Day 1 to Month 11 using full analysis set (observed) based on a stratified Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test. Stratification was done based on categories of baseline decimal VA (\<0.3, or =\>0.3). Difference of mean number of injections, 95% confidence interval (CI) of difference and one-sided p-value of the CMH test was reported. Analysis was conducted within the FAS with observed data.

Stratification was based on baseline visual acuity on logMAR scale (\<0.52, \>=0.52). Test was one-sided., Month 1 through Month 12
The Mean Change in Best Corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) Using Decimal Chart and Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) Compared to Baseline, Summary of BCVA (letters) absolute value and change from Baseline at Month 12 in the study eye - full analysis set (LOCF) was based on an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment group, and stratification factors. Stratification was done based on categories of baseline decimal VA (\<0.3, or =\>0.3). The analyses was conducted within the FAS using the LOCF approach

Stratification was based on baseline visual acuity on logMAR scale (\<0.52, \>=0.52). Test was one-sided., Month 1 through Month 12 (for ETDRS: Month 6 and Month 12)|The Mean Change in BCVA From Month 1 Through Month 12 Compared to Baseline (Day 1) by the Treatment Arms, Summary of BCVA (logMAR) absolute value and change from Baseline at Month 12 in the study eye - full analysis set (LOCF) was based on an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model with treatment group, and stratification factors. Stratification was based on baseline visual acuity (\< 0.52, \>= 0.52). The analyses was conducted within the FAS using the LOCF approach, Month 1 through Month 12|BCVA (Letters) Number and Proportion of Patients With a BCVA Improvement vs. Baseline, Loss Less Than 15 Letters, or Attainment of Greater Than or Equal to 85 Letters at Month 6 and at Month 12 in the Study Eye, Endpoints related to the number and proportion of patients with BCVA letter gain or loss from Baseline (Day1) was analyzed via stratified CMH test with stratification factors as described in primary model. The mean (SD) average (per patient) BCVA (logMAR) change from Baseline through Month 12

Summary of BCVA (logMAR) mean average change from Baseline from Month 1 through Month 12 in the study eye, Month 6 and Month 12|The Mean Change in Change in Central Subfield Foveal Thickness (CSFT) From Month 1 Through Month 12 Compared to Baseline (Day1) by the Treatment Arms, The mean change in investigator-assessed CSFT from Month 1 through Month 12 was compared to Baseline (Day1) by the treatment arms. The analyses at each visit was based on an analysis of variance (ANOVA) model as analogous to BCVA. The analyses was conducted within the FAS using the Last-Observation-Carried-Forward (LOCF) approach, Month 1 through Month 12
This is a Phase IV, randomized, open-label, active-controlled, 2-arm, multicenter study. The primary objective was assessed by the difference in the mean number of ranibizumab injections applied up to Month 11 between the 2 treatment arms. Patients were randomized in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of the 2 treatment arms; i.e. Arm 1 ranibizumab monotherapy, Arm 2 ranibizumab with Grid\&Direct short pulse laser photocoagulation combination therapy. There were 3 periods in this study: Screening Period (visit 1), Treatment Period (visit 2 to Visit 13) and Follow-up Period (visit 14). In addition to screening and Baseline (visit 2), there were monthly visits from Month 1 to Month 12. This study included male and female patients (≥20 years old) diagnosed with visual impairment due to ME secondary to BRVO.