Almonertinib Combined With Cerebral Radiation Treat Brain Metastases From EGFR Positive NSCLC
According to literature reports, about 16.3%-19% of newly diagnosed NSCLC patients are associated with brain metastasis, and 30%-50% of NSCLC patients will develop brain metastasis during the whole course of the disease.

Patients with EGFR positive-type had a 10-15% higher risk of brain metastasis than patients with EGFR wild-type. mOS in patients with EGFR positive were twice as high as those with EGFR wild-type, despite the presence of brain metastasis.

Improving the control rate of intracranial lesions in patients with EGFR positive can not only improve the quality of life, but also may translate into survival benefits and improve OS. Previous studies have shown that in lung cancer patients with EGFR-sensitive mutations, craniocerebral radiotherapy prior to delayed craniocerebral radiotherapy significantly prolonged OS.

The first-line treatment of the third generation of EGFR-TKI targeting drug Almonertinib for EGFR-positive NSCLC can eliminate the possible EGFR T790M mutant clones at an early stage and better control the disease progression. Moreover, Almonertinib is easy to pass through the blood-brain barrier, which can not only better control intracranial lesions, but also control, prevent or delay the occurrence of brain metastasis.

This study was intended to conduct a randomized controlled study on the safety and efficacy of early craniocerebral radiotherapy combined with Almonertinib in patients with EGFR positive non-small cell lung cancer with brain metastasis.

Through the above studies we hope to confirm that early craniocerebral radiotherapy combined with Almonertinib is safe and feasible for patients with EGFR positive newly diagnosed with brain metastasis, and can prolong the intracranial progression-free survival (IPFS), and even extend the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DRUG: Almonertinib|RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiotherapy(SRT) or Stereotactic Radiosurgery(SRS) or Whole-Brain Radiotherapy(WBRT)
Intracranial Progress Free Survival(iPFS), As determined by the investigator using RECIST 1.1 criteria between patients receiving Almonertinib and craniocerebral radiotherapy. iPFS is defined as The time between the start of treatment and the observation of progression of intracranial lesions or death from any cause. In order to ascertain this endpoint, efforts will be made so that patients will be followed for 156 weeks or until progression of disease (and treatment cessation), whichever comes first. At each time-point, subjects should have CT/MR of chest and head with contrast., Up to 4 years
Number of adverse events of grade 3-4 or higher, To estimate and compare rates of ≥ grade 3-4 adverse events, by organ system, by CTCAEv4.0 that occur within 3 months from the start of craniocerebral radiotherapy when given prior to or concurrently with Almonertinib., Up to 4 years|Rate of long term adverse events, To estimate and compare the rates of long-term adverse events (after 3 months) from the end of craniocerebral radiotherapy when given prior to or concurrently with Almonertinib., Up to 4 years|Rate of change in tumor microenvironment, To evaluate and compare changes in the tumor microenvironment induced by radiation when given prior to or concurrently with Almonertinib., Up to 4 years|Changes in EGFR mutations, To evaluate whether response to therapy correlates with changes in EGFR mutations among patients treated with Almonertinib combined with craniocerebral radiotherapy., Up to 4 years|Overall Survival, Time from entry to death from any cause (the last follow-up time for patients lost to follow-up; Patients who were still alive at the end of the study, the end date of follow-up)., Up to 4 years
All eligible patients will receive craniocerebral radiotherapy in combination with Almonertinib.

Here are two types of craniocerebral radiotherapy:

1. SRS or SRT is recommended for patients with ≤4 intracranial metastases and the maximum lesion ≤4cm. 24-15 Gy\*1F was recommended if use SRS. 9-12 Gy\*3F or 6Gy×5F was recommended if use SRT.
2. For \>4 intracranial metastases, or the maximum lesion\>4cm, whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) of 30Gy/10F was recommended, and then the large residual lesions will be treated with a local dose (≤DT 45Gy/15F). Hippocampal protection is highly recommended.