Cryoablation Combined With Cardonilizumab and Bevacizumab in Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Pulmonary Metastases
This study intends to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cryoablation combined with Cardonilizumab and Bevacizumab in hepatocellular carcinoma with pulmonary metastases.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Cancer Stage IV|Pulmonary Metastases|Cadonilimab|Bevacizumab|Cryoablation
DRUG: Cadonilimab|DRUG: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Cryoablation
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR, as determined based on tumor response according to RECIST 1.1, is defined as partial response and complete response., 6 months
Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of inclusion to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression or death due to any cause., 6 months|Overall survival (OS), OS is the length of time from the date of inclusion until death from any cause., 12 months
For advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the lung is the most common metastatic organ, accounting for 30-50% of extrahepatic diseases. The standard therapy for advanced HCC with lung metastases according to the Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) criteria is system therapy.

However, studies have proven that palliative ablation could improve the tumor controlling effect and the outcomes.

Cryoablation is a treatment method that involves freezing tumors at extremely low temperatures to destroy and eliminate them. This therapeutic approach can result in the death of tumor cells through necrosis and also stimulate immune targeting of tumor cells. These immune responses occur as a result of tumor cell death caused by the ablation procedure. In comparison to conventional cancer therapies, cryoablation has minimal adverse reactions and has the potential to promote a more extensive and effective release of self-generated antigens into the bloodstream.

Targeting vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) could reduce VEGF-mediated immunosuppression within the tumor. The IMbrave150 study of atezolizumab and bevacizumab versus sorafenib demonstrated response rates of 29.8% vs 12%, respectively, and median overall survival of 19.8 months in the combination arm versus 13.4 months in the sorafenib (P \<0.001). Bevacizumab could enhance anti-PD-1 and anti-programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) efficacy by reversing VEGF-mediated immunosuppression and promoting T-cell infiltration in tumors (2).

Cadonilimab is a first-in-class bispecific, humanized IgG1 antibody targeting PD-1 and CTLA-4, which has the potential to boost immune surveillance in tumors. Preclinical studies have shown that its tetravalent design enhances its high binding activity in the tumor microenvironment. With no Fc binding, Cadonilimab could eliminate a series of functions mediated by the Fc receptor, which contribute to a poor safety profile in clinical settings.