Acceptance and Usability of an App Promoting Healthy Behaviours Amongst Young Women at Increased Risk of Breast Cancer
It is estimated that around 20% of breast cancers (BC) in the UK are preventable through adherence to appropriate health behaviours, i.e., healthy diet, physical activity, limited alcohol, not smoking, and that women at increased risk of BC could benefit from greater decreases in risk than the general population via health behaviour changes. Young women (age \<35 years) who are at increased risk of developing BC currently receive little or no information regarding health behaviours and BC risk, or support for behaviour change. This feasibility study aims to explore whether a novel app is acceptable to women at increased risk and could potentially engage them with improved health behaviours which could reduce their future risk of BC.
Breast Cancer|Overweight and Obesity|Diet, Healthy|Weight Gain|Alcohol Drinking|Smoking Behaviors|Healthy Nutrition|Healthy Lifestyle|Healthy Eating Index
BEHAVIORAL: App Promoting Healthy Behaviours
Acceptability and usability of the app, Assess acceptability and usability of the app by interviews, Two months
Acceptability of study recruitment, consent and trial procedures, Assess the feasibility of all study procedures by interviews by thematic analysis of transcripts, Two months|Study uptake numbers via invite letter and social media posts, Recruitment source of the participants from recruitment data, e.g. percentage response to mailshot, percentage uptake, number recruited via the postal invite letter and via social media, Two months|Acceptability and usability of the app via questionnaire, Acceptability of the app, barriers and facilitators to engagement, likes and don't likes within app, usability, likelihood of extended use via questionnaire., Two months|Errors in app data entry, Quantification of errors in information inputted by participants, e.g. kg entered as stones and pounds., Two months|Number of interactions with the private Facebook group, Number of participant interactions in the Facebook group during the two months., Two months
Aims

1. To assess the acceptability and usability of the app to young women at increased risk of BC
2. To assess the feasibility of study procedures before running a future efficacy study using the app as an intervention

Objectives

1. Explore views of users of the experiences during and after using the app
2. Explore views of users on their experience of the two different recruitment procedures (targeted mailshot, or social media, newsletters and websites), and the online consent procedure.
3. Interpret user data from the app including frequency and patterns of use of the different functions
4. Analyse recruitment data to explore how the two different recruitment procedures could be improved for the next study
5. Assemble a list of suggested changes to recruitment and consent procedures, and to the app, to be considered before the next study.
6. Quantify health care professional (HCP) time required for administering the private Facebook chat group, and through e-mail/private message support.
7. Quantify researcher time required for cleaning and analysis of app data.