Palliation in Gynae-oncology: Patients Expectations and Assessment of Care (PEACE)
The overall aim is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of collecting data on the patients and carers perception of care as well as to prospectively monitor end of life care.
Gynaecological Cancer
OTHER: Questionaire
Number of patients who complete scheduled assessments with Canadian Health Care Evaluation Project (CANHELP) instrument, CANHELP Lite Individualised version, To study the feasibility of collecting data on patient satisfaction with care. In all CANHELP Lite versions response options for each item range from 1'not at all satisfied' to 5 'completely satisfied'. All versions have an overall satisfaction with care score, as well as scores on each of the individual domains. All scores are re-scaled to range between 0 (worst possible value) to 100 (best possible value)., Within 42 days before their death
Number of carers who complete scheduled assessments with Canadian Health Care Evaluation Project (CANHELP) Lite Individualized Caregiver, To study the feasibility of collecting data on carer satisfaction with care. In all CANHELP Lite versions response options for each item range from 1'not at all satisfied' to 5 'completely satisfied'. All versions have an overall satisfaction with care score, as well as scores on each of the individual domains. All scores are re-scaled to range between 0 (worst possible value) to 100 (best possible value)., Within 42 days before patient's death|Number of carers who complete scheduled assessments with Canadian Health Care Evaluation Project (CANHELP) Lite bereavement and Quality of Death and Dying (QODD) questionnaire, To study the feasibility of collecting data on carer satisfaction with care leading up to the time of death and the quality of the patient´s death. CANHELP response options range from 1'not at all satisfied' to 5 'completely satisfied', with an overall satisfaction with care score and scores on each individual domains. All scores are re-scaled to range 0 (worst possible value) to 100 (best possible value). The QODD questionnaire has 24 items that assess aspects of dying and death. The QODD questionnaire contains 14 additional items that assess cargiver's demographic characteristics and relation to the deceased. Response options for each item are rated on a scale from 0 (terrible) to 10 (almost perfect). The items provide a single score, derived as a mean of the item values, transformed to a 0 to 100 scale., Within 42 days of death up to 5-7 weeks after patient deceased.|Number of patients who received chemotherapy and other interventions as well as palliative care, To study use of chemotherapy, surgical interventions as well as palliative care involvement, Within 42 days before their death|Patient satisfaction with care, Patient satisfaction will be assessed with CANHELP Lite Individualized. In all CANHELP Lite versions response options for each item range from 1'not at all satisfied' to 5 'completely satisfied' . A 'not applicable/not discussed' response option for items that patients/cares felt was not relevant to their situation. All versions have an overall satisfaction with care score, as well as scores on each of the individual domains. All scores are re-scaled to range between 0 (worst possible value) to 100 (best possible value). The questionnaires will be administered and scored in accordance with the user manual., Baseline up to 5-7 weeks after patient deceased|Carers satisfaction with care, Satisfaction will be assessed with CANHELP Lite bereavement and quality of death and dying (QODD) questionnaire.

The QODD questionnaire has 24 items that assess various aspects of dying and death including whether the patient's symptoms were adequately controlled, whether dignity was maintained, time spent with loved ones in days leading up to death and whether the patient's wishes were adhered to. The QODD questionnaire also contains 14 additional items that assess the cargiver's demographic characteristics and relation to the deceased. The response options for each item are rated on a scale from 0 (terrible) to 10 (almost perfect). The items provide a single score, derived as a mean of the item values, transformed to a 0 to 100 scale., Baseline up to 5-7 weeks after patient deceased|The importance of aspects of care for patients, Importance of aspects of care will be assessed through CANHELP Lite., Baseline up to 5-7 weeks after patient deceased|The importance of aspects of care for carers, Importance of aspects of care assessed through CANHELP Lite., Baseline up to 5-7 weeks after patient deceased
Prospective observational cohort study.

Little is known about end of life care (EOL) in patients with ovarian or other gynaecological cancers. Patients typically have a high symptom burden and following several prior lines of therapy or the development of platinum resistant disease response rates to further active treatment are limited. Eliciting patients' values and preferences for end-of-life care and shared decision-making are central elements of patient-centered EOL care. The aim of this study is to assess the feasibility of collecting data on patient satisfaction towards end of life. Preliminary data on patient and carer satisfaction with care, the importance of aspects of care, as well as end of life treatment will also be collected. The study will also assess the carer satisfaction with care during bereavement and with the patient's dying experience.

The study will recruit beyond the targeted number of 73 patients number if the study is progressing favourably. Ideally, each patient will nominate a carer to also complete questionnaires and the carer will be able to assist in completing the diary, although this is not mandatory.