Pharmacokinetic and Safety Study of Niraparib With Normal or Moderate Hepatic Impairment Patients
Niraparib (Zejula®)is extensively metabolized and eliminated primarily by hepatic and renal pathways. The purpose of this study is to evaluate pharmacokinetics and safety of niraparib in patients with moderate hepatic impairment, for the purpose of providing recommendations to guide the initial dose and dose titration in this patient population.
Ovarian Neoplasms|Neoplasms|Solid Tumor|Hepatic Impairment
DRUG: Niraparib
Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 to the Time of the Last Quantifiable Concentration (AUClast) of Niraparib and Its Major Metabolite (M1) During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate AUC (last) of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1|Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time 0 Extrapolated to Infinity (AUC 0-infinity) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate AUC (0-infinity) of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1|Observed Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate Cmax of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1|Time to Maximum Concentration (Tmax) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate tmax of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1|Terminal Half-life (t½) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate t1/2 of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1|Apparent Total Body Clearance (CL/F) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, CL/F is calculated as Dose/(AUC 0-inf). Blood samples were collected at indicated time points to evaluate CL/F of niraparib and M1. PK parameters were calculated by standard non-compartmental analysis. Not applicable (NA) indicates that CL/F could not be measured for M1 since the dose of metabolite is unknown and only known dose is that of parent niraparib., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48, 72, 120, 168 hours post dose Day 1
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE) Including Non-serious Adverse Events (Non-SAEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) and Discontinuations Due to AEs During PK Phase, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose: results in death; is life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent disability/incapacity; is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or is an important medical event(s) requiring medical or scientific judgment. Treatment-emergent are any event that was not present prior to the initiation of study treatment or any event already present that worsens in either intensity or frequency following exposure to study treatment., Up to Day 8|Change From Baseline in Hemoglobin (Hb) During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of Hb. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and at Day 8|Change From Baseline in Platelets, Neutrophils, Monocytes, Lymphocytes and Leukocyte During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected to analyze hematology parameters:Leukocyte, Lymphocytes, Monocytes, Neutrophils and Platelets. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Protein and Albumin During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected to analyze clinical chemistry parameters: protein and albumin. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Alkaline Phosphatase, Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST) and Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH) During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters: alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST and LDH. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Amylase During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameter: Amylase. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Bilirubin and Creatinine During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters: Bilirubin and Creatinine. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Chemistry Parameters: Glucose, Calcium, Chloride, Phosphate, Potassium, Sodium, Magnesium and Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN) During PK Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameter:Glucose, Calcium, Chloride, Phosphate, Potassium, Sodium, Magnesium and BUN. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Weight During PK Phase, Weight was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline, Day 2 and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP) During PK Phase, Vital signs including SBP and DBP were measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline, Day 2 and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Pulse Rate During PK Phase, Vital sign including pulse rate was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline, Day 2 and Day 8|Change From Baseline in Body Temperature During PK Phase, Vital sign including body temperature was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in PK phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value., Baseline, Day 2 and Day 8|Number of Participants With TEAE Including Non-SAEs, SAEs and Discontinuations Due to AEs During Extension Phase, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose: results in death; is life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent disability/incapacity; is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or is an important medical event(s) requiring medical or scientific judgment. Treatment-emergent are any event that was not present prior to the initiation of study treatment or any event already present that worsens in either intensity or frequency following exposure to study treatment., Up to 28 months|Change From Baseline in Hb During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected from participants for evaluation of Hb. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 8, 15, 21), Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1, and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Platelets, Neutrophils, Monocytes, Lymphocytes and Leukocytes During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected to analyze hematology parameters: Lymphocytes, Leukocytes, Monocytes, Neutrophils and Platelets. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 1 (Days 8, 15, 21), Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1, and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Protein and Albumin During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected to analyze clinical chemistry parameters: protein and albumin. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Alkaline Phosphatase, ALT, AST and LDH During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameters: alkaline phosphatase, ALT, AST and LDH. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Amylase During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameter: Amylase. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameter of Bilirubin and Creatinine During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameter: Bilirubin and Creatinine. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Chemistry Parameters: Glucose, Calcium, Chloride, Phosphate, Potassium, Sodium, Magnesium and BUN During Extension Phase, Blood samples were collected at indicated time-points for analysis of clinical chemistry parameter:Glucose, Calcium, Chloride, Phosphate, Potassium, Sodium, Magnesium and BUN. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Weight During Extension Phase, Weight was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in SBP and DBP During Extension Phase, Vital signs including SBP and DBP were measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Pulse Rate During Extension Phase, Vital sign including pulse rate was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Change From Baseline in Temperature During Extension Phase, Vital sign including temperature was measured at indicated time-points. Baseline is defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study drug in extension phase. Change from Baseline was calculated as post dose value minus Baseline value. NA indicates standard deviation could not be calculated as a single participant was analyzed., Baseline and Cycle 2 Day 1, Cycle 3 Day 1, Cycle 4 Day 1, Cycle 5 Day 1 and Cycle 6 Day 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)
Plasma Protein Unbound Fraction (Fu) of Niraparib and M1 During PK Phase, Unbound fraction is the unbound concentration of niraparib and M1 in plasma divided by total concentration. This analysis was planned but not performed due to insufficient participants with data, Pre-dose, 3 hours and 168 hours post dose Day 1|Clearance of Unbound Niraparib and M1 (CLfu/F) During PK Phase, CLfu/F is the clearance for unbound niraparib and M1. This analysis was planned but not performed due to insufficient participants with data, Pre-dose, 3 hours and 168 hours post dose Day 1
Niraparib (Zejula®)is extensively metabolized and eliminated primarily by hepatic and renal pathways. The purpose of this study is to evaluate pharmacokinetics and safety of niraparib in patients with moderate hepatic impairment, for the purpose of providing recommendations to guide the initial dose and dose titration in this patient population.