A Study of the Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor, PCI-32765 (Ibrutinib), in Combination With Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Non-Germinal Center B-Cell Subtype of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if ibrutinib administered in combination with rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (R-CHOP) improves the clinical outcome in newly diagnosed patients with non-germinal center B-cell subtype (GCB) of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) selected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or newly diagnosed patients with activated B cell-like (ABC) subtype of DLBCL identified by gene expression profiling (GEP) or both populations.
Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone (or equivalent)
Event-Free Survival (EFS) - Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population, EFS: duration from randomization date to disease progression(PD) date, relapse from complete response(CR) assessed by investigator, initiation of subsequent systemic antilymphoma therapy for either positron emission tomography(PET)-positive/ biopsy-proven residual disease upon completion of \>=6 cycles of R-CHOP therapy/death, whichever occurred first. Responses were based on Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. PD: any new lesion or increase by 50% of previously involved sites from nadir; PD criteria: Appearance of new nodal lesion 1.5 cm in any axis, 50% increase in sum of product of diameters(SPD) of \>1 node or 50% increase in longest diameter of previously identified node 1 cm in short axis. CR: disappearance of all evidence of disease; CR criteria: nodal masses PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative; regression to normal size on CT; spleen and liver: not palpable, nodules disappeared; bone marrow: infiltrate cleared on repeat biopsy., Up to 5.5 years|Event-Free Survival (EFS) - Activated B-Cell (ABC) Population, EFS: duration from randomization date to PD date, relapse from CR assessed by investigator, initiation of subsequent systemic antilymphoma therapy for either PET-positive/ biopsy-proven residual disease upon completion of \>=6 cycles of R-CHOP therapy/death, whichever occurred first. Responses were based on Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. PD: any new lesion or increase by 50% of previously involved sites from nadir; PD criteria: Appearance of new nodal lesion 1.5 cm in any axis, 50% increase in SPD of \>1 node or 50% increase in longest diameter of previously identified node 1 cm in short axis. CR: disappearance of all evidence of disease; CR criteria: nodal masses PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative; regression to normal size on CT; spleen and liver: not palpable, nodules disappeared; bone marrow: infiltrate cleared on repeat biopsy., Up to approximately 4.5 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of progression, relapse from CR, or death, whichever occurred first. Responses were based on Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Progressive Disease (PD): any new lesion or increase by 50% of previously involved sites from nadir; PD criteria: Appearance of new nodal lesion 1.5 centimeter (cm) in any axis, 50% increase in SPD of \>1 node or 50% increase in longest diameter of previously identified node 1 cm in short axis. CR: disappearance of all evidence of disease; CR criteria: nodal masses PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative; regression to normal size on CT; spleen and liver: not palpable, nodules disappeared; bone marrow: infiltrate cleared on repeat biopsy., Up to approximately 4.5 years|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Complete Response (CR), Percentage of participants with measurable disease who achieved CR were reported. CR: disappearance of all evidence of disease. CR Criteria: Complete disappearance of all disease-related symptoms; all lymph nodes and nodal masses regressed to normal size (less than or equal to \[\<=\]1.5 cm in greatest transverse diameter \[GTD\] for nodes greater than \[\>\]1.5 cm before therapy). Previous nodes of 1.1 to 1.5 cm in long axis and greater than (\>)1.0 cm in short axis before treatment decreased to \<=1.0 cm in short axis after treatment. Disappearance of all splenic and hepatic nodules and other extranodal disease; a negative positron emission tomography (PET) scan. A posttreatment residual mass of any size but PET-negative; spleen and liver: not palpable, nodules disappeared; bone marrow: infiltrate cleared on repeat biopsy., Up to approximately 4.5 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of the participant's death. Median Overall Survival was estimated by using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 5.5 years|Time to Worsening in the Lymphoma Subscale of Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lymphoma (FACT-Lym), Time to worsening in the Lymphoma subscale of the FACT-Lym, defined as the interval from the date of randomization to the start date of worsening of participant symptoms. Worsening was defined by a 5-point decrease from baseline. FACT-Lym Lymphoma subscale contains 15 questions, scores from 0 to 4 for each question (higher the worse). Lymphoma subscale score is the total of reverse scores, range 0 to 60. Higher scores indicate a better quality of life., Up to approximately 4.5 years
This is a randomized (individuals assigned to study treatment by chance), double-blind (individuals and study personnel will not know the identity of study treatments), placebo (an inactive substance that is compared with a drug to test whether the drug has a real effect in a clinical trial)-controlled study to compare the efficacy and safety of ibrutinib in combination with R-CHOP versus R-CHOP alone in adult patients newly diagnosed non-GCB DLBCL selected by IHC or newly diagnosed patients with ABC subtype of DLBCL identified by GEP or both populations. The study will include screening, active treatment, and posttreatment follow-up phases. The study will end when 50% of participants have died or 5 years after the last participant is randomized or the sponsor terminates the study, whichever occurs first. Approximately 800 participants will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive either placebo+R-CHOP (treatment arm A) or ibrutinib+R-CHOP (treatment arm B). All participants will receive R-CHOP as background therapy for 6 or 8 cycles (21 days per cycle) prespecified according to local practice. After 4 treatment cycles, an interim response assessment will be performed to evaluate disease progression for each participant. Participants with progressive disease or relapsed disease after complete response will be discontinued from treatment. Participants who discontinue R-CHOP without disease progression will continue study drug (placebo or ibrutinib) until 6 or 8 cycles are completed, disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity, whichever occurs first. After completion of study drug, participants will undergo assessment of tumor response based on the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Participants with documented residual disease upon completion of at least 6 cycles of R-CHOP therapy are considered eligible to initiate subsequent antilymphoma therapy. Serial pharmacokinetic samples will be collected before and after dosing, and safety will be monitored throughout the study.