De Novo Adult Philadelphia Chromosome Positive (Ph+) Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) Patients
This study will enroll adult de novo Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients (≥18 years, ≤60 years). Induction treatment will consist of 12 weeks of Dasatinib oral administration (140 mg QD). Patients will initiate treatment with steroids 7 days prior to starting Dasatinib and will continue up to day 31. Patients will continue treatment with Dasatinib up to day 84, except for disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or withdrawal from study.
ALL Ph Positive
OTHER: Total therapy approach
The primary objective of the trial is to estimate the feasibility of a total therapy strategy in de novo adult Ph positive ALL., The primary endpoint is the rate of patients alive in CHR who have completed the trial treatment according to the therapeutic strategy;, at 42 months
The median value of the minimum of PCR levels achieved in each patient during the Dasatinib treatment within day +85, whenever achieved from the start of the Dasatinib., at 42 months|The rate of patients who become PCR negative after Dasatinib induction., at 42 months|Out of patients who become PCR negative after induction, the rate of patients who remain persistently negative during maintenance treatment with Dasatinib (without chemotherapy or allogeneic transplant)., at 42 months|The median value of the minimum of PCR levels achieved in each patient after an allogeneic transplant or Clofarabine-Cyclophosphamide treatment as consolidation therapy., at 42 months|The rate of patients alive in CHR who have completed the maintenance program with Dasatinib after an allogeneic transplant or two cycles of Clofarabine-Cyclophosphamide as consolidation therapy., at 42 months|Disease free survival estimation starting from the date of evaluation of CHR., at 42 months|Cumulative incidence of relapse estimation starting from the date of evaluation of CHR., at 42 months|Overall survival estimation starting from date of inclusion., at 42 months
This study will enroll adult de novo Ph+ acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients (≥18 years, ≤60 years). Induction treatment will consist of 12 weeks of Dasatinib oral administration (140 mg QD). Patients will initiate treatment with steroids 7 days prior to starting Dasatinib and will continue up to day 31. Patients will continue treatment with Dasatinib up to day 84, except for disease progression, intolerable toxicity, or withdrawal from study.

Thereafter:

* patients in hematological and molecular CR will receive a post-remissional treatment consisting of Dasatinib alone for a 6 months period
* patients in hematological CR with persistence of molecular disease will be allografted or, if not eligible or a donor is not available, treated with 2 cycles of a Clofarabine-Cyclophosphamide schedule.

After allograft:

* MRD negative patients (i.e. in CHR and PCR negative) will receive a 6 months Dasatinib maintenance treatment;
* MRD positive patients (i.e. in CHR and PCR positive) will receive Dasatinib as maintenance treatment until relapse or progression.

Patients not transplanted and treated with Clofarabine/Cyclophosphamide will also receive Dasatinib as maintenance treatment until relapse or progression.