SMS 2: Impact of Cancer Therapy on the Somatic Mutational Landscape of Normal Tissues
Recently technology has been developed at the Wellcome Sanger Institute to allow clusters of cells with mutations to be detected in normal and diseased tissues. The researchers wish to determine how the number and nature of these mutant cell clusters change in response to treatments given to cancer patients (such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, immunotherapy, and drugs targeted at specific mutations in tumours). As such the researchers wish to collect research samples of blood, cheek cells (via swabs) and urine from adult cancer patients receiving the above-mentioned treatments as part of their standard care. The researchers also wish to access any leftover tissue following surgery that is undertaken as part of these patient's treatment.
Somatic Mutation|Cancer
OTHER: sample collection|OTHER: Discussing study|OTHER: Seeking consent
To measure the frequency of acquired (somatic) mutations, The study will measure the frequency, size and nature of acquired (somatic) mutations in clusters of cells in normal blood, urinary tract and oral cells changes after cancer treatment., 5 years|To measure the size of acquired (somatic) mutations, The study will measure the size of acquired (somatic) mutations in clusters of cells in normal blood, urinary tract and oral cells changes after cancer treatment., 5 years
To understand the nature of acquired (somatic) mutations, The study will attempt to define and/or understand the behaviour/ nature of acquired (somatic) mutations in clusters of cells in normal blood, urinary tract and oral cells changes after cancer treatment., 5 years
Disease and tissue aging are thought to be influenced by genetic changes, or mutations, acquired throughout life. These mutations provide clues regarding the genetic damage that occurred through the lifetime of the patient, and include mutations caused by environmental factors such as ultraviolet light from sunlight or tobacco smoke affecting the skin or internal tissues, respectively. Other mutations may occur due to errors in copying the genome as cells divide. Once a cell has acquired a mutation, the cell's daughters may inherit it. Eventually clusters of cells carrying the same mutation may form within tissues. If the mutations alter cell behaviour this may impact how cells behave and influence how a whole tissue functions.