An Open Label Randomised Trial of RNActive® Cancer Vaccine in High Risk and Intermediate Risk Patients With Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the induction of immune responses against CV9104 administered by conventional intradermal injection or with a needle-free intradermal injection device and to assess the safety and tolerability of CV9104 administered by conventional intradermal injection versus injection with a needle-free intradermal injection device versus no injection.
Prostate Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: CV9104|DEVICE: needle free injection device (Tropis®)
Induction of antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune response to the vaccine antigens., Up to one week before the date of surgery.
Incidence and severity of adverse device effects, adverse events and laboratory abnormalities, graded according to NCI-CTCAE version 4.0 criteria, From ICF signature till end of study (max. up to week 20 after first study treatment in arm A and B and up to week 26 after first study treatment in arm C)|Occurrence of serious adverse events, From ICF signature till end of study (max. up to week 20 after first study treatment in arm A and B and up to week 26 after first study treatment in arm C)|Occurrence of treatment discontinuation due to adverse events, From time of first to last study treatment|Change in PSA serum levels during the presurgical period and, in patients receiving postsurgical vaccinations, change in PSA during the postsurgical period, At screening, at baseline (week 1), at the last presurgical visit (week 6 in arm A and B, week 3-6 in arm C), at the first postsurgical visit (8 weeks after surgery) and at the end of study (max. up to week 21 in arm A and B and up to week 27 in arm C)
Assessment of immune cell infiltration, and gene expression profiles in prostatectomy tissue samples., tissue collection at prostatectomy (week 6-7 in arm A and B, week 4-7 in arm C)|Assessment of immune parameters and biomarkers in blood and exprimate urine, At baseline (week 1), at the last presurgical visit (week 6 in arm A and B, week 3-6 in arm C), at the first post surgical visit (8 weeks after surgery; blood only) and in week 13 after surgery (in arm C, receiving vaccinations after surgery)
This study is the second clinical trial of the RNActive® vaccine. It is composed of 6 RNActive® drug product components, coding for 6 antigens that are overexpressed in PCA compared to healthy tissue. Each of the 6 prostate specific antigens that are encoded by CV9104 are capable of inducing adaptive immunity.

Needle-free injection systems, like the Tropis® device for i.d. injection, overcome the disadvantages related to needle- and syringe-based i.d. injections. Tropis® is currently used in different vaccine clinical trials around the world. The use of Tropis® for i.d. delivery of CV9104 has been approved by BfArM.