Efficacy and Safety of Single-port Surgical Robot System in Thoraic Surgery
Robotic surgical systems have become a promising surgical assistance system, with unique advantages such as 3D high-definition visual system, highly flexible wrist-jointed instruments, and automatic fitering of hand tremors. Robotic surgical systems is applied in various fields including urology, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, head and neck surgery, and gynecology. Currently, the Da Vinci surgical robot system is the most widely used robot system globally. However, the Da Vinci robot system for single-port laparoscopic surgery has not yet been launched in China. Therefore, the investigators conduct a prespective, single-center study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of single-port surgical robot system in thoracic surgery.
Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: Surgical robot system
Intraoperative conversion rate, The conversion from a single-port laparoscopic surgery system to other surgical Instrument control systems, such as traditional thoracoscopy or open surgery., Within 1 day after surgery|Surgical complications rate, The incidence rate of instrument-related or potentially instrument-related surgical complications meeting Clavien-Dindo grade 3 or above criteria from the time of incision, 30 days after surgery
Intraoperating bleeding volume, The amount of intraoperative bleeding from the start to the end of the surgery in the study subjects, Within 1 day after surgery|Surgical time, Within 1 day after surgery|Length of hospital admissions, The total number of days of hospitalization from the day of surgery to discharge for the study subjects.

If a subject is admitted in the afternoon or discharged in the morning, the day of admission or discharge is recorded as 0.5 days., Within 30 day after surgery|Postoperative wound pain score, Assessment will be conducted using the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS), 1, 24 and 72 hours after surgery|Surgeon satisfaction, The surgeon satisfaction survey questionnaire consists of two parts: performance-related (12 questions) and surgeon comfort-related ratings (8 questions). The scoring criteria are as follows: Each question is scored on a scale of 1-5, with a maximum score of 5. The total score is out of 100, Within 4 hours after surgery|Adverse events, Incidence of adverse events (AE), serious adverse events (SAE), and overall surgical complication rate (evaluated using the Clavien-Dindo grading system), Within 1 day after surgery|Rate of re-admission to hospital, 30 days after discharge|Rate of reoperation, 30 days after surgery|Postoperative mortality, 30 days after surgery
Robotic surgical systems have become a promising surgical assistance system, with unique advantages such as 3D high-definition visual system, highly flexible wrist-jointed instruments, and automatic fitering of hand tremors. Robotic surgical systems is applied in various fields including urology, general surgery, cardiothoracic surgery, head and neck surgery, and gynecology. Currently, the Da Vinci surgical robot system is the most widely used robot system globally. However, the Da Vinci robot system for single-port laparoscopic surgery has not yet been launched in China. Therefore, the investigators conduct a prespective, single-center study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of single-port surgical robot system in thoracic surgery.