Bendamustine HCL in Relapsed and Primary Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma
The standard treatment for patients with HL that has not responded to treatment or has come back after treatment is stem cell transplant. When patients are not eligible for transplant or when HL comes back after transplant, there are no standard treatment options. These patients can receive chemotherapy or participate in clinical trials. Bendamustine HCl is a chemotherapy agent that is effective in treating patients with various diseases, including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and breast cancer. It was recently approved for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition, small studies from Eastern Europe have shown that bendamustine HCl is likely effective for treating HL. This study will find out the effect of bendamustine HCl for transplant-ineligible patients with HL that has not responded to or has come back after treatment.
Hodgkin's Disease|Lymphoma
DRUG: bendamustine hcl
Determine the Overall Response Rate (RR) to Bendamustine HCL in Patients With Relapsed and Primary Refractory HL., The percentage of evaluable participants who achieved either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR Disappearance of all evidence of disease. (a) FDGavid or PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression to normal size on CT. PR Regression of measurable disease and no new sites. \> or = to 50% decrease in SPD of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes (a) FDG-avid or PET positive prior to therapy; one or more PET positive at previously involved site (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression on CT., up to 3 years
The standard treatment for patients with HL that has not responded to treatment or has come back after treatment is stem cell transplant. When patients are not eligible for transplant or when HL comes back after transplant, there are no standard treatment options. These patients can receive chemotherapy or participate in clinical trials. Bendamustine HCl is a chemotherapy agent that is effective in treating patients with various diseases, including non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma, and breast cancer. It was recently approved for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition, small studies from Eastern Europe have shown that bendamustine HCl is likely effective for treating HL. This study will find out the effect of bendamustine HCl for transplant-ineligible patients with HL that has not responded to or has come back after treatment.