Safety and Efficacy of RRx-001 in the Attenuation of Oral Mucositis in Patients Receiving Chemoradiation for the Treatment of Oral Cancers
The purpose of this study is to determine if RRx-001, which is added on to the cisplatin and radiation treatment, reduces the duration or length of severe oral mucositis in patients with head and neck cancers. All patients in this study will receive 7 weeks of standard of care radiation therapy given with the chemotherapy agent, cisplatin. Patients in arms 1, 2 and 3 will also receive RRx-001 on different schedules.
Oral Mucositis
DRUG: RRx-001|DRUG: Cisplatin for injection|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Duration of Severe Oral Mucositis (SOM), Duration in days of severe oral mucositis (SOM). Defined as oral mucositis grade 3 or 4 on the WHO Mucositis Grading Scale which comprises 5 grades: 0 = none, 1= oral soreness, erythema, 2 = oral erythema, ulcers, solid diet tolerated, 3 = oral ulcers, liquid diet only, and 4 = oral alimentation impossible. Severe Oral Mucositis duration is obtained by totaling the number of days a given patient experiences oral mucositis grade 3 or 4 during the randomized treatment period. Higher Severe Oral Mucositis duration numbers are indicative of worst outcomes. The total Severe Oral Mucositis duration for a given patient will range between 0 days and the maximum number of days the patient participated in the randomized treatment period., From start of treatment through 28 days post treatment for up to 11 weeks from Start of Treatment
Time to Onset of Severe Oral Mucositis, Time to onset of Severe Oral Mucositis defined as time (in days) from randomization to the first observed Severe Oral Mucositis. Longer Severe Oral Mucositis onset times are indicative of a better outcome. The time to onset of Severe Oral Mucositis for a given patient will range between 0 days and the maximum number of days the patient participated in the randomized treatment period., Time from Day 1 to Oral Mucositis Onset (up to 8 weeks)|Incidence of Severe Oral Mucositis, Incidence of Severe Oral Mucositis defined as the number of patients who experienced a Severe Oral Mucositis grade 4 during the randomized treatment period., Baseline through end of treatment (up to 11 weeks). Data collected every week.|Opioid Use, Opioid use from the time to onset (TTO) and duration of opioid use among patients who were not taking opioids at radiation start or who required a second opioid during active treatment., Baseline through end of radiation treatment (through 8 weeks). Data collected every week.
The standard treatment for head and neck cancer currently includes a chemotherapy drug called cisplatin that is given by intravenous (IV) infusion and radiation, which is delivered from a machine that precisely targets the tumor. One common and unfortunate side effect of treatment with cisplatin and radiation is oral mucositis, which refers to irritation of the lining of the mouth. Oral mucositis is a serious problem 1) because the open mouth sores from oral mucositis may lead to severe pain, nutritional problems and dehydration from an inability to eat and drink, an increased risk of infection from bacteria and fungus and delay or discontinuation of treatment and 2) because there is only one approved therapy to treat or prevent it.