A Phase 3 Single-Arm Study of UGN-102 for Treatment of Low-Grade Intermediate-Risk Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
This Phase 3, multinational, single-arm study was designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of UGN-102 as primary chemoablative therapy in patients with recurrent low-grade intermediate-risk non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (LG-IR-NMIBC).
Bladder Cancer|Urothelial Carcinoma|Urothelial Carcinoma Bladder
DRUG: UGN-102
Complete Response Rate (CRR), CRR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved a complete response (CR) at the 3-month Visit. A patient was considered a CR if there was no detectable disease in the bladder based on visual observation (white light cystoscopy), biopsy of remaining lesions (if applicable), and voiding urine cytology., 3 months
Duration of Response (DOR) in Patients Who Achieved CR at the 3-month Visit, DOR is defined as the time from the first documented CR to the earliest date of recurrence or progression as determined using the date of cystoscopy, for cause biopsy, or cytology, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., Up to 60 months|Durable Complete Response (DCR) Rate in Patients Who Achieved CR at the 3-month Visit, DCR rate at scheduled disease assessment time points is defined as the percentage of patients who had a CR at the 3-month Visit and maintained CR up to that particular follow-up visit., Up to 60 months|Disease-free Survival (DFS) in Patients Who Achieved CR at the 3-month Visit, DFS is defined as the time from the first instillation to the earliest date of recurrence or progression as determined using the date of cystoscopy, for cause biopsy, or cytology, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., Up to 63 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, and TEAEs of Special Interest, The number of patients with each type of event is summarized. TEAEs were defined as adverse events (AEs) that started on or after the day of the first instillation of UGN-102 or pre-treatment AEs that worsened during the study., Up to 21 months|Number of Participants With Post-baseline Potentially Clinically Significant (PCS) Hematology Values, The number of patients with each type of event is summarized., 6 months|Number of Participants With Post-baseline PCS Chemistry Values, The number of patients with each type of event is summarized., 6 months
Eligible patients received 6 once-weekly intravesical instillations of UGN-102.

All patients returned to the clinic approximately 3 months after the first instillation for determination of response to treatment. Assessment of response was based on visual observation (white light cystoscopy), histopathology of any remaining or new lesions by central pathology lab (if applicable), and interpretation of urine cytology by central pathology lab.

Patients who had a complete response (CR) at the 3-month Visit, defined as having no detectable disease in the bladder, entered the Follow-up Period of the study. Patients who had a non-complete response (NCR) due to residual LG disease underwent investigator-designated standard of care (SOC) treatment of remaining lesions and then entered the Follow-up Period of the study.

During the Follow-up Period, patients return to the clinic every 3 months for up to 24 months (ie, 27 months after the first instillation) for evaluation of response. Patients who remain disease free at the 27-month Visit will continue to be followed every 6 months for up to 36 months (ie, 63 months after the first instillation) or until disease recurrence, disease progression, death, or the study is closed by the sponsor, whichever occurs first.

Patients who had a disease recurrence during the Follow-up Period or a disease progression at any time underwent investigator-designated SOC treatment and had a separate End of Study (EOS) Visit performed. The timing of the EOS Visit was approximately 3 months after SOC treatment of disease recurrence or progression.

Study conduct is ongoing and data are summarized through a cutoff date of 04 Apr 2024. As of the data cutoff date, ongoing patients were followed through at least Study Month 15, with the earliest enrolled patients followed through Study Month 21.