Platelet Rich Plasma for the Treatment of Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause in Patients With Stage 0-III Breast Cancer
This phase I trial is to find out possible benefits and/or side effects of platelet rich plasma for the treatment of genitourinary syndrome of menopause in patients with stage 0-III breast cancer. Platelet rich plasma is produced by collecting approximately 60-90 ml (4-6 tablespoons) of blood from the vein in patients' arm. The blood is spun using a centrifuge that separates the plasma and red blood cells. This allows doctors to collect the platelet rich plasma that is then loaded into individual, sterile syringes for injection. Giving platelet rich plasma may help relief symptoms of genitourinary syndrome of menopause in patients with breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Breast Adenocarcinoma|Genitourinary Syndrome of Menopause|Prognostic Stage 0 Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Prognostic Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Therapeutic Autologous Platelet-rich Plasma
Incidence of adverse events, Safety endpoint is defined as a lack of serious adverse events. National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) will be used to grade the severity of adverse events that occur in this study., Up to 2 weeks post-treatment|Tolerability of planned injection regimen with pain scores, Feasibility will be based on whether or not 16 or more patients (\> 80%) tolerate the planned injection regimen with pain scores during the procedure less than or equal to 4., Up to 6 months post-treatment
Change in vaginal symptoms, Assessed using the vaginal assessment scale. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in vulvar symptoms, Assessed using the vulvar assessment scale. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in Day-to-Day Impact of Vaginal Aging score, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in sexual function, Will assess change in Female Sexual Function Index score. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 6 months|Change in urinary symptoms, Assessed with Urogenital Distress Index 6 score. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics., Baseline up to 6 months|Objective vaginal changes - vaginal maturation index, Assessed with vaginal maturation index, Baseline up to 6 months|Objective vaginal changes - vaginal health index score, Assessed with vaginal health index score, Baseline up to 6 months|Objective vaginal changes - vaginal caliber, Assessed with vaginal caliber, Baseline up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and feasibility of use of platelet rich plasma (PRP) treatment in breast cancer survivors with genitourinary syndrome of menopause (GSM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the preliminary efficacy in treatment of vaginal atrophy, urinary symptoms, assessment of sexual function, quality of life symptoms, and patient global impression of improvement and tolerability.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive platelet rich plasma via injection into the vaginal area.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 6 months.