CheckpOiNt Blockade For Inhibition of Relapsed Mesothelioma
The UK has the highest incidence of mesothelioma. The incidence has risen by 497% since the late 1970's and is increasing worldwide due to continued mining and use of asbestos. For patients with mesothelioma who have relapsed after taking pemetrexed and cisplatin, there is currently no standard treatment, making this an urgent unmet need. Recent trials in this area have not found an effective treatment that improves overall survival.

Following a debate in the House of Lords, a national survey assessing the research priorities in mesothelioma found that 'exploiting the potential of immunotherapy' was a top priority. This trial was designed in response to that survey. It uses the immunotherapy agent nivolumab which blocks programmed cell death 1 (PD-1) receptor on activated T-cells (a type of white blood cell forming part of the immune system). Early research has found a dependency of mesothelioma on the PD-1 checkpoint. By attaching to PD-1, nivolumab blocks its action (checkpoint inhibition), preventing it from turning off the T-cell, and therefore allowing the immune system to work. PD-1 checkpoint inhibition has revolutionised the treatment of melanoma and it is hoped to be as effective in mesothelioma.

This trial is a randomised, double blind placebo controlled trial of patients with mesothelioma who are second or third relapse following a platinum based chemotherapy treatment.
Mesothelioma
DRUG: Nivolumab|OTHER: Placebo
Overall survival, Length of time participants are alive, Time from randomisation to date of death from any cause or time of censoring|Progression free survival, Length of time participants are free of disease progression, Time from randomisation to investigator-reported progression, death, or end of study (max. 12 months from last participant randomised)
Overall response rate (modified RECIST or RECIST 1.1), Response of disease to treatment, From randomisation and while on treatment|EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life, At baseline, after cycles 3 and 6 (each cycle is 14 days) and 1, 6 and 12 months post progression/treatment discontinuation.|CTCAE V4.03, Adverse events, At baseline, after each treatment cycle (each cycle is 14 days) and each follow up visit. Up to 30 days post progression/treatment discontinuation.|Health resource use, Bespoke health resource use questionnaire capturing information on hospital visits., Up to max. 24 months. At baseline, after cycles 3 and 6 (each cycle is 14 days) and 1, 6 and 12 months post progression/treatment discontinuation.|Progression-free survival (RECIST), Time participant is free of disease progression, as measured by RECIST, From randomisation until 28 days after completing treatment (max. 12 months), progression, or death
Translational, To correlate:

1. mutation burden with OS
2. immunosuppressive landscape (immune checkpoint expression and infiltration of immune cell) and nivolumab efficacy, Samples collected at baseline and optional sample at progression (assessed up to 51 months from randomisation)
Effective therapy for relapsed mesothelioma is an unmet need. Despite a significant number of clinical studies in the second line setting, no randomised study to date has been positive. The James Lind Alliance Priority Setting Partnership funded by the NIHR has identified immunotherapy as the number one UK research priority. To date there have been no placebo controlled randomised trials for mesothelioma using PD-L1 or PD-1 checkpoint inhibition. Early promising signals of activity relating to both PD-L1 and PD-1 targeted treatment in mesothelioma implicate a dependency of mesothelioma on this immune checkpoint, and support the development of a randomised phase III trial to evaluate the efficacy of nivolumab. CONFIRM will be the first ever placebo controlled, randomised phase III trial of a PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor.

PD-1 checkpoint inhibition has revolutionised the treatment of melanoma and is now standard of care in non-small cell lung cancer, squamous cell cancer head and neck and classical Hodgkin's lymphoma. It is being assessed rigorously in numerous other cancers making its evaluation in mesothelioma timely in CONFIRM.

This trial is a randomised, double blind placebo controlled trial of patients with mesothelioma who are second or third relapse following a platinum based chemotherapy treatment. Patients will be randomised in a 2:1 ratio (nivolumab: placebo).

336 patients will be recruited from 25 UK centres with the last patient having a minimum of 6 months follow up. All patients will be on treatment for 12 months unless they progress or withdrawal prior to this.