Lenalidomide and Dexamethasone With or Without Anakinra in Treating Patients With Early Stage Multiple Myeloma
This partially randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of anakinra when given together with lenalidomide and dexamethasone in treating patients with early stage multiple myeloma. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide and anakinra, may stimulate or suppress the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether lenalidomide and dexamethasone are more effective with or without anakinra in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Indolent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Plasma Cell Myeloma|Smoldering Plasma Cell Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Anakinra|DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Placebo
Number of Participants Experiencing a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of participants experiencing a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is reported below. Dose-limiting toxicity is graded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 28 days|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Grade 3+ Adverse Events Deemed at Least Possibly Related to Treatment, Graded According to NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, The number of participants who experienced at least one grade 3+ adverse events deemed at least possibly related to treatment, graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, is reported below., Up to 41 months|Best Response, The following response terms will be used: stringent Complete Response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), Minimal Response (MR), stable disease (SD), and progressive disease (PD). The International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) uniform response criteria (Rajkumar et al, 2011) will be used to assess response to therapy. PR defined as: ≥50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein by ≥90% or to \<200 mg/24hrs; ≥ 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas. MR defined as: ≥25% but ≤ 49% reduction of serum M protein and reduction in 24-hour urine M-protein by 50-89% which still exceeds 200mg/24 hours; 25-49% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytoma and No increase in the size or number of lytic bone lesions. VGPR defined as: Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis or ≥90% reduction in serum M-protein and urine M-protein \<100 mg/24 h, Up to 41 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/maximum allowable dose (MAD) of anakinra that can be combined with lenalidomide and dexamethasone. (Phase I) II. To compare the time to progression of the standard treatment arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone) to the experimental arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone + anakinra). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the response rate of the standard treatment arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone) to the experimental arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone + anakinra).

II. To compare the toxicity of the standard treatment arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone) to the experimental arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone + anakinra).

III. To compare the overall survival of the standard treatment arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone) to the experimental arm (lenalidomide/dexamethasone + anakinra).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of anakinra followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive anakinra subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive lenalidomide PO on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Patients also receive anakinra SC on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive lenalidomide and dexamethasone as in Arm A. Patients also receive placebo SC on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.