Oral Propanolol for Surgically Inaccessible Cavernous Malformations
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the role of propranolol as an alternative treatment for cavernous malformation in patients that may not be ideal candidates for surgery.
Cavernous Malformations,Cerebral and/or Spinal
DRUG: Propranolol Oral Tablet|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Number of symptomatic and silent hemorrhages on MRI, Using MRI imaging the size of the cavernous malformation will be measured. The primary outcome is the number of symptomatic and silent hemorrhages as assessed by review of a fine-cut, axial T2-weighted MRI obtained at each visit., 36 months
Rate of de novo lesion formation; changes in rate of breakthrough seizures or other neurological deficits, The secondary outcome is the rate of de novo lesion formation; changes in rate of breakthrough seizures or other neurological deficits; quality of life measured using the SF-36 at each visit, patient satisfaction with treatment; and the incidence of treatment failure., 36 months
Patients between the ages of 1 and 80 years of age, that have been diagnosed with a spinal or cerebral cavernous malformation(s) that can not be surgically treated, will be enrolled in this randomized study. All eligible patients will be enrolled in one of two groups. Group 1 will receive oral propranolol tablets 3 times a day for 36 months. Group 2 will receive oral placebo tablets 3 times per day for 36 months. Prior to beginning treatment, all imaging, including MRIs, will be evaluated. During the first visit a blood sample will be collected for genomic analysis. Patients will return to clinic every 6 months. Each time the patient returns to clinic monitoring of how the patient is feeling and evaluation of how the patient is tolerating the propranolol will take place. At the end of the three years, evaluators will determine if the propranolol was able to stop the growth of the cavernous malformation and change the imaging features of the lesion on MRI. Once the study is completed patients will no longer receive the study drug.