Capmatinib, Ceritinib, Regorafenib, or Entrectinib in Treating Patients With BRAF/NRAS Wild-Type Stage III-IV Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well capmatinib, ceritinib, regorafenib, or entrectinib work in treating patients with BRAF/NRAS wild-type stage III-IV melanoma. Capmatinib, ceritinib, regorafenib, or entrectinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
ALK Fusion Protein Expression|BRAF wt Allele|Invasive Skin Melanoma|MET Fusion Gene Positive|NRAS wt Allele|NTRK1 Fusion Positive|NTRK2 Fusion Positive|NTRK3 Fusion Positive|RET Fusion Positive|ROS1 Fusion Positive|Stage III Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIA Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma
DRUG: Capmatinib|DRUG: Ceritinib|DRUG: Entrectinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Regorafenib
Confirmed Overall Response Rate (ORR), Defined as a complete or partial response as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 criteria with confirmatory measurements a minimum of 4 weeks after the response-defining determination. Analysis of study results will include ORR estimations of ALK, NTRK, ROS1, RET, MET, and BRAF rearrangement-positive patients., 24 weeks
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate is defined as the proportion of patients achieving a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) for \> 24 weeks using the same RECIST 1.1 decision matrix used to calculate ORR. The CBR will be estimated for each arm along with a 95% confidence interval, Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall defined as the time from treatment start to the progression or death and overall survival defined as the time from treatment start to death will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., From treatment start to death, assessed up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) defined as the time from treatment start to the progression or death and overall survival defined as the time from treatment start to death will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methodology, up to 2 years|Evaluation of the Adverse Effect Profile of Each Kinase Inhibitor, Frequencies of toxicities will be tabulated according to CTCAE v4.03 to assess drug safety and tolerability, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the clinical activity of tyrosine kinase inhibitors matched to the tumor-specific fusion kinase in patients with metastatic melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate tumor stability in melanoma patients treated with kinase inhibitors matched to the tumor-specific fusion kinase.

II. To estimate survival in melanoma patients treated with kinase inhibitors matched to the tumor-specific fusion kinase.

III. To examine the safety and tolerability of kinase inhibitors in patients with melanoma with a fusion kinase.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore molecular mechanisms of resistance for patients who progress on therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM A: Patients with MET fusion receive capmatinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

ARM B: Patients with ALK fusion receive ceritinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

ARM C: Patients with RET or BRAF fusion receive regorafenib PO QD on day 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

ARM D: Patients with NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3, or ROS1 fusion receive entrectinib PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days and then periodically.