N2007-03: Vorinostat and 131-I MIBG in Treating Patients With Resistant or Relapsed Neuroblastoma
RATIONALE: Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Radioactive drugs, such as iobenguane I 131, may carry radiation directly to tumor cells and not harm normal cells. Giving vorinostat together with iobenguane I 131 may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of giving vorinostat together with iobenguane I 131 in treating patients with resistant or relapsed neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Vorinostat|RADIATION: 131- I Metaiodobenzylguanidine|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Infusion|DRUG: Filgrastim
All toxicities , including dose limiting toxicities, of the combination of vorinostat with therapeutic doses of 131-I MIBG, All toxicities observed will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity (by NCI CTCAE) and attribution. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose level and by course., From day 1 of vorinostat therapy to 56 days after stem cell re-infusion
Response evaluation , within the context of a phase I study., Eligible patients with measurable or evaluable disease who receive 131-I MIBG are evaluable for response even if they fail to complete the course of therapy because of disease progression. Responses will be described for all patients registered on the study even if there are major protocol deviations ., At study entry, 56 days after stem cell re-infusion (end of therapy).|Histone acetylation levels and norepinephrine transported mRNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells after treatment with different doses of vorinostat., Collection of samples for correlative biology is optional and not required for study entry. Although these studies are not mandated, all institutions are strongly urged to submit specimens for all consenting patients., Baseline, Pre-day 3 , Post-day 3, Day 12, 13 or 14.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat in combination with iobenguane I 131 in patients with resistant or relapsed neuroblastoma.
* To define the toxicities of vorinostat in combination with therapeutic doses of iobenguane I 131 in these patients.

Secondary

* To describe, within the context of a phase I study, the response rate in patients treated with vorinostat and iobenguane I 131.
* To describe histone acetylation levels and norepinephrine transporter mRNA levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells after treatment with different doses of vorinostat.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral vorinostat once daily on days 1-14 and iobenguane I 131 IV over 1½-2 hours on day 3. Patients undergo autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 17.

Blood samples may be collected periodically for correlative biological studies.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.