CHronic Hepatopathies Associated with ALcohol Consumption and MetAbolic Syndrome
The aim is to determine the metabolic factors, host immune factors, and medical imaging data associated with the development of HepatoCellular Carcinoma (HCC) in patients with alcohol-related liver disease or dysmetabolic steatosis/Non-Alcoholic SteatoHepatitis.

The investigators will include patients with and without cirrhosis in order to identify early molecular mechanisms involved in the development of HCC especially in non-cirrhotic patients.
Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease|Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis|Alcohol-related Liver Disease|Cirrhosis, Liver|Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Liver biopsy
Primary outcome measure CHALNA2, The primary endpoint will be the study of variations in metabolic gene markers (i.e. mRNA of genes implicated in inflammation or metabolism assessed in qPCR, using a housekeeping gene such as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH)), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage., 2022-2032
Secondary outcome measure CHALNA2, Secondary endpoint will include variations in other gene markers (e.g. genes implicated in the regeneration, cell deaths and tumor, assessed in qPCR, using a housekeeping gene such as glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH)) in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage., 2022-2032|3th outcome measure CHALNA2, 3th endpoint will include variations in genetic markers (Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs)), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage.

The frequency of SNPs will be compared to that found in the UK biobank cohort., 2022-2032|4th outcome measure CHALNA2, 4th endpoint will include variations in epigenetic markers (histone methylation, micro RNA), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage., 2022-2032|5th outcome measure CHALNA2, 5th endpoint will include variations in tissue proteins (including tumor and non tumor tissue), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage. Western blots will be quantified and compared in an automated way., 2022-2032|6th outcome measure CHALNA2, 6th endpoint will include variations in specific markers or markers derived from analysis via platforms (OMICS), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage., 2022-2032|7th outcome measure CHALNA2, 7th endpoint will include variations in radiomics (radiomics is a method that extracts a large number of features from medical images using data-characterisation algorithms), in patients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma with different levels of severity of liver damage., 2022-2032
Type and methodology of the research:

Within the framework of the usual management of the patient's pathology, a clinico-biological characterization (dietary and physical activity questionnaires, "performans status", anthropometric measurements, usual blood biology characterizing the hepatic, renal and inflammatory function, the carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, the non invasive test for liver fibrosis ELF etc.) will be carry out. In order to collect radiomic data, liver imaging (particularly in case of HCC) will be done.

A liver biopsy and constitution of a biobank (samples of plasma, sera, DNA and leucocyte pellets) will be performed.

The elements necessary for the classification of possible hepatocellular carcinomas (BCLC classification) will be collected.

Anticipated research schedule:

* The duration of inclusion in this research will be 10 years.
* The duration of the patient's participation will be from 1 day (if the consent is signed and the biopsy is performed on the same day) to 2 months (maximum reflection period is 8 weeks between the signature of the consent and the taking of samples).
* The total duration of the research (from the first inclusion, to the last visit of the last participant) will be 10 years and 2 months.