High-Intensity Interval vs. Moderate Continuous Training in Surgical Prehabilitation.
Surgery is a stressful procedure associate with perioperative physical impairment. In a previous study, the investigators showed that physical fitness could be optimize in surgical patients using prehabilitation, a preoperative conditioning intervention in form of exercise, nutrition and relaxation technique. The best modality of exercise has yet to be known.The purpose of this study is to compare high interval (HIT) vs. moderate continuous intensity (MC) training, integrated in a prehabilitation intervention in colorectal surgical patients.
Colorectal Cancer|Physical Activity
PROCEDURE: HIT|PROCEDURE: MCT
Oxygen consumption (VO2), Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) will be conducted on a cycle ergometer. Coupling expired gas analysis with minute ventilation, It will provide oxygen consumption during exercise., 4 weeks (before surgery)
Six-minute walking distance., Using a 6-minute walk test, subjects are instructed to walk back and forth, in a 20 m stretch of hallway, for six minutes, at a pace that would make them tired by the end of the walk., 4 weeks (before surgery)|Sit-to-Stand test, Sit-to-Stand test is measured by the Senior Fitness Test, to assess an individuals lower-body strength. This is done by having the individual sit on a chair and attempt to stand as many times in a maximum of 30 seconds., 4 weeks (before surgery)|Community Health Activities Model Program for Seniors (CHAMPS) score, Physical activity level will be measured through the Community Health Activities Model Program for Seniors (CHAMPS) questionnaire. The CHAMPS is a self-reported measure of physical activity, comprising 41 activities evaluated according to the total number of hours done during an average week. Each physical activity is assigned a MET (metabolic equivalent) value yielding average weekly caloric expenditure for the listed physical activities. Continuos variable, measured in kcal/week, minimum score 3.5, higher value from baseline will represent a better outcome., 4 weeks (before surgery)|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) score, Depression and anxiety will be assessed by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a 14-question measure with seven items each for depression and anxiety. HADS generates separate scores for anxiety and depression as well as a combined score of psychological distress. Continuos variable 0-21 (0-7 normal value, 11-21 anxiety/depression), higher value from baseline will represent a worse outcome., 4 weeks (before surgery)
All patients will receive prehabilitation preoperatively for 4 weeks, that is composed of 3 elements, exercise, nutritional supplements and psychological coping strategies. Both exercise protocol will be supervised, 3-time per week, in-hospital programs. Patients will be randomized to perform either HIT or MC training. Exercise intensity will be defined and personalized on the individual values at cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET). Patients' nutritional status and dietary intake will be assessed by the nutritionist, and supplement will be prescribed if needed to achieve a daily intake of 1.5 g protein/kg. Perioperative care will follow the McGill Surgical Recovery Pathway, also called Enhanced Recovery Program, which is an evidence-based care plan set up by the Surgical Recovery (SuRe) multidisciplinary committee of the McGill University Health Centre.