Efficacy Study of an Anti-Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) Alpha Agent in Patients With Hand Osteoarthritis
Digital osteoarthritis (DO) which affects the interphalangeal joints and the Metacarpophalangeal (MCP) of the thumb is a common disease, the prevalence of which increases with age (36% of the population aged over 70). Certain forms of DO with clinical manifestations involving inflammatory features are particularly refractory to usual treatments (analgesics, NSAIDs, braces and local injections). The mechanism of osteoarthritis involves two major cytokines: interleukin-1 beta and tumor necrosis factor alpha. TNF alpha is particularly involved in the inflammation process.

The aim of the present study is to study the efficacy of TNF alpha blockers (2 injections of adalimumab compared to placebo injections in patients with severe and refractory hand osteoarthritis.

We hope that such new therapeutic option may induce substantial pain relief.
Hand Osteoarthritis
OTHER: Adalimumab (Humira®)|OTHER: Placebo
Level of Pain on visual analogue scale, 4 weeks following the last injection
Number of tender joints, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Number of swollen joints, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Global assessment of handicap by patient, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Global assessment of handicap by physician, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Duration of morning stiffness, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|DREISER'S algofunctional index, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Cochin hand index, at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Weekly pain recording, and recording of analgesic use (acetaminophen), at weeks 4, 6, 10, 14, 26|Percentage of non responders according to the number of patients requiring NSAIDS intake during the trial and/or rule out for lack of efficacy, from week 0 until week 26
Objective: To demonstrate the efficacy of two subcutaneous injections of anti-TNF alpha (adalimumab) in patients with DO refractory to usual treatments (NSAIDs - analgesics).

Design: Randomized placebo-controlled multicenter (20 sites (amendment 18/12/2008)) trial

Trial duration: 6 months follow-up per patient, total trial duration: 12 months

Number of patients: 84(up)

Dose of administration: Two subcutaneous injections separated by a 2-week interval of either adalimumab or placebo. Therapeutic precautions inherent to the prescription of anti-TNF alpha are based upon those recommended in rheumatoid arthritis. With only two injections of anti-TNF alpha, the risk of complications (infectious in particular) inherent to the anti-TNF alpha appears to be extremely slight.

Patient selection: Patients with digital osteoarthritis (DIP and PIP) according to American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria (with a recent X-ray, less than 6 months, of the hands, showing signs of digital osteoarthritis), symptomatic for more than 3 months (at least three finger joints) and scored more than 40 mm on a pain visual analog scale (VAS) despite use of a level 1 analgesic (acetaminophen: 4 g daily) andNSAIDs. Main Exclusion criteria are contraindications to anti-TNF alpha according to international guidelines.

Methods: Patients will be seen at a screening visit, then during treatment administration (W0 and W2) and at follow-up visits: W6, 10, 14 and 26. NSAIDs will be stopped at the time of screening.

Efficacy evaluation: The efficacy endpoint is improvement in pain on a pain VAS at different times of assessment (primary endpoint at W6). A more than 50% improvement, in comparison with baseline, will be considered to be significant. Secondary endpoints are: number of tender joints, number of swollen joints, morning stiffness, global assessment of handicap by patient, global assessment of handicap by physician, the DREISER'S algofunctional index, Cochin hand index, weekly evolution of pain ( patient record), and recording of analgesic use (acetaminophen or NSAIDs).

Statistical data: Statistical analysis will be performed on the inter-group difference in the intention-to-treat population. khi-2 will be used only for criteria number 1.

Anticipated result: Significant superiority of adalimumab over placebo which would provide a therapeutic solution in difficult-to-treat patients with hand OA.