Incretin Secretion in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
The incretin hormones are secreted from the gastrointestinal tract in response to nutrient ingestion, and are responsible for 70 % of insulin secretion in response to glucose. The incretin response is attenuated in subjects with type 2 diabetes and other conditions associated with insulin resistance. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterised by irregular periods and increased androgen levels. It is the most common endocrine disorder amongst young women at fertile age, and the most common cause of female infertility. Insulin resistance plays an important role in the development of the disease, and women with PCOS are at increased risk of developing tyoe 2 diabetes. the incretin hormones have not previously been investigated in women with PCOS, and the purpose of the present study was to investigate the secretion of the two most important incretin hormones Glucose-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and Glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) during a three hour oral glucose tolerance test.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: metformin
The incretin hormones are secreted from the gastrointestinal tract in response to nutrient ingestion, and are responsible for 70 % of insulin secretion in response to glucose. The incretin response is attenuated in subjects with type 2 diabetes and other conditions associated with insulin resistance. Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterised by irregular periods and increased androgen levels. It is the most common endocrine disorder amongst young women at fertile age, and the most common cause of female infertility. Insulin resistance plays an important role in the development of the disease, and women with PCOS are at increased risk of developing tyoe 2 diabetes. the incretin hormones have not previously been investigated in women with PCOS, and the purpose of the present study was to investigate the secretion of the two most important incretin hormones Glucose-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and Glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide (GIP) during a three hour oral glucose tolerance test.