Care Coordination Educational Intervention Study for Patients from Rural Areas with Early Stage Cancer
Care Coordination is an essential component of cancer care delivery. Many patients experience poor care coordination. In this study, we hypothesize that provision of a video educational intervention to teach patients about cancer, care coordination and self-advocacy will improve patients' perception of care coordination. Cancer patients with early stage disease scheduled to receive adjuvant therapy, and who reside in a rural area, will be enrolled onto the study. Patients will be randomized to receive a table-based educational intervention tool initially (arm1) or after 4 months of therapy (arm2). Assessment of cancer knowledge, self-advocacy and care coordination will be obtained at baseline and after 4-6 months.
Cancer
OTHER: Table-based Educational Intervention
Care Coordination Instrument Score, Participants complete the Care Coordination Instrument (CCI), a 29-item questionnaire. Each item is rated on a Likert scale (Strongly Agree = 3 to Strongly Disagree = 0). A total score is generated by summing the item scores; possible total scores range from 0-87. Higher scores represent a greater perception of care coordination., Baseline and 4 months
Cancer Knowledge, Participants complete the Cancer Knowledge Assessment Test (C-KAT). The test includes 5 multiple choice items. A total score is generated by summing the number of correct responses; total scores range from 0-5. Higher scores represent greater cancer knowledge., Baseline and 4 months|Satisfaction with Educational Videos, Participants in the baseline intervention group complete the Satisfaction and Acceptability Questionnaire. This 5-item questionnaire assesses how helpful and easily accessible the educational videos were. There is also an open-ended question for other feedback. Answering yes to the items indicates greater satisfaction and ease of use., 4 months|Self-Advocacy Score, Participants complete the Cancer Self-Advocacy Scale, a 20-item questionnaire. Each item is rated on a Likert scale (Strongly Agree = 6 to Strongly Disagree = 1). A total score is generated by summing the item scores; possible total scores range from 20-120. Higher scores represent greater self-advocacy skills., Baseline and 4 months
Care Coordination is an essential component of cancer care delivery. Many patients experience poor care coordination. In this study, we hypothesize that provision of a video educational intervention to teach patients about cancer, care coordination and self-advocacy will improve patients' perception of care coordination. Cancer patients with early stage disease scheduled to receive adjuvant therapy, and who reside in a rural area, will be enrolled onto the study. Patients will be randomized to receive a table-based educational intervention tool initially (arm1) or after 4 months of therapy (arm2). Assessment of cancer knowledge, self-advocacy and care coordination will be obtained at baseline and after 4-6 months.