Epigenetics of TNBC in Overweight and Obese Hispanic & Non-Hispanic White Women
A key tenet of this project is that of reaching translational human diagnosis and biomarker end points. To lay a foundation and make progress towards these translational goals, investigators will address the following specific aim:

To determine if BMI/ obesity differentially influence expression and epigenetic signatures in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) from Hispanic compared to NHW women.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Needle core biopsy
To determine if BMI/ obesity differentially influence expression and epigenetic signatures in TNBC from Hispanic compared to NHW women., DXA studies will be completed prior to surgery or port placement. Blood draws will be done in OR by research staff. Tissue will be obtained at the time of their definitive surgery or at the time of port placement. For women going to surgery first, four (4) 16-gauge core needle biopsies will be obtained by research staff after the tumor has been removed from the patient and the specimen is on the collection table in the OR.

For women who are getting neo-adjuvant therapy prior to surgery, the core needle biopsies will be collected at the time of port placement in the OR., Two years
The intended goal of this Project is to develop epigenetic biomarkers to monitor the role of obesity and ethnicity on he development of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The proposed approach will seek to clarify for the first time if BMI is a biological factor that regulates aromatic hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) expression and epigenetic activity at breast cancer susceptibility and hormone receptor genes based on Hispanic or non-Hispanic white (NHW) ethnicity. If successful, the proposed experiments have the potential to highlight the role of overweight and obesity for dietary prevention of TNBC and to underscore the consideration of breast cancer screening among overweight/obese Hispanic women. Additionally, this study will provide the opportunity to begin testing the utility of AhR as a biomarker of TNBC development related to BMI and ethnicity.