WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775 With or Without Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This randomized phase II trial studies how well WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 with or without cytarabine works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment. WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 works better with or without cytarabine in treating patients with advanced acute myeloid leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Isolated Del(5q)|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775
Complete Response Rate (CR or CRi) Per the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) Guidelines or According to Specific Criteria From Expert Panels, Complete response rate will be evaluated over all courses of study treatment. The proportion of CR/CRi responses will be estimated by the number of CR/CRi responses divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 17 months
Clinical Benefit as Measured by the Number of Patients Who Were Not RBC Transfusion-dependent Post-Baseline, Clinical benefit as measured by the number of patients who did not receive a RBC transfusion post-Baseline, Up to 17 months|Duration of Response, Duration of response defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a response as the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be a CR/CRi response to the earliest date progression is documented, Up to 17 months|Percentage of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events Considered At Least Possibly Related to Treatment, The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., From registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 17 months|Time to Progression, Defined as the Time From Registration to the Earliest Date of Documentation of Disease Progression, Time to progression (TTP) is defined to be the length of time from study registration to a) date of disease progression as defined by section 11.0 of the protocol, or b) last follow-up. If a patient dies without documentation of disease progression, the patient will be considered to have had a tumor progression at the time of death unless there is sufficient documented evidence to conclude no progression occurred prior to death. Time to progression curves were compared via the log-rank test. Progression is defined as a \>25% increase in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass or appearance of new lesions or unequivocal increase in size of contrast enhancement or increase in mass effect as agreed upon independently by primary physician and quality control physicians: appearance of new lesions compared to pretreatment MRI and/or CT scan., Up to 17 months|Time to Response, Defined as the Time From Registration to the Earliest Date of Documentation of Response, Time to response, defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of response. The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 17 months
Change in Biomarker Levels, Continuous biomarker levels will be explored in a graphical manner including mean plots and plots of change and percent change from baseline and other summary measures. Any potential relationships between the baseline level or change in the level of each biomarker and clinical outcome such as overall response, 6-month progression and survival, and adverse event incidence will be further analyzed using Wilcoxon rank sum tests or logistic regression methods, as appropriate. Association between a dichotomized biomarker and overall response will be assessed using a chi-squared test., Baseline to up to 113 days (after course 4)|Change in Patients' Reported Outcomes as Assessed by the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), BFI, as well as linear analog scales capturing early satiety, abdominal discomfort, inactivity, concentration problems, numbness/tingling in the hands/feet, night sweats, itching, bone pain, fever, and weight loss will be used., Baseline to 2 years|Change in QOL as Assessed by the European Organization for Treatment and Research of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core Questionnaire 30, Scale score trajectories over time and changes from baseline over time will be examined using repeated measures or growth curve models, as appropriate, stream plots and mean plots with standard deviation error bars overall. Scores and changes at each cycle will be statistically tested using paired t-tests, and standardized response means (i.e. effect sizes) (mean of the change from baseline scores at a given cycle, divided by the standard deviation of the change scores) will be interpreted (after applying Middel's adjustment) using Cohen's cut-offs., Baseline to 2 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters AUC of WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775, PK will be primarily descriptive., Day 1, course 1; pre-treatment, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6hr and 24 hr after WEE1 inhibitor AZD administration|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters Vd of WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775, PK will be primarily descriptive., Day 1, course 1; pre-treatment, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6hr and 24 hr after WEE1 inhibitor AZD administration|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters Cmax of WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775, PK will be primarily descriptive, Day 1, course 1; pre-treatment, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6hr and 24 hr after WEE1 inhibitor AZD administration|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters Tmax of WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775, PK will be primarily descriptive, Day 1, course 1; pre-treatment, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6hr and 24 hr after WEE1 inhibitor AZD administration|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters t1/2 of WEE1 Inhibitor AZD1775, PK will be primarily descriptive, Day 1, course 1; pre-treatment, 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6hr and 24 hr after WEE1 inhibitor AZD administration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the clinical efficacy of AZD1775 (WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775) in combination with AraC (cytarabine) in patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) by assessing complete response (complete remission \[CR\] plus CR with incomplete blood count recovery \[CRi\]) rates.

II. To estimate the clinical efficacy of AZD1775 alone or in combination with AraC in patients with relapsed/refractory AML and hypomethylating agent failure myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) by assessing complete response (CR plus CRi) rates.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC in the study population.

II. To estimate additional measures of clinical benefit (i.e. hematological improvements, transfusion requirements).

III. To measure the duration of response of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC.

IV. To measure time to response of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC. V. To measure time to progression of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC. VI. To measure overall survival of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC. VII. To measure time to AML (for MDS subjects) of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC in the study population.

II. To conduct correlative research studies characterizing underlying molecular events and solidifying putative mechanism of action in vivo and to identify potential pharmacodynamic/biomarkers of response to AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC.

III. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) and patient-reported symptoms in subjects treated with AZD1775 alone or combined with AraC.

OUTLINE: Elderly newly diagnosed patients are assigned to arm A.

ARM A (ELDERLY NEWLY DIAGNOSED PATIENTS): Patients receive cytarabine subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5 and 8-12 and WEE inhibitor AZD1775 orally (PO) daily on days 1-5 and 8-12.

Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM B: Patients receive cytarabine and WEE1 inhibitor AZD1775 as in Arm A.

ARM C: Patients receive WEE inhibitor AZD1775 PO daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26.

In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for 2 years.