A One-arm, Prospective Study Comparing the Effects of Different Body Composition on the Survival of Patients Undergoing Radical Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy for Esophageal Cancer
Skeletal muscle depletion and sarcopenia are the most typical features of cachexia, which occurs in 80% of patients with advanced esophageal cancer. Skeletal muscle consumption is an independent factor for poor prognosis, which negatively affects therapeutic toxicity, length of hospital stay, quality of life, complications, infection, and survival. The vast majority of patients had already experienced severe weight loss and skeletal muscle loss before the treatment began. During the concurrent chemoradiotherapy period, the intensity and long cycle of treatment, the toxic and side effects of treatment and the occurrence of radiation esophagitis would further lead to the increased demand for energy and decreased intake of patients, thus leading to continuous weight loss. Based on the previous literature, we suggest that baseline body composition has a significant impact on nutritional status, the incidence of adverse reactions, and survival during treatment. This research mainly for the thorough chemoradiation in patients with esophageal cancer, analysis treatment precursor composition, including skeletal muscle index, visceral fat area, body fat percentage and other parameters on the side reaction of chemoradiation, nutritional status and the influence of survival, and observe the baseline body composition and cure after 1 month of body composition changes of the impact on the survival time.
Brief Description of Focus of Study
OTHER: Analysis of body composition
overall survival, To evaluate the effect of human components on the overall survival of patients with esophageal cancer undergoing radical concurrent chemoradiotherapy, one month
Skeletal muscle depletion and sarcopenia are the most typical features of cachexia, which occurs in 80% of patients with advanced esophageal cancer. Skeletal muscle consumption is an independent factor for poor prognosis, which negatively affects therapeutic toxicity, length of hospital stay, quality of life, complications, infection, and survival. The vast majority of patients had already experienced severe weight loss and skeletal muscle loss before the treatment began. During the concurrent chemoradiotherapy period, the intensity and long cycle of treatment, the toxic and side effects of treatment and the occurrence of radiation esophagitis would further lead to the increased demand for energy and decreased intake of patients, thus leading to continuous weight loss. Based on the previous literature, we suggest that baseline body composition has a significant impact on nutritional status, the incidence of adverse reactions, and survival during treatment. This research mainly for the thorough chemoradiation in patients with esophageal cancer, analysis treatment precursor composition, including skeletal muscle index, visceral fat area, body fat percentage and other parameters on the side reaction of chemoradiation, nutritional status and the influence of survival, and observe the baseline body composition and cure after 1 month of body composition changes of the impact on the survival time.