Eribulin Mesylate in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Osteosarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well eribulin mesylate works in treating patients with osteosarcoma that has come back after treatment (recurrent) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Microtubule inhibitors, such as eribulin mesylate, may stop or slow the growth of tumor cells by disrupting the cell cycle.
Recurrent Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Disease Control Success, The number of patients who do not experience disease progression or death in the four months following enrollment on AOST1322., 4 Months|Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Response, The number of patients who experience a complete or partial response according to the RECIST criteria as defined in Eisenhauer et al. Eur J Cancer 45:228-47, 2009., 4 months
Number of Cycles Where a Dose Limiting Toxicity Was Identified, Each cycle where the patient receives eribulin and does not receive non-protocol anticancer therapy will be considered in the analysis. A dose limiting toxicity is defined to be: day 8 eribulin dose is held due to grade 3 or grade 4 non-hematological toxicity attributable to the investigational drug and does not resolve to meet eligibility or baseline criteria by day 11. Any \>= grade 3 non-hematological toxicity attributable to the investigational drug with the specific exclusion of: grade 3 nausea and vomiting \< 3 days duration grade 3 liver enzyme elevation, including alanine aminotransferase (ALT)/aspartate aminotransferase (AST)/gamma-glutamyltransferase (GGT), that returns to grade =\< 1 or baseline prior to the time for the next treatment cycle., 4 months|Area Under the Curve 0-infinity of Eribulin Mesylate in Ng-hr/ml, Data from all patients who provide samples for pharmacokinetic analysis will be aggregated. The sample mean and variance of the area under the curve will be reported The analytic unit will be the patient-cycle: Each cycle where the patient receives eribulin and does not receive non-protocol anticancer therapy will be considered in the analysis., Cycle 1 day 1 and cycle 2 day 1 at the end of infusion, 0.5-6 hours, and 24-120 hours post infusion; cycle 1 day 8 and cycle 2 day 8 prior to the dose of eribulin and at the end of infusion|Clearance of Eribulin Mesylate in L/hr, Data from all patients who provide samples for pharmacokinetic analysis will be aggregated. The sample mean and variance of the clearance will be reported. The analytic unit will be the patient-cycle: Each cycle where the patient receives eribulin and does not receive non-protocol anticancer therapy will be considered in the analysis., Cycle 1 day 1 and cycle 2 day 1 at the end of infusion, 0.5-6 hours, and 24-120 hours post infusion; cycle 1 day 8 and cycle 2 day 8 prior to the dose of eribulin and at the end of infusion.|A Half Life of Eribulin Mesylate in hr, Data from all patients who provide samples for pharmacokinetic analysis will be aggregated. The sample mean and variance of the half life will be reported. The analytic unit will be the patient-cycle: Each cycle where the patient receives eribulin and does not receive non-protocol anticancer therapy will be considered in the analysis., 1 day 1 and cycle 2 day 1 at the end of infusion, 0.5-6 hours, and 24-120 hours post infusion; cycle 1 day 8 and cycle 2 day 8 prior to the dose of eribulin and at the end of infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the 4 month progression free survival rate and objective response rate in patients with recurrent osteosarcoma who are administered eribulin (eribulin mesylate) therapy on day 1 and day 8 of 21 day cycles.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of eribulin in subjects with recurrent osteosarcoma.

II. To further describe the tolerability of single agent eribulin.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) over 2-5 minutes on days 1 and 8. Courses repeat every 21 days for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for 5 years.