Natural Killer (NK) Cell Therapy in Locally Advanced HCC
This Phase 2a trial will evaluate the safety and efficacy of NK cell therapy combined with the hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) in patients with intermediate and/or locally advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We hypothesized that 5-fluorouracil (FU) with immunomodulatory functions would relieve the immunosuppressive microenvironment from the myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), thereby enhancing the anti-tumor activity of NK cells. Thus, the subsequent infusion of autologous NK cells (VAX-NK/HCC) following HAIC treatment may further improve the anti-tumor activity in patients with advanced HCC.
Locally Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Vax-NK/HCC
Objective Response Rate (ORR) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, ORR will be measured as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC., average 6 months
Disease control rate (DCR) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, ORR will be measured as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and stable disease (SD) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC., average 6 months|Time to progression (TTP) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, TTP will be measured by time to progression, defined as time from enrollment to disease progression., average 6 months|Overall survival (OS) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, OS will be measured as time from enrollment to death due to any cause., average 12 months|Quality of Life of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, The assessment will be performed using the Korean versions of European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Questionnaire 30 (QLQ-C30) consisting of 30 items. Total score: Range 0-100., average 6 months|Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC, The assessment will be measured by determining the number of patients that experience AEs and SAEs graded according to the NCI-CTCAE (Version 4.0), average 6 months|The proportions of T and NK cells, This will be measured by determining the relative percentages of CD4+CD8+ T cells and CD3- CD56+ NK cells in patients' peripheral blood., average 6 months|The lymphocyte/monocyte ratio (LMR), LMR will be calculated by dividing the absolute lymphocyte count by the absolute monocyte count in patients' peripheral blood., average 6 months|The NK cell cytotoxicity, This will be measured by determining percent cell lysis of target cells (K562) in patients' peripheral blood., average 6 months|The serum cytokine levels, The serum concentrations of IFN-γ, IL-10, and TGF-β will be measured in patients' serum using the Enzyme-Linked immunosorbent assays., average 6 months
Primary Objective I. To assess the objective response rate (ORR) of administering VAX-NK/HCC, autologous NK cells combined with HAIC in patients with locally advanced HCC.

Secondary Objectives I. To assess the efficacy of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC. II. To assess the safety of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC. III. To assess the immune responses of administering VAX-NK/HCC combined with HAIC.

OUTLINE: This is a Phase 2a study. Patients receive HAIC treatment every 4 week for up to 4 cycles followed by ex-vivo expanded autologous NK cell infusions. The NK cell treatment repeats every 4 weeks for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients will be followed until the disease progression.