Chemoradiation Followed by Durvalumab in Poor Risk and/or Elderly Patients With Stage III NSCLC
Elderly (age 70 years or older) or \>18 years old AND poor risk (ECOG 2) newly diagnosed stage IIIA-C (AJCC 8th edition) inoperable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients are eligible to participate in this phase II open label study of concurrent, split course chemoradiation followed by Durvalumab (MEDI4736).
Stage III Non-small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab
Rate of Split Course Chemoradiation Completion, To determine the percentage of poor risk and/or elderly unresectable stage III NSCLC patients who complete split course chemoradiation. Objective will be assessed as a binary endpoint of yes/no completion for each patient., 3 months|Number of Cycles of Durvalumab (MEDI4736) Received for Each Treated Patient, To determine the safety and tolerability of durvalumab (MEDI4736) after completion of chemoradiation in this group of patients. Objective will be measured by (a) the number of cycles of durvalumab received for each treated patient and (b) the binary endpoint of discontinuation of durvalumab., Up to 1 year
One-year Overall Survival (OS), To determine the 1-year overall survival rate, 1 year|One-year Progression-Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST 1.1, To determine the 1-year progression-free survival rate based on the EORTC RECIST 1.1 criteria for solid tumors as follows:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 1 year|One-Year Loco-regional Progression-free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST 1.1, To determine the 1-year loco-regional progression-free survival rate, based on the EORTC RECIST 1.1 criteria for solid tumors as follows:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression).

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., 1 year|Rate of Grade 3 and 4 Toxicities Assessed by CTCAE v 5.0, To determine rate of grade 3 and 4 toxicities with this regimen in the selected patient population, 1 year
The rationale for the study is to identify another cohort of stage III NSCLC for whom adjuvant Durvalumab can be safely given, expanding its utilization and benefits. With a unique, extremely well-tolerated 4-phase split course CRT regimen preceding the administration of Durvalumab, we expect to be able to offer adjuvant Durvalumab to a significant proportion of patients on study.

Patients who have completed four cycles of chemoradiation (Radiation is 60 Gy in 30 fractions administered over 12 weeks with 1-1.5 week breaks between cycles; Chemotherapy is once every 3 weeks for up to 4 cycles) will go on to receive durvalumab (MEDI4736) monotherapy as 1500mg durvalumab (MEDI4736) via IV infusion Q4W for up to a maximum of 12 months (up to 13 doses/cycles) with the last administration on week 48 until confirmed disease progression unless there is unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or another discontinuation criterion is met.

Primary objectives are:

1. To determine the percentage of poor risk and/or elderly unresectable stage III NSCLC patients who complete split course chemoradiation
2. To determine the safety and tolerability of durvalumab (MEDI4736) after completion of chemoradiation in this group of patients.

Secondary Objectives are:

1. To determine the 1-year overall survival rate
2. To determine the 1-year progression-free survival rate
3. To determine the 1-year loco-regional progression-free survival rate
4. To determine rate of grade 3 and 4 toxicities with this regimen in the selected patient population