Modified Immune Cells (CD19-CD22 CAR T Cells) in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Refractory CD19 Positive, CD22 Positive Leukemia or Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of modified immune cells called CD19-CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells in treating patients with CD19 positive(+), CD22+ B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that has come back (recurrent) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). T-cells are collected from the patient and genetic materials called "chimeric antigen receptors (CAR)" are transferred to the collected T-cells. The CAR T-cells are then infused back to the patient's body. Giving CD19- CD22 CAR T cells after chemotherapy may help to control the disease.
CD19 Positive|CD22 Positive|Minimal Residual Disease|Progressive Disease|Recurrent B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous CD19/CD22 Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-cells|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine
Optimal chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell dose level, Dose-finding will be done using the sequentially adaptive phase I-II EffTox method., Up to 30 days|Incidence of adverse events (adverse events), Toxicity is defined as a grade 3, 4, or 5 cytokine release syndrome, neurotoxicity, or National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0 with onset within 30 days of cell infusion. Adverse events that are considered disease-related (not suspected of relationship to CD19-CD22 -CAR T cells) will not be considered dose-limiting toxicities. Only those AEs that occur during the first 30 days after infusion, which are suspected to be related to conditioning lymphodepletion chemotherapy regimen and/or CD19 -CD22-CAR T cells (any component of the treatment regimen), and meet the following criteria, will be used in the definition of toxicity. Hematologic toxicities will not be considered in the definition of toxicity, as pancytopenia is a common toxicity with this regimen., Up to 30 days|Efficacy in complete response (CR) or partial response, Efficacy is defined as the patient being alive and in complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at day 30 post cell infusion., Day 30 post cell infusion
Progression-free survival, Unadjusted distributions of the time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and T-cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year post T-cell infusion|Overall survival, Unadjusted distributions of the time-to-event outcomes will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and their relationship to prognostic covariates and T-cell dose level will be evaluated by Bayesian piecewise exponential survival regression., Up to 1 year post T-cell infusion
Immune reconstitution, These longitudinal values will be evaluated graphically and cross-tabulated with dose., Up to 1 year post T-cell infusion|Persistence of CAR T-cells, These longitudinal values will be evaluated graphically and cross-tabulated with dose., Up to 1 year post T-cell infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of infusion with chimeric antigen receptor T cells targeting CD19 and CD22.

II. To find the recommended phase II dose for recurrent/refractory CD19+CD22+ B cell malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the overall response rate and complete response rate of relapsed B cell malignancies treated with CAR-T cells targeting CD19 and CD22.

II. To assess other response variables including minimal residual disease (MRD) negative remission, overall survival (OS), and event free survival (EFS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the immune reconstitution and persistence of CAR T cells for one year post infusion.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of autologous CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor T-cells (CD19-CD22 CAR T cells) followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive standard of care cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5, -4, and -3, and then receive CD19-CD22 CAR T cells IV on day 0. Patients with relapsed or persistent disease after a protocol assessment may receive a second infusion of CD19-CD22 CAR T cells.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 months.