Investigation to Evaluate Safety and Efficacy of the Endodrill Model X Biopsy Instrument
This is an investigator led prospective open label investigation, performed at three clinics in Sweden, comparing the flexible endoscopic biopsy instrument Endodrill Model X with the standard sampling method endoscopic ultrasound fine needle aspiration/biopsy. Assessment of safety is the primary objective and performance is the secondary objective.
Tumor Sampling
DEVICE: Endodrill Model X|DEVICE: Fine-needle aspiration/biopsy
Proportion of patients with pre-specified adverse events, Proportion of patients with one or more of the following: 1) non-intentional perforation of the sampled organ, 2) bleeding requiring open surgical intervention or treatment at an intensive care unit, 3) non-planned hospitalization for observation AND where the patient is not fully recovered within 10 days after the endoscopic examination, 10 days
Amount of visible biopsy material over or under 5 mm at endoscopy examination, Visual confirmation of the biopsies size \> 5 mm or not, will be recorded at the examination. Analysis will be performed at each hospitals department of pathology as all biopsy samples are routinely handled. A copy of the pathology report will recorded in the Contact Report Form (CRF) at day 14 when the study report for each patient is concluded, Day 0 (day of biopsy)
The investigation will include 20 patients with lesions and suspected tumors in the stomach, esophagus or duodenum (upper small intestine). The investigation will consist of one visit with an endoscopic examination with sampling of an observed lesion or suspected tumor. Six biopsies will be collected from each patient, three consecutive samples using the Endodrill Model X instrument and three consecutive samples using the standard fine needle. The order of instruments to be used will be randomly assigned. The patient will be under observation for 2 hours after the procedure. Telephone follow-up will be performed 1 and 7 days after the examination. Visual confirmation of the biopsies size will be recorded at the examination. If the samples verify a tumor or not will be evaluated at Day 14 when the pathology report is concluded.