Non Squamous NSCLC Patients With Anlotinib Combined With Pemetrexed and Cisplatin
Chemotherapy is still the standard first-line treatment option for EGFR unmutated patients. After a randomized phase Ⅲ trial, BEYOND was presented the synergistic effect of progression-free survival(PFS) could be expected when chemotherapy is combined with Antiangiogenesis agent bevacizumab in China;Therefore,in this study, The investigators will investigate the efficacy and safety of Anlotinb combined With Pemetrexed and Cisplatin as first-line therapy in patients with chemotherapy-naive, stage IIIB or IV, non-squamous NSCLC without targetable EGFR or ALK genetic aberrations.
Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib|DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin
progression-free survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, From enrollment to completion of study. Estimated about 24 months.
Overall Response Rate, Clinical response of treatment according to RESIST v1.1 criteria (ORR, Overall Response Rate), From enrollment to progression of disease. Estimated about 24 months|disease control rate, Clinical response of treatment according to RESIST v1.1 criteria (DCR, disease control rate), From enrollment to progression of disease. Estimated about 24 months|Overall Survival, From date of randomization until the date of death or date of last visit/contact, whichever came first, From enrollment to completion of study. Estimated about 24 months.|6-month PFS rate, Proportion of people who first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first ,during 6 months, From enrollment to analysis, Estimated about 6 months|12-month PFS rate, Proportion of people who first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first ,during 12 months, From enrollment to analysis. Estimated about 12 months.
This is a randomized, single -center study conducted in China to compare the efficacy and safety of Anlotinb combined With Pemetrexed and Cisplatin as first-line therapy in patients of Advanced Gene Negative Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer.

Eligible patients will be randomized to arm A:

Patients were instructed to take 500mg/m2 pemetrexed as a 10-minute intravenous infusion and Cisplatin 75mg/m2 on day 1 of a 21-day cycle and12mg Anlotinib orally daily on day 1 to 14 of a 21-day cycle.If there was no evidence of disease progression following a maximum of 4-6 cycles of anlotinib plus chemotherapy, patients continued to receive single-agent anlotinib until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 62 patients will be enrolled to ensure complete treatments for primary endpoint analysis.