Efficacy of Olaparib in Advanced Cancers Occurring in Patients With Germline Mutations or Somatic Tumor Mutations in Homologous Recombination Genes
At present targeted therapy with the PARP inhibitor olaparib has become standard of care in advanced platinum sensitive BRCA1/2 mutant ovarian cancer. The key in this sensitivity is the loss of homologous recombination (HR) function. The current project aims to treat patients with any type of cancer carrying in their germline a mutation in genes that generate such an homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) or have an acquired somatic mutation in their tumor with the targeted PARP inhibitor olaparib. The project would thus bring access to a targeted drug matched to the genomic profile of the tumor of these patients and provide oncologists with information regarding efficacy and safety of olaparib in these patients. This evidence could then later lead to a more routine regulatory access.
Advanced Cancers Harbouring Mutations in HRG
DRUG: Olaparib Oral Capsule
Response rate according to RECIST 1.1, The primary analysis will estimate the proportion of patients who achieve confirmed objective response according to the RECIST criteria. Objective response is defined as confirmed CR or PR., every 2 months from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Response duration according to RECIST 1.1, Patients whose best RECIST assessment is stable disease, partial, or complete response will be considered to have achieved disease control. Descriptive statistics will be produced for the duration of confirmed objective response and disease control., from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months
locus-specific LOH, Correlate efficacy with locus-specific LOH in the tumors in case of cancers atypical for the germline mutations, through study completion, an average of 1 year|PFS, PFS is the time from start of treatment until the occurrence of disease progression or death, whichever comes first. Date of progression is the earliest of (1) date of imaging showing disease progression, or (2) date of investigator assessment of clinical progression, or (3) date recorded from post study follow-up for disease progression, or (4) start of new anti-cancer treatment (i.e., either the secondary treatment regimen or other anti-cancer treatment)., every 2 months from date of randomization until teh date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|OS, OS is the time from start of treatment until death, for whatever reason., every 2 months from date of randomization until teh date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.
At present targeted therapy with the PARP inhibitor olaparib has become standard of care in advanced platinum sensitive BRCA1/2 mutant ovarian cancer. The key in this sensitivity is the loss of homologous recombination (HR) function. The current project aims to treat patients with any type of cancer carrying in their germline a mutation in genes that generate such an homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) or have an acquired somatic mutation in their tumor with the targeted PARP inhibitor olaparib. The project would thus bring access to a targeted drug matched to the genomic profile of the tumor of these patients and provide oncologists with information regarding efficacy and safety of olaparib in these patients. This evidence could then later lead to a more routine regulatory access.