A Study of Epacadostat + Pembrolizumab in Head and Neck Cancer Patients, Who Failed Prior PD-1/PD-L1 Therapy
This is a research study to test the combination of two drugs, pembrolizumab and epacadostat with the goal of benefiting subjects with head and neck cancers where prior or ongoing regimens with a PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor for the treatment of advanced head and neck cancer after platinum failure.
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: epacadostat
Patient response rate, The number of patients with responses per RECIST 1.1 will be compared to the total number of patients in each cohort (which is anticipated to enroll 15)., From the start of treatment to the time of response until disease progression, death, or end of trial, whichever comes first, not to exceed 5 years.
Overall survival rate, From the time of enrollment until death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first OR at most 2 years out from the last patient receiving treatment.|One year progression free rate, From the time of enrollment until the first documented disease progression, death, withdrawal of consent, or the end of the study, whichever occurs first OR at most 2 years out from the last patient receiving treatment.|Number of patients with adverse events, From the start of treatment until the end of study, not to exceed 5 years.
Primary Objective(s) \& Hypothesis

(1) Objective: Response Rate

Hypotheses:

Cohort 1: In patient with prior response to anti-PD-1/PD-L1+ therapy and subsequent (acquired) resistance combined IDO1 and PD-1 inhibition will re-induce responses.

Cohort 2: In patients with suboptimal benefit from prior anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy combined IDO1 and PD-1 inhibition will induce clinically meaningful responses.

Secondary Objective(s) \& Hypothesis

1. Objective: 1-year Progression-free (PFS) and Overall (OS) survival Hypothesis: Combined PD-1 blockade with pembrolizumab + epacadostat in HNSCC patients will lead to improved 1-year survival in patients who a) progress on prior anti-PD-1/PD/L1 therapy on, and/or b) compared to patients who progress on 2nd line chemotherapy.
2. Safety Hypothesis: Combined treatment with pembrolizumab and epacadostat will be safe and tolerable in HNSCC patients.

Exploratory/Translational Objectives

1. Interferon-gamma Gene Expression Profile (GEP) (Seiwert ASCO 2015, Ribas ASCO 2015) and evaluation of RR, PFS, and OS in GEP positive and GEP negative patients.
2. Determine the micro-environment that underlies resistance/suboptimal treatment

   1. underlying degree of tumor inflammation
   2. Baseline PD-L1 expression

   d) Determine underlying Interferon Gamma signature
3. Assess underlying mutational burden (Snyder 2014)) Preclinical hypothesis: IDO1 inhibition will alter the micro-environment to a be "more T-cell inflamed" and make tumors amenable to benefit from anti-PD-1 treatment (when given concurrently with IDO1 inhibition). Hence we will evaluate tumors, with prior response exhibiting acquired resistance as well as tumors with minor/suboptimal benefit from prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy for evidence (at baseline) of suboptimal immune microenvironmental conditions.