Durvalumab and Epacadostat for Treatment of Unresectable, Recurrent, or Metastatic Epstein-Barr Virus Positive Nasopharyngeal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well durvalumab and epacadostat work in treating patients with Epstein-Barr virus positive nasopharyngeal cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), has come back (recurrent), or has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Epacadostat blocks the enzyme, IDO1, from working. Blocking this enzyme may allow for a stronger immune response against cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body?s immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving durvalumab and epacadostat may work better in treating patients with nasopharyngeal cancer compared to durvalumab alone.
Epstein-Barr Virus Positive|Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage III Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVA Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVB Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Epacadostat
Best overall response rate (BORR), Patients will meet the primary endpoint (BORR) if they attain a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) with the combination treatment with a 4-week confirmatory scan. All response data will be determined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. The point estimate and two-sided exact binomial 95% confidence interval for the objective response rate will be provided., Up to 2 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the number of days from enrollment to progression (for subjects who have progression) and the number of days from enrollment to last assessment (for subjects who do not have progression). The distributions of PFS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of the median PFS will also be provided., up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) defined as the number of days from enrollment to death, or from enrollment to date last known alive. The distributions of OS will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of the median OS will also be provided., up to 36 months|Duration of response (DoR), Duration of response (DoR) is defined as the time (in days) from randomization to progression (or death from any cause) in patients who had a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). The distributions of DoR will be summarized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of the median DoR will also be provided., up to 36 months|Biochemical Response to Treatment, Biochemical Response to Treatment will be obtained by measuring the metabolic response of the IDO1 enzyme (Trp/Kyn levels). Levels of tryptophan and kynurenine will be evaluated by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry to monitor systemic activity in modulating the IDO1 enzyme, Up to 36 months|Biochemical Verification of Drug Efficacy, Biochemically verified drug efficacy will be obtained by measuring the metabolic response of the IDO1 enzyme (Trp/Kyn levels). Levels of tryptophan and kynurenine will be evaluated by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry to monitor systemic activity in modulating the IDO1 enzyme, Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine whether adding an IDO inhibitor to PD-L1 antibody therapy improves the probability of remission in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether adding an IDO inhibitor to PD-L1 antibody therapy improves long-term clinical outcomes in NPC.

II. Determine whether the combination of durvalumab and epacadostat in recurrent and metastatic NPC patients is safe and well tolerated.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identify potential associations between pre-treatment and on-treatment regulatory and effector immune cell populations and clinical outcomes in NPC patients treated with durvalumab and epacadostat.

II. Characterize the oral and fecal microbiome in responding and non-responding patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 and epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with disease progression who are benefiting from treatment in the opinion of the principal investigator may continue durvalumab and epacadostat for up to an additional 12 months from the initiation (or re-initiation) of treatment on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until start of a new anti-cancer treatment, until 30 days after documented disease progression, until death, or until 36 months from the initiation of treatment on study, whichever comes first.