Robot-Assisted Laparoscopic High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound and Radical Cystectomy for Thermal Ablation of Muscle Invasive Cells in Patients With Bladder Tumors
This randomized pilot trial studies how well robot-assisted laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound works compared to robot-assisted radical cystectomy for thermal ablation of muscle invasive cells in patients with bladder tumors. Laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound uses high frequency sound waves to deliver a strong beam to a specific part of the tumor and may lower the number of tumor cells released into the blood stream compared to radical cystectomy.
Infiltrating Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Stage II Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Transitional Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DEVICE: High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Ablation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Radical Cystectomy|DEVICE: Ultrasonography
Complete ablation of the targeted lesion in the bladder wall assessed by histopathologic examination and Live/Dead Viability/Cytotoxicity Assay Kit of the resected specimen (Arm A), A Clopper-Pearson (exact) 90% confidence interval will be constructed for the probability of a successful HIFU procedure., At the day of surgery|CTC enumeration assessed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, The mean number of CTCs in each patient, as well as the difference between the two arms (possibly after log or square root transformation) will be estimated. Importantly the numbers of CTCs captured in the femoral lines will be compared to the numbers captured in the peripheral lines. Means and 90% confidence intervals will be calculated. Changes in CTC enumeration in a group that undergoes HIFU (Arm A) to a group that does not undergo HIFU (Arm B) will be observed., Up to 7 days post-surgery
Incidence of adverse events evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (Arm A), The complication observed in all patents in each arm will be reported and summarized. For Arm A, focus will be on the complications that might be associated with the HIFU procedure; for Arm B, focus will be on the safety of placed a line in the femoral vein., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain preliminary estimates of the efficacy of laparoscopic high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) for the treatment of localized primary bladder cancer.

II. To estimate the change in the number of expelled circulating tumor cells (CTCs), when comparing HIFU to robot-assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of using laparoscopic HIFU.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients undergo pre-HIFU contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS), standard of care biopsy of the bladder tumor, laparoscopic HIFU, and post-HIFU CEUS. Patients then undergo standard of care RARC.

ARM B: Patients undergo standard of care RARC.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2 weeks and 3 months.