Silicon Phthalocyanine 4 and Photodynamic Therapy in Stage IA-IIA Cutaneous T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of silicon phthalocyanine 4 and photodynamic therapy in treating patients with stage IA-IIA cutaneous T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) uses a drug, silicon phthalocyanine 4, that becomes active when it is exposed to a certain kind of light. When the drug is active, cancer cells are killed. This may be effective against cutaneous T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.

Funding Source - FDA OOPD
Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage I Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage IB Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Stage II Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage IIA Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome
DRUG: silicon phthalocyanine 4|DRUG: photodynamic therapy|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of Photodynamic Therapy, Defined as the dose immediately below the dose in which 2 or more of 6 patients experience a grade 4 toxicity assessed using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 30 days|MTD of Silicon Phthalocyanine 4 Defined as the Dose Immediately Below the Dose in Which 2 or More of 6 Patients Experience a Grade 4 Toxicity Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that can be utilized for a single treatment of Pc 4-PDT (silicon phthalocyanine 4 photo dynamic therapy) on subjects with mycosis fungoides (MF)/cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) stage IA-IIA, by evaluating an accelerated dose escalation protocol consisting of a single exposure to PDT using topically-applied Pc 4 and visible light at a wavelength of 675 nm, followed by assessment of skin biopsies to analyze cellular and molecular changes induced by Pc 4-PDT. (Cohort I)

II. Determine safety and tolerability of repeated light (PDT) exposures after a single application of Pc 4 to a MF/CTCL plaque, using topically-applied Pc 4 and visible light at a wavelength of 675nm, followed by assessment of skin biopsies to analyze cellular and molecular changes induced by Pc 4-PDT. (Cohort II)

III. Identification of targets for assessment of efficacy to assist in planning for a Phase II study.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive silicon phthalocyanine 4 topically and then undergo PDT.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 24 hours, 1 week, 2 weeks, and 30 days.