A Multidisciplinary Approach to Improve the Health of Older Adults With Blood Cancers After Stem Cell Transplantation
This clinical trial studies the usefulness and process of a multidisciplinary intervention, where patients see multiple healthcare professionals, aimed at improving fitness and the ability to bounce back after transplant for older adults with blood cancers planned for stem cell transplantation. Using a multidisciplinary team approach may increase patients' ability to withstand the transplant by optimizing health to better prepare patients for the expected complications after stem cell transplantation.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm
OTHER: Health Promotion|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Feasibility of multidisciplinary team (MDT) (met 90 percent threshould, yes / no), Patients are expected to see 6 providers. Success is defined as enrolled patients seen at least 4 out of six providers. The study will meet feasibility endpoint if 90 percent or more of the enrolled patients are flagged as successful. Each patient will be measured as success or failure according to these rules., Up to 1 year
Dose intensity of resiliency bolstering, Adequate dose intensity arbitrarily will be defined as completion of at least 11 of 16 process metrics (i.e, approximately 70 percent of more of process measures)., Up to 1 year|Rate of hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) utilization, Measured by summarizing proportion of patients proceeding to allogeneic HCT., Up to 1 year|Library of MDT-facilitated intervention, Will provide a standardized library of evaluation and interventions from the MDT approach. A manual of procedures will be created and a database to capture metrics. Will be categorized by the MDT in a Likert scale to the following question: "Is the library of MDT-facilitated interventions ready to be exposure for a randomized controlled trial"., Up to 1 year|Functional independent survival (FIS), FIS will be calculated as with first observed failure events of intensive care unit admissions, delirium, falls, or frail 4 meter walk at day 30 or day 100. Functional impairment will use the milestones of day 30, day 60 day 100., Days 30, 60, 100
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the feasibility of delivering a geriatric assessment guided by a multi-disciplinary team (MDT) intervention before allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in older patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish successful dose intensity of resiliency bolstering. II. Describe HCT utilization among enrolled patients. III. Create a standardized and exportable library of MDT-facilitated interventions.

IV. Estimate the benefit derived from the MDT approach compared to historic controls for day +100 outcomes of falls, delirium and functional decline.

V. Quantify early functionally independent survival (FIS) to estimate HCT-associated health span decline.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize reasons patients do not undergo HCT after MDT intervention. II. Associate early FIS with 1-year non-relapse mortality (NRM) and overall survival (OS).

III. Integrate virtual assessment and interventions. IV. Correlate image defined sarcopenia with objective function. V. Biobank blood and stool for future studies of accelerated aging.

OUTLINE:

Patients participate in the MDT-intervention including access to a HCT physician, a geriatrician, physical or occupational therapist, dietician, and a social worker for three months before HCT and up to 100 days after HCT.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for up to 1 year.