Remote Monitoring With Health-Coaching for Lifestyle Changes in Patients With Lung Cancer Related Fatigue
This clinical trial investigates the effectiveness of a remote monitoring program for lifestyle changes in patients with lung cancer related fatigue (CRF). Fatigue is a common symptom of lung cancer and a side-effect of cancer treatments. CRF has a negative impact on patients' quality of life, daily activities, employment, social relationships and mood. Health coaches enable patients to develop and achieve self-determined wellness goals and assist patients to use their insight, personal strengths, goal setting, action steps, and accountability toward achieving healthy lifestyle changes. Remote monitoring with health-coaching may help relieve lung cancer related fatigue and increase the quality of life in cancer patients.
Advanced Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Exercise Counseling|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Fatigue, The BFI is a nine item questionnaire with a 10 point numeric scale measuring fatigue level and it's interference with daily life. The higher the score the more fatigue., Baseline to 3 months
Quality of life fatigue assessement, The functional assessment is a 50 item questionnaire that measures self-reported fatigue and its impact on daily living using a Likert scale from Not at all (0) to Very Much (4).The higher the score the more symptoms interfere with daily living., Baseline to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effect of the remote-monitoring program on patient reported fatigue by administering the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Fatigue (FACT-F), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Lung (FACT-L) and the Modified Fatigue Impact Scale (MFIS).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo routine exercise using a remote monitoring system (Garmin Vívofit activity monitor, Nonin 3150 WristOx2 pulse oximeter, and an Android tablet) over 30 minutes at least 6 days per week and complete daily questionnaires over 20 minutes for 12 weeks. Patients also receive health coaching telephone calls over 5-20 minutes once a week for 12 weeks. At the end of the 12 weeks, patients complete an audio taped telephone interview.