Oral SM-88 in Patients With Metastatic HR+/HER2- Breast Cancer
This is a phase II single arm, open-label study of SM-88 used with methoxsalen, phenytoin, and sirolimus (MPS) in metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer. It is designed to determine efficacy, defined as the objective response rate (ORR) of this investigational treatment. It is hypothesized that SM-88 used with MPS will lead to significant anti-tumor responses with acceptable toxicities in patients with metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: SM-88
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Anti-tumor efficacy will be defined as partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) v1.1 for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Every 8 weeks until progression (an average of 8 weeks)
Duration of Response (DOR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) v1.1 for target lesions assessed by CT or MRI. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression). Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Every 8 weeks until Progression (an average of 8 weeks)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time in days from study entry to the first documented disease progression per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by local site or death. Patients who are alive and free from progression on the date of closing follow-up will be censored on that date., Every 8 weeks until progression (an average of 8 weeks)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) at ≥ 24 Weeks, The percentage of patients who have complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) at ≥ 24 weeks will be reported., 24 weeks|Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], The number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, From the time of the administration of study drug until discontinuation of therapy (every 4 weeks on Day 1 of each cycle in a 28 day cycle; approximately 3 months)
This is a multicenter phase II single arm trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of SM-88 plus three subtherapeutic conditioning agents (methoxsalen, phenytoin, and sirolimus \[MPS\]) in patients with metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer. .

Thirty patients will be enrolled in first stage of the study, and if 3 or more patients have an objective response (complete or partial response) then an additional 20 patients will be enrolled in the second stage of the study. Patients will receive the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of SM-88 (460 mg by mouth \[PO\] twice a day \[BID\] D1 - 28) as well as three conditioning agents (MPS): methoxsalen (10 mg PO daily \[Qd\] D1 - 28), phenytoin (50 mg PO Qd D1 - 28), and sirolimus (0.5 mg PO Qd D1 - 28).

Assessment of efficacy will be conducted every 3 cycles (approximately every 12 weeks) with CT chest/abdomen/pelvis using RECIST v1.1 criteria. Safety including clinic visits, and exams will occur every 4 weeks on Day 1 of each cycle. Laboratory testing will be performed every 2 weeks for the first 2 cycles and then on Day 1 of each subsequent cycle.