Docetaxel and Capecitabine in Advanced Gastric Cancer
Up to date there is no worldwide accepted standard chemotherapy for the 1st-line treatment of advanced or metastatic gastric cancer.A combination of epirubicin, cisplatin and 5-FU (ECF) is the best examined combination and widely used. Recent studies (Thuss-Patience et al, J. Clin. Oncol. 2005) could show that a combination of docetaxel and 5-FU might be similarly effective as ECF. 5-FU and docetaxel +/- cisplatin combinations are investigated by many groups and may be a future reference treatment. Many data suggest that 5-FU infusion can be replaced by oral capecitabine with equal efficacy.

As docetaxel/5-FU is probably similarly effective as epirubicin/cisplatin/5-FU and a replacement of 5-FU infusion by capecitabine makes the chemotherapy more comfortable for the patient we investigate in this study a chemotherapy of docetaxel and capecitabine as 1st-line therapy for metastatic or advanced gastric cancer.
Stomach Neoplasm|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Capecitabine
Response Rate
Median Survival|Time to Tumor Progression|Toxicity|Quality of Life
Patients with locally advanced or metastatic gastric adenocarcinoma who did not receive any prior chemotherapy for advanced disease can be enrolled in the study.

Patients are treated with oral capecitabine 1000mg/sqm twice per day on the days 1-14 and docetaxel 75 mg/sqm on day 1 as a 1 hour i.v. infusion. chemotherapy is repeated every 21 days. Staging by imaging is performed every 2 cycles.

After 40 included patients an amendment was done and the starting of chemotherapy has been reduced to further improve tolerability. Starting dose of docetaxel was amended to 60 mg/sqm, d1, and starting dose of capecitabine reduced to 800 mg/sqm twice per day, d1-14. The patient number to be included was increased to 70 pts.

Therapy is continued up to tumor progression to a maximum of 10 cycles. Therapy is stopped in case of severe side effects, tumor progression or withdrawal of consent.

This investigator initiated study is supported by Hoffmann-La Roche and by Sanofi-Aventis.