Targeted Radionuclide Therapy in Metastatic Prostate Cancer Using a New PSMA Ligand Radiolabelled With Terbium-161 (161Tb-SibuDAB) - Dose Identification/Escalation Phase Ia/b Study
Researchers will test a new treatment for prostate cancer. This treatment uses an antibody tagged with a small amount of radioactive material. Researchers believe the new antibody might work better than those used before.

In the first part of the study researchers will compare the new treatment to the old one on prostate cancer patients using very low doses, not strong enough to treat nor to cause strong adverse reactions. Each patient will eventually receive both treatments, but one at a time.

The aim of the second part of the study is to find the best dose of the new treatment for patients. This means finding the dose that offers the most benefits with the fewest side effects.

The performance of different prostate cancer diagnostic methods is also in scope of the study.
Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Injection, 161Tb-SibuDAB,1GBq|DRUG: Injection, 177Lu-PSMA-I&T, 1GBq|DRUG: Injection, 161Tb-SibuDAB, Dose Escalation
Phase Ia: Tumour absorbed dose, Comparison of median tumour absorbed dose, in Gy, after sequential injections of non-therapeutic test activity of 161Tb-SibuDAB and 177Lu-PSMA I\&T in the same patients.

Tumour absorbed dose is obtained by SPECT/CT of head, thorax, abdomen and pelvis and represents the time integrated tumour activity (3 tumours per patient). To avoid carry-over effects, a period of at least 21 days will be allowed between the two consecutive test injections., 3, 24, 48 and 168 hours after each injection|Phase Ib: Identification of the optimal biological dose of 161Tb-SibuDAB for mCRPC RLT, Identification of the optimal biological dose of 161Tb-SibuDAB, in GBq, for mCRPC RLT. The optimal maximum tolerated dose / biological dose will be the highest 161Tb-SibuDAB injected activity which elicits a clinically relevant adverse event grade G3 (according to CTCAE 5.0, ranging from G1 to G5 where G1 corresponds to mild AE and and G5 corresponds to AE related death) in maximal 1 patient per cohort / 1 patient in two cohorts., baseline and 1 week, 2 weeks and 4 weeks after each injection. Long term: 6 and 12 months after RLT
Phase Ia: Estimation of critical organ median absorbed doses, Estimation of critical organ (bone marrow, kidney, salivary gland) median absorbed doses after injection of a non-therapeutic test activity of 161Tb-SibuDAB and 177Lu-PSMA I\&T in the same patients. Critical organ absorbed dose is obtained by SPECT/CT of head, thorax, abdomen and pelvis and represents the time integrated tumour activity (3 tumours per patient). Blood samples are collected at each timepoint to enable bone marrow dosimetry., 3, 24, 48 and 168 hours after each injection|Phase Ia: Estimation of the median tumour-to-critical organ absorbed dose ratios, Estimation of the median tumour-to-critical organ absorbed dose ratios after test activity injections of 161Tb-SibuDAB and 177Lu-PSMA-I\&T in same patient. The potential therapeutic index will be calculated by take the simple ratio between the median tumour doses (Outcome 1) and the corresponding critical organ doses (Outcome 3) in each patient., 3, 24, 48 and 168 hours after each injection|Phase Ib: Cumulative median tumour and organ absorbed doses after 4 cycles of 161Tb-SibuDAB RLT, The median cumulative tumour absorbed dose will represent the 4-cycle summation of the median tumour absorbed dose after receiving the therapeutic injected activity of 161Tb-SibuDAB. This will be normalized to the injected activity (expressed as Gy/GBq)., 3, 24, 48 and 168 hours after each injection|Phase Ib: Estimation of the "therapy index" for 161Tb-SibuDAB RLT., Simple radios will be calculated between the cumulative median tumour absorbed dose and the cumulative median doses of different critical organs following completion of 161Tb-SibuDAB RLT. The "therapy index" will be identified as the lowest value for the calculated ratios., 3, 24, 48 and 168 hours after each injection
Radioligand therapy (RLT) has emerged as an effective treatment of metastatic, castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) for those patients having, prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA)-positive disease. This led to the FDA approval of 177Lu-PSMA-617 (PluvictoTM), a PSMA ligand radiolabelled with the β--particle emitter lutetium-177(177Lu). Despite the success of this treatment modality, the therapeutic response after RLT with 177Lu-based PSMA radioligands is limited and disease relapse inevitable. In addition, approximately 1/3 of the patients does not respond to 177Lu-based RLT despite PSMA-positive mCRPC.

It has been hypothesized that the insufficient absorbed dose delivery to macroscopic tumours and, in particular, to microscopic metastases with currently used 177Lu-based PSMA radioligands is the reason for the treatment failure in these patients. SibuDAB, a novel long-circulating PSMA ligand, was successfully tested in the preclinical setting in combination with terbium-161 (161Tb) that emits not only β--particles but also conversion and Auger electrons and, hence, delivers 2-4 times higher absorbed doses to microscopic tumours than 177Lu.

The researchers, therefore, propose to enhance the efficacy of PSMA-targeting RLT by using the long-circulating ligand (SibuDAB) labelled with 161Tb. The researchers expect 161Tb-SibuDAB to exhibit increased and/or prolonged tumour uptake with a higher deposition of energy (due to short ranged Auger electrons) resulting in a high linear energy transfer (LET) and, hence, relative biological effectiveness. 161Tb-SibuDAB should not only deliver the absorbed dose to the cellular nucleus (via β-- radiation) but also to the cell membrane and organelles (through the emission of conversion and Auger electrons) which, in mathematical models, leads to a 3-4-fold increased absorbed dose to single cancer cells compared to standard RLT.