Serious Gaming for Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting
The purpose of this study is to examine the effectiveness of a technology-based intervention for managing nausea and vomiting in older adults with cancer. Participants will be randomized to either an intervention or control group. Outcomes such as symptom severity, quality of life, and resource use will be examined.
Neoplasms|Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting
BEHAVIORAL: eSSET-CINV
Healthcare resource use, any emergency department or hospital admission will be recorded using a dichotomous variable (yes/no), From baseline through the end of the study at 12 or 24 weeks|CINV severity, The Symptom Management Checklist will measure the presence and severity of nausea and vomiting. Participants will be sent a text link every day for 6 days after chemotherapy or complete this data on a form at home. This starts right after time 1. Nausea will be reported on a 0-10 scale. Higher numbers equal more nausea., From baseline1 through the end of the study at 12 or 24 weeks
Self-management behaviors, The Symptom Management Checklist will measure self-management behaviors and preventive behaviors for CINV. Participants will be sent a text link every day for 6 days after chemotherapy or complete this data on a form at home. This starts right after Time 1., From baseline through the end of the study at 12 or 24 weeks|Symptom severity, The Symptom Representation Questionnaire Part 1 is a 24 item self-report measure that will be used to identify the presence and severity of common treatment-related side effects (0 to 10 scale). Higher numbers indicate more severe symptoms. This measure asks participants to think about their symptoms over the last week, Baseline and 12 or 24 weeks|Cognitive representation, The Symptom Representation Questionnaire Part 2 has 15 questions related to cognitive beliefs about nausea. Sub scales examine symptom cause, timeline, cure/control, and consequences. An agreement type Likert scale is used., Baseline and 12 or 24 weeks|Health-related Quality of Life, The EORTC-30 will measure quality of life at each treatment cycle. Higher scores mean better quality of life, baseline, 4,8,12,16,20, and 24 weeks
The goal of this study is to increase the use of preventative self-management behaviors for nausea and vomiting in older adults receiving chemotherapy to reduce negative outcomes and emergency or hospital admissions. Early reinforcement of standard education and re-framing any preconceived beliefs about the ability of nausea and vomiting to be managed will increase preventative self-management behaviors and improve patient outcomes. Participants will be in the study for 6 chemotherapy treatment cycles. This could be 12 to 24 weeks depending on if they receive treatment every 2, 3 or 4 weeks.