A Study of the Safety and Activity of Liposomal Irinotecan in Combination With the 5-FU and Oxaliplatin in the Preoperative Treatment of Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
This is a phase II, single arm, non-randomized, open label study of liposomal irinotecan with FOLFOX in the neoadjuvant setting in patients with resectable or borderline resectable, previously untreated pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The primary objective of this study is to investigate the safety and feasibility of this treatment regimen in this patient population.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Liposomal Irinotecan|DRUG: FOLFOX regimen
Percentage of Subjects Who Had Post-operative Complications 30 Days Post-surgery, To determine the percentage of subjects who had post-operative complications 30 days post-surgery. Post-operative complications considered for this outcome measure included hospital readmission, death, second surgery or interventional procedure, or major complications extending hospital stay., 30 days
Percentage of Subjects Who Completed All Intended Cycles of Treatment, To determine the percentage of subjects that completed all eight intended cycles of treatment with liposomal irinotecan with FOLFOX., 4 months|Percentage of Subjects Who Achieved a Complete Surgical Resection (R0), To determine the percentage of subjects who achieved a complete surgical resection (R0),which is determined from review of pathology reports and inclusive of pathologic nodal status and TNM staging. A complete surgical resection (R0) has been achieved when surgical margins are microscopically negative for residual tumor., 7 months|Percentage of Patients Achieving a Best Overall Response of Partial or Complete Response (Objective Response Rate), To determine the percentage of patients achieving a best overall response of partial or complete response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria, a complete response is the disappearance of all target lesions (any pathological lymph nodes \[whether target or non-target\] must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm). A partial response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., 5 months|Difference Between Baseline and Maximal Nadir of Serum CA19-9 Level, To determine the difference between baseline and maximal nadir of serum CA19-9 level, 9 months|Subject Physical, Social, Emotional, and Functional Well-being During Treatment, To determine subject physical, social, emotional, and functional well-being during treatment, as measured by the FACT-G questionnaire. The FACT-G is a 27 item questionnaire where subjects respond to item with a score of 0-4. The responses to the questions are summed to calculate 4 sub-scores: physical well-being (score range 0-28), social well-being (score range: 0-28), emotional well-being (score range: 0-24), and functional well-being (score range: 0-28). The 4 sub-scores are also summed to calculate the total score. Total scores range from 0-108. A higher sub-score or total score indicates better quality of life. Participants completed the FACT-G at Cycles 1, 5, and 8, as well as at the pre-surgical evaluation and follow-up visits., Cycles 1, 5, and 8 and at pre-surgical evaluation and post-surgical follow-up visits
This is a phase II, single arm, non-randomized, open label study of liposomal irinotecan with FOLFOX in the neoadjuvant setting in patients with resectable or borderline resectable, previously untreated pancreatic adenocarcinoma. The primary objective of this study is to investigate the safety and feasibility of this treatment regimen in this patient population.