Learning MRI and Histology Image Mappings for Cancer Diagnosis and Prognosis.
Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) is now widely used to risk stratify men with a suspicion of prostate cancer and identify suspicious regions for biopsy. Advanced MRI techniques have emerged which seek to improve this characterisation and could predict biopsy results non-invasively before men undergo biopsy. Before these techniques are translated clinically, robust histological and clinical validation is required.

This study aims to clinically validate advanced MRI techniques in a cohort of men suspected with prostate cancer. Histological analysis of men undergoing biopsy, +/- prostatectomy will be used for biological validation of VERDICT; Vascular and Extracellular Restricted Diffusion for Cytometry in Tumours and Luminal Water imaging (LWI). In particular, prostatectomy specimens will be processed using 3-D printed patient-specific moulds to allow for accurate MRI and histology mapping.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Neoplasm
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: VERDICT MRI|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Luminal Index Imaging
Diagnostic accuracy of VERDICT MRI, Quantitative assessment of VERDICT MRI reduces false positives by 10% compared to standard MRI alone, 2 years|Diagnostic accuracy of Luminal Water Imaging (LWI), Quantitative assessment of LWI reduces false positives by 10% compared to standard MRI alone, 2 years
The proportions of true positives with index tests is the same as mpMRI., 2 years
Machine learning algorithms can predict histology from MRI., Number of correct predictions of gleason grade in men who undergo biopsy or prostatectomy., 3 years
Multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging (mpMRI) is now widely used to risk stratify men with a suspicion of prostate cancer and identify suspicious regions for biopsy. Advanced MRI techniques have emerged which seek to improve this characterisation and could predict biopsy results non-invasively before men undergo biopsy. Before these techniques are translated clinically, robust histological and clinical validation is required.

This study aims to clinically validate advanced MRI techniques in a cohort of men suspected with prostate cancer. Histological analysis of men undergoing biopsy, +/- prostatectomy will be used for biological validation of VERDICT; Vascular and Extracellular Restricted Diffusion for Cytometry in Tumours and Luminal Water imaging (LWI). In particular, prostatectomy specimens will be processed using 3-D printed patient-specific moulds to allow for accurate MRI and histology mapping.