Campath-1H and EPOCH to Treat Non-Hodgkin's T- and NK-Cell Lymphomas
Background:

The paradigm of combining therapeutic agents with non-overlapping toxicities for the treatment of malignancy produces clinical remissions and cures in a number of tumor types.

A new class of agents, humanized and chimerized monoclonal antibodies, typically have little or no hematopoietic toxicity and can be readily combined with full doses of cytotoxic chemotherapy. It has become clear that in certain lymphomas and breast cancers, the combination of monoclonal antibodies and chemotherapy improves response rate and the quality of the response compared with that achieved by treatment with either agent alone.

The clinical outcome for patients with T-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma is significantly inferior to the outcome of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin s lymphoma. In most reports less than 20% of patients with T cell lymphoid malignancies remain free of disease at 5 years.

Objectives:

Determine the toxicity of Alemtuzumab and etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (EPOCH) chemotherapy in untreated cluster of differentiation 52 (CD52)-expressing T and natural killer (NK) lymphoid malignancies.

Determine the maximum tolerated dose of Alemtuzumab administered in combination with EPOCH chemotherapy.

Determine in a preliminary fashion the anti-tumor activity of the combination of Alemtuzumab and EPOCH chemotherapy.

Eligibility:

CD52-expressing lymphoid malignancy.

Patients with chemotherapy naive aggressive T \& NK lymphomas. Patients with alk-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma and patients with T cell precursor disease are not eligible.

Age greater than or equal to 17 years.

Adequate organ function, unless impairment due to respective organ involvement by tumor.

No active symptomatic ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction or congestive heart. failure within the past year.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative.

Not pregnant or nursing.

Design:

Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be evaluated to determine the toxicity profile and in a preliminary fashion the antitumor activity of the combination with Dose-Adjusted EPOCH.

Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be explored, in cohorts of three to six patients each. Patients will receive either 30, 60, or 90 mg of Alemtuzumab on day 1 of therapy, followed by dose-adjusted EPOCH chemotherapy days 1-5.
Lymphoma, T-Cell|Lymphoma, Extranodal NK-T-Cell
BIOLOGICAL: Alemtuzumab (Campath)|DRUG: EPOCH
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Alemtuzumab, MTD was achieved by increasing doses of Alemtuzumab on three cohorts. Cohort 1 received 30mg of Alemtuzumab, cohort 2 received 60mg of Alemtuzumab, and cohort 3 received 90mg of Alemtuzumab intravenously up to 2 cycles. The MTD reflects the highest dose of Alemtuzumab in which no more than 1 of 6 participants entered at a specific dose level experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLT)., up to 2 cycles of therapy, approximately 42 days|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events, see the adverse event module., 67 months and 9 days
Clinical Response, Response was measured by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas. Complete remission (CR) is complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease. Complete response unconfirmed (Cru)is as per complete remission criterion except that if a residual node is greater than 1.5cm, it must have decreased by greater than 75% in the sum of the products of the perpendicular diameters (SPD). Partial response (PR) is ≥50% decrease in the SPD of 6 largest dominant nodes or nodal masses. Progressive disease (PD) is ≥50% increase from the nadir in the SPD of any previously identified abnormal node for PRS or non-responders. Stable disease (SD) is less than a PR but not progressive disease., From date of onstudy until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 67 months and 9 days.
Background:

The paradigm of combining therapeutic agents with non-overlapping toxicities for the treatment of malignancy produces clinical remissions and cures in a number of tumor types.

A new class of agents, humanized and chimerized monoclonal antibodies, typically have little or no hematopoietic toxicity and can be readily combined with full doses of cytotoxic chemotherapy. It has become clear that in certain lymphomas and breast cancers, the combination of monoclonal antibodies and chemotherapy improves response rate and the quality of the response compared with that achieved by treatment with either agent alone.

The clinical outcome for patients with T-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma is significantly inferior to the outcome of patients with B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma. In most reports less than 20% of patients with T cell lymphoid malignancies remain free of disease at 5 years.

Objective:

Determine the toxicity and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Alemtuzumab and EPOCH chemotherapy in untreated cluster of differentiation 52 (CD52)-expressing T and natural killer (NK) lymphoid malignancies

Eligibility:

* CD52-expressing lymphoid malignancy.
* Patients with chemotherapy naive aggressive T \& NK lymphomas. Patients with alk-positive anaplastic large cell lymphoma and patients with T cell precursor disease are not eligible.
* Age greater than or equal to 17 years.
* Adequate organ function, unless impairment due to respective organ involvement by tumor.
* No active symptomatic ischemic heart disease, myocardial infarction or congestive heart. failure within the past year.
* Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) negative.
* Not pregnant or nursing.

Design:

Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be evaluated to determine the toxicity profile and in a preliminary fashion the antitumor activity of the combination with Dose-Adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (EPOCH).

Three dose levels of Alemtuzumab will be explored, in cohorts of three to six patients each. Patients will receive either 30, 60, or 90 mg of Alemtuzumab on day 1 of therapy, followed by dose-adjusted EPOCH chemotherapy days 1-5.