Panitumumab-IRDye800 in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer Undergoing Surgery
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of panitumumab-IRDye800 and to see how well it works in finding cancer in patients with pancreatic cancer who are undergoing surgery. Panitumumab-IRDye800 is a combination of the antibody drug panitumumab and IRDye800CW, an investigational dye that can be seen using a special camera. Panitumumab-IRDye800 may attach to tumor cells and make them more visible during surgery in patients with pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Fluorescence Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Panitumumab|DRUG: Panitumumab-IRDye800
Tumor to background ratio (TBR), TBR is defined as fluorescence intensity of tumor tissue compared to that of normal surrounding pancreatic tissue., 1 day
Number of Grade 2 or higher AEs determined to be clinically significant and definitely, probably or possibly related to study drug, Safety events will be recorded over the 30 day observation period., Up to 30 days|Number of positive lymph nodes per participant, not detected by white light, Determine whether positive lymph nodes can be detected by near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging with Panitumumab-IRDye800 but not by white light., 1 day|Number of positive resection margins per participant, not detected by white light, Determine whether residual disease at resection margins can be detected by near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging with Panitumumab-IRDye800 but not by white light., 1 day
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the optimal dose of panitumumab-IRDye800 in identifying pancreatic cancer compared to surrounding normal tissue in the ex vivo setting as measured by tumor to background ratio.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the panitumumab-IRDye800 as an imaging agent in subjects undergoing resection of pancreatic cancer.

II. Determine whether metastatic lesions, positive lymph node, or residual disease can be detected by near-infrared (NIR) fluorescence imaging with panitumumab-IRDye800 but not by white light.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of panitumumab-IRDye800 followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive a loading dose of panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes, and after 15 minutes of observation, patients then receive panitumumab-IRDye800 IV over 60 minutes on day 0. Patients then undergo surgical resection 2-5 days after panitumumab-IRDye800 administration with imaging using the Novadaq SPY/LUNA, Novadaq IR9000 fluorescence imaging system with open field handheld fluorescence imaging camera, and/or pinpoint endoscopic fluorescence imaging camera, and SurgVision Explorer Air multi spectral fluorescence reflectance system.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 15 and 30 days.