Application of Painting Analysis and Psychotherapy in Children With Bone Tumors
In the population suffering from cancer, children and teenagers are in the majority. For children with rapid development of body and mind, with the change of cognitive ability, they will feel anxiety and fear about the expected potential negative events. Painting art therapy is a kind of non-verbal psychological therapy through the interaction between the painter, the painting work and the therapist, with the painting creation activity as the intermediary. The purpose is to develop symbolic language, touch the inner subconscious, and integrate into the personality, so as to produce cognitive and behavioral changes. Painting therapy and psychological analysis can improve the treatment compliance of children bone tumor patients, make psychological nursing and health education of patients more targeted, and promote the cooperation between medical care and patients.
Bone Tumors
OTHER: Painting therapy and psychoanalysis
Psychological distress thermometer, The significance of psychological distress is identified according to the score, Up to approximately 2months|Anxiety Screening Form for Children (SCARED), It consists of 41 items and 5 factors (somatization/panic, generalized anxiety, dissociative anxiety, social phobia and school phobia). The scale is divided into 3 levels (0 points: none; 1 mark: Sometimes. 2 marks: quite often. SCARED score ≥23 is positive, that is, the presence of anxiety., Up to approximately 2months
In the population suffering from cancer, children and teenagers are in the majority. For children with rapid development of body and mind, with the change of cognitive ability, they will feel anxiety and fear about the expected potential negative events. Painting art therapy is a kind of non-verbal psychological therapy through the interaction between the painter, the painting work and the therapist, with the painting creation activity as the intermediary. The purpose is to develop symbolic language, touch the inner subconscious, and integrate into the personality, so as to produce cognitive and behavioral changes. Painting therapy and psychological analysis can improve the treatment compliance of children bone tumor patients, make psychological nursing and health education of patients more targeted, and promote the cooperation between medical care and patients. Forty pediatric bone tumor patients meeting the requirements were selected from the bone and soft tissue ward of our hospital. Twenty subjects were randomly divided into experimental group and control group. The experimental group underwent psychological evaluation, drawing analysis and psychotherapy intervention before and after chemotherapy and surgery, while the control group only underwent psychological evaluation without drawing analysis and psychotherapy intervention. This experiment was designed to evaluate the change of psychological state of children after intervention. To verify whether the intervention has improved the psychological and cognitive aspects of the children.