No Surgery Trial / Two Dose-escalation Strategies
A randomized study of 131 patients. Patients with a clinical T2-3 N0 rectal cancer will be randomized to two arms (arm A: standard chemoradiation (45 Gy in 25 with concomitant 5-FU or Xeloda chemotherapy) and an external beam boost of 9 Gy compared to arm B: standard chemoradiation (45 Gy in 25 with concomitant 5-FU or Xeloda chemotherapy) and followed by a brachytherapy boost of 30 Gy in 3 fractions).
Stage II Rectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Complete responders and Non-complete responders|RADIATION: Chemoradiation + EBRT Boost|RADIATION: Chemoradiation + HDRBT Boost
TME-free survival, Time from date of randomization to either TME or death in the intention to treat population, 2 years post treatment
Local Recurrence, Number of participants with Local recurrence as assessed by tests during follow-up visits., 2 years post treatment|Disease-free survival, The time between the date of randomization and recurrence, either in the pelvis or metastases. Patients without an event will be censored at the last date the patient was known to be disease-free., 5 years post treatment|Overall survival, The time between date of randomization and date of death due to any causes., 5 years post treatment|Overall Quality of life, Quality of life Questionnaires over different time point, 5 years post treatment
It is becoming clear that there is a now an international consensus that rectal cancer research efforts need to be more focused in optimizing a non-surgical approach. This concept is very relevant to an ageing patient population with multiple co-morbidities regularly seen at the Jewish General Hospital and across the province. After interim analysis on 40 patients of the pilot study a phase III study is proposed. We are therefore proposing a phase III multicentric study of 145 patients to compare the two best known radiation dose escalation strategies and to achieve a complete clinical response. Patients with a clinical T2-3 N0-1 rectal cancer will be randomized to two arms (arm A: standard chemoradiation (45 Gy in 25 with concomitant 5-FU or Xeloda chemotherapy) and an external beam boost of 9 Gy compared to arm B: standard chemoradiation (45 Gy in 25 with concomitant 5-FU or Xeloda chemotherapy) and followed by a brachytherapy boost of 30 Gy in 3 fractions). Patients that have a high risk of recurrence or with more advanced stages of the disease will be excluded from the study, as only the local disease is being treated. The primary outcome for this proposal is rectum preservation in treated patients.