Ribociclib and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body. Ribociclib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride may work better in treating patients with solid tumors.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Ribociclib
Maximum tolerated dose, Defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least 2 patients (out of 6)., Up to 21 days
Best response defined as best objective status recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group). The number of responses may indicate further evaluation for specific tumor types in a phase II setting., Up to 18 months|Confirmed response defined to be a stringent complete response, complete response, very good partial response, or partial response, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group). The number of responses may indicate further evaluation for specific tumor types in a phase II setting., Up to 18 months|Incidence of adverse events, Number and severity of all adverse events (overall, by dose-level, and by tumor group) will be tabulated and summarized. Adverse events that are classified as either possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Non-hematologic toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and leukopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir) as well as categorization via CTC standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence, Up to 30 days after last dose|Pharmacokinetic (PK) of ribociclib, A population PK model will be developed utilizing the PK time points collected, and then used to estimate individual area under the curves or clearance of ribociclib in combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride. The effect of the combination on PK of each drug will be evaluated by the model, along with other participant factors that may explain the inter-participant variability in pharmacokinetics., Pre-ribociclib dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 hours post dose on days 8 and 14 course 1 and pre-gemcitabine hydrochloride dose on day 1 course 2
CDK2/4/6, Cyclin D1 and Cyclin D3 amplification, retinoblastoma (RB) and P16 expression, CDK2/4/6, Cyclin D1 and Cyclin D3 amplification, RB and P16 expression in archived and biopsied tumor tissue with be correlated with treatment response., Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the dose-limiting toxicities and identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose of the combination of ribociclib and gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety and tolerability of the combination of ribociclib and gemcitabine.

II. To describe the pharmacokinetic (PK) of ribociclib in combination with gemcitabine.

III. To describe preliminary evidence of efficacy of the combination of ribociclib and gemcitabine.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the correlation of CDK4/6, cyclin D1 and cyclin D3 amplification, retinoblastoma (RB) and P16 expression in archived and biopsied tumor tissue with treatment response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and ribociclib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 8-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.