Multidimensional Rehabilitation Intervention in Colorectal Cancer Survivors
A metaverse-based multidimensional rehabilitation program will be implemented for colorectal cancer survivors who have undergone curative surgery and adjuvant therapy. The intervention is based on the behavior change wheel and includes dietary intervention, exercise intervention, psychological support, and behavior management. Through various methods such as training, education, and motivation, the program aims to enhance the patients' functional ability, opportunities, and motivation, thereby promoting healthy behavior. Outcome measures include quality of life, fear of recurrence, and adoption of a healthy lifestyle. The intervention period is 4 weeks, with evaluations conducted at baseline and week 4 of the intervention
Colorectal Cancer Survivor|Rehabilitation|Quality of Life
BEHAVIORAL: multidimensional rehabilitation
Chinese version of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), This Scale was developed to measure the quality of life of patients with cancer. It includes 30 questions and three sub-dimensions: General Well-Being, Functional Difficulties, and Symptom Control. The maximum score on the scale is 100, and the minimum is 0. High scores on the functional sub-dimension indicate good/healthy functional status, high scores on the symptom sub-dimension indicate high levels of symptoms and/or problems, and high scores on the global health status/quality of life sub-dimension indicate good quality of life., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|Fear of Progression Questionaire-Short Form (FoP-Q-SF), The FoP-Q-SF was developed by German scholar Herschbach in 2005 in people such as diabetes, rheumatic diseases and cancer, to measure patients' fear of disease progression or recurrence, a total of 7 dimensions, 43 entries, Cronbach's α is 0.7. It is a single-dimensional scale with a total of 12 items, using the Liket 5-level scoring method, the score range is 12\~60, the higher the score, the higher the level of fear., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks
Lifestyle, Assessments of lifestyle behaviors will be conducted using a self-developed behavior scale, focusing on the frequency of behaviors such as diet and smoking., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), The International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) is a commonly used tool for assessing individuals' levels of physical activity in their daily lives. It aims to measure individuals' physical activity over the past 7 days, including overall physical activity levels and the frequency of activities., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|30-second Chair Sit-To-Stand (30-s STS), Ability to test mobility and posture transposition. Using a chair without armrests, the number of times the participant could change from a sitting state (leaning back on the chair with both feet on the ground) to fully standing within 30 s was counted. Two tests were performed, with 1 min of rest in between, and the average value was rounded to the nearest value., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|BMI, BMI reflects the patient's nutritional status and physical fitness., Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|Chemotherapy completion rate, Chemotherapy completion rate, 4th week|White blood cell count, White blood cell count, Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|Red blood cell count, Red blood cell count, Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|Hemoglobin concentration, Hemoglobin concentration, Change from Baseline at 4 weeks|Platelet count, Platelet count, Change from Baseline at 4 weeks
A metaverse-based multidimensional rehabilitation program will be implemented for colorectal cancer survivors who have undergone curative surgery and adjuvant therapy. The intervention is based on the behavior change wheel and includes dietary intervention, exercise intervention, psychological support, and behavior management. Through various methods such as training, education, and motivation, the program aims to enhance the patients' functional ability, opportunities, and motivation, thereby promoting healthy behavior. Outcome measures include quality of life, fear of recurrence, and adoption of a healthy lifestyle. The intervention period is 4 weeks, with evaluations conducted at baseline and week 4 of the intervention