Mometasone Furoate 0.1% Versus Eucerin on Moderate to Severe Skin Toxicities in Breast Cancer Patients Receiving Postmastectomy Radiation
The purpose of this study is to find out if the effect of mometasone furoate is any different from Eucerin in decreasing the severity of redness of the skin during irradiation, preventing the skin from peeling, or reducing the amount of irritation the patient reports during treatment.
Invasive Breast Cancer
OTHER: Eucerin|OTHER: Mometasone Furoate 0.1%
Percentage of Participants With Moist Desquamation, Skin toxicity assessments will be done on a weekly basis while the patient is receiving RT, by the RN or physician utilizing CTCAE 4.0 and the weekly status check form, as per current standard practice., 2 years
Difference From Baseline and 5 Weeks Between Patient-reported Skin Toxicities at Baseline and End of Radiation Treatment, The Skindex-16 assessment tool is designed to capture patient-reported assessments of subjective adverse effects. It consists of a short 16-item assessment completed by the patient, with each item rated on a 7-point Likert scale (0=never bothered to 6=always bothered). Responses to the Skindex-16 are categorized into three subscales: symptom, emotional, and functional. Scores for the emotions, symptoms and functioning scales are also expressed in a linear scale from 0 to 100. Rankings of the questionnaire are then averaged to obtain a score of severity of patient-reported outcomes. This allows providers to gauge which aspects of the participant's experience are most affected by the treatment., 5 weeks and Baseline|Difference Between Patient-reported Skin Toxicities at End of Radiation Therapy and 2 Week Follow-up, The Skindex-16 assessment tool is designed to capture patient-reported assessments of subjective adverse effects. It consists of a short 16-item assessment completed by the patient, with each item rated on a 7-point Likert scale (0=never bothered to 6=always bothered). Responses to the Skindex-16 are categorized into three subscales: symptom, emotional, and functional. Scores for the emotions, symptoms and functioning scales are also expressed in a linear scale from 0 to 100. Rankings of the questionnaire are then averaged to obtain a score of severity of patient-reported outcomes. This allows providers to gauge which aspects of the participant's experience are most affected by the treatment., 2 weeks after end of Radiation Therapy
The purpose of this study is to find out if the effect of mometasone furoate is any different from Eucerin in decreasing the severity of redness of the skin during irradiation, preventing the skin from peeling, or reducing the amount of irritation the patient reports during treatment.