Pre-analytical Factors Affecting ctDNA Analysis in Early and Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
This study evaluates pre-analytical factors affecting circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) analysis in breast cancer that not spread beyond the breast and or lymph nodes (early and locally advanced). ctDNA refers to freely circulating tumor DNA fragments found in the blood plasma. Pre-analytical factors such as blood collection tubes, delays in separation of plasma, centrifugation speeds, storage conditions, shipping and DNA extraction methods can all affect ctDNA measurements. Inappropriate processing can cause breaking down of the membrane (lysis) of peripheral blood cells that release background wild-type DNA and may also cause degradation of circulating tumor-specific DNA fragments. Both mechanisms will dilute levels of ctDNA in plasma and make it more difficult to detect. Evaluating the pre-analytical factors of the collection of blood and left over tissue samples for the research of cancer may help researchers to evaluate the impact of the blood collection/processing and long-term storage from patients with locally advanced breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Early Stage Breast Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Change in tumor specific circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) levels, Will be measured as tumor fraction (%), using TARgeted DIgital Sequencing (TARDIS)., Baseline to 5 years
Change in total cell-free DNA concentration, Will be measured in genome copies/ml of plasma, using the Quality Assessment (QA) assay., Baseline to 5 years|Change in total cell-free DNA fragment size profile, Will be measured as % fragmented, using the Quality Assessment (QA) assay., Baseline to 5 years|Change in tumor-specific circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) fragment size profile, Will be measured as average fragment size, using TARgeted DIgital Sequencing (TARDIS)., Baseline to 5 years|Background error rate, Will be measured as errors per bp sequenced, measured using TARgeted DIgital Sequencing (TARDIS)., Baseline to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the impact of blood collection/processing. II. To evaluate the impact of long-term storage of plasma and extracted DNA.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients also undergo collection of leftover tissue samples from standard of care (SOC) procedures and have medical records reviewed.