CPX-351 and Ivosidenib for the Treatment of IDH1 Mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia or High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome
This phase II trial investigates how well CPX-351 and ivosidenib work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome that has IDH1 mutation. The safety of this drug combination will also be studied. IDH1 is a type of genetic mutation (change). Chemotherapy drugs, such as CPX-351, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Ivosidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. The purpose of this trial is to learn if CPX-351 in combination with ivosidenib can help to control IDH1-mutated acute myeloid leukemia or high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Gene Mutations|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Ivosidenib|DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine
Overall response rate (ORR), Defined as complete remission (CR) + complete remission with hematologic recovery (CRh) + complete remission with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi) + morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS) + and partial remission (PR). Will be assessed based on revised International Working Group (IWG) response criteria for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Estimated along 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years
Duration of response, Defined as the number of days from the date of initial response (PR or better) to the date of first documented disease progression/relapse or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 3 years|Event-free survival, Defined as the number of days from the date of treatment initiation (i.e., cycle 1 days 1 \[C1D1\]) to the date of documented treatment failure, relapses from CR, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, and will be calculated for all patients. Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, The severity of the adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0. The number and percent of subjects with treatment-emergent adverse events will be summarized according to intensity and drug relationship, and categorized by System Organ Class and preferred term by dose level/part., Up to 3 years
Minimal residual disease (MRD) status, The association between cellular biomarker, MRD, etc. and antitumor activity will be compared using Wilcoxon's rank sum test or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. MRD negative status and exploratory biomarkers will be summarized graphically and with descriptive statistics., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) including CR, CRh, CRi, MLFS, and PR of the combination of CPX-351 and ivosidenib in IDH1-mutated patients with AML or high-risk MDS

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety of CPX-351 in combination with ivosidenib. II. To determine time to event endpoints including duration of response (DOR), event free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) using multiparameter flow cytometry, cytogenetics and molecular evaluation.

II. To evaluate molecular and cellular biomarkers that may be predictive of antitumor activity and/or resistance to treatment including evaluation of 2HG, IDH1 and other co-occurring mutations and VAF levels before, during and after treatment.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive CPX-351 intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5, and ivosidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Patients who do not achieve complete remission may receive a second cycle of induction therapy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete remission proceed to consolidation.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive CPX-351 IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3, and ivosidenib PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive ivosidenib PO QD for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are experiencing clinical benefit and who have not experienced excessive toxicity after completion of 2 years of maintenance may be eligible to continue therapy after discussion with the principal investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, then monthly for 3 years.