An Open-Label, Phase Ib/II Clinical Trial Of Cdk 4/6 Inhibitor, Ribociclib (Lee011), In Combination With Trastuzumab Or T-Dm1 For Advanced/Metastatic Her2-Positive Breast Cancer.
Participants that have breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body, is positive for a protein called HER2, and has not responded to standard treatment. This research study is a way of gaining new knowledge about the combination of Ribociclib with other drugs as a possible treatment for this diagnosis.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: T-DM1|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Cohort A: Recommended Phase2 Dose (RP2D), Standard 3+3 phase-I design will be utilized in this trial. Briefly, a minimum of 3 evaluable patients will be entered at first dose level (=300 mg ribociclib) and T-DM1 (3.6 mg/kg IV). If 1 out of the first 3 patients enrolled experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), 3 additional patients will be enrolled to that dose level. If no more than 1 patient in 6 experiences a DLT, dose escalation of ribociclib will continue to next dose-level. If 2 or more patients at any given dose level experience a DLT, dose escalation will stop and the Recommended Phase2 Dose (RP2D) will be defined. Maximum dose-escalation of Ribociclib (LEE011) will be up to 600 mg., Disease was evaluated at baseline and each cycle on treatment and the end of treatment. Toxicity was evaluated each cycle on treatment, end of treatment and 30 days follow-up. Median treatment duration was 10.9 months with range 2.5 - 19.3 months.|Cohort B: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), or with stable disease (SD) at week 24 by RECIST 1.1 criteria. CBR will be reported with 90% confidence interval, adjusting for two-stage design using the method from Atkinson and Brown., at week 12|Cohort C: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR is defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), or with stable disease (SD) at week 24 by RECIST 1.1 criteria. CBR will be reported with 90% confidence interval, adjusting for two-stage design using the method from Atkinson and Brown., at week 12
Cohort A: Incidence of Grade 3 Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 AE of any type during the time of observation., Assessed each cycle throughout treatment from time of first dose and up to day 30 post-treatment. median follow-up is 12.4 months|Cohort A: PK Profile of Ribociclib in Combination With T-DM1., pharmacokinetics (PK) tudies demonstrated dose-related inhibition of Rb phosphorylation in tumors, with continuous dosing over at least 3-5 days being required to achieve optimal target inhibition., PK blood collection is scheduled at 0 (pre-dose), 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24 hours following dosing of ribociclib.|Cohort A: Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate(ORR) was defined as the portion of patients with complete response or partial response by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and each cycle on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Median treatment duration was 10.9 months with range 2.5 - 19.3 months.|Cohort A: Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically every cycles on treatment and in long-term follow-up every 12 weeks. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 12.4 months.|Cohort A: Frequency of Biomarkers, Optional tumor samples (if safely accessible and feasible) will be taken pre- and post-treatment in order to assess dose-dependent target modulation., taken at any time in Cycle 2 Day 10-18.|Cohort B: Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate(ORR) was defined as the portion of patients with complete response or partial response by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and each cycle on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Median treatment duration was 1.3 months with range 0.6 - 12.6 months.|Cohort B: Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically every cycles on treatment and in long-term follow-up every 12 weeks. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 5 months.|Cohort B: Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Participants were followed long-term for survival every 12 weeks from the end of treatment until death or lost to follow-up. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 5 months.|Cohort B: Incidence of Grade 3 Treatment-Related Toxicity, All grade 4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 AE of any type during the time of observation., Assessed each cycle throughout treatment from time of first dose and up to day 30 post-treatment. median follow-up is 12.4 months|Cohort B: Frequencies Of Biomarkers, Optional tumor samples (if safely accessible and feasible) will be taken pre- and post-treatment in order to assess dose-dependent target modulation., taken at any time in Cycle 2 Day 10-18.|Cohort C: Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate(ORR) was defined as the portion of patients with complete response or partial response by RECIST 1.1 criteria.

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and each cycle on treatment; Treatment continued until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Treatment duration is 0 days since cohort C never enrolled.|Cohort C: Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically every cycles on treatment and in long-term follow-up every 12 weeks. Reality follow-up is 0 days since cohort C never enrolled.|Cohort C: Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Participants were followed long-term for survival every 12 weeks from the end of treatment until death or lost to follow-up. 0 days in reality since cohort C never enrolled.|Cohort C: Incidence of Grade 3 Treatment-Related Toxicity, all grade 4 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Incidence is the number of patients experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 AE of any type during the time of observation., Assessed each cycle throughout treatment from time of first dose and up to day 30 post-treatment. 0 days in reality since cohort C never enrolled.|Cohort C: Frequency of Potential Biomarkers, Optional tumor samples (if safely accessible and feasible) will be taken pre- and post-treatment in order to assess dose-dependent target modulation., taken at any time in Cycle 2 Day 10-18.
This research study is a Phase Ib/II clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies.

Ribociclib is a drug that is designed to block certain proteins called Cyclin-Dependent Kinases (CDKs) that are required for cells to divide. These proteins may also control the ability of certain cancers to grow.

In this research study, there will be 3 separate cohorts that are looking for the safe and tolerated dose of ribociclib that can be given in combination with other HER2 directed therapy. One cohort will be looking at the safety of ribociclib in combination with trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1). T-DM1 is a standard treatment for patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. One Cohort will be looking at the safety of ribociclib in combination with trastuzumab (Herceptin), which is a standard treatment for patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. The last cohort will be looking at the safety of ribociclib in combination with trastuzumab (Herceptin) and fulvestrant (Faslodex) for ER-positive and HER2-positive breast cancer. These are both standard treatments for this type of breast cancer.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved Ribociclib as a treatment for any disease.