Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres, Atezolizumab, and Cabozantinib for the Treatment of Unresectable or Locally Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This phase II trial tests whether yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres, atezolizumab, and cabozantinib work to shrink tumors in patients with liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma) that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable) or that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). Yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres consists of millions of microscopic glass spheres containing yttrium-90, a radioactive substance. Yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres are delivered to the tumor in the liver through a catheter in an artery. Radiation from the Yttrium-90 helps treat the tumor. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Cabozantinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. The combination of yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres, atezolizumab, and cabozantinib may kill more tumor cells.
BCLC Stage B Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage C Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|RADIATION: Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres
Proportion of progression-free participants, Using efficacy analysis set, the proportion of participants that are progression free at 6 months will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval., From first dose of study intervention up to 6 months from first dose of study intervention
Objective response rate (ORR), Will be assessed per Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST). Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimate of ORR will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval. Participants who achieve a complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) of best overall response (BOR) that is confirmed on a second scan at least 4 weeks later on the current protocol will be qualified as achieving a response and will count towards the ORR measurement., From first dose of study intervention to end of treatment, assessed up to 12 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)|Objective response rate (ORR), Will be assessed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v) 1.1. Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimate of ORR will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval. Participants who achieve a CR or a PR of BOR that is confirmed on a second scan at least 4 weeks later on the current protocol will be qualified as achieving a response and will count towards the ORR measurement., From first dose of study intervention to end of treatment, assessed up to 12 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)|Disease control rate (DCR), Will be assessed per mRECIST. Using the efficacy analysis set, an estimate of DCR will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval. Participants who, within their respective treatment arm, achieve a CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least 6 months on the current protocol will be qualified as deriving benefit from therapy and will count towards the DCR measurement., From first dose of study intervention to date of progression, assessed up to 12 months from start of study intervention|Disease control rate (DCR), Will be assessed per RECIST v1.1. Using the efficacy analysis set, an estimate of DCR will be reported with 95% exact confidence interval. Participants who, within their respective treatment arm, achieve a CR, PR, or SD for at least 6 months on the current protocol will be qualified as deriving benefit from therapy and will count towards the DCR measurement., From first dose of study intervention to date of progression, assessed up to 12 months from start of study intervention|Time to disease progression (TTP), Will be assessed per mRECIST. Using the efficacy analysis set, the time to progression distribution will be characterized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Kaplan-Meier curves of TTP will be presented. Median TTP, quartiles and TTP rate after specific time points (for example, after 6 and 12 months on treatment) will be estimated from the survival curves. All these parameter estimates will be reported together with their 95% confidence intervals. TTP does not include death; subjects who die without documented progression are censored (at the time of death or at the time of last informative evaluation)., From first dose of study intervention to date of progression, assessed up to 12 months from start of study intervention|Time to disease progression (TTP), Will be assessed per RECIST v1.1. Using the efficacy analysis set, the time to progression distribution will be characterized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Kaplan-Meier curves of TTP will be presented. Median TTP, quartiles and TTP rate after specific time points (for example, after 6 and 12 months on treatment) will be estimated from the survival curves. All these parameter estimates will be reported together with their 95% confidence intervals. TTP does not include death; subjects who die without documented progression are censored (at the time of death or at the time of last informative evaluation)., From first dose of study intervention to date of progression, assessed up to 12 months from start of study intervention|Progression-free survival (PFS), Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the PFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available., From first dose of study intervention to date of progression or death (any cause), assessed up to 12 months from start of study intervention|Overall survival (OS), Using the efficacy analysis set, the estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available., From first dose of study intervention to date of death (any cause), assessed up to 24 months from start of study intervention|Incidence of grade >= 3 adverse events, Will be assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0. Will be determined for participants with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that received at least one dose of study intervention (i.e. using safety analysis set). The 95% confidence interval will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., From first dose of study intervention to 30 days from last dose of study intervention
Descriptive summary of tumor and tumor immune cell populations, In general, descriptive statistics, histograms, principal component analysis (PCA) plots, and hierarchical clustering (e.g., heatmaps with dendrograms) will be produced to assess data quality and distributions, detect outliers, and visualize cellular and molecular changes associated with study treatment. Statistically significant differences in continuous measures from unpaired and paired data will be determined using Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon-signed rank tests, respectively. False discovery rates will be estimated to control for multiple comparisons. Where relevant, results from assays will be described by means, medians, corresponding standard errors, quartiles, and ranges. Comparison of categorical variables may be assessed using nonparametric tests of independence (e.g., Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test)., Baseline (Day 0) up to end of study, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess proportion of participants that are progression-free at 6 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess objective response rate (ORR) for study intervention. II. To assess disease control rate (DCR) for study intervention. III. To assess time to disease progression (TTP) for study intervention. IV. To observe progression-free survival. V. To observe overall survival (OS) for study intervention. VI. To assess safety of study intervention.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate therapy induced changes in the tumor and tumor immune microenvironments.

OUTLINE:

CYCLE 1: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Within 14 days, patients receive yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres (Y-90) intra-arterially.

CYCLES 2+: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients deriving clinical benefit may continue receiving atezolizumab and cabozantinib beyond cycle 12 at the discretion of the principal investigator (PI).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 6 months until 2 years from first dose of study drug.