Pivotal Study of Iodine I 131 Tositumomab for Chemotherapy-refractory Low-grade or Transformed Low-grade B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The results from Phase 1/2 (RIT-I-000) and Phase 2 (RIT-II-001) studies of Tositumomab and Iodine I 131 Tositumomab (TST/I-131 TST) demonstrated that TST/ I-131 TST produced a high response rate in patients with chemotherapy-relapsed/refractory, low-grade or transformed low-grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL). On the basis of these results this study was designed to compare the efficacy of TST/ I-131 TST to the last qualifying chemotherapy regimen in patients with chemotherapy-refractory, low-grade or transformed low-grade NHL.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
BIOLOGICAL: Tositumomab and Iodine I 131 Tositumomab
Number of Participants (Par.) Receiving TST and I 131 TST With a Response >=30 Days Versus Par. With a Response >=30 Days After Their Last Qualifying Chemotherapy Regimen (LQCR), Masked Independent Randomized Radiology and Oncology Review (MIRROR) Panel, Par. with response are those with complete response (CR; complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs/symptoms related to disease), complete response unconfirmed (CRu; meets characteristics of CR, except the nodal size hasn't regressed sufficiently, or there is indeterminate bone marrow), or partial response (PR; \>=50% reduction in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions with no new lesions). Participants' LQCR was used as a comparator for subsequent treatment with Iodine I 131TST., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Duration of Response for Par. Receiving TST and I 131 TST With a Response >=30 Days Versus the Number of Par. With a Response >=30 Days After Their LQCR, as Assessed by the MIRROR Panel, Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented response (for par. with complete response, complete response unconfirmed, or partial response) until disease progression (DP). DP is defined as a \>=25% increase from the nadir value (lowest laboratory value recorded following administration of the study medication) of the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions or the appearance of any new lesion. Individual lesions must be \>2 centimeters (cm) in diameter by radiographic evaluation or \>1 cm in diameter by physical examination., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months
Number of Participants With Any Uncofirmed Response (CR, Clinical Complete Response [CCR], or PR), CR, CCR, CR+CCR, and PR), as Assessed by the Investigator, Participants with response include those with CR, CCR, or PR. Criteria for CR: complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease. Criteria for CCR: complete resolution of all disease-related symptoms, but residual foci, thought to be residual scar tissue, are present. Criteria for PR: \>=50% reduction in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions with no new lesions., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With Any Confirmed Response (CR, CCR, or PR), Confirmed CR, Confirmed CCR, Confirmed CR+CCR, and Confirmed PR, as Assessed by Investigator, Responses had to be confirmed by 2 separate evaluations occurring \>=4 weeks apart. Par. with confirmed response include those with CR, CCR , or PR. A confirmed response (CR/CCR/PR) had to be confirmed by a consecutive response (\>=28 days \[ 4 weeks\] later) that was the same or better. Individual confirmed response data only counts that response confirmed by the same response; thus, not all possible combinations are represented., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Time to Progression of Disease or Death, as Assessed by the Investigator, Time to progression or progression-free survival is defined as the time from the dosimetric dose to the first documented occurrence of disease progression or death. Disease progression is defined as a \>=25% increase from the nadir value (lowest laboratory value recorded following administration of the study medication) of the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions or the appearance of any new lesion. Individual lesions must be \>2 cm in diameter by radiographic evaluation or \>1 cm in diameter by physical examination., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Time to Treatment Failure, as Assessed by the Investigator, Time to treatment failure is defined as the length of time from the date of enrollment to the first incidence of treatment withdrawal, study removal, progression, and/or alternative therapy for the participant's lymphoma, or death., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the treatment start date to the date of death from any cause., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With Responses of CR, CCR, CR+CCR, and PR Following TST and I 131 TST and Following the LQCR, as Assessed by the Investigator, Participants with response include those with CR, CCR, or PR. Criteria for CR: complete resolution of all disease-related radiological abnormalities and the disappearance of all signs and symptoms related to the disease. Criteria for CCR: complete resolution of all disease-related symptoms, but residual foci, thought to be residual scar tissue, are present. Criteria for PR: \>=50% reduction in the sum of the products of the longest perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions with no new lesions., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Adverse Events (AE) Related to Study Drug Experienced by at Least 5% of Participants, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. The Investigator assessed whether the adverse event was related to study drug., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Grade 3 or Grade 4 AEs Experienced by at Least 5% of Participants, AEs were graded using the Common Toxicity Criteria from the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Division of Cancer Therapy, National Cancer Institute. Grades: 0 = No AE or within normal limits; 1 = Mild AE; 2 = Moderate AE; 3 = Severe and undesirable AE; 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE; 5 = Death related to AE., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Grade 3 or Grade 4 AEs Related to Study Drug and Experienced by at Least 5% of Participants, AEs were graded using the Common Toxicity Criteria from the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Division of Cancer Therapy, National Cancer Institute. Grades: 0 = No AE or within normal limits; 1 = Mild AE; 2 = Moderate AE; 3 = Severe and undesirable AE; 4 = Life-threatening or disabling AE; 5 = Death related to AE. The Investigator assessed whether the AE was possibly or probably related to study drug. In addition, all laboratory-derived hematologic toxicities (values outside the normal range) were assumed to be possibly or probably related to study drug., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Primary Cause of Death, The primary cause of death of the participants was assessed by the Investigator., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Time to Death From the Last Dose of Study Drug, Time to death from the last dose of study drug is the time period difference between when study drug treatment stopped and when death occurred., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Fatal Serious Adverse Events (SAE) Unrelated to Study Drug, An SAE is any event occurring at any dose that results in any of the following: death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience (ADE; at immediate risk of death from the experience as it occurred), inpatient hospitalization/prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent/significant disability/incapacity, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Medical events that may not result in death, be life threatening, or require hospitalization may be considered to be a serious ADEs when based upon appropriate medical judgment. Relatedness was based on the Investigator's medical judgment., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Fatal SAEs Related to Study Drug, An SAE is any event occurring at any dose that results in any of the following: death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience (ADE; at immediate risk of death from the experience as it occurred), inpatient hospitalization/prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent/significant disability/incapacity, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Medical events that may not result in death, be life threatening, or require hospitalization may be considered to be a serious AEs when based upon appropriate medical judgment. Relatedness was based on the Investigator's medical judgement., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated SAEs Related to Study Drug, An SAE is any event occurring at any dose that results in any of the following: death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience (ADE; at immediate risk of death from the experience as it occurred), inpatient hospitalization/prolongation of existing hospitalization, a persistent/significant disability/incapacity, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect. Medical events that may not result in death, be life threatening, or require hospitalization may be considered to be a serious ADEs when based upon appropriate medical judgment. Relatedness was based on the Investigator's medical judgement., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Type of Infection, An infection is the colonization of a host organism by a parasite species. Infecting parasites seek to use the host's resources to reproduce, often resulting in disease. Specimen samples of the body fluid are cultured for testing whether the infectious organism is present and grown in the culture media to assess the growth pattern of the organisms present in the specimen. The culture results could be positive or negative. The positive culture results indicate that the tested participant has the infection under investigation, in which case therapeutic treatment with anti-infective is required., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With an Infection for Which Anti-infectives Were Administered, Anti-infectives are capable of acting against infection, by inhibiting the spread of an infectious agent or by killing the infectious agent outright. Anti-infective is a general term that encompasses antibacterials, antibiotics, antifungals, antiprotozoans, and antivirals., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants Who Were Negative for Human Anti-murine Antibodies (HAMA) at Baseline (Before Receiving the Dosimetric Dose) But Positive or Negative After Receiving the Dosimetric Dose, The administration of murine antibodies may form HAMA. A HAMA assay was performed using the ImmunoSTRIP HAMA IgG enzyme-linked immune absorbent assay by a central laboratory (Covance Classic Laboratory Services, Indianapolis, IN). Fludarabine, a known immunosuppressant, might decrease HAMA production in addition to reducing bone marrow involvement. To be "positive," a participant had to have a positive HAMA assessment at any follow-up visit., HAMA was measured at baseline; Day5; Weeks 7, 17, 25; and then every 12 months while in study BEX104526. Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Time to HAMA Positivity From the First Dosimetric Dose, HAMA are human immunoglobulins with specificity for mouse immunoglobulins. HAMA assays were conducted in the laboratory to measure conversion to HAMA positivity following treatment. Time to HAMA positivity was calculated as the difference between the day on which HAMA positivity occurred and the first dosimetric dose administration day., HAMA was measured at baseline; Day5; Weeks 7, 17, 25; and then every 12 months while in study BEX104526. Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With the Indicated Grade 3 or Grade 4 Hematologic Toxicities, Adverse events were graded using the Common Toxicity Criteria from the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Division of Cancer Therapy, National Cancer Institute. Grades: 0 = No adverse event or within normal limits; 1 = Mild adverse event; 2 = Moderate adverse event; 3 = Severe and undesirable adverse event; 4 = Life-threatening or disabling adverse event; 5 = Death related to adverse event. Grade 3/4 hematological toxicities: hemoglobin \<8.0 g/dL; platelets \<50,000 cells per millimeters (mm)\^3; ANC \<1000 cells per mm\^3; WBC \<2000 cells per mm\^3., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months|Number of Participants With Hypothyroidism Prior to Therapy and After the Therapeutic Dose, Thyroid function was determined periodically, including during follow-up, in order to assess if there was any effect of the Iodine 131 on thyroid function. Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone., Participants were evaluated for up to 99.1 months in Study 104504 or were followed in the long-term follow-up study for up to 141.5 months
The results from Phase 1/2 (RIT-I-000) and Phase 2 (RIT-II-001) studies of Tositumomab and Iodine I 131 Tositumomab (TST/I-131 TST) demonstrated that TST/ I-131 TST produced a high response rate in patients with chemotherapy-relapsed/refractory, low-grade or transformed low-grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL). On the basis of these results this study was designed to compare the efficacy of TST/ I-131 TST to the last qualifying chemotherapy regimen in patients with chemotherapy-refractory, low-grade or transformed low-grade NHL.