Deep Learning Signature for Predicting Aggressive Histological Pattern in Resected Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of a PET/ CT-based deep learning signature for predicting aggressive histological pattern in resected non-small cell lung cancer based on a multicenter prospective cohort.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Spread Through Air Space|Visceral Pleural Invasion|Lymphovascular Invasion
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PET/CT-based Deep Learning Signature
Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
Sensitivity, The sensitivity of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
Specificity, The specificity of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Positive predictive value, The positive predictive value of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Negative predictive value, The negative predictive value of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Accuracy, The accuracy of the deep learning model in predicting the presence or absence of the aggressive histological pattern. The aggressive histological pattern includes spread through air space (STAS), visceral pleural invasion (VPI), and lymphovascular invasion (LVI). And the model will output all predictive values (presence or absence) of the three kinds of aggressive histological patterns., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of a PET/ CT-based deep learning signature for predicting aggressive histological pattern in resected non-small cell lung cancer based on a multicenter prospective cohort.