Effects of Cyproterone Compound-spironolactone, Metformin and Pioglitazone on Inflammatory Markers in PCOS
The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of three-month course of treatment modalities (Cyproterone compound-Spironolactone, Metformin and Pioglitazone) in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) on markers of inflammation \[serum complement, homocysteine and high sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP)\] levels.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Cyproterone compound + Spironolactone|DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Pioglitazone
Serum C3 level, Serum concentration of a component of complement cascade: C3, 3 months|Serum C4 level, Serum concentration of a component of complement cascade: C4, 3 months|Serum high-sensitive CRP (C-reactive protein), Serum concentration of high-sensitive C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), 3 months
Serum total Testosterone level, Serum concentration of total Testosterone, 3 months|Serum free Testosterone level, Serum concentration of free Testosterone, 3 months|Serum Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) level, Serum concentration of Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate, 3 months|Serum follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level, Serum concentration of follicle stimulating hormone, 3 months|Serum luteinizing hormone (LH) level, Serum concentration of luteinizing hormone, 3 months|Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS), Fasting Blood Sugar, 3 months|Fasting Serum Insulin level, Serum concentration of insulin, 3 months|Serum homocysteine level, Serum concentration of homocysteine, 3 months|Number of patients with adverse events, Number of patients with adverse events, 3 months
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is estimated to affect up to10% of women of reproductive age, making it one of the most common endocrine disorders in this population. PCOS is associated with a broad range of adverse sequel, including hypertension, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, hyperandrogenaemia, gestational and type 2 diabetes,which ultimately increase the cardiovascular morbidity in these patients. Also PCOS is increasingly recognized as a component of the metabolic syndrome. Management depends on symptoms or the source of androgen excess. Several treatment options are available, which allows for an individualized approach. Spironolactone is the safest potent available antiandrogen. It is effective in lowering the hirsutism score by approximately one third, although considerable individual variations exist. Other antiandrogens used to treat hirsutism and hirsutism equivalents include cyproterone acetate that has weak antiglucocorticoid effects. Metformin and thiazolidinediones, are promising adjuncts for treating PCOS. Although both of them increase insulin sensitivity, but their mechanism of action differ.

Serum complement, homocysteine and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels have been reported to be linked with insulin resistance.

The investigators want to measure serum complement, homocysteine and hs-CRP levels in patients with PCOS before and after three-month course of treatment with Cyproterone compound-Spironolactone (CC-S), metformin (M) and pioglitazone (P).