Fludarabine Phosphate, Busulfan, and Anti-Thymocyte Globulin Followed By Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant, Tacrolimus, and Methotrexate in Treating Patients With Myeloid Malignancies
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving fludarabine phosphate, busulfan, anti-thymocyte globulin followed by donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant, tacrolimus, and methotrexate works in treating patients with myeloid malignancies. Giving chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate and busulfan, before a donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving anti-thymocyte globulin before transplant and tacrolimus and methotrexate after transplant may stop this from happening.
Accelerated Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Hematopoietic/Lymphoid Cancer|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Neoplasm, Unclassifiable|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: busulfan|BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin|DRUG: tacrolimus|DRUG: methotrexate|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Incidence of acute GvHD, Maximum grade of acute GVHD and the number of therapies required to treat GVHD will be determined., Day 100 post-transplant
Pharmacokinetics of IV busulfan including interdose variability and evaluation of a limited sampling strategy, At 3.25, 4.5, 6, 8, 11, and 24-hours after the beginning of infusion on days -5, -4, and -3|Thymoglobulin pharmacokinetics, On day -3 prior to the first dose, on day -1 one hour after completion of infusion and on day 1 at 0900|Incidence of donor cell engraftment, By day 100|Incidence of system toxicities >= grade 3 as graded per CTCAE v.3, Up to day 100 after transplantation|Incidence of chronic GvHD, Day 100|Incidence of non-relapse mortality defined as death without history of post-transplant relapse, At day 100|Incidence of non-relapse mortality defined as death without history of post-transplant relapse, At 1 year|Incidence of relapse, Defined by either morphological or cytogenetic evidence of chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML), AML, MDS or other myeloproliferative disease in marrow, blood, or other sites, or laboratory evidence of residual disease., At 1 year|Relapse-free survival, At 1 year|Incidence of EBV activation defined as an increase in plasma EBV DNA to >= 1000 copies/mL as determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the incidence and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the pharmacokinetics of intravenous (IV) busulfan including interdose variability and evaluation of a limited sampling strategy.

II. Determine thymoglobulin (anti-thymocyte globulin) pharmacokinetics.

III. Determine the incidence of donor engraftment.

IV. Determine system toxicities \>= grade 3 per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 3.

V. Determine the incidence and severity of chronic GvHD.

VI. Determine the incidence of non-relapse mortality at day +100 and at 1 year (yr).

VII. Determine the incidence of relapse.

VIII. Determine relapse-free survival.

IX. Determine the incidence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) activation.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -9 to -6, busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -5 to -2, and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 6 hours on days -3 and -2 and over 4 hours on day -1. Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant on day 0. Patients then receive tacrolimus IV continuously or orally (PO) every 12 hours beginning on day -1 and taper to day 180 and methotrexate IV on days 1, 3, 6, and 11.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 year.