Solriamfetol in Improving Sleep in Patients With Grade II-IV Glioma
This phase II trial studies the side effects of solriamfetol in improving sleep in patients with grade II-IV glioma. Solriamfetol is a wakefulness-promoting drug. Giving solriamfetol may improve sleep, memory, fatigue, mood, or quality of life in patients with brain tumors (gliomas).
Glioma|Glioblastoma
DRUG: Soliramfetol
Proportion of Adverse Events, National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be used for scoring toxicity and adverse events. Score of 1 to 5 (1 = mild, 5 = death), Approximately 100 days post treatment
Epworth Sleepiness Scale, The effect of solriamfetol on patient-reported sleep using Epworth Sleepiness Scale measuring how likely participants are likely to doze off or fall asleep in certain situations, in contrast to feeling tired. Scale of 0 would never doze, 1 - slight chance of dozing, 2 - moderate chance of dozing and 3 - high chance of dozing., Approximately 10 weeks post treatment|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) is an effective instrument used to measure the quality and patterns of sleep in adults. It differentiates "poor" from "good" sleep quality by measuring seven areas (components): subjective sleep quality, sleep latency, sleep duration, habitual sleep efficiency, sleep disturbances, use of sleeping medications, and daytime dysfunction over the last month. Score scale 0 - not during the past month, 1 - less than once a week, 2 - once or twice a week and 3 - three or more times a week., Approximately 10 weeks post treatment|Neurocognitive Battery Record, Evaluation of attention, concentration, information processing speed, learning/memory and aspects of higher-order executive functions to be done at baseline and end of treatment only., 50-65 minutes at baseline and approximately 70 days post treatment|Cancer Fatigue Scale (CFS), 15-item self-administered patient-reported questionnaire exploring both overall and domain specific fatigue in cancer patients. The instrument explores three fatigue domains: physical effects of fatigue, cognitive effects, and affective issues related to cancer fatigue. To be completed at baseline, fixed dose initiation visit and end of treatment. Score is measured 1 - No, 2 - a little, 3 - somewhat, 4 considerably and 5 - very much., Baseline, 30 days post treatment and approximately 70 days post treatment|Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI), A self-scored questionnaire to assess levels of depression. Score 1-40, with 40 being severe depression and any score over 40 being extreme depression., Baseline, 30 days post treatment and approximately 70 days post treatment|FACT-Brain module (FACT-Br), An instrument measuring general quality of life (QOL) that reflects symptoms or problems associated with brain malignancies across 5 scales (physical well being, social/family well being, emotional well being, functional well being and additional concerns) Scores 0 - not all all, 1 - a little bit, 2 - somewhat - 3 - quite a bit and 4 - very much. To be completed at baseline, fixed dose initiation visit and end of treatment., Baseline, 30 days post treatment and approximately 70 days post treatment|7 day Actigraphy, Actigraph devices are worn on the wrist for 7 days and record movements that can be used to estimate sleep patterns using specialized computer software programs. Completion of actigraphy will be done from baseline to end of treatment and recorded with the sleep-diary data., Approximately over 10 weeks post treatment|7-day Patient-Reported Sleep Diary, Participants will be provided a sleep diary at the time of consent and/or study enrollment. All sleep diaries will be collected over 7-days including at pre-study baseline, throughout each dose of the dose escalation phase, and during the first 7-days and last 7-days of the fixed dose drug continuation phase of the study. Caregivers may complete sleep diaries for patients., Approximately 10 weeks post treatment
Primary Objective:

I. To estimate the safety of solriamfetol at 75 mg daily, 150 mg daily, 300 mg daily as assessed by NCI CTC Adverse Events (v5.0) in patients with primary gliomas compared to prior studies.

Secondary Objective(s):

I. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on sleep by Epworth Sleepiness Scores (ESS) scores in patients with primary gliomas and compare the effect to previously published scores in patients with OSA

II. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on sleep quality by Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index scores

III. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on neurocognitive function based on a disease-specific neurocognitive battery (see neurocognitive battery below)

IV. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on patient-reported fatigue (Brief Fatigue Inventory, Cancer Fatigue Scale) \& mood (Beck's Depression Inventory)

V. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on patient-reported QOL (FACT-Br)

VI. To estimate the effect of solriamfetol on objective sleep-wake times by actigraphy and sleep diary (pre- vs post-treatment)

Exploratory Objective(s)

I. To explore a biologic gradient effect of increasing doses of solriamfetol on actigraphy

II. To explore differences in clinical activity of solriamfetol by corticosteroid use, antiepileptic use, and tumor grade.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive solriamfetol orally (PO) once daily (QD) for up to 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.