Single Center Registration Study on HER2 Expression and Clinical Pathological Characteristics in Prostate Cancer
This study is a single center, non-interference, retrospective registration study: HER2 testing and disease information collection were conducted on patients diagnosed with prostate cancer and able to obtain tumor tissue in our hospital from January 2018 to July 2023. Statistical analysis was conducted on the collected information to analyze the expression of HER2 in Chinese prostate patients and the correlation between HER2 and disease type.
HER2 Expression and Clinical Pathological Characteristics in Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Collect HER2 expression in prostate cancer patients
HER2 expression in prostate cancer patients, HER2 test results, 18 months
Correlation between HER2 expression (IHC0/1+/2+/3+) and disease characteristics in locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer patients, 18 months|The distribution of HER2 expression in different ages, different parts, different degrees of differentiation, and different TNM stages;, 18 months
1. To explore the expression of HER2 protein in prostate cancer patients admitted to Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, especially the expression rate of HER2 protein under different pathological characteristics (age, TNM grade, primary and metastasis), and to explore the correlation between HER2 protein expression level, efficacy, and prognosis based on patient clinical information.
2. (1) Main Purpose

Analyze the expression of HER2 in prostate cancer patients admitted to Qilu Hospital of Shandong University.

(2) Secondary purpose

The expression of HER2 protein under different clinical and pathological characteristics (age, TNM grade, primary, and metastasis).

3.Main indicators:

The expression of HER2 in prostate cancer patients.

Secondary indicators:

1. The correlation between HER2 expression (IHC0/1+/2+/3+) and disease characteristics in locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer patients;
2. The distribution of HER2 expression in different ages, different parts, different degrees of differentiation, and different TNM stages; Evaluate the expression of primary and metastatic lesions in patients with metastasis