Fusion Targeted Biopsy of the Prostate
The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate a new, molecular image directed, three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound guided biopsy system in human patients. The current biopsy uses ultrasound imaging as guidance. However, the procedure uses two-dimensional (2D) ultrasound images and has sampling errors thus some cancers can be missed from the standard 2D image-guided biopsy. In this study, an FDA-approved ultrasound device will be used to obtain three-dimensional (3D) images of the prostate from a commercially available ultrasound scanner. The clinician can use the 3D images to guide biopsy, record the core location of the biopsy sites, and perform re-biopsy to the same sites in a patient follow-up examination. This system can also use images from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) and then fuse PET or MR images with 3D ultrasound images to guide the needle to a suspicious tumor target as seen on MRI or PET. We think that this fusion targeted biopsy technology will help to improve the accuracy of the current systematic biopsy approach for prostate cancer detection.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: 3D ultrasound-guided biopsy
Cancer Detection by Targeted and Standard Biopsy Approaches, The feasibility of detecting cancer detection with the targeted prostate biopsy was assessed. This study sought only to determine if the targeted biopsy approach was able to detect recurrent prostate cancer and values for the number of samples testing positive for cancer per each biopsy approach are not available. This feasibility study preceded a clinical trial (NCT02744534) assessing the accuracy of prostate cancer detection with targeted biopsies compared to the standard biopsy., Up to 2 years
The objective of the proposed study is to evaluate a new, molecular image directed, three-dimensional (3D) ultrasound guided biopsy system in human patients. The current biopsy uses ultrasound imaging as guidance. However, the procedure uses two-dimensional (2D) ultrasound images and has sampling errors thus some cancers can be missed from the standard 2D image-guided biopsy. In this study, an FDA-approved ultrasound device will be used to obtain three-dimensional (3D) images of the prostate from a commercially available ultrasound scanner. The clinician can use the 3D images to guide biopsy, record the core location of the biopsy sites, and perform re-biopsy to the same sites in a patient follow-up examination. This system can also use images from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography (PET) and then fuse PET or MR images with 3D ultrasound images to guide the needle to a suspicious tumor target as seen on MRI or PET. We think that this fusion targeted biopsy technology will help to improve the accuracy of the current systematic biopsy approach for prostate cancer detection.