Erdafitinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Advanced Solid Tumors, Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Histiocytic Disorders With FGFR Mutations (A Pediatric MATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II Pediatric MATCH trial studies how well erdafitinib works in treating patients with solid tumors, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or histiocytic disorders with FGFR mutations that have spread to other places in the body and have come back or do not respond to treatment. Erdafitinib may stop the growth of cancer cells with FGFR mutations by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Childhood Ependymoma|Recurrent Childhood Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Childhood Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Hepatoblastoma|Recurrent Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Recurrent Malignant Glioma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Recurrent Rhabdoid Tumor|Refractory Childhood Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Refractory Childhood Osteosarcoma|Refractory Childhood Rhabdomyosarcoma|Refractory Childhood Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Refractory Ependymoma|Refractory Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Refractory Hepatoblastoma|Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Refractory Malignant Glioma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Medulloblastoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Refractory Rhabdoid Tumor|Wilms Tumor
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Erdafitinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Radionuclide Imaging|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Objective Response Rate, A responder is defined as a patient who achieves a best response of partial response or complete response on the study. Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders. The revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) was used to determine response and progression in this study, with specific criteria outlined for the different subtypes of tumors (e.g., 2-dimensional measurements for central nervous system (CNS) tumors)., Up to 2 years from study entry
Percentage of Patients Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, Up to 2 years from study entry|Progression Free Survival (PFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the 6 month PFS. PFS is defined as time from initiation of protocol treatment to disease progression, recurrence, death from any cause, or date of last contact, Up to 6 months from study entry|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters, A descriptive analysis of PK parameters will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, and other pharmacokinetic parameters. The PK parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., Pre-dose Cycle 2 Day 1; 1-hour post-dose Cycle 2 Day 1; 2-hour post dose Cycle 2, Day 1; 4-hour post-dose Cycle 2, Day 1; 6-8-hour post-dose, Cycle 2 Day 1; 24-hour post dose, Cycle 2, Day 2
Changes in Tumor Genomic Profile, A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in pediatric patients treated with erdafitinib with advanced solid tumors (including central nervous system \[CNS\] tumors), non-Hodgkin lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor genetic alterations in the FGFR1/2/3/4 pathway.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression free survival in pediatric patients treated with erdafitinib with advanced solid tumors (including CNS tumors), non-Hodgkin lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor genetic alterations in the FGFR1/2/3/4.

II. To obtain information about the tolerability of erdafitinib in children with relapsed or refractory cancer.

III. To provide preliminary estimates of the pharmacokinetics of erdafitinib in children with relapsed or refractory cancer.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore approaches to profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive erdafitinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo an x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) scan, radionuclide imaging, and/or bone scan, as well as a bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy during screening and on study. Patients also undergo blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.