Study of AZD2014 and Palbociclib in Patients With Estrogen Receptor Positive (ER+) Metastatic Breast Cancer
This dose finding/extension study was designed originally to consist of three parts: Part A was intended to identify the MTD of the AZD2014/ palbociclib combination on a background of fulvestrant (referred to as the triplet) in postmenopausal women with locally advanced/ metastatic estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer. Part B was to further characterize safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary efficacy in single-arm dose expansion groups. Part C was to be a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, extension comparing the triplet and doublet combinations. Part C was deleted from the protocol and was not performed.
Advanced and Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: AZD2014|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Parts A and B: Number of adverse events experienced by patients, Safety and tolerability assessed through the incidence of adverse events., Approximately 16 months
Part B: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS assessed through change in tumour size (as well as assessment of non-target lesions and appearance of any new lesions) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria by Investigator assessment., Assessed every 8 weeks for approximately 16 months|Parts A and B: Best Objective Response (BOR), BOR assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria by Investigator assessment., Assessed every 8 weeks for approximately 16 months|Parts A and B: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR assessed through the number of patients who achieve a disease response (i.e. complete response or partial response) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, Assessed every 8 weeks for approximately 16 months|Part B: Duration of Response (DoR), DoR assessed as the time between disease response being achieved and progressive disease as assessed by RECIST 1.1 criteria or end of life (in the absence of progression), Assessed every 8 weeks for approximately 16 months|Part B: Overall Survival (OS), The time from start of treatment until end of life from any cause., Approximately 24 months|Part A: Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of AZD2014 and palbociclib following single dose, Venous blood samples for determination of concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib in plasma will be collected., Samples for single dose PK will be collected at prespecified time points up to 12 hours following dosing.|Parts A and B: Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) of AZD2014 and palbociclib following multiple doses, Venous blood samples (2 mL for each drug) for determination of concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib in plasma will be collected., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 12 hours following dosing.|Parts A and B: Change from baseline in biomarker H-score, For those subjects with paired tumour biopsies the pharmacodynamic markers will be assessed by immunohistochemistry., 16 months|Time to reach peak plasma concentrations (tmax) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. Tmax is the time required after administration for the drug to reach its peak plasma concentration., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 12 hours following dosing.|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 12 hours (AUC 0-12) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. Area under the curve is the integral of the concentration-time curve. The area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration. The area under the curve is dependent on the rate of elimination of the drug from the body and the dose administered., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 12 hours following dosing.|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 24 hours (AUC 0-24) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. Area under the curve is the integral of the concentration-time curve. The area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration. The area under the curve is dependent on the rate of elimination of the drug from the body and the dose administered., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 24 hours following dosing.|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to the last measurable concentration (AUC 0-t) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. Area under the curve is the integral of the concentration-time curve. The area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration. The area under the curve is dependent on the rate of elimination of the drug from the body and the dose administered., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 9 days following dosing.|Area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to infinity (AUC 0-∞) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. Area under the curve is the integral of the concentration-time curve. The area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration. The area under the curve is dependent on the rate of elimination of the drug from the body and the dose administered., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 9 days following dosing.|Terminal elimination rate constant (λz) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. The elimination rate constant is the rate at which drug is cleared from the body assuming first-order elimination, Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 9 days following dosing.|Terminal plasma half-life (t1/2λz) for AZD 2014 and palbociclib., The plasma concentrations of AZD2014 and palbociclib will be determined. The terminal plasma half-life is the time required to divide the plasma concentration by two after reaching pseudo-equilibrium., Samples will be collected at prespecified time points up to 9 days following dosing.
This dose finding/extension study was designed originally to consist of three parts:

Part A is a Phase 1 triplet-dose finding investigation in 3-6 patients per cohort to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the triplet.

Part B is a single arm expansion in approximately 27 patients evaluable for response to define the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D).

Part C was intended to investigate the efficacy of the triplet combination at the RP2D in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, stratified, parallel group extension. Part C was intended to include ER+, locally advanced and/or metastatic breast cancer patients who have progressed following prior non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor (NSAI) endocrine therapy. Patients in Part C were to be randomized to receive either the triplet combination (AZD2014 + palbociclib + fulvestrant) or the doublet (matching AZD2014 placebo + palbociclib + fulvestrant). Patients were to be stratified according to hormone sensitivity, presence of visceral metastases, and prior CDK inhibitor treatment. Part C would have been conducted if indicated by the emerging data.