Perioperative Dexmedetomidine on Postoperative Delirium in Patients With Brain Tumors
Neurosurgery is a risk factor for delirium. Dexmedetomidine might reduce delirium by reducing neuroinflammation, improving postoperative analgesia and sleep quality. The the primary hypothesis is that perioperative administration of dexmedetomidine can reduce the incidence of postoperative delirium
Postoperative Delirium
DRUG: Dexmedetomidine
the incidence of delirium postoperatively, Using the Confusion Assessment Method for Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU) for critical care patients, or the 3-min Diagnostic interview for Confusion Assessment Method (3D-CAM) for ward assessment,combined with the Richmond Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS). Delirium assessments will be only conducted in patients with RASS sedation score exceeding -4.The CAM-ICU and the 3D-CAM describes four main characteristics of delirium: acute altered mental state ,fluctuating level of consciousness, inattention, and confusion of thought. If both the first and second features are present, and both the third or fourth features are present, the patient is diagnosed with postoperative delirium., the postoperative 5 days
the severity of postoperative delirium, Using the Delirium Rating Scale-Revised -98 (DRS-R-98) to assess.There are 3 diagnostic items (0\~2 or 0\~3 points each) and 13 severity assessment items (0\~3 points each), for a total of 46 points. The higher the score, the more severe the delirium., the postoperative 5 days|the intensity of pain, Using numerical rating scale (NRS) for pain to assess, ranging from 0 to 10 points, with 10 representing the worst imaginable pain., the postoperative 5 days|the quality of sleep, The Richards-Campbell Sleep Questionnaire (RCSQ) will be used to assess subjective sleep quality. The scale is composed of 5 items, including sleep depth, sleep latency, wake times, return to sleep and overall sleep quality, all of which are scored by 0 \~ 100mm visual simulation (1 mm=1 point). The total score of the scale is the average score of the 5 items, and the higher the score, the better the sleep quality., the postoperative 5 days|safety outcomes, Safety outcomes includes the incidence of hypotension (systolic blood pressure below 95mmHg or below 30% of baseline), hypertension (systolic blood pressure above 180mmHg or 30% above baseline), bradycardia (heart rate less than 40 beats per minute), tachycardia (heart rate more than 100 beats per minute), delayed extubation (more than from the end of surgery to 2 hours after surgery, for the ICU patients (more than 4 hours),hypoxemia (SpO2\<90%), from the start of medicine infusion to 48 hours postoperatively
The investigators will be required to attend the professional training before recruitment and strictly adhere to the study protocol. All the raw data will be recorded in the case report forms. Data will be entered doubly performed by two investigators and monitored securely in an electronic database with password protection at the medical center. The data base will be locked after all data have been cleaned. All the original fles will be maintained in storage for 5 years after completion of the study.