MENCORE-2: Audio Recordings to Improve Decision-making in Advanced Prostate Cancer
This is a single-arm hybrid implementation trial of men with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) involving a patient-administered mobile app for consultation audio recordings.
Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Consultation audio recording app
Mean change in docetaxel knowledge score over time, Change in docetaxel knowledge score is measured by participant report of knowledge using a docetaxel knowledge instrument, measured at baseline and 7 days post-appointment. The instrument was developed based on facts that patients and providers deem are important when making a treatment decision that includes docetaxel as an option for mCRPC (e.g., disease, prognosis, risks, benefits, alternatives). The score is standardized, ranging from from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating a greater knowledge in docetaxel. Mean change in scores will be reported, as well as standard deviations., Up to 2 weeks|Mean change in informed subscale of Decisional Conflict Scale over time, The informed subscale of the Decisional Conflict Scale is comprised of 3 items given a score value of 0 = 'strongly agree to 4 = 'strongly disagree'. The items are summed, divided by 3, and then multiplied by 25. Scores range from 0 (feels extremely informed) to 100 (feels extremely uninformed)., Up to 2 weeks
Proportion of invited participants who consent to the study, The proportion of participants who consented to the study from the total number of participants contacted will be reported., 1 day|Proportion of approached patients' providers who agree to be recorded, The proportion of approached patients' providers who agree to be recorded from the total number of patients' providers approached to participate will be reported., 1 day|Mean change in participant-reported anxiety over time, The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Anxiety Short form (4a) consists of 4 items addressing patient anxiety with item response scores ranging from 1 (never) to 5 (Always). Raw scores are converted to scaled T-scores with higher scores indicating a greater level of anxiety. Participants will be measured at baseline and 7 days post-appointment and compared over time., Up to 2 weeks|Proportion of enrolled participants who create a recording, The proportion of enrolled participants who created a recording of the total number of participants in the study will be reported., Up to 2 weeks|Proportion of enrolled participants who listen to the recording, The proportion of enrolled participants who listen to the recording or read its automatically generated transcript, measured by participant-reported survey at 7 days post-appointment of the total number of participants in the study will be reported., Up to 2 weeks|Proportion of enrolled participants who report they received both mailed/emailed instructions to install/use the app, The proportion of enrolled participants who report they received both mailed/emailed instructions to install/use the app measured by participant-reported survey at 7 days post-appointment of the total number of participants in the study will be reported., Up to 2 weeks|Proportion of participants who report high shared decision-making effort, High shared decision-making effort will be measured at 7 days post-appointment using the collaboRATE scale. The collaboRATE scale is a 3-item, 10-point Likert scale, where each encounter is scored as either '1' if the response to all three collaboRATE items is 9, or '0' if the response to any of the three collaboRATE items is less than 9. The percentage of all participants with a code of '1' will be calculated., Up to 2 weeks|Proportion of patients who received docetaxel, Docetaxel treatment received at 30 days post-appointment will be reported with a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 30 days|Proportion of patients who received docetaxel, Docetaxel treatment received at 60 days post-appointment will be reported with a 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 60 days
Mean change in docetaxel knowledge score over time, Change in docetaxel knowledge score is measured by participant report of knowledge using a docetaxel knowledge instrument, measured at baseline and 28 days post-appointment. The instrument was developed based on facts that patients and providers deem are important when making a treatment decision that includes docetaxel as an option for mCRPC (e.g., disease, prognosis, risks, benefits, alternatives). The score is standardized, ranging from from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating a greater knowledge in docetaxel. Mean change in scores will be reported, as well as standard deviations., Up to 28 days|Auto-generated transcript accuracy, Auto-generated transcript accuracy will be measured by comparing the transcript to research staff transcription of the recording., Up to 60 days|Quality of decision support and communication, The Brief Decision Support Analysis Tool (DSAT-10) will be applied to recordings to evaluate treating physicians' and practitioners' use of decision support and communication skills with patients, with attention to docetaxel. Encounters are reviewed and scored on factors such as Decision making status, Knowledge of, Values/Preference associated with, Others' involvement with the decision, and Next Steps and given a score ranging from 1-10, with a higher score indicating a greater quality of decisional support., Up to 60 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

1. To evaluate change in participant informed decision-making after provision of a consultation audio recording application.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. Reach. To evaluate the percentage of invited participants who enroll. Reasons for not enrolling will be assessed.
2. Adoption. To evaluate the percentage of providers who agree to be recorded.
3. Adoption. To evaluate the percentage of participants who create an audio recording.
4. Adoption. To evaluate the percentage of participants who listen to the audio recording or read its automatically generated transcript.
5. Implementation. To evaluate the percentage of participants who report receiving instructions on how to record.
6. To evaluate participant-reported shared decision-making effort.
7. To evaluate whether participant-reported anxiety changes after provision of a consultation audio recording app.
8. To evaluate barriers, facilitators, and experiences of recording app use, particularly in the context of treatment decision-making by conducting participant interviews, provider surveys, and interviews with providers.
9. Treatment received.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

1. To evaluate whether provision of a consultation audio recording app improves participant-reported knowledge retention of docetaxel.
2. To evaluate accuracy of app auto-generated transcription.
3. To evaluate degree of provider decision support and communication skills.

Participants are set up with an application prior to the first physician visit and then followed-up 7 days, 28 days and 60 days after their physician encounter.