ShortStop-HER2: 12 Months vs. 6 Months of HER2-targeted Medications for People With HER2+ Breast Cancer Who Had a Pathologic Complete Response After Chemotherapy Plus Trastuzumab
This phase III trial compares 6 months of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-targeted therapy to 12 months of HER2-targeted therapy for the treatment of HER2-positive (+) breast cancer in patients that had a pathologic complete response (pCR) after preoperative (neoadjuvant) chemotherapy with trastuzumab. Trastuzumab and pertuzumab are monoclonal antibodies and forms of targeted therapy that attach to a receptor protein called HER2. HER2 is found on some cancer cells. When trastuzumab or pertuzumab attach to HER2, the signals that tell the cells to grow are blocked and the tumor cell may be marked for destruction by the body's immune system. Giving 6 months of HER2-targeted therapy may work better than giving 12 months for the treatment of HER2+ breast cancer in patients that had a pCR after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with trastuzumab.
Anatomic Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Early Stage Breast Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab (Herceptin)|BIOLOGICAL: Pertuzumab|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Mammography|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of RFS times and a stratified log-rank test for non-inferiority will be used to assess whether RFS with 6 total months of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-blockade is non-inferior to standard-of-care 12 total months of HER2-blockade in this patient population. Stratified Cox modeling will be used to estimate the hazard ratio and corresponding one-sided 95% confidence interval (CI)., From randomization to invasive local, regional or distant breast cancer recurrence, or death from any cause prior to a documented disease recurrence, assessed up to 10 years|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) total score (Quality of life), Will compare the FACT-B total score between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neoadjuvant/adjuvant HER2 blockade. All questionnaires will be scored according to published scoring algorithms, including recommendations for addressing missing items within a scale. An intention-to-treat (ITT) approach will be used for all analyses. All statistical tests will be 2-sided, and p-values \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. To evaluate the between-arm mean difference in scores, a repeated measures mixed model will be estimated based on FACT-B total scores at all time points., At 12 months
Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events (AE), Will be according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The maximum grade of a specific AE experienced by a patient will be used. The proportion of patients who report a grade 3 or higher AE will be compared between the two treatment arms with a chi-square test. AEs (type and grade) for both arms will be summarized with the frequency and relative frequency, Baseline to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Locoregional recurrence (LRR), The cumulative incidence of LRR will be analyzed with Kaplan-Meier estimates (curve starting at 0 rather than 1) and compared with a stratified log rank test., From randomization until invasive tumor recurs in the ipsilateral breast or chest wall, axillary, supraclavicular, or internal mammary nodes (if before or synchronous with a systemic recurrence), whichever comes first, assessed up to 10 years|Overall survival, Will be compared between the treatment arms with a stratified log rank test and a stratified Cox model will be used to generate the hazard ratio estimate (both a point estimate and 95% CI). The analyses will be done as ITT groups as well as per-protocol groups., From randomization until death due to any cause, assessed up to 10 years|RFS for key subgroups, Forest plots will be generated for key prognostic variables (including the stratification variables) and subgroups of interest to determine whether the treatment effect appears homogeneous across the subgroups for the ITT population. Additional key subgroups of interest are neoadjuvant chemotherapy backbone and the type of adjuvant HER2-blockade the patient actually received (dual versus single). With respect to the latter analysis, the interest will be in whether there is an apparent difference in treatment effect among patients who received adjuvant pertuzumab versus those who did not., From randomization to invasive local, regional or distant breast cancer recurrence, or death from any cause prior to a documented disease recurrence, assessed up to 10 years|Time to central nervous system (CNS) recurrence, Will assess both isolated CNS recurrence as first events, and CNS recurrence events simultaneous with distant metastasis and/or LRR., up to 10 years|FACT-B total score (Quality of life), Will compare the FACT-B total score between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. All questionnaires will be scored according to published scoring algorithms, including recommendations for addressing missing items within a scale. An ITT approach will be used for all analyses. All statistical tests will be 2-sided, and p-values \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. To evaluate the between-arm mean difference in scores, a repeated measures mixed model will be estimated based on FACT-B total scores at all time points., At 18 months|Side effect bother (Quality of life), Will be assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General Population 5 between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. All questionnaires will be scored according to published scoring algorithms, including recommendations for addressing missing items within a scale. An ITT approach will be used for all analyses. All statistical tests will be 2-sided, and p-values \<0.05 will be considered statistically significant. To evaluate the between-arm mean difference in scores, a repeated measures mixed model will be estimated based on scores. Mean trajectories over time will be plotted by arm., At 6 or 12 months|Patient reported symptomatic AE (Quality of life), Will be measured by Patient Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE). Will assess symptomatic AE using PRO-CTCAE measures for symptoms of interest, specifically diarrhea, constipation, fatigue, and rash. The proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than 0 will be compared between arms using Fisher's exact test. For diarrhea, constipation, and fatigue, the proportion of patients with a maximum post-baseline score greater than or equal to 3 will be compared between arms using Fisher's exact test., At 6 or 12 months
The primary and secondary objectives of the study:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether 6 months of combined neoadjuvant (neo)/adjuvant HER2 blockade results in a non-inferior recurrence-free survival (RFS) compared to 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade, in patients with early stage HER2+ breast cancer who achieve pCR after neoadjuvant chemotherapy with HER2 blockade.

II. To compare the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) total score at 12 months between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. (Quality of life)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Secondary objectives are to evaluate whether 6 months compared to 12 months results in differences for the following:

Ia. Grade 3 or higher adverse event (AE) rates; Ib. Overall survival (OS); Ic. Locoregional recurrence (LRR, both isolated LRR as first events, and LRR events simultaneous with distant metastasis \[DM\]) incidence; Id. RFS for key subgroups: baseline stage, hormone receptor (HR) status, neoadjuvant chemotherapy backbone, and dual versus single HER2 blockade in the adjuvant setting; Ie. Time to central nervous system (CNS) recurrence (both isolated CNS recurrence as first events, and CNS recurrence events simultaneous with distant metastasis and/or LRR).

II. To compare the FACT-B total score at 18 months between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. (Quality of life) III. To compare side effect bother as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy General Population 5 (FACT GP5) item at 12 months between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. (Quality of life) IV. To compare specific patient-reported symptomatic adverse events (i.e. diarrhea, constipation, fatigue, and rash) as measured by the Patient Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) at 12 months between patients randomized to receive 6 months versus 12 months of combined neo/adjuvant HER2 blockade. (Quality of life)

QUALITY OF LIFE EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the different FACT-B subscales at all other evaluable time points.

II. To examine heterogeneity of treatment effects within subgroups defined by subcutaneous versus intravenous treatment delivery.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive trastuzumab intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of each cycle. Patients may also receive pertuzumab IV or SC, at the discretion of the treating investigator, on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA) as well as mammography, ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial. Patients may also optionally undergo blood and tissue sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM 2: Patients receive trastuzumab IV or SC on day 1 of each cycle. Patients may also receive pertuzumab IV or SC, at the discretion of the treating investigator, on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo ECHO or MUGA as well as mammography, ultrasound, or MRI throughout the trial. Patients may also optionally undergo blood and tissue sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years after registration or until recurrence and then annually for a total of 10 years after registration.