Combination of Toripalimab and Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for Locally Advanced Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Radical resection is thought to be the mainstay of esophageal cancer treatment. Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) followed by surgery has become the standard treatment option for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell cancer (ESCC). However, only 20% to 40% of patients can achieve pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant CRT with favorable prognosis and about 10% of patients have disease progression after chemoradiotherapy. How to improve the the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy is an important clinical problem to be solved.

Immunotherapy targeting the programmed cell death receptor-1（PD-1） /programmed cell death-Ligand 1(PD-L1) checkpoints has demonstrated promising activity in ESCC. In Keynote181 study, for patients with metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinoma, regardless of PD-L1 expression, pembrolizumab significantly improved overall survival compared with chemotherapy. However, the efficacy and safety of immunotherapy therapy in surgery-based multidisciplinary treatment of local advanced esophageal cancer still need a lot of clinical studies to further confirm.

This study aims to investigate the safety and efficacy of Toripalimab combined with radiotherapy and chemotherapy in neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Toripalimab|DRUG: Paclitaxel liposome/Carboplatin|RADIATION: Intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Pathologic complete response rate, Pathologic complete response was defined as pT0N0M0（clinical stage). The rate of pathologic complete response rate after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy., Three working days after surgery
Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, The neoadjuvant treatment-related adverse events, From the enrollment to the date of surgery|2-year overall survival, The 2-year overall survival of the whole group, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause or the date of last follow-up, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|2-year disease-free survival, The 2-year disease-free survival of the whole group, From date of surgery until the date of death from any cause or the date of first documented disease progression whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months.|Major Pathological Response (MPR) rate, MPR is defined as 10% or fewer viable cancer cells in the hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E)-stained slides from the resected tumor following neoadjuvant treatment., From date of surgery to 14 days later|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate is defined as the rate of patients with at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, which include complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., At the end of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days)|R0 resection rate, The R0 resection rate of esophagectomy, Three working days after surgery
This study was designed as an open-lable, single-arm, single-center,exploratory clinical study. Toripalimab combination of chemoradiotherapy as neoadjuvant therapy. Participants will receive carboplatin (AUC=2) and paclitaxel liposome (50mg/m²) on day 3,10,17,24,31. And radiotherapy Intensity-modulated radiation therapy（IMRT）will start from day 1 to 31 of chemotherapy. A total of 41.4 Gy, 23 fractions of 1.8 Gy. Participants will also receive Toripalimab (240mg) on days 3, 24and 45. After the neoadjuvant treatment is over, the short-term efficacy evaluation will be performed first, and then a radical resection will be scheduled on Day 59 to 73. This study include 2 phases: 14 cases were enrolled in the first stage and 18 cases were enrolled in the second stage.