Pharmacokinetics of Sotrovimab as Pre-exposure Prophylaxis for COVID-19 in Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant Recipients, COVIDMAB Study
This phase I trial studies the process by which sotrovimab is absorbed, distributed, metabolized, and eliminated by the body (pharmacokinetics) in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Sotrovimab is a monoclonal antibody that may target and bind to a specific protein on SARS-CoV-2 and block its viral attachment and entry into human cells. This may slow the progression of the disease and accelerate recovery, and may potentially provide temporary protection against infection with SARS-CoV-2 in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.
COVID-19 Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|BIOLOGICAL: Sotrovimab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Half-life of Sotrovimab (VIR-7831) Post-transplant, Will use descriptive statistics of model estimation from population pharmacokinetic model. Levels of VIR-7831 can be measured using an idiotypic antibody assay that is not affected by COVID-19 infection or vaccination., Up to 24 weeks|Neutralizing Antibody Titers, Will be calculated by a one-phase exponential decay model. Will compare fold-changes in antibody titers by normalizing to pre-transplant levels for each subject. Data analysis was not performed., Up to 24 weeks
Half-life of VIR-7831 in Matched vs Mismatched Donors, Comparisons will be tested using a t-test. Levels of VIR-7831 can be measured using an idiotypic antibody assay that is not affected by COVID-19 infection or vaccination., Up to 24 weeks|Half-life of VIR-7831 in Autologous vs Allogeneic HCT, Comparisons will be tested using a t-test. Levels of VIR-7831 can be measured using an idiotypic antibody assay that is not affected by COVID-19 infection or vaccination., Up to 24 weeks|VIR-7831 Exposure in Patients With Diarrhea vs no Diarrhea, Sotrovimab exposure to be measured as the area under curve (AUC) of sotrovimab concentration over time in model simulation. Comparisons will be tested using a t-test., Up to 24 weeks|VIR-7831 Exposure in Patients With and Without Graft Versus Host Disease, Sotrovimab exposure to be measured as the area under curve (AUC) of sotrovimab concentration over time. Comparisons will be tested using a t-test., Up to 24 weeks|Number of Participants With Breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 Acquisition, Will monitor for breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infection by polymerase chain reaction of fluid collected by nasal swabs., Up to 24 weeks|Antibody Clearance Rate From Serum/Plasma, Will compare antibody levels from serum/plasma collected by venipuncture versus self-collected using a TASSO device and fluid from nasal swabs. To do this, will compare rate of antibody clearance on average in study population pharmacokinetic model., Up to 24 weeks|Number of Participants With Presence of Anti-drug Antibodies From Serum/Plasma, Will monitor for presence of anti-drug antibodies from serum/plasma collected by venipuncture versus self-collected using a TASSO device. Samples were considered either positive or negative for presence of anti-drug antibodies., At 4 and 24 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Will monitor safety with routine labs as part of standard post-transplant care., Up to 40 weeks
OUTLINE:

Patients receive sotrovimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes within 1-7 days prior to the start of pre-transplant conditioning. Patients also undergo blood and nasal swab sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 24 weeks.