Night-time Compression Systems for Breast Cancer Related Lymphedema
Women who have undergone breast cancer surgery may develop swelling of the arm on the side the breast cancer occurred. If the swelling becomes chronic it is called lymphedema. This study will examine night-time compression system garments for lymphedema. Our objective is to determine if breast cancer survivors are willing and able to use the garment overnight to help control their lymphedema. Thirty breast cancer survivors from Alberta will be enrolled in the 24-week long study. Measurements will be taken of each arm to assess the extent of lymphedema and to measure changes over the study period. We will also examine other outcomes such as the impact of the night-time compression system garment on sleep. The study will provide important information on the feasibility of night-time compression system garments as a self-management strategy for lymphedema.
Breast Neoplasms|Lymphedema
BEHAVIORAL: Night-time compression system garment|BEHAVIORAL: Day-time compression sleeve
Accrual rate, The number of women eligible for the study and number agreeing to participate., 18 months
Adherence, Data on adherence to wearing the night-time compression system., 24 weeks
Women who have undergone breast cancer surgery may develop swelling of the arm on the side the breast cancer occurred. If the swelling becomes chronic it is called lymphedema. This study will examine night-time compression system garments for lymphedema. Our objective is to determine if breast cancer survivors are willing and able to use the garment overnight to help control their lymphedema. Thirty breast cancer survivors from Alberta will be enrolled in the 24-week long study. Measurements will be taken of each arm to assess the extent of lymphedema and to measure changes over the study period. We will also examine other outcomes such as the impact of the night-time compression system garment on sleep. The study will provide important information on the feasibility of night-time compression system garments as a self-management strategy for lymphedema.