A Study of Atezolizumab in Advanced Solid Tumors
The primary efficacy objective for this study is to evaluate non-progression rate (NPR) at 18 weeks in participants with advanced solid tumors treated with atezolizumab, defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1, or according to disease-specific criteria for prostate cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Tumors
DRUG: Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A), an engineered anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) antibody
Non-progression Rate (NPR) at 18 Weeks, NPR was defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the Investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), v1.1 or for malignant pleural mesothelioma according to Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions in the absence of CR. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD). PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions. For prostate cancer according to Prostate Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: PSA \<5 ng/ml measured twice at least 3 weeks apart or PSA response: PSA \< 50% of the PSA reference value occurring at any time after treatment was initiated., At Week 18
NPR at 24 Weeks, NPR was defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the Investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), v1.1 or for malignant pleural mesothelioma according to Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions in the absence of CR. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD). PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions. For prostate cancer according to Prostate Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: PSA \<5 ng/ml measured twice at least 3 weeks apart or PSA response: PSA \< 50% of the PSA reference value occurring at any time after treatment was initiated., At Week 24|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with CR or PR as assessed by the investigator using RECIST v1.1 or Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR. For prostate cancer according to Prostate Response Evaluation Criteria. CR: PSA \<5 ng/ml measured twice at least 3 weeks apart or PSA response: PSA \< 50% of the PSA reference value occurring at any time after treatment was initiated., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Percentage of Participants by Best Overall Response (BOR), BOR was based on RECIST v1.1, Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Response Evaluation Criteria or Prostate Response Evaluation Criteria. For an individual participant BOR was obtained as follows: 1) CR: overall tumor response assessment of CR at 2 consecutive visits at least 28 days apart. 2) PR: overall tumor response assessment of PR or CR at 2 consecutive visits at least 28 days apart without being a CR. 3) SD: overall tumor response assessment of SD, PR, or CR at one or more visits at least 42 days after start of study treatment, but was not a confirmed CR or PR. 4) PD: an overall tumor response assessment of PD at any visit, and did not meet the criteria for a BOR of CR, PR or SD. 5) Missing: an assessment of SD, PR or CR in the first 42 days after start of study treatment and no further tumor assessments thereafter., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST v1.1, Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma Response Evaluation Criteria or Prostate Response Evaluation Criteria lasting for \>/=6 weeks. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions in the absence of CR. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD). PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions. For prostate cancer: CR: PSA \<5 ng/ml measured twice at least 3 weeks apart or PSA response: PSA \< 50% of the PSA reference value occurring at any time after treatment was initiated., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Duration of Objective Response (DOR), DOR, based on RECIST v1.1, was defined as the time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response (CR or PR) to the time of progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions in the absence of CR. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions. As pre-specified in the Statistical Analysis Plan (SAP) DOR was not analyzed if there were less than 4 participants available for the analysis., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS, based on RECIST v1.1, was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression (TTP), based on RECIST v1.1, was defined as time from the first day of study treatment to the first occurrence of progressive disease or death due to disease progression, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the first day of study treatment to death from any cause., Baseline until death due to any cause (up to 4.5 years)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Baseline up to 4.5 years|Treatment Duration of Atezolizumab, Baseline up to approximately 4.5 years|Mean Number of Doses of Atezolizumab, Baseline up to approximately 4.5 years|Percentage of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Atezolizumab, Baseline up to 4.5 years|Serum Concentration of Atezolizumab, Predose and postdose on Day 1 of Cycle 1, predose on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8 (cycle length = 21 days), and every 8 cycles until treatment discontinuation; at follow up (approximately 120 days after last dose) up to approximately 4.5 years|Percentage of Participants by Best Overall Response Based on Modified RECIST v1.1 (mBOR), Modified RECIST was based on the following: 1) New measurable lesions were added into the total tumor burden and followed; 2) Non-target lesions contributed only in the assessment of a CR; 3) Radiographic progression was determined only on the basis of measurable disease; had to be confirmed by a consecutive assessment =/\>4 weeks from the date first documented. mBOR: 1) CR: overall tumor response assessment of CR at 2 consecutive visits at least 28 days apart. 2) PR: overall tumor response assessment of PR/CR at 2 consecutive visits at least 28 days apart without being a CR. 3) SD: overall tumor response assessment of SD/PR/CR at one or more visits at least 42 days after start of study treatment, but was not a confirmed CR or PR. 4) PD: an overall tumor response assessment of PD at any visit, and did not meet the criteria for a BOR of CR, PR or SD. 5) Missing: an assessment of SD, PR or CR in the first 42 days after start of study treatment and no further tumor assessments thereafter., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|ORR Based on Modified RECIST v1.1, Modified RECIST was based on the following: 1) New measurable lesions were added into the total tumor burden and followed; 2) Non-target lesions contributed only in the assessment of a CR; 3) Radiographic progression was determined only on the basis of measurable disease; had to be confirmed by a consecutive assessment =/\>4 weeks from the date first documented. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with CR or PR. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters, in the absence of CR., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)|CBR Based on Modified RECIST v1.1, Modified RECIST was based on the following: 1) New measurable lesions were added into the total tumor burden and followed; 2) Non-target lesions contributed only in the assessment of a CR; 3) Radiographic progression was determined only on the basis of measurable disease; had to be confirmed by a consecutive assessment =/\>4 weeks from the date first documented. CBR was defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR, or SD lasting for \>/=6 weeks. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions in the absence of CR. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD). PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of all target and all new measurable lesions., Baseline up to 4.5 years (assessed every 6 weeks for first 24 weeks and thereafter every 12 weeks up to loss of clinical benefit, withdrawal of consent, death, or study termination by the Sponsor, whichever occurs first)
The primary efficacy objective for this study is to evaluate non-progression rate (NPR) at 18 weeks in participants with advanced solid tumors treated with atezolizumab, defined as the percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1, or according to disease-specific criteria for prostate cancer and malignant pleural mesothelioma.