Ruxolitinib in Combination With Pemetrexed/Cisplatin in Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study was to determine if ruxolitinib, in combination with Pemetrexed/Cisplatin and Pemetrexed Maintenance, is safe and effective in the treatment of nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that is Stage IIIB, Stage IV, or recurrent.
NSCLC (Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma)
DRUG: Ruxolitinib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Cisplatin
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Participants without death observed at the time of the analysis were censored at last date known to be alive. The median overall survival time was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Overall survival was compared between treatment groups using log-rank test., Randomization until death due to any cause; up to 16 months or data cutoff 11FEB2016.
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization until the earliest date of disease progression determined by investigator assessment of objective radiographic disease assessments per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, or death due to any cause if sooner. Progressive Disease (PD) is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum Longest Diameter (LD) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions, unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or increase in disease burden for subjects with only nonmeasurable disease., Randomization to disease progression, or death due to any cause if sooner; up to 16 months or to the data cutoff 11FEB2016.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate determined by radiographic disease assessments per RECIST (v1.1), by investigator assessment and was defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) at any post baseline visit. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) for target lesions and assessed by computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) : Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions with no worsening of non-target lesions and no new lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Baseline through end of study; up to 16 months or to the data cutoff 11FEB2016.|Duration of Response, For objective responders, the duration of response is defined as the difference of the end of response and the start of response. The start of a response was the first visit where the subject achieves PR or better based on RECIST v1.1 criteria. The end of response was the first visit after PD based on RECIST v1.1 criteria., From the start of response to the end of response; up to 16 months or to the data cutoff 11FEB2016.|Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), A treatment-emergent AE was defined as an event occurring (or worsening of any pre-existing) after exposure to at least 1 dose of study drug. A treatment-related AE was defined as an event with a definite, probable, or possible causality to study medication. A serious AE is an event resulting in death, hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or is life threatening, a congenital anomaly/birth defect or requires medical or surgical intervention to prevent 1 of the outcomes above. The intensity of an AE was graded according to the National Cancer Institute common terminology criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03: Grade 1 (Mild); Grade 2 (Moderate); Grade 3 (Severe); Grade 4 (life-threatening)., Baseline through approximately 30 days post treatment discontinuation; up to 16 months or to the data cutoff 11FEB2016.
The study consisted of an open-label, safety run-in (consisting of 1 to 4 cohorts of 9 participants each), to confirm the safety of ruxolitinib in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin in participants with nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that is Stage IIIB, Stage IV, or recurrent. Participants in the safety run-in received open-label ruxolitinib and pemetrexed and cisplatin.

In the second part of the study, participants enrolled and randomized and received pemetrexed and cisplatin (open-label) and either ruxolitinib or placebo in a blinded manner. The dose of ruxolitinib administered was determined from the data produced in the safety run-in phase.

Treatment consisted of repeating 21-day cycles. Participants received infusions of pemetrexed and cisplatin on Day 1 of each cycle and ruxolitinib/placebo was self-administered during the entire cycle. Maintenance therapy with ruxolitinib or placebo in combination with pemetrexed, based on the original treatment assignment, was allowed for participants eligible for maintenance therapy.