Hypofractionation Proton Beam Therapy With Concurrent Treatment of Prostate and Pelvic Nodes for Prostate Cancer
The study is to examine a moderate hypofractionation regimen of proton beam therapy for high risk or unfavorable intermediate risk prostate cancer. The prostate and seminal vesicles are treated with 6750 centigray (RBE) in 25 fractions (i.e. 270 centigray/fraction), while the regional pelvic nodes receive 4500 centigray (RBE) in 25 fractions (i.e. 180 centigray/fraction) simultaneously. The overall treatment time is 5 weeks.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionation Proton beam therapy with Concurrent Treatment of the Prostate and Pelvic Nodes
Late Grade ≥ 3 Gastrointestinal (GI) and Genitourinary (GU) Toxicity of Interest, Using the CTCAE v4.0, Toxicity will be defined as an adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to proton beam therapy. A late GI or GU toxicity will be defined as a GI or GU toxicity that occurs between 3 months and 2 years from the completion of proton beam therapy. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for late toxicity, with the exception of patients determined to be a major violation., Between 3 months and 24 months post proton beam therapy
Late Grade ≥ 2 GI and GU Toxicity of Interest, Using the CTCAE v4.0, Toxicity will be defined as an adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to proton beam therapy. A late GI or GU toxicity will be defined as a GI or GU toxicity that occurs between 3 months and 2 years from the completion of proton beam therapy. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for late toxicity, with the exception of patients determined to be a major violation, Between 3 months and 24 months post proton beam therapy|Acute Grade ≥ 3 GI and GU Toxicity of Interest Within 3 Months Post Proton Beam Therapy, Using the CTCAE v4.0, Toxicity will be defined as an adverse event possibly, probably, or definitely related to proton beam therapy. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for late toxicity, with the exception of patients determined to be a major violation, Within 3 months post proton beam therapy|Disease-free Survival Including Freedom From PSA Relapse at 5 Years Post Proton Beam Therapy, Disease-free survival is defined as the time from registration until the time of the first occurrence of biochemical failure, local recurrence, regional recurrence, distant metastases, or death due to any cause. The distribution of disease-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 5 years post proton beam therapy|Disease-specific Survival at 5 Years Post Proton Beam Therapy, Disease-free survival is defined as the time from registration until the time of the first occurrence of biochemical failure, local recurrence, regional recurrence, distant metastases, or death due to any cause. The distribution of disease-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., 5 years post proton beam therapy
Proton beam therapy can provide a therapeutic gain by offering at least equivalent (or superior) tumor control while reducing the risk of radiation toxicity, in comparison with conventional photon-based external beam radiotherapy, given its dose-deposition characteristics. Currently the clinical target volume of proton beam for the treatment of prostate cancer has been mostly limited to the prostate and the seminal vesicles. There has been no study of proton beam therapy to treat both the primary tumor in the prostate and the regional pelvic nodes simultaneously using a moderate hypofractionation regimen.

The study is a prospective, single-arm, clinical trial to evaluate a moderate hypofractionation regimen of proton beam therapy for high risk or unfavorable intermediate risk prostate cancer. The clinical target volumes of proton beam therapy include both the prostate/seminal vesicles and the regional pelvic nodes. The primary objective is to assess late grade ≥ 3 gastrointestinal (GI) and genitourinary (GU) toxicity. The secondary objectives are to evaluate late grade ≥ 2 GI and GU toxicity, acute grade ≥ 3 GI and GU toxicity, and disease-free survival including freedom from PSA (prostate specific antigen) relapse at 5 years. The study provides an avenue to examine the safety, efficacy, cost effectiveness, and convenience of a moderate hypofractionation regimen (5-week course) of proton beam therapy.