The SHARED, Project, Lung Cancer Screening for African American Men (AAM)
This study is a single-arm pre-test post-test design with a two-month follow-up assessment. The study aims to provide support to participants in quitting smoking and accessing lung cancer screening through the combination of education interventions and patient navigation (PN)
Lung Cancer Screening
OTHER: Educational Video about LDCT lung cancer screening|OTHER: A culturally tailored shared decision-making tool|OTHER: Flip chart|OTHER: Navigation support
Assess changes in knowledge, attitudes, risk perception, and intention/ stage of readiness to engage in lung cancer screening and smoking cessation, Number of participants that show an improvement from pretest to posttest, 1 year|Assess the completion of a healthcare visit for the purpose of lung cancer screening ces, Number of participants that complete lung cancer screening, 1 year|Assess completion of referral to smoking cessation treatment, Number of participants that completed the referral to smoking cessation treatment to the ITQL, 1 year
This study is a single-arm pre-test post-test design with a two-month follow-up assessment. The study aims to provide support to participants in quitting smoking and accessing lung cancer screening through the combination of education interventions and patient navigation (PN). After participant consent the study team will administer a series of surveys to collect the participant's contact information and complete the study's pretest measures. These include a demographic survey, smoking history, lung cancer knowledge, lung screening knowledge, intention to quit/screen, informed to decide, satisfaction survey, and decision conflict survey. The study also consists of three scheduled meetings with the PN lasting up to 60 minutes. The 1st session will be held between 7-14 days after consent. The 2nd session will be held 7-14 after the 1st session and the 3rd session will be held 42-49 days after the 1st session. Additional phone calls will last 10 minutes or less and be focused on specific questions generated by study participants.

In the 1st session the PN will re-orient participant to the goals and objectives of the project and answer participant questions before starting the intervention. The 1st activity will be to show a 3 minute culturally tailored video that will explain the benefits of lung cancer screening for African American Males (AAM) using an internet-enabled device. After completion of the video, the PN will invite the participant to ask any questions that they have and the PN will offer clarifying information. The PN will review with the participant a culturally adapted shared decision-making tool. The participant will complete the posttest surveys as described abov.

In the 2nd session the PN will determine the scheduling and completion of lung cancer screening and Illinois Tobacco Quit Line (ITQL) engagement. The participant will complete the LDCT screening, navigation needs, Quitline Engagement, and decision change surveys

In the 3rd session the PN will determine scheduling, barriers and completion of lung cancer screening and Quitline engagement. The participant will complete LDCT screening check, and a Quitline engagement check