Radiosurgery and Avastin for Recurrent Malignant Gliomas
The purpose of this study is to assess the central nervous system (CNS) toxicity in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas treated with concurrent Avastin and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS).
Malignant Glioma
RADIATION: Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS)|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Central Nervous System (CNS) Toxicity, Number of participants who experience Grade 3 or higher adverse events in the "Nervous System Disorder" domain of Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0., 2 months after Stereotactic Radiosurgery
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Time in months from the start of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) to the date of first progression according to Revised Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO)criteria, or to death due to any cause. Patients alive who had not progressed as of the last follow-up had PFS censored at the last follow-up date. Median PFS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve. Per RANO, progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions,or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion or the appearance of new lesions., 1 year|Radiographic Response at Month 2, Radiographic response at 2 months after stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) assessed by MRI and based on modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria.Per RANO, complete response (CR) is the disappearance of all target lesions;Partial Response(PR)is a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 2 months after SRS|Overall Survival(OS), Time in months from the start of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) to date of death due to any cause. Patients alive as of the last follow-up had OS censored at the last follow-up date. Median OS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve., 2 years|Change in Quality of Life From Baseline to 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS), Quality of life as measured by the change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) scores from baseline to 2 months after SRS. The FACT-Br (version 4) is comprised of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G), a 27-item core questionnaire evaluating the domains of physical, family/social, emotional and functional well-being, with the addition of 23 brain cancer specific questions. The FACT-G total score is the sum of the four FACT-G domain scores. The Brain Cancer Subscale (BrCS) is the sum of 19 brain cancer specific questions. The FACT-Br Trial Outcome Index (TOI) is the sum of the BrCS score and the physical and family/social domain scores. The FACT-Br total score is the sum of the FACT-G total score and the BrCS score. Higher scores for all scales indicate improved quality of life (QOL).Change score = score at 2 months after SRS - score at baseline. Positive change scores indicate improved quality of life., 2 months after SRS|Cognition at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS)as Measured by the Mini-Mental State Exam ( MMSE), Cognition as measured by the change in the Mini-Mental State Exam (MMSE) scores from baseline to 2 months after SRS. The MMSE is an 11-item measure that tests five areas of cognitive function: orientation, registration, attention and calculation, recall and language. The maximum score is 30. Change score = score at 2 months after SRS - score at baseline. Higher scores for this scale indicate improved quality of life(QOL). Positive change scores indicate improved cognition., 2 months after SRS|Cognition at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) as Measured by the Trail Making Test (TMT), Cognition as measured by the change in scores on the Trail Making Test (TMT). The TMT consists of two parts. Part A (TMT-A) requires an individual to draw lines sequentially connecting 25 encircled numbers distributed on a sheet of paper. Task requirements are similar for Part B (TMT-B) except the person must alternate between numbers and letters (e.g., 1, A, 2, B, 3, C, etc.). The score on each part represents the amount of time required to complete the task. Shorter time scores indicates improved cognition. Change score = score at 2 months after SRS - score at baseline. Negative change scores indicate improved cognition., 2 months after SRS|Performance Status at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS), Number of patients with a 10% decline in Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) from baseline to 2 months after SRS. KPS is rated on a 0 to 100 scale representing a patient's ability to perform normal activity, ability to do active work, and the need for assistance. A score of 100 is "perfect" health and 0 represents death., 2 months after SRS|Steroid Usage After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS), Number of patients using steroids at baseline and at 2 months after SRS., 2 months after SRS 2 months after SRS 2 months after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 1 Week After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): K-trans, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. K-trans is the widely accepted MR method for quantitating brain tumor microvascular permeability( a measure of blood transport.) K-trans will indicate a combination of both flow and permeability properties of tissue. K-trans will indicate the tissue perfusion per unit volume, with a reduction in K-trans suggesting an increased anti-tumor effect and potentially improved outcome. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 1 week after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): K-trans, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. K-trans is the widely accepted MR method for quantitating brain tumor microvascular permeability( a measure of blood transport.) K-trans will indicate a combination of both flow and permeability properties of tissue. K-trans will indicate the tissue perfusion per unit volume with a reduction in K-trans suggesting an increased anti-tumor effect and potentially improved outcome. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 2 months after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 1 Week After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): AUC, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. Area under the curve (AUC) is utilized to measure the signal enhancement ratio washout volume and could be predictive of cancer treatment response. It is possible AUC could be used as a prognostic indicator of the eventual response. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 1 week after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): AUC, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. Area under the curve (AUC) is utilized to measure the signal enhancement ratio washout volume and could be predictive of cancer treatment response. It is possible AUC could be used as a prognostic indicator of the eventual response. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 2 months after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 1 Week After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): EVF, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. By measuring extracellular extravascular volume fraction (EVF) it is possible to gain information on brain tissue perfusion. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 1 week after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): EVF, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 2 months after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 1 Week After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): ADC, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. Diffusion-weighted imaging, dependent on motion of water molecules, provides information regarding tissue integrity. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values in the normal brain parenchyma, and those in brain tumors were measured. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 1 week after SRS|Dynamic Contrasted-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) Perfusion Indices at 2 Months After Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS): ADC, DCE-MRI is a quantitative method that allows for non-invasive analysis of tumor vascular characteristics. Diffusion-weighted imaging, dependent on motion of water molecules, provides information regarding tissue integrity. Apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values in the normal brain parenchyma, and those in brain tumors were measured. Patients had a DCE-MRI at baseline and at 1 week and 2 months after SRS., 2 months after SRS
In this pilot study, 15 human subjects with recurrent, unifocal malignant gliomas up to 5-cm in maximum dimension no longer responding to conventional chemotherapy but able to tolerate further chemotherapy will be enrolled. The primary endpoint of this study will be the proportion of patients who experience CNS toxicity, with secondary endpoints progression-free survival, overall survival, steroid dosage, development of radionecrosis, quality of life, objective radiographic response and performance status.