Effect of Education to be Provided to Patients to Undergo TURP With Mobile Application on Patient Outcomes
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of mobile application training on patient outcomes (preoperative anxiety, surgical fear, postoperative pain, hemodynamic parameters, satisfaction level and length of hospital stay) in patients undergoing transurethral prostate resection surgery. It was planned as a prospective, two-arm (1:1), randomized controlled clinical trial. The study will be conducted with 68 patients in the urology clinic of a vir university hospital. Patients will be randomly assigned to the control group and the mobile application training group. Patients in the mobile application group will be trained with the mobile application, while patients in the control group will only receive routine care in the clinic. Patients assigned to the mobile application group will be introduced to the education to be given with the mobile application and the application will be downloaded to their phones/tablets. Data will be collected with the Introductory Information Form, Visual Comparison Scale, State Anxiety Scale, Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form, Surgical Fear Scale and Discharge Education Satisfaction Scale. When the patient is admitted to the clinic, "Introductory Information Form", "State Anxiety Scale", and "Surgical Fear Scale" will be applied to the patients in the mobile intervention and control groups before surgical intervention, and "Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form" will be completed. After the surgical intervention, "Visual Comparison Scale" and "Discharge Education Satisfaction Scale" will be applied to all patients and "Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form" will be completed. The data will be analyzed in a computer environment.
Prostate Cancer (Post Prostatectomy)
OTHER: Mobile application
Pain score, Visual Analog Scale: It is a scale that provides a subjective assessment of pain on a horizontal or vertical line from 0 (no pain at all)-10 (very severe pain) to evaluate the level of pain (Wewers and Lowe, 1990)., 10 months|Anxiety, The State Anxiety Scale : In this study, the DAQ, which is structured to measure momentary feelings, was used. Its Turkish validity and reliability was conducted by Öner and Le Compte in 1983. The DAQ consists of 20 questions on a four-point Likert scale. The statements in the DAQ are evaluated as not at all (1), a little (2), a lot (3) and completely (4). In this section, the statements are divided into direct and reversed statements. Inverted statements: 1st, 2nd, 5th, 5th, 8th, 8th, 10th, 11th, 15th, 16th, 19th, 20th items. The total score of the reversed statements is subtracted from the total score of the direct statements and the number 50, which is the invariant value of the DAQ, is added to the value obtained and the DAQ score is calculated. The scale score ranges between 20-80 and an increase in the score indicates an increase in the level of anxiety., 10 months|Hemodynamic Variables, Hemodynamic Variables Monitoring Form, hemodynamic variables findings of the mobile treatment and control group before and after TURP will be recorded., 10 months|Surgical Fear, Surgical Fear Scale: The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Bağdigen and Karaman Özlü in 2018. The questionnaire, which consists of eight items, has an 11-point Likert structure ranging from 0 (I am not afraid at all) to 10 (I am very afraid). The questionnaire has two subscales indicating the fear of short-term and long-term consequences of surgery. The subscale score is obtained by summing the scores of the four items in the subscales of the questionnaire. The total score of the questionnaire will be obtained by summing the scores of the two subscales, with a minimum score of 0 and a maximum score of 80. The Cronbach alpha coefficient of the scale was found to be 0.89, 0.86 for the short-term outcomes sub-dimension and 0.87 for the long-term outcomes (Bağdiven \& Karaman Özlü, 2016)., 10 months|Satisfaction, Discharge Education Satisfaction Scale: The scale developed to measure the satisfaction level of patients undergoing surgical intervention has 21 items and a five-point Likert structure. The lowest score that can be obtained from the scale is 21 and the highest score is 105. Scale score is directly proportional to satisfaction with discharge education. The overall Cronbach α coefficient of the scale is 0.91 (Meşe \& Köşgeroğlu, 2021)., 10 months|Urinalysis results, Hemodynamic Variables Monitoring Form, complete urinalysis (density, bacteriuria, etc.) findings of the mobile treatment and control group before and after TURP will be recorded., 10 months
The aim of this study was to determine the effect of mobile application training on patient outcomes (preoperative anxiety, surgical fear, postoperative pain, hemodynamic parameters, satisfaction level and length of hospital stay) in patients undergoing transurethral prostate resection surgery. It was planned as a prospective, two-arm (1:1), randomized controlled clinical trial. The study will be conducted with 68 patients in the urology clinic of a vir university hospital. Patients will be randomly assigned to the control group and the mobile application training group. Patients in the mobile application group will be trained with the mobile application, while patients in the control group will only receive routine care in the clinic. Patients assigned to the mobile application group will be introduced to the education to be given with the mobile application and the application will be downloaded to their phones/tablets. Data will be collected with the Introductory Information Form, Visual Comparison Scale, State Anxiety Scale, Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form, Surgical Fear Scale and Discharge Education Satisfaction Scale. When the patient is admitted to the clinic, "Introductory Information Form", "State Anxiety Scale", and "Surgical Fear Scale" will be applied to the patients in the mobile intervention and control groups before surgical intervention, and "Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form" will be completed. After the surgical intervention, "Visual Comparison Scale" and "Discharge Education Satisfaction Scale" will be applied to all patients and "Hemodynamic Parameters Monitoring Form" will be completed. The data will be analyzed in a computer environment. The suitability of the data for normal distribution will be evaluated by Shaphiro Wilk Test. For continuous variables with normal distribution, t-test in independent groups will be used to compare two independent group averages; Mann-Whitney U test will be used to compare continuous variables that do not show normal distribution. Statistical significance value will be taken as p\<0.05.