Cancer Patient Perspectives During COVID-19
A web-based survey will be emailed to all adult women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ who have been seen as surgical consultations within the last year (06/01/19-06/01/20).
Breast Cancer
Number of participants with changes implemented to breast cancer treatment, Number of participants with changes implemented to breast cancer treatment during the COVID-19 pandemic, 12 months|Number of participants with treatment concerns during COVID-19 pandemic, Patients with treatment concerns during the COVID-19 pandemic, 12 months|Number of participants with effects of COVID-19 on psychological, social, and physical well-being of breast cancer patients, Number of participants with effects of COVID-19 on psychological, social, and physical well-being of breast cancer patients, 12 months
A web-based survey will be emailed to all adult women diagnosed with invasive breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ who have been seen as surgical consultations within the last year (06/01/19-06/01/20). This will ensure that patients at various stages of treatment are included, from initial diagnosis into survivorship. This will allow the investigators to assess changes to initial consultations, surgeries, chemotherapy, and radiation, as well as patient perspectives as it relates to these changes.

The web-based surveys will be given via Redcap. The study team will use a validated questionnaire developed at the University of Miami (Penedo, 2020), which includes a combination of multiple-choice questions, Likert scale ratings, and yes/no questions. A list of potential questions is listed below.

A group of patients will be contacted for semi-structured interviews via telephone as well if (1) patients indicate willingness to participate on a separate RedCap survey or (2) if the patient does not respond to this survey. Phone interviews will be recorded and transcribed verbatim. Multiple members of the research team will separately code the information and evaluate for themes.