Durvalumab Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Oral Cavity or Oropharynx Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies how well durvalumab before surgery works in treating patients with oral cavity or oropharynx cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Human Papillomavirus Infection|Stage I Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage II Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IVC Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Immune Effector Assessed in Blood by Flow Cytometry and in Tissue by Immunohistochemistry, Concentration of certain immune effector will be assessed in blood pre- and post- treatment. Descriptive statistics, confidence intervals will be calculated and 2-sample t-tests will be performed. Tumor-infiltrating immune-regulator and effector cells will be quantified (0 to 3+) using standing immunofluorescence techniques. Counts and percents will be calculated for these measures overall and by HPV (+/-) groups pre- and post-treatment. Fisher exact tests will be used to compare groups at pre- and post- treatment. Stuart-Maxwell tests (generalizations of the McNemar's Test, Up to 18 months|Immune-regulatory miR Responses as Measured in Plasma Assessed by Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR), Percent change of levels of immune-regulatory miRs assessed in plasma assessed pre-treatment and one week post-treatment., At baseline and at one week post treatment start|Systemic Immune Response to HPV Assessed by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Lab results will be compared between patients who are HPV+ and HPV- using 2 sample t-tests. These measures will be compared in several ways. First, baseline, pre-treatment levels will be examined using descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviations, range). These measures will be examined overall and by HPV (+/-) groups. For each measure, and time point, 95% confidence intervals will be estimated. Next, two sample t-tests will be performed to compare levels of the measures at baseline. Next, measures taken post-treatment will be examined in a similar manner (descriptive statistics and 2-, Up to 18 months|Regulatory Responses Assessed in Blood by Flow Cytometry and in Tissue by Immunohistochemistry, Concentration of certain regulatory cells will be assessed in blood pre- and post- treatment. Descriptive statistics, confidence intervals will be calculated and 2-sample t-tests will be performed. Tumor-infiltrating immune-regulator and effector cells will be quantified (0 to 3+) using standing immunofluorescence techniques. Counts and percents will be calculated for these measures overall and by HPV (+/-) groups pre- and post-treatment. Fisher exact tests will be used to compare groups at pre- and post- treatment. Stuart-Maxwell tests (generalizations of the McNemar's Tes, Up to 18 months|Immune-regulatory miR Responses as Measured in Saliva Assessed by Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR), Percent change of levels of immune-regulatory miRs assessed in saliva assessed pre-treatment and one week post-treatment., Baseline and one week post treatment start|Immune-regulatory miR Responses as Measured in Tumor Tissue Assessed by Quantitative Reverse Transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR), Levels of immune-regulatory miRs assessed in blood, saliva and tumor tissue will be assessed pre- and post- treatments. Descriptive statistics, confidence intervals will be calculated and 2-sample t-tests will be performed. In addition, correlations between the different methods will be examined (i.e., correlation between saliva and blood measures, saliva and tumor measures, and blood and tumor measures)., Up to 18 months|Systemic Immune Response to Tumor Associated Antigens Assessed by Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Lab results will be compared between patients who are HPV+ and HPV- using 2 sample t-tests. These measures will be compared in several ways. First, baseline, pre-treatment levels will be examined using descriptive statistics (n, mean, standard deviations, range). These measures will be examined overall and by HPV (+/-) groups. For each measure, and time point, 95% confidence intervals will be estimated. Next, two sample t-tests will be performed to compare levels of the measures at baseline. Next, measures taken post-treatment will be examined in a similar manner (descriptive statistics and 2-, Up to 18 months
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs) as Measured by CTCAE Version 4.03, AEs will be coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities to their organ class by preferred term. Coded AEs will be displayed by frequency, severity, and relationship to treatment (durvalumab) in the safety population. In addition, summary tables will be generated for the following situations: 1) fatigue, diarrhea, nausea and skin rash; 2) Immune-mediated reactions of any grade; 3) other adverse events graded as 3 or more by CTCAE Version 4.03; 4) Durvalumab dose reductions; 5) discontinuations of treatment with durvalumab, with specification of reason for discontinuation; and 6) changes in the surgical treatment schedule. Toxicity grades Grade I (mild), Grade II (moderate), Grade III (severe), Grade IV (life threatening) and Grade V (fatal). Toxicities of greater than or equal to Grade III (except infusion reaction) are considered worse outcomes., At baseline (pre-treatment), during scheduled treatment and up to the 90-day follow up period after the last dose of study drug administered, with a median of 1 month and maximum of 13 months|Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) as Measured by PET Scans, Change in SUV activity as measured by PET scans from baseline to post-treatment not specific to HPV status., Up to 18 months|Tumor Diameter Assessed Using RECIST Version 1.1 Criteria, Change in tumor diameters will be compared between groups (HPV +/-) pre- and post- treatment., Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the effect of durvalumab on local and systemic immune activation by HPV status in patients with oral cavity and oropharynx head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).

II. To examine the effects of durvalumab on systemic immune response to HPV and tumor associated antigens.

III. To examine the effects of durvalumab on immune regulatory mechanisms. IV. To explore the association between levels of immune-regulatory micro-ribonucleic acid (miR) in plasma and saliva and immune response.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Investigate the effect of the treatment with durvalumab on the computed tomography (CT) scan and positron emission tomography (PET) scan response.

II. Evaluate the safety of a short induction treatment with durvalumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over approximately 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 3-17 days after last dose administration of durvalumab, patients undergo surgery. Patients may receive an additional dose of durvalumab if time to surgery is longer than 30 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 90 days.