Soft Tissue Detection on MRI, Cone Beam CT and Fan Beam CT and Integration of Functional MRI
This clinical trial studies magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cone beam computed tomography (CT), and fan beam CT in detecting soft tissue in patients with prostate and lung cancer undergoing radiation therapy. Comparing results of diagnostic procedures done before and during radiation therapy may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment.
Lung Cancer|Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: cone-beam computed tomography|RADIATION: magnetic resonance imaging|RADIATION: computed tomography
Technical feasibility of MRI for performing functional soft-tissue targeting of radiotherapy in the pelvis and thorax, Make a preliminary comparison of soft tissue structures delineated from MRI to those identified based on cone beam CT (CBCT) and fan beam CT (FBCT). In addition, variations in the soft tissue identification from repeated MR imaging will be compared to morphological imaging., up to 6 weeks|Clinical MR imaging data in evaluating image quality tradeoffs and operational parameter settings, Image quality will be assessed by evaluating the utility of various comparative image quality quantifiers such as signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), resolution, and reproducibility of soft-tissue structure identification., Up to 6 weeks
Visibility of soft tissue structures in MRIs, CBCTs and FBCTs of the same patient, Compared using a paired t-test., Up to 6 weeks|Deformable image registration to map contours from FBCT to MRI, CBCT to MRI, MRI to MRI and vice versa, Compared using a paired t-test., Up to 6 weeks|Functional changes in target and normal structures, visualized on MRI, CBCT and FBCT images, in response to radiation therapy and identify opportunities for treatment adaptation, Compared using a paired t-test., Up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Establish the technical feasibility of MRI for performing functional soft-tissue targeting of radiotherapy in the pelvis and thorax. (Group I) II. Acquire clinical MR imaging data to evaluate image quality tradeoffs and operational parameter settings. (Group I) III. Validate the selection of MRI technique factors by comparing visibility of soft tissue structures in MRIs, cone beam (CB)CTs and fan beam (FB)CTs of the same patient. (Group II) IV. Assess the feasibility of using deformable image registration to map contours from FBCT to MRI, CBCT to MRI, MRI to MRI and vice versa. (Group II) V. Compare morphologic and functional changes in target and normal structures, visualized on MRI, CBCT and FBCT images, in response to radiation therapy and identify opportunities for treatment adaptation. (Group II)

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo MRI and FBCT at baseline, within the first 3 weeks of radiotherapy and between week 4 and 6 of radiotherapy. Patients with lung cancer may undergo 4 dimensional (4D) CBCT on the same day as the second and third MRI and FBCT.