Trial of Acupuncture for Radiation-Induced Xerostomia in Head and Neck Cancer
This study is being done to find out what effects, good and/or bad, acupuncture has on participants and their xerostomia caused by radiation therapy for the treatment of the cancer.
Radiation-Induced Xerostomia|Head and Neck Cancer|Radiation Toxicity|Oral Complications of Chemotherapy and Head/Neck Radiation
OTHER: Standard Oral Hygiene|OTHER: Standard Oral Hygiene + True Acupuncture|OTHER: Standard Oral Hygiene + Sham Acupuncture
Xerostomia Questionnaire Scores, Self reported Xerostomia questionnaire consists of eight items (scored on an 11-point scale; 0-10), has been validated in several cohorts, and is regarded as the gold-standard measure for xerostomia.The questions are equally divided into 4 items about oral dryness while eating or chewing and 4 items about dryness while not eating or chewing. Item scores are summed and transformed linearly to produce a final summary score between 0 and 80. Higher scores represent more xerostomia. Questionnaire is completed prior to randomization and at each time point week 4, week 8, week 12, and end of study., Baseline to 4, 8, 12, 26 weeks post acupuncture
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT-G) Total, The FACT-G QOL instrument discriminates between individuals with metastatic and non-metastatic disease, as well as between patients at different stages of illness. The scale has good concurrent validity, high internal consistency (0.89), and good test-re-test reliability (0.82 to 0.88). The total score is reported, which is a combination of the subscales of physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being, with higher scores representing better QOL. Scale range 0-108, Baseline, 4 , 8 , 12, and 26 weeks|The Acupuncture Expectancy Scale (AES), The 4-item AES was used to ensure there were no baseline group differences in expectations related to the benefits of acupuncture on dry mouth and to assess aspects of blinding after the first 4 weeks of acupuncture for the TA and SA groups. The AES is reliable (α=0·82) and valid by positive correlation with patient self-reported efficacy and satisfaction. The scale has been further validated among cancer patients who were acupuncture naïve. Scale from 4-20., baseline to week 4
Patients who have met all eligibility criteria will be randomized to standard oral hygiene, standard oral hygiene + true acupuncture twice weekly for 4 weeks, or standard oral hygiene + sham acupuncture twice weekly for 4 weeks by a form of adaptive randomization, called minimization, because simple randomization could result in covariate imbalances .

The acupuncture points will be at three sites on each ear (Shenmen, Point Zero, Salivary Gland 2-prime), a site on the chin (CV24), a site on each forearm (Lu7), a site on each hand (LI 1-prime), a site on each leg (K6), and one placebo needle at Gb32 for a total of 14 sites. All sites will be applied for 20 minutes. For body points, standardized techniques for location will be utilized, which are based on anatomical landmarks as well as proportional measurements using the patient's own body. For example, finger breadth is based on each patient's middle finger, and the proportional unit of measure, the "cun," is defined as the distance between the two medial ends of the creases of the interphalangeal joints when the middle finger is flexed. Ear point locations will mimic standard practice and be identified by the acupuncturists.