Two-fraction HDR Monotherapy for Localized Prostate Cancer
This is a single center single arm prospective pilot study investigating the safety of high dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy as monotherapy delivered in 2 fractions 3 hours apart. HDR monotherapy has been established as safe and effective in this context, however previous studies have delivered 2 fractions on separate days, or at least 6 hours apart. Clinically, this regimen, if shown to be safe and effective in future studies, has the potential to reduce operative resources and logistical stresses on brachytherapy departments.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Localized Prostate Carcinoma
RADIATION: High Dose Rate Monotherapy
Proportion of participants with treatment-related adverse events, The proportion of participants with reported grade 3 or higher genitourinary (GU) or gastrointestinal (GI) toxicities, as graded by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be reported., Up to 6 months
Mean Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Nadir, The mean (average) PSA nadir after treatment will be reported along with standard deviations., Up to 6 months|Mean Time to PSA Nadir, The mean (average) time to PSA nadir after treatment will be reported along with standard deviations., Up to 6 months|Mean Change in International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) over time, The mean change over time on scores for the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) will be reported along with standard deviations. The IPSS measures the severity of lower urinary tract symptoms and erectile function with lower numbers indicating less change in symptoms. Seven questions with scores ranging from 1-5 are summed to create a total score. Scores of 1-7 indicate mild symptoms, scores of 8-19 indicate moderate symptoms, and scores of 20-35 indicate severe symptoms., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of HDR monotherapy 13.5 Gy x 2 fractions delivered 3 hours apart in patients with low and intermediate risk prostate cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the prostate specific antigen (PSA) kinetics associated with HDR brachytherapy monotherapy 13.5 Gy x 2 fractions delivered 3 hours apart for low and intermediate risk prostate cancer.

OUTLINE:

Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. All treatment will be delivered over a single day. Participants will be followed for 6 months after last treatment or removal from study, or until death, whichever occurs first. Additional Follow up will be as per usual guidelines for prostate cancer, every 3 months following treatment with PSA for the first year, then every 4 months after year 2, and every 6 months after year 3 until 5 years of follow up are completed.