Comparison of Melatonin or Metformin and Dacarbazine Combination Versus Dacarbazine Alone in Disseminated Melanoma
Treatment of disseminated melanoma is still a difficult issue. Obvious achievements of recent years proves efficacy of immunologic approachees in this field. The ability of melatonin and metformin to decrease metabolic immunosuppression was shown in many experimental studies. Some literature data confirm the possibility of increasing efficacy of melatonin with dacarbazine (DTIC) and metformin with DTIC combinations. We hypothesized that this combinations could be more effective than DTIC monotherapy in terms of response rate and time to progression.
Melanoma
DRUG: Metformin|DRUG: Melatonin|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of complete response or partial response, 23 months after FPFV|Progression Free Survival, As per RECIST v1.1. progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause., 23 months after FPFV
Adverse events (AE) incidence, Incidence of AE classified using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for AE v4, until 30 days after last patient treatment visit|Metabolic Changes Incidence, Nutritional status will be assessed using Nutritional Risk Index (NRI), Subjective global assessment (SGA), and Body Mass Index (BMI) tools., 23 months after FPFV|Immune system assessment, Following tests will be performed at baseline and each response assessment:

* Lymphocyte subpopulations detection
* Immunosuppressive factors measurements, 23 months after FPFV
Treatment of disseminated melanoma is still a difficult issue. Obvious achievements of recent years proves efficacy of immunologic approachees in this field. The ability of melatonin and metformin to decrease metabolic immunosuppression was shown in many experimental studies. Some literature data confirm the possibility of increasing efficacy of melatonin with dacarbazine (DTIC) and metformin with DTIC combinations. We hypothesized that this combinations could be more effective than DTIC monotherapy in terms of response rate and time to progression.