A Pediatric and Young Adult Trial of Genetically Modified T Cells Directed Against CD22 for Relapsed/Refractory Leukemia or Lymphoma
Patients with relapsed or refractory leukemia or lymphoma are often refractory to further chemotherapy. In this study, the investigators will attempt to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). The CAR used in this study can recognize CD22, a protein expressed on the surface of leukemia and lymphoma cells. The phase 1 part of this study will determine the safety and appropriate dose level of these CAR T cells, and the phase 2 part of the study will determine how effective this CAR T cell therapy is. Both patients who have never had prior CAR T cell therapy and those who have had prior CAR T cell therapy may be eligible to participate in this study.
Leukemia|Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: SCRI-CAR22v2
The adverse events associated with CAR T cell product infusions will be assessed, The type, frequency, severity, and duration of adverse events will be summarized, 28 days post-infusion|The ability to successfully manufacture SCRI-CAR22v2, We will measure the number of successfully manufactured SCRI-CAR22v2 products, 28 days|The leukemia response to SCRI-CAR22v2 in subjects with relapsed or refractory CD22+ leukemia will be assessed, The efficacy of the T cell infusion will be estimated based on the number of participants who have an MRD negative bone marrow aspirate following the T cell infusion, 28 days post-infusion
Patients with relapsed or refractory leukemia or lymphoma are often refractory to further chemotherapy. In this study, the investigators will attempt to use T cells obtained directly from the patient, which can be genetically engineered to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR). The CAR used in this study can recognize CD22, a protein expressed on the surface of leukemia and lymphoma cells. The phase 1 part of this study will determine the safety and appropriate dose level of these CAR T cells, and the phase 2 part of the study will determine how effective this CAR T cell therapy is. Both patients who have never had prior CAR T cell therapy and those who have had prior CAR T cell therapy may be eligible to participate in this study.