Lifestyle Intervention for Polycystic Ovary Syndrome: Pulse-Based Diet and Exercise
The purpose of our study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a lifestyle program for women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS). The investigators want to assess the effect of a pulse-based diet (i.e. a diet that contains lentils, chick-peas, peas, and beans) and aerobic exercise for improving PCOS disease features and risk factors for metabolic syndrome. We would like to determine the therapeutic effects of a lifestyle program that combines a pulse-based diet and exercise on the multiple disease measures of PCOS and metabolic syndrome.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome|Metabolic Syndrome
OTHER: Pulse-based diet|OTHER: TLC diet
Change in polycystic ovary syndrome disease measures from baseline, At baseline, before TLC lead-in, twice during the intervention, at 6 months follow-up and at 12 months follow-up
Change in metabolic syndrome disease measures from baseline, At baseline, before TLC lead-in, twice during the intervention, at 6 months follow-up and at 12 months follow-up
To date, we have developed the pulse-based and meat-based healthy meals following Therapeutic Lifestyle Changes (TLC)guidelines recommended by NCEP for the intervention. We have been recruiting and enrolling participants into the study with our few set of participants having completed the 4 month intervention. Baseline data have been also collected on all participants assessed for PCOS. Preliminary measurements on POCS characteristics, baseline dietary and exercise habits of women with PCOS will be soon available.

This study involves an intervention comparing a diet containing pulses (i.e. beans, peas, chick peas, lentils) to a diet recommended by the National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) for improving markers of metabolic syndrome and fertility in women with poly cystic ovarian syndrome who are also enrolled in an aerobic exercise program. To date, seven women in the pulse-diet group have completed the intervention, nine women in the group receiving the NCEP diet have completed the intervention, four women are currently enrolled on the pulse diet and two women are currently enrolled on the NCEP diet.