Pilot Study of Erlotinib for the Treatment of Patients With de Novo Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This research study is looking for patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML), AML that has returned (relapsed), or it has not responded adequately to previous treatments. Treating certain patients with chemotherapy may not be to their benefit or may cause more harm than benefit. The purpose of this study is to find out what effects (good and bad) erlotinib has on patients and their AML.
Leukemia, Myelomonocytic, Acute
DRUG: Erlotinib
Overall Response Rate (Defined as Partial Remission or Better) to 3 Months of Treatment With Erlotinib, The percent of patients were shown as having a partial remission or better based on definitions of response in AML. Partial remission includes a decrease of at least 50% in the percentage of blasts to 5% to 25% in the bone marrow aspirate. Complete remission includes presence of less than 5% blasts in an aspirate sample with marrow spicules and with a count of at least 200 nucleated cells. The percent and 95% exact confidence intervals will be calculated., 3 months of treatment with erlotinib
Duration of Response (up to One Year Follow up) in Patients Who Achieve a Complete Remission, The duration of response is from the time of response until failure or until the end of follow-up for the patients who received complete remission. Complete remission includes presence of less than 5% blasts in an aspirate sample with marrow spicules and with a count of at least 200 nucleated cells., 1 year after treatment discontinuation|Treatment Related Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher, Adverse events will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. Grading scale will be from 1 (mild) to 5 (causing death). This will determine the number of unique patients who had a treatment related (possible, probable or definite) adverse event that was graded 3 or greater., up to 15 months
Mechanistic Attributes of Erlotinib Hydrochloride in AML, Including Intracellular Quantitative Protein and Gene Expression Modifications and the in Vivo Effect of This Agent on the Differentiation of AML Blasts, Baseline; days 3, 4, 8, and 29 of course 1; and day 29 of courses 3, 6, 9, and 12
This research study is looking for patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML), AML that has returned (relapsed), or it has not responded adequately to previous treatments. Treating certain patients with chemotherapy may not be to their benefit or may cause more harm than benefit. The purpose of this study is to find out what effects (good and bad) erlotinib has on patients and their AML.