Real-World Clinical Experience of Patients With Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Treated With Olaparib + Abiraterone (PROceed)
PROceed is a multisite, prospective, observational study that describes the real-world use and clinical experience of mCRPC patients treated with the combination of olaparib and abiraterone in the mCRPC setting. Clinical outcomes will be assessed in patients who are either NHA-naive or NHA-exposed prior to initiating olaparib + abiraterone treatment, respectively. Patient demographic and clinical characteristics, as well as treatment received prior and subsequent to olaparib + abiraterone, will also be described. The study plans to enroll patients for a maximum of 2 years and follow up patients from initiation of olaparib until 1 year post last patient in.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
Time to treatment discontinuation, Time to treatment discontinuation (TTD) event-free rate at 6 months and 12 months will be assessed among patients treated with olaparib + abiraterone in 1L mCRPC setting by prior NHA exposure status (NHA-exposed and NHA-naive), respectively.

TTD is defined as the time from initiation of olaparib therapy until end date of olaparib therapy or death due to any cause., Up to 12 months
Time to first subsequent therapy, Time to first subsequent therapy (TFST) in mCRPC patients treated with olaparib + abiraterone.

TFST is defined as the time from olaparib initiation to the earlier of the first subsequent anticancer therapy start date following olaparib discontinuation or death due to any cause., Up to 24 months
PROceed is a multisite, prospective, observational study that describes the real-world use and clinical experience of mCRPC patients treated with the combination of olaparib and abiraterone in the mCRPC setting. Clinical outcomes will be assessed in patients who are either NHA-naive or NHA-exposed prior to initiating olaparib + abiraterone treatment, respectively. Patient demographic and clinical characteristics, as well as treatment received prior and subsequent to olaparib + abiraterone, will also be described. The study plans to enroll patients for a maximum of 2 years and follow up patients from initiation of olaparib until 1 year post last patient in.