A Multi Modality Surveillance Program for Women At High Risk for Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to develop a coordinated, standardized screening program for the early detection of breast cancer in high-risk women. This would include Breast Mammography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examination of your breasts. The University of Chicago Department of Radiology is performing research to develop better ways of imaging the breast. The investigators would like to be able to reliably identify abnormal tissue and determine whether abnormal areas contain cancer without surgical procedures (i.e., a biopsy which involves removing breast tissue with a needle or surgical instrument). Annual mammography has already been recommended for the patient based on family history or personal history of cancer. In young women, dense breasts sometimes make it difficult to find abnormal changes on breast cancer screening (mammograms). MRI, in combination with mammography, may increase the rate of detection of early cancers. In addition, MRI can provide better images of breast tissue. The investigators hope to prove that combining multiple screening measures including biomarkers improves the chances that, if you have a small cancer or pre-cancer, it will be found early. This study will also evaluate quality of life measures during breast cancer screening and compare breast MRI and mammogram in a high-risk population. The investigators will establish a database of clinical characteristics, blood biomarkers and interventions that will be saved for future analysis and aid in the development of more effective screening in high-risk women. This research will also help us develop tools for studies in the future.
Breast Cancer
Creation of registry of women undergoing intensive surveillance for the early detection of breast cancer in high-risk women, Until enrollment is complete|Impact of intensive breast cancer screening on patient reported outcomes, 5 years
The purpose of this study is to develop a coordinated, standardized screening program for the early detection of breast cancer in high-risk women. This would include Breast Mammography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) examination of your breasts. The University of Chicago Department of Radiology is performing research to develop better ways of imaging the breast. The investigators would like to be able to reliably identify abnormal tissue and determine whether abnormal areas contain cancer without surgical procedures (i.e., a biopsy which involves removing breast tissue with a needle or surgical instrument). Annual mammography has already been recommended for the patient based on family history or personal history of cancer. In young women, dense breasts sometimes make it difficult to find abnormal changes on breast cancer screening (mammograms). MRI, in combination with mammography, may increase the rate of detection of early cancers. In addition, MRI can provide better images of breast tissue. The investigators hope to prove that combining multiple screening measures including biomarkers improves the chances that, if you have a small cancer or pre-cancer, it will be found early. This study will also evaluate quality of life measures during breast cancer screening and compare breast MRI and mammogram in a high-risk population. The investigators will establish a database of clinical characteristics, blood biomarkers and interventions that will be saved for future analysis and aid in the development of more effective screening in high-risk women. This research will also help us develop tools for studies in the future.