The LINFU® U.S. Registry in Patients With Clinical Signs and/or Symptoms of Disease
Evaluate LINFU® in patients who exhibit signs or symptoms (i.e. jaundice, abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea and vomiting etc.) suggestive of pancreatic cancer (PDAC) or have evidence of imaging studies suggestive of PDAC.
Pancreatic Cancer|Jaundice|Abdominal Neoplasm
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: LINFU® (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas)
The number of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU® will be compared to standard screening methods, The total number of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified with LINFU® by analysis of pancreatic fluid will be compared to the number of these lesions identified with current screening tests, including endoscopic ultrasound ± fine needle aspiration (EUS± FNA),magnetic resonance imaging / magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRI/MRCP), endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP),computed tomography (CT) or contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS)., 5 years
The change in size of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU® will be determined, Patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be monitored long- term (5 years) by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS to assess whether these tumors increase in size (measured in mm) and to determine how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years|Determine the number of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma identified only with LINFU® that require medical or surgical intervention, Patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be monitored long- term (5 years) by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS to assess whether these tumors increase and how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years
Yearly survival rate of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU®, Patients will be followed by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS and yearly survival rates of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be recorded., 5 years
Adenocyte has developed a proprietary pancreatic cancer detection method, LINFU®, (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas) that increases the sensitivity of pancreatic juice cytology. LINFU® excitation of circulating microbubbles increases the exfoliation of pancreatic ductal cells. The sensitivity of cytological examination of the pancreatic fluid obtained by LINFU® can also be potentially enhanced by neural network-based computer-assisted analysis.

In this study, LINFU® will be evaluated in patients who exhibit symptoms suggestive of PDAC (i.e. jaundice, abdominal pain, weight loss, nausea and vomiting etc.) or have evidence of imaging studies suggestive of PDAC. In addition, patients with PDAC identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be followed long term to determine the progression rate of these tumors and to determine whether LINFU® results in earlier intervention, treatment and improvement in patient outcomes.