Low-Dose Ibuprofen in Improving Cognitive Impairment in Patients With Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well low-dose ibuprofen in improving cognitive impairment in patients with cancer. Anti-inflammatory agents, such as ibuprofen, may slow the decline of cognitive processes and diseases involving the brain.
Cognitive Impairment|Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Ibuprofen|OTHER: Placebo|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Effects of Ibuprofen on Alleviating Chemotherapy-related Cognitive Impairment, Will be assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function. Means, standard deviations, and 95% confidence intervals will be determined in order to estimate preliminary population variances and effect sizes. These statistical measures will be calculated by group for the Pre(Baseline) and Post(6 Weeks) measures of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function scores as well as the change (post-pre) in the scores using the subjects that completed the study (complete case estimation). The complete case estimates will be compared to multiple imputation estimates based on all subjects that completed pre-intervention. An analysis of covariance will be run using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function post-intervention as the response. Higher scores indicate better function; range is 0 to 148., Up to 41 days post-intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide preliminary data on the effect of ibuprofen on alleviating chemotherapy-related cognitive impairment (CRCI) in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy or who have received chemotherapy within the last 6 months compared to a placebo control, as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognitive Function (FACT-Cog).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive ibuprofen orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 6 weeks.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 6 weeks.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.