The Pain Squad+ Smartphone App To Support Real-Time Pain Management for Adolescents With Cancer
Pain negatively affects the quality of life of adolescents with cancer (AWC). It can also represent a high cost to the healthcare system and families. In response, our team has built a smartphone-based app, called Pain Squad+, which can give AWC real-time advice to manage their pain. The app uses pain diaries and personalized pain advice plus support from a registered nurse to give real-time pain management in all settings. This study will look at the impact of Pain Squad+, with or without the nurse support, on AWC health quality and healthcare costs over time.
Therapy-Associated Cancer
OTHER: Pain Squad+ with Nurse Support|OTHER: Pain Squad+
Brief Pain Inventory (BPI), The BPI assesses current pain and 'worst', 'least', and 'average' pain in the preceding week using an 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS) with verbal anchors 'no pain' at 0 and 'pain as bad as you can imagine' at 10. Item scores are averaged to give a Pain Intensity Summary Score., Change from baseline Brief Pain Inventory measure at 4 time points: 2 weeks after baseline, 4 weeks after baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline
Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Pediatric Pain Interference Short-form Scale, The PROMIS instrument is a valid 8- item scale assessing the impact of pain on function. Higher scores represent greater interference with function. We will use the established Bonferroni correction to account for serial comparisons., Baseline, 2 weeks after baseline, 4 weeks after baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline|Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQL) 4.0, The PedsQL 4.0 is a valid and reliable 23-item instrument not specific to pain. It is comprised of 4 subscales (physical functioning, emotional functioning, social functioning and school functioning), which are summed to provide a total score. Higher scores represent better QOL. We will separately analyze the subscales and total scale scores of the PedsQL., Baseline, 2 weeks after baseline, 4 weeks after baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline|Porter's scale, Porter's scale which assesses self-efficacy for managing pain, symptoms, and function in cancer patients. This 16-item scale includes a valid and reliable 5-item subscale assessing cancer pain management self-efficacy with higher scores indicating more certainty and is adapted from a scale that has been successfully administered to adolescents., Baseline, 2 weeks after baseline, 4 weeks after baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline|Health Utility Index Mark 2/3 (HUI2/3), Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)68 will be calculated using data from the valid and reliable HUI2/3., Baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline|Health Services Use, Direct healthcare costs will include the intervention and costs for health service use by AWC during the trial. Family out-of-pocket expenses, indirect costs due to lost productivity, and health service use will be ascertained using standardized customized data collection forms., Baseline, 8 weeks after baseline, 16 weeks after baseline
Adolescent Demographic Questionnaire, This questionnaire will ask about socio-economic, demographic, and disease information for descriptive purposes. It will also obtain information on potential moderators of observed treatment effects: AWC age, sex, ethnicity, school grade, diagnosis, stage/risk, relapse-status, treatment-type, date of diagnosis, co-morbid conditions and medications, and pain history., Baseline|Parent Demographic Questionnaire, This questionnaire will ask about parents about their age, sex, ethnicity, educational attainment, and financial characteristics, Baseline
Pain negatively affects the quality of life (QOL) of adolescents with cancer (AWC), slows cancer recovery, and results in negative long-term health effects. Pain is also significant cost to the healthcare system and families. To address this problem, the study investigators have developed and used a phased-approach to test a smartphone-based app, called Pain Squad+. Using this app AWC report the pain they have and the app provides AWC with advice on how to treat this pain based on an algorithm our team developed. An email is also sent to a nurse if an AWC reports severe pain 3 times in a row. The nurse then contacts the AWC to assist in treating pain. This project will test the effect of the Pain Squad+ app, with and without nurse help, on treating pain and other pain-related health issues and managing costs associated with pain care, when compared to AWC not using the app. Investigators will enroll 222 AWC recruited from 9 Canadian pediatric oncology care centres into a 3-group randomized controlled trial. AWC in the experimental groups will be asked to use Pain Squad+ for 8 weeks (with or without nurse involvement) and all groups will complete pain-related outcome measures at baseline, 2-, 4-, 8-, and 16-weeks. The primary study outcome will be pain intensity. The secondary study outcomes will be (a) pain interference; (b) QOL; (c) pain self-efficacy; and (d) cost effectiveness and utility. Investigators will use established statistical methods to analyze the health and cost data collected over the course of this study. A real-time and cost effective way to address the problem of pain in AWC is needed. Pain Squad+ can improve pain treatment and QOL for AWC as well as decrease costs incurred by families and the healthcare system. If effective, the Pain Squad+ as a model of technology-assisted care may represent a way to improve the QOL for a range of Canadian patients by treating a variety of physical and psychological symptoms the moment they occur.