High Dose Vitamin D vs Standard Dose Vitamin D Study
This study is being done to look at the difference, if there is a difference between two different doses of Vitamin D and the reduction of joint/muscle pain (arthralgia)that is caused by taking anti-estrogen medications (aromatase inhibitors) by breast cancer patients. The investigators hope to learn if taking a higher dose of Vitamin D is a good way to prevent aromatase inhibitor arthralgia (AIA).
Breast Cancer
DRUG: 800 IU Vitamin D Supplement|DRUG: 50,000 IU Vitamin D supplement
Number of Participants With Aromatase Inhibitor Induced Arthralgia (AIA) After 12 Weeks of Therapy, Aromatase Inhibitor Arthralgia (AIA) was assessed by a questionnaire that describe the level of pain experienced by the participant. The questionnaire asks 20 questions scored 0-3 in 8 categories of functioning: dressing, rising, eating, walking, hygiene, reach, grip, and usual activities. An average composite score on the HAQ-II was calculated. The visual analog scale is the other major component of the HAQ-II, which we ask patients to mark where their pain lies on a horizontal line and we converts the number into a score from 0 to 3. For the purposes of this study, AIA will be defined as any of the following criteria: 1) increase in HAQ-II score from baseline by 0.2 or greater; or 2) increase in visual analog pain score by 0.3 or greater., 12 weeks
Compliance With Anti-Cancer Treatment, We checked compliance of aromatase inhibitor therapy during the study by reviewing the patient's use of AI drug. This will be done by counting remaining pills in patient's bottles of AI at 52 weeks. A percentage of the number of pills were actually taken of the number of pills should be taken was calculated., 52 Weeks|Association Between Vitamin D Levels Changes and Treatment., Patients' serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D level were tested at baseline and week 12. The changes between baseline and week 12 were calculated., 12 weeks
Grip Strength, Exploratory Endpoints For each patient on the study, grip strength will be correlated with AIA score using Spearman correlation at three time points throughout the study - baseline, week 12, and week 52., 52 weeks
Treatments with anti-estrogen agents for hormone receptor positive breast cancer is the most efficacious of systemic therapies, with aromatase inhibitors (AI's) being considered the most active anti-estrogen therapy in early stage breast cancer. But, use of these treatments has been shown to cause musculoskeletal (joint/muscle) side effects that sometimes cause patients to discontinue the use of them. Also, Vitamin D deficiency is a well know cause of a wide array of musculoskeletal issues. There is evidence that Vitamin D supplementation may help prevent arthralgia while on AI's. Therefore, the investigators want to see if giving a higher dose of Vitamin D could decrease the incidence of AIA as compared to a standard dose of Vitamin D. The investigators believe that this could possibly result in patients continued treatment with AI therapy for hormone receptor positive breast cancer.