ONC-201 Maintenance Therapy in Acute Myeloid Leukemia and Myelodysplastic Syndrome After Stem Cell Transplant
This is a single-center pilot study of 20 patients with AML/MDS. Eligible patients will be enrolled following an informed consent between 6-20 weeks after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Patients will receive weekly oral ONC 201 for a total of 52 weeks.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: ONC-201
Rate of dose limiting toxicities during the first cycle, The rate of dose limiting toxicities during the first cycle (among the dose escalating cohort), after one month of treatment|Grade ≥3 toxicities, The number of grade ≥3 toxicities, during the first 3 cycles ot treatment (each cycle is 28 days)
Number of toxicities (all grades) during the duration of maintenance therapy with ONC 201, Number of toxicities (all grades) associated with the use of ONC 201 during the entire duration of maintenance therapy with ONC 201, upto 13 months after initiation of ONC 201|The rate of relapse, The rate of relapse, upto 2 years after enrollment|The rate of relapse-free survival, The rate of relapse-free survival, upto 2 years after enrollment
This is a single-center pilot study of 20 participants with AML/MDS. Eligible participants will be enrolled following an informed consent between 6-20 weeks after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Participants will receive weekly oral ONC-201 for a total of 52 weeks.

The objectives of the study are: 1. To determine the safety and preliminary efficacy of ONC-201 maintenance therapy among partcipants with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), who undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant. 2. To investigate the impact of ONC-201 on reconstitution of natural killer cells (NK) and other immune cells.

Participants will be monitored for toxicities (using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, CTCAE version 5.0), quality of life \[Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Bone Marrow Transplant (FACT-BMT)\], and immunologic changes. We will specifically investigate the impact of ONC-201 on reconstitution of NK and other immune cells. We will also examine changes in functional status (Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), instrumental activities of daily living and short physical performance battery), rates of disease relapse and mortality.