Study to Evaluate the Use of Capecitabine in Monotherapy and in Combination With Oxaliplatin in Elderly Patients as Adjuvant Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Colorectal Cancer.
All patients with locally advanced colorectal cancer after radical surgical intervention who have not previously received systemic antitumor treatment will be randomized into two groups receiving fluoropyrimidines in mono-regimen and in combination with oxaliplatin.

Main objectives:

* to compare the 3-year disease-free survival and 5-year overall survival rates in the two groups.
* to identify, through a comprehensive geriatric assessment among elderly patients, the groups that benefit most from adjuvant chemotherapy.

Patients will be treated until progression of the process is detected or the maximum effect of therapy is reached (the longest duration of treatment is 6 months).
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
The disease free survival, Time from randomization to disease recurrence, 3 years
The overall survival, Time from randomization to death from any cause or date of last observation in the absence of these events. In months with an accuracy of 0.1., 5 years|Аssessment of the quality of life, Quality of life assessment by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer scale Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30) by Scoring of the QLQ-C30 Summary Score using the descriptive analysis with the qlqc30 command (detailed description in manual ISBN 2-9300 64-22-6)., 5 years|Toxicity assessment, Treatment toxicity according to common terminology criteria for adverse events version 5.0, 6 months
The study is a single-center, open-label, randomized Phase II study. The study will be divided into a screening phase (4 weeks prior to inclusion in the study), a treatment phase (up to 6 months) and a long-term follow-up phase (up to 28 days from the end of treatment - follow-up to assess the safety of therapy, up to 3 years from the end of treatment to assess survival and follow-up).

During the screening phase, patients with MR CRC will undergo examinations to fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria for the study.

Next, elderly patients meeting these criteria-who have locally advanced colorectal cancer-will be randomized in a ratio of approximately 1:1 into 2 groups.

The study is planned to include 160 patients, 80 in each group, for a total of 160 patients.

Patient groups

1. Capecitabine in mono-regimen
2. PCT according to XELOX regimen Stratification factors - gender m/f, age \<75 /\>75, presence of postoperative complications yes/no.

The patients will be treated until the progression is detected or the maximum effect of therapy is achieved (the longest duration of treatment is 8 cycles). At the end of the treatment period, all patients will enter the observation phase.