Feasibility of a Clinical Trial Comparing the Use of Cetirizine to Replace Diphenhydramine in the Prevention of Reactions Related to Paclitaxel
Explore the randomized, controlled, double-blind design targeted for the final clinical trial to assess the acceptability of interventions and clinical outcome measures and to provide data making it possible to estimate the parameters necessary for the preparation, modification or even abandonment of the final study.
Breast Cancer|Lung Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Oesophageal Cancer|Head Cancer Neck|Cervical Cancer|Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Diphenhydramine|DRUG: Cetirizine|DRUG: Lactose pill|DRUG: Sodium chloride 0.9%
Change from baseline of drowsiness on Stanford Sleepiness Scale 1 hour after the administration of diphenhydramine, For treatment 1 and treatment 2, 15 minutes before the administration of diphenhydramine. 1 hour after the administration of diphenhydramine.|Change from baseline of drowsiness on Stanford Sleepiness Scale upon arrival at home, For treatment 1 and treatment 2, 15 minutes before the administration of diphenhydramine. Upon arrival at home.|Change from baseline of drowsiness on Stanford Sleepiness Scale the morning after the administration of diphenhydramine, For treatment 1 and treatment 2, 15 minutes before the administration of diphenhydramine. Morning of day 2.|Recruitment rate accomplished to recruit 24 participants for which a first dose of paclitaxel was administered between February and September 2020., Number of participants per month recruited for which a first dose of paclitaxel was administered, Through study completion, 8 months|Percentage of participants recruited, randomized and having received the first treatment of paclitaxel planned in the study between February and September 2020 following an assessment of their eligibility., Number of participants recruited, randomized and having received the first treatment of paclitaxel planned in the study divided by the number of participants eligible to participate in the study, Through study completion, 8 months
Proportion of participants per group who required stopping the infusion and/or using rescue medication., Stopping the infusion and using rescue medication defined by the medical choice of the attending physician. For treatment 1 and treatment 2., Day 1|Infusion-related reactions grade according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 classification, Grades will be determined using nurses notes. For treatment 1 and treatment 2, Day 1
Proportion of participants who completed the study, Number of participants who will have completed the study in each group divided by the number of participants recruited in each group, Through the course of the study, 8 months|Reasons of loss to follow-up using a home-made questionnaire, For treatment 1 and treatment 2, Day 1|Maintenance of the blind in participants using a home-made questionnaire, At the end of paclitaxel infusion of treatment 2, Day 1|Maintenance of the blind in nurses using a home-made questionnaire, At the end of paclitaxel infusion of treatment 1 and 2, Day 1|Side effects experienced by participants using a home-made questionnaire, Focus on drowsiness, dry mouth, eyes or nose, dizziness and restlessness/excitement. For treatment 1 and treatment 2., Day 2
Paclitaxel is known to cause 30 to 40% of infusion-related reactions when no premedication is administered. It is agreed that all patients should receive premedication with dexamethasone, an H1 antagonist, such as diphenhydramine, and an H2 antagonist before the administration of paclitaxel. There are several cases where undesirable effects (eg. drowsiness, dry mouth, motor impatience) have been reported following the administration of this conventional premedication. Diphenhydramine is often accused because of its pharmacological properties.

A definitive, randomized, double-blind, non-inferiority study can assess whether cetirizine, a non-sedating H1 antagonist, can be used as an effective and safe alternative to diphenhydramine in the prevention of paclitaxel infusion-related reactions.

In the current proposed feasibility study, patients will be followed for the first two doses of paclitaxel. The goal is to explore the randomized, controlled, double-blind design targeted for the final clinical trial to assess the acceptability of interventions and clinical outcome measures and to provide data making it possible to estimate the parameters necessary for the preparation, modification or even abandonment of the final study.