A Sleep Intervention to Improve Outcomes Among Women at High Risk of Breast Cancer
Participants are asked to participate in a research study of the effect of a sleep intervention on improving sleep habits and reducing their risk of breast cancer.

Participants are asked to participate in this research study because they have been identified as being at higher than average risk of developing breast cancer.

The purpose of this study is to compare women who get a sleep intervention to women who do not get a sleep intervention. This study team will compare these two groups of women to see if the sleep intervention improves their sleep and if it lowers markers of inflammation that have been associated with an increased risk of breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Sleep
BEHAVIORAL: GO! To Sleep|BEHAVIORAL: Sleep information|PROCEDURE: Blood Draw|OTHER: Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI)|OTHER: Insomnia Severity Index (ISI)|OTHER: SF-12 quality of life survey
Difference in Change in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) score between groups, Sleep quality will be measured by the PSQI which is a continuous measure from 0 (best) to 21 (worst), Change from baseline to post intervention, around 8 weeks after baseline|Difference in change in Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) score between groups, Sleep quality will be measured with the insomnia severity index (ISI). A validated instrument for sleep quality, Change from baseline to post intervention, around 8 weeks after baseline|Difference in change in sleep duration between groups, Sleep duration will be obtained by self-report from responses to the PSQI, Change from baseline to post intervention, around 8 weeks after baseline
Difference in change of SF-12 score from baseline to post-intervention between groups, The effectiveness of changing health-related quality of life after the GO! To Sleep program will he measured with the self-reported survey SF-12, Change from baseline to 6 months post intervention|Correlation of joint changes in biomarker levels with PSQI and ISI, This study will correlate the joint changes in biomarker level with the changes in sleep quality and sleep duration, Change from baseline to 6 months post intervention|Difference in Change in Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) score between groups, Long term sleep quality will be measured by the PSQI which is a continuous measure from 0 (best) to 21 (worst), Change from baseline to 6 months post intervention|Difference in change in Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) score between groups, Sleep quality will be measured with the insomnia severity index (ISI). A validated instrument for sleep quality, Change from baseline to 6 months post intervention|Difference in change in sleep duration between groups, Sleep duration will be obtained by self-report from responses to the PSQI, Change from baseline to 6 months post intervention
Objective 1: To test the effectiveness of the GO! To Sleep program at improving the sleep duration and sleep quality in women at high risk of breast cancer.

Objective 2: To test the effectiveness of improvements in sleep quality and/or duration due to the GO! To Sleep program on biomarkers of inflammation in women at high risk of breast cancer.

Objective 3: To evaluate the effectiveness of improvements in health-related quality of life after the GO! To Sleep in women at high risk of breast cancer.