Pembrolizumab in Treating Participants with Leukoplakia
This phase II pilot trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating leukoplakia. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Erythroleukoplakia|Leukoplakia|Verrucous Oral Leukoplakia
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Clinical response rate, If there is a signal of efficacy based on this analysis, further exploratory analyses using Cox-proportional hazards regression, will be performed to identify variables which correlate to improved 6-month clinical response rate will be performed. Variables will include demographics, age, gender, pack-years smoking history, size of the lesions, prior history of leukoplakia or erythroleukoplakia, and human papillomavirus (HPV) status. While the study is not powered to detect a statistically difference between these groups, such an analysis may help identify a population more likely to benefit from treatment., At 6 months
Clinical response rate, Response rate data will be reported in tabular form., At 9 and 12 months
PD-L1 positivity, lesions will be stained to determine % PDL1 positivity, Up to 2 years|Correlation of response with PD-L1 positivity, PDL1 positivity of the lesions will be correlated to response to pembrolizumab, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Clinical response rate at 6 months? percent of patients with complete response and partial response at 6 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Histologic response rate at 6 months. II. Change in clinical impression based on photographs of the lesion. III. Clinical response rate at 9 months and 12 months. IV. Toxicity.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. PD-L1 expression in leukoplakia lesions and biomarker analysis.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days and every 3 months for 2 years.