A Study of Rituximab (MabThera) in Combination With Chemotherapy in Participants With CD20-Positive B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
This observational study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy in first- and second-line treatment of participants with cluster of differentiation 20 (CD20)-positive B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Data will be collected from eligible participants receiving rituximab according to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) during 6 months of treatment.
Lymphocytic Leukemia, Chronic
DRUG: Rituximab
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship., Baseline up to 24 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Assessed Using Local Standards, PFS was defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented progression of disease or death due to any cause. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. KaplanMeier estimate was used for analysis., From enrollment until disease progression or death, assessed up to 24 months|Percentage of Participants With Disease Progression or Death Assessed Using Local Standards, PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Months 6, 12, 18, and 24|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Assessed Using Local Standards, Percentage of participants with CR or PR as determined by the investigator was reported. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Months 6, 12, 18, and 24|Percentage of Participants With CR Assessed Using Local Standards, Percentage of participants with CR as determined by the investigator was reported. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions., Months 6, 12, 18, and 24|Percentage of Participants With PR Assessed Using Local Standards, Percentage of participants with PR as determined by the investigator was reported. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Months 6, 12, 18, and 24|Time to Progression (TTP) Assessed Using Local Standards, TTP is defined as the time from enrollment to the PD. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Kaplan-Meier estimate was used for analysis., From enrollment until disease progression or death, assessed up to 26 months
This observational study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of rituximab in combination with chemotherapy in first- and second-line treatment of participants with cluster of differentiation 20 (CD20)-positive B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Data will be collected from eligible participants receiving rituximab according to the Summary of Product Characteristics (SPC) during 6 months of treatment.