The Role of Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Radiation Necrosis in Children With Central Nervous System Tumors
This study is being done to learn about the safety of the study drug bevacizumab(Avastin®), when used to treat radiation necrosis.

The primary objective of this study is to test the feasibility of treating Central Nervous System (CNS) tumor patients suffering from radiation necrosis with bevacizumab every 2 weeks.

The secondary objectives of this study are:

* To evaluate improvement in neurologic symptoms associated with bevacizumab as assessed by clinical evaluation;
* To investigate the neuro-imaging changes in radiation necrosis associated edema, including Mass Resonance (MR) spectroscopy;
* To evaluate changes in corticosteroid use in patients with radiation necrosis following treatment with bevacizumab;
* To evaluate changes in quality of life.
Radiation Necrosis
DRUG: Bevacizumab (Avastin®)
Number of Participants Who Received at Least 5 of the 6 Scheduled Doses of Bevacizumab, This pilot study was designed to evaluate the feasibility of treating pediatric patients with CNS radiation necrosis with bevacizumab. Patients enrolled on study were assessed for number of doses of bevacizumab that they received while on study. Participants who successfully received at least 5 of the 6 planned doses of bevacizumab (IV every 2 weeks) without significant events were determined to have met the outcome measure., 13 weeks
Neurologic Status With Bevacizumab Treatment, Outcome 1: Monitor overall neurologic status and symptoms before, during and 1 month following treatment with bevacizumab., 13 weeks|Corticosteroid Usage With Bevacixumab Treatment, Outcome 2: Dose and duration of corticosteroid use prior to, during, and up to 1 month following bevacizumab treatment will also be collected and evaluated., 13 weeks|Changes in Quality of Life With Bevacizumab Treatment, Outcome 3: To evaluate changes in quality of life before and after treatment with bevacizumab Modified McMasters Scale was used. Minimum score: 1 Maximum score 35. Higher score indicates worse quality of life., 13 weeks|Number of Patients With Changes in Neuro-Imaging With Bevacizumab Treatment, Outcome 4: To investigate the neuro-imaging changes in radiation necrosis associated edema, including Mass Resonance (MR) spectroscopy; MRIs (including FLAIR sequences and contrast enhanced images) were evaluated for changes in the radiation necrosis imaging characteristics by a pediatric radiologist. Decreases in gadolinium enhancement, FLAIR signal were considered changes consistent with decreased edema. Tumor size was also evaluated, with a decrease in tumor size indicating decreased edema/improved radiation necrosis, 13 weeks
Treatment Plan:

For patient consented and enrolled on study, bevacizumab will be administered at a dose of 10 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks for a total of 6 doses (3 doses/cycle).

Patients are expected to receive at least 1 cycle (6 weeks) of study treatment unless an unacceptable drug reaction occurs. Patients will receive a second cycle of treatment as long as treatment is tolerated. Response assessment will be performed every 6 weeks (three doses/cycle of study drug) including clinical and radiological assessment. Secondary measures including documentation of total equivalent steroid dose, length of time on steroids, and quality of life using the modified McMaster Health Instrument scale will also be collected while on treatment and 30 days after finishing treatment.

Safety will be assessed by routine physical and laboratory evaluations. Adverse events will be recorded and the severity graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4.0).