Interpolated Flap Study
The primary purpose of this study is to address the limited knowledge regarding patient well- being and nasal function after interpolated flap repair of post-Mohs surgical defects on the nose. Improved understanding of the patient experience will allow providers to better counsel their patients pre-operatively and potentially identify patients who may benefit from additional interventions.
Skin Cancer, Non-Melanoma|Skin Cancer Melanoma|Mohs Micrographic Surgery
Complication rate following Mohs micrographic surgery and flap inset, Short term (30 day) complications are defined by the American College of Mohs Surgery as death, bleeding requiring additional intervention, functional loss attributable to surgery, hospitalization for an operative outcome, and surgical site infection., 30 days|Complication rate following flap takedown, Short term (30 day) complications are defined by the American College of Mohs Surgery as death, bleeding requiring additional intervention, functional loss attributable to surgery, hospitalization for an operative outcome, and surgical site infection., 30 says
One week after Mohs- Skin Cancer Index Score, Skin Cancer Index is 15-item, disease specific, validated, quality of life instrument with three sub-scales, Emotion, Social, Appearance. A 5-point response format is used for each question where 1 equals "very much" and 5 equals "not at all". Standardized Scores Range from 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher quality of life. Standardized scores are obtained by summing the individual scores and dividing them by the number of items in each sub-scale., 1 week after Mohs micrographic surgery|Four weeks after flap takedown- Skin Cancer Index Score, Skin Cancer Index is 15-item, disease specific, validated, quality of life instrument with three sub-scales, Emotion, Social, Appearance. A 5-point response format is used for each question where 1 equals "very much" and 5 equals "not at all". Standardized Scores Range from 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher quality of life. Standardized scores are obtained by summing the individual scores and dividing them by the number of items in each sub-scale., 4 weeks after flap takedown surgery|Sixteen weeks after flap takedown- Skin Cancer Index Score, Skin Cancer Index is 15-item, disease specific, validated, quality of life instrument with three sub-scales, Emotion, Social, Appearance. A 5-point response format is used for each question where 1 equals "very much" and 5 equals "not at all". Standardized Scores Range from 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher quality of life. Standardized scores are obtained by summing the individual scores and dividing them by the number of items in each sub-scale., 16 weeks after flap takedown surgery|One week after Mohs- Nasal Appearance and Functional Evaluation Questionnaire (NAFEQ) Score, The NAFEQ is a 14-item, validated quality of life instrument with two sections. The first seven items regard nasal function and airway passage, while the following seven questions assess satisfaction with nasal appearance. Responses are rated on a 5-point Likert scale where 1 equals "always" or "very dissatisfied", depending on the question, and 5 equals "never" or "very satisfied". Potential scores range from 7-35 with higher scores indicating greater satisfaction with overall nasal functioning and appearance., 1 week after Mohs micrographic surgery|Four weeks after flap takedown- Nasal Appearance and Functional Evaluation Questionnaire (NAFEQ) Score, The NAFEQ is a 14-item, validated quality of life instrument with two sections. The first seven items regard nasal function and airway passage, while the following seven questions assess satisfaction with nasal appearance. Responses are rated on a 5-point Likert scale where 1 equals "always" or "very dissatisfied", depending on the question, and 5 equals "never" or "very satisfied". Potential scores range from 7-35 with higher scores indicating greater satisfaction with overall nasal functioning and appearance., 4 weeks after flap takedown surgery|Sixteen weeks after flap takedown- Nasal Appearance and Functional Evaluation Questionnaire (NAFEQ) Score, The NAFEQ is a 14-item, validated quality of life instrument with two sections. The first seven items regard nasal function and airway passage, while the following seven questions assess satisfaction with nasal appearance. Responses are rated on a 5-point Likert scale where 1 equals "always" or "very dissatisfied", depending on the question, and 5 equals "never" or "very satisfied". Potential scores range from 7-35 with higher scores indicating greater satisfaction with overall nasal functioning and appearance., 16 weeks after flap takedown surgery
This project is a multi-center prospective cohort study evaluating postoperative complication rates, quality of life outcomes, and nasal function after interpolated flap repair of post-Mohs surgical defects of the nose. Our primary outcome is the incidence of short-term complications(within 4 weeks of surgery) defined by the American College of Mohs Surgery as: death, bleeding requiring additional intervention, functional loss attributable to surgery, hospitalization for an operative complication, and surgical site infection. Secondary outcomes will include incidence of flap necrosis and evaluation of quality of life at 1, 4 and 16 weeks after repair. Quality of life will be investigated using the Skin Cancer Index (SCI)- a skin cancer specific quality of life instrument and the Nasal Appearance and Functional Evaluation Questionnaire (NAFEQ). Previous literature has demonstrated that Mohs surgery in the outpatient setting has a very low complication rate but this literature is generally limited to single-institution studies or studies examining smaller repairs. Furthermore, it has been proven that receiving a skin cancer diagnosis is stressful and patient satisfaction with skin cancer surgery is related to their appearance and scarring or changes in appearance can decrease quality of life. Our study serves to fill the current literature knowledge gaps by examining repair of large defects and looking at both complications and quality of life outcomes. Data collection will begin pre-operatively on patients 18 and older who require an interpolated flap repair of a post-Mohs surgical defect. These patients will then be followed and asked to complete SCI and NAFEQ surveys as well as complication questionnaires at prescribed intervals. All data will be stored via a secure RedCap database.