The Impact of Surgical Technique on Circulating Tumor DNA in Stage I-III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This clinical trial compares the effect of pulmonary vein-first surgical technique to pulmonary artery-first surgical technique in decreasing circulating tumor cell deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) in patients with stage I-III non-small cell lung cancer. Pulmonary vein first and pulmonary artery first surgical techniques are standard surgical techniques for the division of the blood vessels during lung resection surgery. Pulmonary vein-first surgical technique may reduce the risk of shedding tumor cells during surgery and influence long term overall survival.
Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Pulmonary Artery-First Surgical Technique|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) status, Stratified by surgical vascular division technique. A peripheral blood sample will be taken at the time of surgery to determine baseline ctDNA status. Following surgical resection a blood sample will be taken at specified time points (postoperative day 2; postoperative day 14) to determine ctDNA levels compared to baseline. The difference in the proportion of patients who have positive ctDNA status between those undergoing division/ligation in a "pulmonary-vein first" technique compared to a "pulmonary-artery first" technique will be estimated. The risk difference will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., At postoperative day 2|Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) status, Stratified by surgical vascular division technique. A peripheral blood sample will be taken at the time of surgery to determine baseline ctDNA status. Following surgical resection a blood sample will be taken at specified time points (postoperative day 2; postoperative day 14) to determine ctDNA levels compared to baseline. The difference in the proportion of patients who have positive ctDNA status between those undergoing division/ligation in a "pulmonary-vein first" technique compared to a "pulmonary-artery first" technique will be estimated. The risk difference will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., At postoperative day 14
Disease free survival rate, The distribution of survival outcomes will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, stratified by ctDNA status at 2 days and 2 weeks. Key statistics (median survival, 1- and 2-year survival) will be estimated from the curve along with 95% confidence intervals. We will also use a Cox proportional hazard regression model, stratified by stage in the analyses, to estimate the hazard ratio along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Overall survival rate, The distribution of survival outcomes will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, stratified by ctDNA status at 2 days and 2 weeks. Key statistics (median survival, 1- and 2-year survival) will be estimated from the curve along with 95% confidence intervals. We will also use a Cox proportional hazard regression model, stratified by stage in the analyses, to estimate the hazard ratio along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the association between sequence of surgical resection and postoperative ctDNA levels at specified time points.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the associated between sequence of surgical resection and postoperative ctDNA level and clinical oncologic outcomes.

II. To assess disease-free survival and the role of circulating tumor DNA in disease recurrence in patients with resectable non-small cell lung cancer.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo pulmonary vein first approach surgical procedure on day of surgery.

GROUP II: Patients undergo pulmonary artery first approach surgical procedure on day of surgery.

After completion of surgery, patients are followed up at day 1, day 7, days 7-28, 4 months, every 6 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for up to 5 years