SentoClone® Compared to Reference Treatment in Advanced Malignant Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to elucidate whether SentoClone® gives improved treatment responses in patients with advanced malignant melanoma in comparison to established reference treatment(s).
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: SentoClone®|DRUG: Temodal® or Dacarbazine Medac®
Tumour response rate, defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (i.e. at least partial response) measured using the RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) criteria., At baseline and 18, 26 and 34 weeks after treatment
Progression-free survival, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Overall survival, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Time to tumour progression, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Disease-free survival, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Time to treatment failure, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Duration of response, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Correlation between tumour response and tumour marker S100, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Proportion of patients showing toxic symptoms according to CTCAE criteria, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Quality of life (EQ-5D and QLQ-C30), From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment|Adverse Events (AEs) classified according to seriousness, causality, and intensity, clinically significant deviations in vital signs, clinical chemistry, and haematology, From baseline to week 34 after initiated treatment
Malignant melanoma is one of the most common cancer forms worldwide and WHO estimates 132,000 new cases each year. The incidence rate vary up to 150-fold between different regions and ethnicities, the highest rates are found in emigrated Caucasian populations (e.g. Australia and New Zealand).

There are few therapy alternatives for advanced malignant melanomas. At present, dacarbazine (Dacarbazine Medac®) is the most commonly used therapy. Immunotherapy with IL-2 and IFN is an alternative, but it is associated with multiple side effects. Hence, there remains a considerable need for alternative treatments.

By using SentoClone®, autologous tumour-reactive lymphocytes are expanded and infused to the patient, where they have the opportunity to seek out and attack the primary tumour and metastases. The first step is to identify the tumour draining lymph node(s), which is done in parallel to surgical resection of the primary tumour or metastasis. The sentinel and/or metinel node(s), the initial meeting place between tumour antigen and the immune system, are further dissected and collected during the surgery.

In this study SentoClone® will be compared with Dacarbazine Medac® and Temodal® which are currently regarded as standard first-line therapies in advanced malignant melanoma.