Dose Escalating Study for Amphinex-based PCI of Bleomycin.
The primary goal of this extension study is to further investigate the tolerability and efficacy in a phase I setting in order to see whether lower doses than the initial study dose of 0.25 mg/kg bw Amphinex in Amphinex-based PCI of bleomycin will show a comparable or improved safety and tolerability profile in combination with comparable signs of efficacy.
Cutaneous or Sub-cutaneous Malignancies
DRUG: Amphinex|DRUG: Bleomycin|DEVICE: Laser
To assess the combined tolerability and efficacy of Amphinex 0.125 mg/kg or lower in Amphinex-based PCI of bleomycin, Maximal pain during the procedure will be recorded immediately after the procedure on a 10 centimetre visual analogue scale (VAS). Pain will also be recorded 24 hours after the illumination and on day 4. The end-points of the VAS will be "no pain" and "unbearable pain

A formal efficacy analysis is not appropriate for this trial. The response data will be documented by descriptive summary tables. No statistical comparison of dose levels will be done. Fluorescence measurements over time and lesion response evaluation according to RECIST (see Appendix E) will be presented for APT and PP stratified by dose level., From Baseline to 3 months
To evaluate the safety of Amphinex 0.125 mg/kg or lower in Amphinex-based PCI of bleomycin., * Summaries of the adverse event rates and laboratory changes from baseline stratified by dose level.
* Listings and frequency tables categorizing laboratory and non-laboratory adverse events by maximum CTCAE toxicity grade and relationship to study drug.
* Pain measurement, fluorescence measurement, skin photosensitivity measurement, From Baseline to 3 months
To determine the pharmacokinetics of Amphinex 0.125 mg/kg or lower in Amphinex-based PCI of bleomycin., Plasma samples for pharmacokinetic (PK) evaluation will be collected from patients and the presence of Amphinex and/or other unidentified metabolites will be assessed using a validated analytical method

Systematic skin photosensitivity tests will be carried out using a white light source with an emission spectrum that, relatively to the luminance and within +/- 50%, excites Amphinex with the same efficiency as sunlight. The luminance will be 500 lux, which is comparable to bright indoor light, and 100.000 lux, which is comparable to direct sunlight. The phototoxic reaction will be scored at specific time points following the light exposure (see the study flowchart Appendix B). This information will be used to predict the degree of photosensitivity of the skin., From Baseline to 3 months
Use of Amphinex for the enhancement of Bleomycin at the intracellular target. The photosensitizer Amphinex is activated by Laser Light at 652 nm.

Superficial lesions (cutaneous or subcutaneous) was treated with the laser light after administration of Amphinex and Bleomycin according to time scheduled provided.

Safety and preliminary effect data where evaluated at a lower dose than explored in the preceeding dose escalating study with Amphinex.