Phase 2 Dasatinib Combo With Smoothened (SMO) Antagonist (BMS-833923)
The purpose of the study is to compare response rates in newly diagnosed Chronic Phase (CP) CML subjects treated with dasatinib plus BMS-833923 versus dasatinib alone.
Leukemia
DRUG: Dasatinib|DRUG: BMS-833923
Number of Participants With Major Molecular Response, Major molecular response (MMR) was assessed using BCR-ABL transcript levels measured by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). MMR was defined as a ratio BCR-ABL/ABL ≤0.1% on the international scale (ie, at least 3 log reduction from a standardized baseline value). Number of participants with MMR by timepoint are cumulative., Baseline up to 12 months
Complete Molecular Response at Any Time, Baseline to End of study (approximately 48 months)|Progression-free Survival, Measured by the Time From Start of Treatment to Progression or Death, Baseline to End of study (approximately 48 months)|Event-free Survival, Measured by the Time From Start of Treatment to Progression, Death or Treatment Discontinuation, Baseline to End of study (approximately 48 months)|Transformation-free Survival Measured by the Time From Start of Treatment to Criteria for Accelerated or Blast Phase CML Are Met and Death, Baseline to End of study (approximately 48 months)|Number of Participants Experiencing Serious Adverse Events (SAE), Drug-Related Adverse Event (AE), AE Leading to Discontinuation, and Death, AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Drug-related=having certain, probable, possible, or missing relationship to study drug., From date of first dose of study treatment up to the date of the last dose plus 30 days (approximately 49 months)
1. Design:

   Study Design and Duration as current described are no longer applicable since enrollment was prematurely concluded due to a decision by the sponsor. Subjects currently enrolled in the trial will continue to receive dasatinib alone at a starting dose of 100 mg QD for:
   1. a maximum of 5 years after entry into the study
   2. until progression by Investigators determination/judgment
   3. intolerance to Dasatinib
   4. the study is terminated due to safety concerns or
   5. other administrative reasons as communicated by the sponsor
2. Research Hypothesis :

The research hypothesis and primary objective of this study as originally designed are no longer applicable as subjects enrolment has been terminated due to administrative reasons by the sponsor. The objective of the altered design of this study is to describe the safety profile and tolerability of dasatinib