Apatinib Versus Bevacizumab in Second-line Therapy for Colorectal Cancer(ABST-C)
Bevacizumab, as an antibody of vascular endothelial generated factor (VEGF), combined with the fluorouracil-based chemotherapy regimens for metastatic colorectal cancer, has become the classical first-line treatment. However, vast majority of patients eventually will suffer progression disease. The second-line treatment includes replacing chemotherapy regimens whistle continuing bevacizumab or other anti-VEGF antibodies, such as Aflibercept and Ramucirumab. Apatinib is a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI), which can highly selectively bind to and strongly block VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR - 2), also potently suppress the activities of Ret, c-kit and c-src, resulting in reduced cell migration, proliferation, and tumor microvascular density mediated by VEGF .There are already robust data showing that antibodies aimed at blocking VEGF signaling pathways combined with chemotherapy to treat advanced colorectal cancer is superior as compared to chemotherapy alone. Thus, we hypothesize that the effect of using the second-line chemotherapy regimens combined with apatinib may be superior to those combined with bevacizumab. In this study,the patients who have progressed following or on first-line oxaliplatin and 5-FU combined with bevacizumab are randomised into two arms. Patients in the experimental arm receive second-line FOLFIRI combined with apatinib and those in the control arm receive second-line FOLFIRI combined with bevacizumab. To compare the efficacy and safety of the two arms, progression-free survival(PFS) is the primary end point.If apatinib is superior to bevacizumab in the second-line setting,it is one possible option of anti-angiogenic therapy in combination with second-line FOLFIRI for treatment of advanced colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Intestinal Neoplasms|Gastrointestinal Neoplasms|Digestive System Neoplasms
DRUG: Apatinib Mesylate Tablets|DRUG: Bevacizumab Injection
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v). 1.1\] or death due to any cause, whichever was first. PD is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Participants who died without a reported prior progression were considered to have progressed on the day of their death. Participants who did not progress or were lost to follow-up were censored at the day of their last radiographic tumor assessment., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission, up to 2 years
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants not known to have died as of the cut-off date, OS was censored at the last known date alive., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 6 months after admission,up to 2 years|Percentage of Participants Achieving an Objective Response (Objective Response Rate), The objective response rate is equal to the proportion of participants achieving a best overall response of partial response or complete response (PR + CR). Response was defined using RECIST, v. 1.1 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions; PR was defined as having at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameter., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 3 months after admission.|Percentage of Participants Achieving a Stable Disease (SD) or a confirmed CR or PR (Disease Control Rate), Participants achieved disease control if they had a best overall response of CR, PR or SD. According to RECIST v1.1, CR was the disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions, with the short axes of any target lymph node reduced to \<10 mm, the disappearance of all non-target lesions, and the normalization of tumor marker levels (if tumor markers were initially above the ULN); PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (including the short axes of any target lymph node), taking as reference the baseline sum diameter. SD was neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter since treatment started., The follow-up period ranges from the first patient recruited to the last patient within 3 months after admission.
Firstly, screen eligible mCRC patients for enrolment. Our CRC clinical nurse specialists will document medical history of patients including diagnoses, first-line chemotherapy (mFOLFOX6 or CAPOX),bevacizumab dosage,toxicities,PFS on previous therapy.In the meantime,chest-abdonimal-pelvic CT and blood tests are to be examined to assess base-line measurable lesions and guarantee adequate organ function prior to enrolment.If all the values meet the criteria for enrolment, consent will be signed.

Secondly, randomise patients into two arms: Arm A-apatinib plus FOLFIRI regimen and arm B-bevacizumab plus FOLFIRI regimen.A software which is alike the procedure of coin flipping is used to randomise eligible patients.According to the selected regimen in specific arm,patients will be given full-dose drugs or reduced dose drugs if serious toxicities ( CTCAE v4.0 criteria grade 3/4) are complained since previous cycle of treatment.Symptoms and blood test results (including CEA and CA199) before each cycle will be recorded and the consultant oncologist, who is responsible for individual participants, will decide whether to continue next cycle chemotherapy with apatinib or bevacizumab based on the assigned arm.Radiological assessment consisting of chest-abdonimal-pelvic CT will be performed every 2 months.Notably,the monitor will check with physicians and nurse specialists for the accuracy and completeness of all data.

Thirdly, follow up participants and analyse primary end point (PFS) and secondary end points (OS,ORR and DCR).The causes of confirmed missing data in the trial should be recorded in detail to determine the mechanism of missing data and choose the suitable missing data handling methods.