A Study of Multimodal Radiotherapy for Renal Cell Carcinoma Progressed After Prior Immunotherapy
The objective of this single-center clinical study was to evaluate the disease control rate(DCR) and safety of multimodal radiotherapy in the treatment of patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC) progressed after prior immunotherapy.
Renal Cell Carcinoma|Radiotherapy|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor
RADIATION: High-dose Radiotherapy (HDRT)|RADIATION: Low-dose Radiotherapy (LDRT)|DRUG: Anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody
Disease control rate (DCR), After completing the full course of radiotherapy, the patients underwent periodic imaging evaluation. Tumor imaging evaluations within 48 weeks should be performed every 6 weeks (±7 days) and every 12 weeks (±7 days) after 48 weeks until disease progression, loss of follow-up, death, withdrawal of study informed consent, subject initiation of other antitumor therapy, or study termination. DCR was evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1)., Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, Adverse events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). The patients must be on the trial for at least 8 weeks. Adverse events must be attributable to radiation therapy or immunotherapy., Up to 1 year
Progression-free survival (PFS), After completing the full course of radiotherapy, the patients underwent periodic imaging evaluation. Tumor imaging evaluations within 48 weeks should be performed every 6 weeks (±7 days) and every 12 weeks (±7 days) after 48 weeks until disease progression, loss of follow-up, death, withdrawal of study informed consent, subject initiation of other antitumor therapy, or study termination. PFS was evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1)., Up to 1 year|Objective response rate (ORR) (partial response or complete response), After completing the full course of radiotherapy, the patients underwent periodic imaging evaluation. Tumor imaging evaluations within 48 weeks should be performed every 6 weeks (±7 days) and every 12 weeks (±7 days) after 48 weeks until disease progression, loss of follow-up, death, withdrawal of study informed consent, subject initiation of other antitumor therapy, or study termination. ORR was evaluated according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v 1.1)., Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), After completing the full course of radiotherapy, patients were followed for one year until the last visit or death. OS was measured based on data collected through professional procedures., Up to 1 year|Abscopal effects, When making a radiotherapy plan, identify one or more LDRT lesions to be used for puncture. After the completion of the full course of radiotherapy, the predetermined lesions were punctured, and the obtained specimens were analyzed by pathological biopsy and immunohistochemistry to evaluate the changes of tumor microenvironment. At the same time, the patient's blood was extracted and the relevant cytokines were detected for analysis., 1 year|Change of lymphocyte subsets and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), When making a radiotherapy plan, identify one or more LDRT lesions to be used for puncture. After the completion of the full course of radiotherapy, the predetermined lesions were punctured, and the obtained specimens were analyzed by pathological biopsy and immunohistochemistry to evaluate the changes of immune cells through the markers in tumor microenvironment. At the same time, the patient's blood was extracted and the numbers of relevant cells were detected. The changes of CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells, Treg, phenotype of TAMs and DCs were evaluated., 1 year
The patients who were clinically diagnosed advanced renal cell carcinoma with progression after 1-2 previous systemic therapies (at least one regimen containing immune checkpoint inhibitors, including combined VEGFR-TKI drugs), with two or more metastases at different sites, will be evaluated by the researchers. For eligible subjects, multimodal radiotherapy will be added to the treatment besides original immunotherapy or combinations of immunotherapy and TKIs after adjustment. The disease control rate and safety of this treatment will be evaluated.