ASTX727 in Recurrent/Progressive Non-enhancing IDH Mutant Gliomas
this research study is evaluating the highest dose of ASTX727 that can be administered safely to recurrent/progressive non-enhancing IDH mutant gliomas patients.
Neurological Cancer
DRUG: ASTX727
Maximum tolerated dose, Participants will be enrolled at escalating doses using a standard 3+3 dose escalation design until the maximum administered dose is reached or until dose limiting toxicities result in the end of dose escalation. The maximum tolerated dose is the highest administered dose level at which participants experienced experienced 1 or fewer dose limiting toxicities., 1 year
Median Progression Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation. Disease progression will be assessed using the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Working Group updated response assessment criteria for low-grade Gliomas., From the time of randomization until disease progression or death, up to five years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., From the time of randomization until death, up to five years|Response Rate, The number of participants achieving a complete or partial tumor response as assessed using the the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) Working Group updated response assessment criteria for low-grade Gliomas., 1 Year
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved ASTX727 as a treatment for any disease.

ASTX727 is made up of the 2 study drugs cedazuridine and decitabine. Cedazuridine is believed to work by slowing down how fast decitabine is broken down by the body. Decitabine is believed to work by blocking abnormal cells or cancer cells from growing.