Intercostal Cryoanalgesia for Acute Pain After VATS Lung Resection
Intercostal cryoanalgesia is a technique that allows extensive and prolonged analgesia of the hemithorax. The aim of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of intercostal cryoanalgesia as an adjunct to a single-injection paravertebral block for the management of acute thoracic pain after VATS lung resection surgery.
Thoracic Surgery|Video-Assisted|Cryotherapy Effect|Paravertebral Block
PROCEDURE: Cryoanalgesia AND single-injection paravertebral block|PROCEDURE: Single-injection paravertebral block
Acute thoracic pain during cough, Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) score : scale 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst), 24 hours
Acute thoracic pain at rest, Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) score : scale 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst), 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours, 18 hours, 24 hours, 48 hours and 7 days|Acute thoracic pain during cough, Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) score : scale 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst), 1 hour, 6 hours, 12 hours, 18 hours, 48 hours and 7 days|Postoperative morphine-equivalents consumption, Using a Patient Controlled Analgesia (PCA) pump for the first 24 hours, then daily, 7 days|QoR-15 score : 0 (worst) to 150 (best), QoR-15 is a score evaluating the quality of recovery after surgery and anesthesia, Preoperative and 48 hours postoperative|Hypoesthesia over the ipsilateral thorax, Evaluation of the dermatomal levels of hypoesthesia using a Von Frey monofilament, 24 hours|Incidence of nausea related to opioid consumption, Evaluation for nausea (yes or no), 7 days|Time to hospital discharge, Total time between the end of surgery and prescription for hospital discharge, 30 days|Evaluation of sedation related to opioid consumption, Using the Ramsay score (1 to 6), 7 days|Incidence of vomiting related to opioid consumption, Evaluation for vomiting (yes or no), 7 days|Incidence of pruritus related to opioid consumption, Evaluation for pruritus (yes or no), 7 days
VATS lung resection is associated with a high incidence of moderate to severe acute thoracic pain. In the postoperative period, optimal analgesia may facilitate recovery, lead to higher patient satisfaction, and lower postoperative complications.

Regional analgesia techniques are usually recommended for VATS, and the paravertebral block is often used. However, the duration of the paravertebral block is short (6 to 24 hours), and prolongation of the effect requires the placement of a paravertebral catheter and local anesthetic infusion into the paravertebral space. At our institution, patients with VATS lung resections are often discharged home 24-48 hours after surgery.

Intercostal cryoanalgesia has an onset of about 12 hours, which coincides with the weaning of the single-injection paravertebral block. Analgesia is usually prolonged over several weeks, does not require catheter placement, and is not associated with hemodynamic side effects. These characteristics may allow rapid recovery and safe home discharge after VATS lung resection.

The aim of this study is to demonstrate the efficacy of intercostal cryoanalgesia as an adjunct to a single-injection paravertebral block for the management of acute thoracic pain after VATS lung resection surgery.