Sexual Function and Quality of Life After LEEP: a Prospective Multi-Center Study
The goal of this prospective study is to investigate the sexual function and quality of life of women undergoing loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) due to HPV-related cervical lesion.

The main question it aims to answer are:

* Whether LEEP affects the sexual function of women in comparison to untreated women, and
* Whether LEEP affects the health-related quality of life of women in comparison to untreated women

Participants are asked to complete web based an international validated self-report questionnaire on sexual function issues, the Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), and a validated quality of life -questionnaire 15D at the time of first colposcopy appointment and six and 24 months, 3 years and 5 years after index visit (LEEP or first colposcopy in control group). Relevant additional background information is also collected via questionnaire and from patient files.

Researchers will compare women with LEEP and those with only colposcopy visits to see any differences between self-reported sexual function (FSFI scores) or health-related quality of life (15D scores) both short and long-term.
Cervical Dysplasia
PROCEDURE: Loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP)
Self-reported sexual function measured by Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI), Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) is a 19-item self-report measure that provides scores on overall levels of sexual function as well as the primary components of sexual function in women, including sexual desire, arousal, orgasm, pain, and satisfaction. For scoring it uses a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 1-5 with higher scores indicating greater levels of sexual functioning on the respective item. Total that scores of ≤26.55 are considered to present clinically relevant sexual dysfunction (specificity = 0.733; sensitivity = 0.889)., From 6 months up to 5 years since the initiation of the study|Self-reported health-related quality of life measured by 15D, 15D is a generic, comprehensive, 15-dimensional, standardized, self-administered measure of health-related quality of life (HRQoL). It includes the following 15 dimensions: breathing, mental function, speech (communication), vision, mobility, usual activities, vitality, hearing, eating, elimination, sleeping, distress, discomfort and symptoms, sexual activity, and depression. The maximum score is 1 (no problems on any dimension) and the minimum score is 0. A change of 0.02-0.03 has been observed to be such that people can feel the difference., From 6 months up to 5 years since the initiation of the study
We plan to recruit minimum of 1000 women referred to colposcopy in Tampere University Hospital, Helsinki University Hospital, Kuopio University Hospital, Oulu University Hospital, North Karelia Central Hospital and Hyvinkää Hospital to our prospective multi-center study. Recruitment is done at gynecology outpatient clinics of the participating units at the first colposcopy visit, where the doctor performing the colposcopy informs the eligible women about the study, gives them the patient information letter, and asks them to participate and, if they agree, to fill in the informed consent. We aim to recruit 500 women undergoing LEEP (intervention arm) and at least 500 undergoing only colposcopy (control arm).

Pirkanmaa Hospital District Ethical Review Board has approved the study design and local scientific committees in each university hospital area applied for permission to launch the study.

In each participating unit, eligible women will be given a written patient information sheet on the study and asked to participate. From women willing to participate, a written informed consent will be collected and stored in locked cabinet in participating unit. These documents will be accessed only by study members.

Participants are contacted due to the study 5 times: at the time of recruitment, 6 months after the index visit (either first colposcopy or LEEP visit) and 24 months, 3 years and 5 years after the index visit. Each time they are asked to fill in the same questionnaires, sent by mail and available also web based. No additional visits are needed, nor any extra samples taken.

The study data is collected using REDCap system designed for safe patient data management. Access to the system is strictly restricted to the research team members, that are committed to handle the data according to good clinical practice.

At the end of the study, the digital data is to be stored at Pirkanmaa Hospital Disctrict official research files, where individual patient data will be available only for identified study members. In the analysis the data will be used pseudonymized. Informed consents will be stored in participating research units.