To Check Safety of Ayurvedic Oral Cannabis in Breast and Head and Neck Cancer
Phase 1 study to assess the pharmacokinetic availability and safety and tolerability profile of one such ayurvedic preparation which contains 5 mg THC:CBD 1:1 preparation. Other than the PK profile, we will also be studying its effect on gene expression profiling of the breast and head neck oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma tissue.
Breast Cancer|Oral Cancer
DRUG: Cannabis capsules
To establish safe dose of oral cannabis preparation, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events with respect to cardiovascular, central nervous system and psychotropic of cannabis as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, From day 1 of IP dosing till 28 days .
Pharmacokinetic profiling, Blood samples collected during the administration of the IP for 5 days and up to 72 hours after surgery., 1.Pre operative day 1 to 5 - one each day before cannabinoid dosing, after dosing 30 minutes, 1 hour, 2 hour and 8 hour. 2. On day of surgery - Before and after the surgery 3. Post operative day 1 , day 2, day 3 and day 14|Biomarker analysis- Transcitpomics, Tumor and normal tissue samples., A baseline pre-cannabis tumor tissue sample will be collected before starting IP(day 0). Further blood and tumor as well as adjacent normal tissue samples will be collected during surgery (day6).
The ancient Ayurvedic medicine obtained from Cannabis sativa plant has recently been re-explored for its anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer potential. Various laboratory and preclinical studies have proven its anti-cancer activity and its effect on all the hallmarks of cancer. Anecdotal clinical evidence has shown regression of tumours with ingestion of such medicinal cannabis. A randomized controlled trial in Glioblastoma Multiforme, a kind of brain tumour, shows improvement in disease free survival when temozolamide was combined with Cannabis spray called Sativex.

However, because of lack of systematic, large volume studies, the evidence is slow to emerge. We have previously seen changes related to NF-kb (inflammation) and AP1 (acute hypoxia/stress) pathway genes within the tumour tissue as assessed by transcriptomic analysis (Yet unpublished data). There is laboratory evidence to suggest that the changes induced in the AP1 pathway during surgery can be ameliorated by cannabis treatment. We intend to explore this anticancer potential of C sativa herbal preparation in the pre-operative setting in breast and head and neck cancer patients. Hence, we are proposing a phase 1 study to assess the pharmacokinetic availability and safety and tolerability profile of one such ayurvedic preparation which contains 5 mg THC:CBD 1:1 preparation. Other than the PK profile, we will also be studying its effect on gene expression profiling of the breast and head neck oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma tissue.