Plasma SAA1 Levels in Predicting Response to Radiotherapy-induced Oral Mucositis
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the sixth most common cancer worldwide, with more than 700,000 new cases and more than 350,000 deaths each year. At present, radiotherapy is an important measure to control the recurrence of head and neck tumors, but almost all patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma will have acute inflammatory reactions such as radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis (RIOM) after radiotherapy, which seriously affects the quality of life and radiotherapy efficacy of patients. Serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) is an acute phase protein associated with inflammation. Our previous basic research found that serum SAA1 expression levels can be used as biomarkers to assess the dose received by the receptor in the early stages of radiation damage. At the same time, we confirmed that the serum level of SAA1 in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma increased after radiotherapy. Therefore, we intend to conduct a prospective, multicenter, observational study to further explore the predictive power of plasma SAA1 levels for radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis, with a view to early screening and prevention of RIOM patients.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Head and Neck Cancer|Radiotherapy-induced Oral Mucositis|Biomarker
Different grades radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis, The incidence different grades of radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis will be calculated., Through study completion, up to 3 years
Start and duration of radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis, Calculated the onset time and duration of radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis., Through study completion, up to 3 years|Side effects of radiotherapy, Record other early or late side effects caused by radiotherapy., Through study completion, up to 3 years|Tumor response, The efficacy of tumor therapy was evaluated based on RECIST 1.1., Through study completion, up to 3 years
Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is the sixth most common cancer worldwide, with more than 700,000 new cases and more than 350,000 deaths each year. At present, radiotherapy is an important measure to control the recurrence of head and neck tumors, but almost all patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma will have acute inflammatory reactions such as radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis (RIOM) after radiotherapy, which seriously affects the quality of life and radiotherapy efficacy of patients. Serum amyloid A1 (SAA1) is an acute phase protein associated with inflammation. Our previous basic research found that serum SAA1 expression levels can be used as biomarkers to assess the dose received by the receptor in the early stages of radiation damage. At the same time, we confirmed that the serum level of SAA1 in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma increased after radiotherapy. Therefore, we intend to conduct a prospective, multicenter, observational study to further explore the predictive power of plasma SAA1 levels for radiotherapy-induced oral mucositis, with a view to early screening and prevention of RIOM patients.