Bevacizumab, Irinotecan and Temozolomide for Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma
The purpose of this study is to find how good and how safe the combination of irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab is for patients with resistant or recurrent neuroblastoma. These drugs have each been given separately to patients, but they have never been given all together. Irinotecan and temozolomide are two drugs that have been used together to treat neuroblastoma in many people. These drugs are considered chemotherapy. Bevacizumab is another drug used to treat cancer. It is made by a company called Genentech. Bevacizumab is an antibody. Antibodies are proteins that are found in the blood and can attach themselves to bacteria and viruses. Bevacizumab attaches itself to a special protein in the bloodstream. This protein helps tumors grow new blood vessels. Blood vessels carry nutrients to feed the tumor. Bevacizumab is thought to block this growth of new blood vessels and starve tumors. It has been used for the treatment of many cancers in adults. It is approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with colon cancer and other cancers but not for people with neuroblastoma. There is only a small amount of information known on using this drug in children. It has been used with irinotecan before to treat cancer but not in children with neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab, Irinotecan and Temozolomide
Overall Responses, To evaluate tumor responses to combination of irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab in patients with resistant NB., 15-35 days after cycle 2
Number of Participants With Treatment Related Toxicity, To determine the toxicity of the combination of irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab in patients with resistant NB., Patients will be evaluated at least once weekly for toxicity. Observation for toxicities for up to 42 days|To Evaluate Changes in Angiogenic Markers After Treatment With the Combination of Irinotecan, Temozolomide and Bevacizumab., days 1,4, 15 and once between days 22-35 during cycle 1 and cycle 2|To Measure Time to Progression in Patients With Resistant NB Treated With the Combination of Irinotecan, Temozolomide and Bevacizumab., 3 years
The purpose of this study is to find how good and how safe the combination of irinotecan, temozolomide and bevacizumab is for patients with resistant or recurrent neuroblastoma. These drugs have each been given separately to patients, but they have never been given all together. Irinotecan and temozolomide are two drugs that have been used together to treat neuroblastoma in many people. These drugs are considered chemotherapy. Bevacizumab is another drug used to treat cancer. It is made by a company called Genentech. Bevacizumab is an antibody. Antibodies are proteins that are found in the blood and can attach themselves to bacteria and viruses. Bevacizumab attaches itself to a special protein in the bloodstream. This protein helps tumors grow new blood vessels. Blood vessels carry nutrients to feed the tumor. Bevacizumab is thought to block this growth of new blood vessels and starve tumors. It has been used for the treatment of many cancers in adults. It is approved by the FDA for the treatment of adults with colon cancer and other cancers but not for people with neuroblastoma. There is only a small amount of information known on using this drug in children. It has been used with irinotecan before to treat cancer but not in children with neuroblastoma.