Study to Allow Access to Nilotinib for Patients Who Are on Nilotinib Treatment in a Novartis-sponsored Study
The purpose of this study was to allow continued use of nilotinib in patients who were on nilotinib treatment in a Novartis-sponsored, Oncology Clinical Development \& Medical Affairs (CD\&MA) study and were benefiting from the treatment as judged by the investigator
Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia (CML)|Metastatic Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST)|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL)|Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (KIT) Mutated Melanoma
DRUG: Nilotinib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, An Adverse Event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence (eg any unfavorable and unintended sign \[including abnormal laboratory findings\], symptom or disease) in a clinical investigation participant after providing written informed consent for participation in the study. Therefore, an AE may or may not be temporally or causally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product.

Serious adverse event (SAE) case data were collected in the Safety Database. Adverse event (AE) data (both non-serious and serious) were collected in the Clinical database.

Max. = Maximum Yrs = Years Approx. = Approximately eCRF = electronic Case Report Form Time = timeframe, SAE case data were collected the entire study duration after first dose of study treatment up to a max. time of approx. 10 yrs. AEs (both non-serious and serious) were collected in the eCRF 3 yrs after study initiation up to a max. time of approx. 7 yrs.
Number of Participants With Clinical Benefit From Nilotinib, Number of patients (pts) with clinical benefit as assessed by investigator.

Clinical benefit data were first collected 3 years after study initiation and up to a maximum timeframe of approx. 7 years and 3 months at a patient level (up to Week 528 total at the study level).

Pts who discontinued in the first 3 years after study initiation didn't have any clinical benefit data collected. Pts who enrolled in the first 3 years after study initiation only had clinical benefit data collected starting at approx. the third year of the study until the end of the patient's participation in the study. Pts who enrolled after the first 3 years after study initiation had all clinical benefit data collected until the end of the patient's participation in the study.

Data for the earlier time points are provided only for later enrolled pts. Data for the later time points are provided only for the earlier enrolled pts.

The time point per patient was calculated from the date of first drug intake., Clinical benefit data were first collected 3 years after study initiation and are reported at baseline, Weeks 24, 48, 72, 96, 144, 192, 240, 288, 336, 384, 432, 480, and 528.
This was a multi-center, open label, single-arm, phase IV study to better characterize the long-term safety of nilotinib in patients treated in Novartis-sponsored studies and who benefited from treatment with nilotinib.

Patients who were enrolled in Novartis-sponsored nilotinib studies, had benefitted from treatment with nilotinib and fulfilled all requirements in the parent study could be enrolled into the current roll-over study.

There was no sample size estimation carried out for this study.

Patients returned to the study center on a quarterly basis (12 weeks ± 1 week) for scheduled visit. Adverse Events (AEs) (non-serious and serious AEs), clinical benefit assessment by investigator and study medication dispensing information were collected.

The original protocol of the current roll-over study was designed to provide continuation of treatment with nilotinib for patients enrolled in nilotinib studies. Therefore, the original protocol did not require AEs (non-serious and serious AEs) to be collected into the clinical database and only required serious adverse events (SAEs) to be collected in the Novartis safety database throughout the study duration.

The scheduled visit frequency was annually.

However, feedback from health authorities stated that all AEs should be collected. To account for this, the protocol was amended in 2016 (Protocol amendment 3 (PA 3)), with the primary objective changed to assess long-term safety of nilotinib. Consequently, PA 3 started to require all AEs (non-serious and serious AEs) to be entered into the clinical database, in addition to the continued SAE collection into the Novartis safety database. At the same time, the scheduled visit frequency was increased from annually to quarterly, and the protocol was also amended to require an investigator assessment of clinical benefit for patients.