Azacitidine, Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride, and Etoposide in Treating Older Patients With Poor-Prognosis Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the best dose of azacitidine and to see how well it works with mitoxantrone hydrochloride and etoposide in treating older patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has a lower chance of responding to treatment or higher risk of returning (poor prognosis). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, mitoxantrone hydrochloride, and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Basophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Eosinophilic Leukemia|Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13.1q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Maturation|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Minimal Differentiation|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22); RUNX1-RUNX1T1|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(9;11)(p22;q23); MLLT3-MLL|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia Without Maturation|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Adult Erythroleukemia|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia|Alkylating Agent-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride
Maximum-tolerated dose of azacitidine that can be safely combined with mitoxantrone hydrochloride and etoposide chemotherapy, The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 will be utilized for AE reporting., Up to 2 courses of treatment
Changes in DNA methylation, Nonquantitative comparisons will be made between responders and non-responders with respect to changes in DNA methylation., Baseline to day 4|Changes in gene expression, Nonquantitative comparisons will be made between responders and non-responders with respect to changes in gene expression., Baseline to day 4|Changes in topoisomerase II levels, These will be compared between responders (i.e. those achieving either CR or morphologic leukemia-free state \[MLFS\]) vs. non-responders (those not achieving CR/MLFS after 1-2 induction cycles), with 95% confidence intervals and 2-tailed t-tests of significance., Baseline to day 4|Complete response rate, Up to 4 years|Overall survival, From the start of study treatment until death from any cause or last follow up, assessed up to 4 years|Relapse-free survival, From documentation of CR or MLFS to time of disease recurrence or last follow up, assessed up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the highest tolerated dose of two dosing schedules of azacitidine when combined with mitoxantrone (mitoxantrone hydrochloride) and etoposide (A-NOVE) chemotherapy in poor prognosis older patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

II. To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the complete response (CR) rate and using this regimen. II. To evaluate changes in topoisomerase II activity, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation and DNA expression arrays in leukemia cells during azacitidine treatment, and to correlate these changes with responses to A-NOVE chemotherapy.

III. To evaluate relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients receiving post-remission consolidation with A-NOVE in patients achieving CR. (OS follow-up discontinued as of 08/07/2014)

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of azacitidine.

Patients receive induction therapy comprising azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes, and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 4-8. Patients may receive up to 2 additional courses of the same treatment as re-induction or consolidation therapy beginning 35-60 days from the start of the previous course.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.