Analyzing Preoperative Stereotactic Radiosurgery With Gamma Knife Icon for Brain Metastases
This is a single-arm, single-center pilot study in which 10 patients with one to four brain metastases diagnosed on brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) within the past 30 days will be evaluated for study eligibility and enrolled as appropriate.
Brain Metastases
DEVICE: Stereotactic Radiosurgery
The number of subjects undergoing resection following SRS., All subjects undergoing resection following SRS will be documented., 10 days following SRS|The number of subjects with no identifiable disease following resection., Identifiable disease will be determined by post-treatment MRI of the brain., 20 months
The number of subjects achieving CNS progression-free survival., This will be measured using the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Brain Metastases (RANO-BM) criteria. Subjects will be evaluated at six, 12 and 18 months., 6, 12 and 18 months|The number of subjects achieving overall survival., The number of subjects alive at six, 12 and 18 months following surgical resection., 6, 12 and 18 months|The number of subjects with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis using preoperative SRS., The number of subjects with this diagnosis will be documented., Two years|The number of subjects with radiation necrosis., Radiation necrosis will be determined by radiographic appearance on posttreatment MRI. The number of patients with radiation necrosis will be documented., Two years|The number of subjects reporting a high quality of life., Quality of life will be measured by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory for brain tumor (MDASI-BT). The MDASI assesses the severity of symptoms at their worst in the last 24 hours on a 0-10 numeric rating scale (NRS), with 0 being "not present" and 10 being "as bad as you can imagine.", Every 3 months until two years
INTERVENTION: Enrolled patients will receive stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) to all metastases followed by surgical resection of resectable metastases within one to 10 days following SRS. Pathologic specimens will be analyzed, and the patient will enter a standard pattern of surveillance (brain MRI every three months for two years).

STUDY RATIONALE: Given the increased risk of leptomeningeal failure with surgery followed by SRS as well as the risk of radiation necrosis, new paradigms in therapy delivery and sequencing are being explored. Areas of investigation include optimization of target volume, marginal expansion, multi-fractionation, timeliness of SRS after surgery, and delivery of SRS prior to surgical resection. In theory, advantages of preoperative SRS include better target delineation, sterilization of tumor cells prior to surgical disruption of the tumor, vascular supply, and CSF spaces, and resection of tissue that would otherwise be at risk of radiation necrosis.

In 2014, Asher, et al. (Asher AL, Burri SH, Wiggins WF, et al. A new treatment paradigm: neoadjuvant radiosurgery before surgical resection of brain metastases with analysis of local tumor recurrence. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2014;88:899-906.) reported that the use of neoadjuvant SRS prior to surgery was both safe and effective (even for metastases \>3 cm) with no reported leptomeningeal recurrences or radiation necrosis. More recently, Patel et al. (Patel KR, Burri SH, Asher AL, et al. Comparing Preoperative With Postoperative Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Resectable Brain Metastases: A Multi-institutional Analysis. Neurosurgery 2016;79:279-85.) performed a retrospective comparison of preoperative versus postoperative SRS and reported no difference in local control, distant brain failure, or overall survival. Furthermore, the authors reported significantly lower rates of leptomeningeal carcinomatosis and radiation necrosis with preoperative SRS.

Huff, et al. (Huff WX, Agrawal N, Shapiro S, et al. Efficacy of pre-operative stereotactic radiosurgery followed by surgical resection and correlative radiobiological analysis for patients with 1-4 brain metastases: study protocol for a phase II trial. Radiat Oncol 2018;13:252.) recently published a protocol for a phase II prospective trial designed to compare outcomes using preoperative SRS versus historically cited outcomes for postoperative SRS. This pilot study mirrors this design and aims to confirm study feasibility and to assess local control, central nervous system (CNS) progression-free survival, overall survival, rates of leptomeningeal spread, rates of radiation necrosis, and quality of life measures with the use of preoperative SRS.