Peer Support Program in Cancer Patients Elkar Laguntza
In cancer patients, social support provided by partners, family and/or friends plays a key role in coping with the disease and reducing treatment-related distress. However, research indicates that some of the needs of patients, such as coping with the disease, reducing isolation or managing guilt, often go unmet. With the aim of trying to meet these types of needs of people with cancer, the present research will evaluate the effectiveness of a peer support program in cancer patients, based on the support provided or exchanged by people who have faced similar challenges or problems. The intervention will consist of 8 face-to-face sessions of social peer support, involving a cancer patient and a volunteer who is in a stable phase and who has undergone the same diagnosis and medical treatment. To evaluate the effectiveness of the social support program, the immediate and long-term effect of participation in the program on both psychological (anxious-depressive symptoms, quality of life, perception of the disease, coping strategies, perception of social support,...) and biological (endocrine and immune system) variables will be analyzed.
Neoplasms|Social Skills|Psychological Distress
BEHAVIORAL: Peer support program
Psychological distress scale HADS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ( HADS) was originally developed by Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing. The total score is out of 42, (21 per anxiety and 21 per depression). Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression., baseline|Social support perception scale MOS-SSS, The Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS) aims to assess the extent to which the person has the support of others to face stressful situations. 19 items with answer categories that range on a 7-point rating scale. Higher scores indicate greater levels of social support perception, baseline|Coping scale COPE28, The COPE inventory was created by Carver (1989). It is a multi-dimensional inventory developed to asses the different coping strategies people use in response to stress. Self-distraction, items 1 and 19 Active coping, items 2 and 7 Denial, items 3 and 8 Substance use, items 4 and 11 Use of emotional support, items 5 and 15 Use of instrumental support, items 10 and 23 Behavioral disengagement, items 6 and 16 Venting, items 9 and 21 Positive reframing, items 12 and 17 Planning, items 14 and 25 Humor, items 18 and 28 Acceptance, items 20 and 24 Religion, items 22 and 27 Self-blame, items 13 and 26. Range: 2-8. Higher scores indicate greater levels of coping, baseline|Resilience scale, The Resilience Scale (RS) was developed to evaluate the levels of resilience in the general population. The items are rated on a 7-point scale ranging 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree), with a score ranging 14 to 98. Higher scores indicate greater levels of resilience, baseline|Quality of life scale SF-12, The SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It consists of physical and mental component scores (PCS/MCS), ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater quality of life., baseline|emotional inteligence scale TMMS, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS; Salovey, Mayer, Goldman, Turvey, \& Palfai, 1995) is a well-established measure of perceived emotional intelligence, an aspect of emotional intelligence that includes people's beliefs and attitudes about their own emotional experience. The TMMS-24 contains three key dimensions of emotional intelligence with 8 items each: Emotional Attention, Emotional Clarity and Emotional Repair. The score ranges from 7 to 56. Higher values indicate higher emotional intelligence, baseline|illness perception scale, The Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ) is a widely used multifactorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive and emotional illness representations and comprehensibility. Five of the items assess cognitive illness representations: consequences (Item 1), timeline (Item 2), personal control (Item 3), treatment control (Item 4), and identity (Item 5). Two of the items assess emotional representations: concern (Item 6) and emotions (Item 8). One item assesses illness comprehensibility (Item 7). Higher scores indicate greater levels of illness perception, baseline|Cortisol levels, Cortisol is a hormone that is mainly released at times of stress, baseline|Cytokine levels of IL-6 and TNF-a, Cytokines are a broad and loose category of small proteins (\~5-20 kDa) important in cell signaling. Cytokines have been related with anxiety and depression symptoms, baseline|Estradiol levels, Sexual hormones as estradiol play an important role in mammary carcino- genesis, being able to induce carcinogenic initiation, promotion and progression, baseline|Monoamines levels, Monoamines refer to the particular neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. These neurotransmitters are involved in different psychopathologies., baseline|Psychological distress scale HADS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ( HADS) was originally developed by Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing. The total score is out of 42, (21 per anxiety and 21 per depression). Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression. Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing., four months after|Social support perception scale MOS-SSS, The Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS) aims to assess the extent to which the person has the support of others to face stressful situations. 19 items with answer categories that range on a 7-point rating scale. Higher scores indicate greater levels of social support perception, four months after|Coping scale COPE28, The COPE inventory was created by Carver (1989). It is a multi-dimensional inventory developed to asses the different coping strategies people use in response to stress. Self-distraction, items 1 and 19 Active coping, items 2 and 7 Denial, items 3 and 8 Substance use, items 4 and 11 Use of emotional support, items 5 and 15 Use of instrumental support, items 10 and 23 Behavioral disengagement, items 6 and 16 Venting, items 9 and 21 Positive reframing, items 12 and 17 Planning, items 14 and 25 Humor, items 18 and 28 Acceptance, items 20 and 24 Religion, items 22 and 27 Self-blame, items 13 and 26. Range: 2-8. Higher scores indicate greater levels of coping, four months after|Resilience scale, The Resilience Scale (RS) was developed to evaluate the levels of resilience in the general population. The items are rated on a 7-point scale ranging 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree), with a score ranging 14 to 98. Higher scores indicate greater levels of resilience, four months after|Quality of life scale SF-12, The SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It consists of physical and mental component scores (PCS/MCS), ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater quality of life., four months after|emotional inteligence scale TMMS, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS; Salovey, Mayer, Goldman, Turvey, \& Palfai, 1995) is a well-established measure of perceived emotional intelligence, an aspect of emotional intelligence that includes people's beliefs and attitudes about their own emotional experience. The TMMS-24 contains three key dimensions of emotional intelligence with 8 items each: Emotional Attention, Emotional Clarity and Emotional Repair. The score ranges from 7 to 56. Higher values indicate higher emotional intelligence, four months after|illness perception scale, The Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ) is a widely used multifactorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive and emotional illness representations and comprehensibility. Five of the items assess cognitive illness representations: consequences (Item 1), timeline (Item 2), personal control (Item 3), treatment control (Item 4), and identity (Item 5). Two of the items assess emotional representations: concern (Item 6) and emotions (Item 8). One item assesses illness comprehensibility (Item 7). Higher scores indicate greater levels of illness perception, four months after|Cortisol levels, Cortisol is a hormone that is mainly released at times of stress, four months after|Cytokine levels of IL-6 and TNF-a, Cytokines are a broad and loose category of small proteins (\~5-20 kDa) important in cell signaling. Cytokines have been related with anxiety and depression symptoms, four months after|Estradiol levels, Sexual hormones as estradiol play an important role in mammary carcino- genesis, being able to induce carcinogenic initiation, promotion and progression, four months after|Monoamines levels, Monoamines refer to the particular neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. These neurotransmitters are involved in different psychopathologies., four months after|Psychological distress scale HADS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ( HADS) was originally developed by Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing. The total score is out of 42, (21 per anxiety and 21 per depression). Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression., through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Social support perception scale MOS-SSS, The Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS) aims to assess the extent to which the person has the support of others to face stressful situations. 19 items with answer categories that range on a 7-point rating scale. Higher scores indicate greater levels of social support perception, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Coping scale COPE28, The COPE inventory was created by Carver (1989). It is a multi-dimensional inventory developed to asses the different coping strategies people use in response to stress. Self-distraction, items 1 and 19 Active coping, items 2 and 7 Denial, items 3 and 8 Substance use, items 4 and 11 Use of emotional support, items 5 and 15 Use of instrumental support, items 10 and 23 Behavioral disengagement, items 6 and 16 Venting, items 9 and 21 Positive reframing, items 12 and 17 Planning, items 14 and 25 Humor, items 18 and 28 Acceptance, items 20 and 24 Religion, items 22 and 27 Self-blame, items 13 and 26. Range: 2-8. Higher scores indicate greater levels of coping, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Resilience scale, The Resilience Scale (RS) was developed to evaluate the levels of resilience in the general population. The items are rated on a 7-point scale ranging 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree), with a score ranging 14 to 98. Higher scores indicate greater levels of resilience, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Quality of life scale SF-12, The SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It consists of physical and mental component scores (PCS/MCS), ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater quality of life., through treatment completion, an average of eight months|emotional inteligence scale TMMS, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS; Salovey, Mayer, Goldman, Turvey, \& Palfai, 1995) is a well-established measure of perceived emotional intelligence, an aspect of emotional intelligence that includes people's beliefs and attitudes about their own emotional experience. The TMMS-24 contains three key dimensions of emotional intelligence with 8 items each: Emotional Attention, Emotional Clarity and Emotional Repair. The score ranges from 7 to 56. Higher values indicate higher emotional intelligence, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|illness perception scale, The Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ) is a widely used multifactorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive and emotional illness representations and comprehensibility. Five of the items assess cognitive illness representations: consequences (Item 1), timeline (Item 2), personal control (Item 3), treatment control (Item 4), and identity (Item 5). Two of the items assess emotional representations: concern (Item 6) and emotions (Item 8). One item assesses illness comprehensibility (Item 7). Higher scores indicate greater levels of illness perception, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Cortisol levels, Cortisol is a hormone that is mainly released at times of stress, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Cytokine levels of IL-6 and TNF-a, Cytokines are a broad and loose category of small proteins (\~5-20 kDa) important in cell signaling. Cytokines have been related with anxiety and depression symptoms, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Estradiol levels, Sexual hormones as estradiol play an important role in mammary carcino- genesis, being able to induce carcinogenic initiation, promotion and progression, through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Monoamines levels, Monoamines refer to the particular neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. These neurotransmitters are involved in different psychopathologies., through treatment completion, an average of eight months|Psychological distress scale HADS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ( HADS) was originally developed by Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing. The total score is out of 42, (21 per anxiety and 21 per depression). Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression., four months after treatment completion|Social support perception scale MOS-SSS, The Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS) aims to assess the extent to which the person has the support of others to face stressful situations. 19 items with answer categories that range on a 7-point rating scale. Higher scores indicate greater levels of social support perception, four months after treatment completion|Coping scale COPE28, The COPE inventory was created by Carver (1989). It is a multi-dimensional inventory developed to asses the different coping strategies people use in response to stress. Self-distraction, items 1 and 19 Active coping, items 2 and 7 Denial, items 3 and 8 Substance use, items 4 and 11 Use of emotional support, items 5 and 15 Use of instrumental support, items 10 and 23 Behavioral disengagement, items 6 and 16 Venting, items 9 and 21 Positive reframing, items 12 and 17 Planning, items 14 and 25 Humor, items 18 and 28 Acceptance, items 20 and 24 Religion, items 22 and 27 Self-blame, items 13 and 26. Range: 2-8. Higher scores indicate greater levels of coping, four months after treatment completion|Resilience scale, The Resilience Scale (RS) was developed to evaluate the levels of resilience in the general population. The items are rated on a 7-point scale ranging 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree), with a score ranging 14 to 98. Higher scores indicate greater levels of resilience, four months after treatment completion|Quality of life scale SF-12, The SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It consists of physical and mental component scores (PCS/MCS), ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater quality of life., four months after treatment completion|emotional inteligence scale TMMS, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS; Salovey, Mayer, Goldman, Turvey, \& Palfai, 1995) is a well-established measure of perceived emotional intelligence, an aspect of emotional intelligence that includes people's beliefs and attitudes about their own emotional experience. The TMMS-24 contains three key dimensions of emotional intelligence with 8 items each: Emotional Attention, Emotional Clarity and Emotional Repair. The score ranges from 7 to 56. Higher values indicate higher emotional intelligence, four months after treatment completion|illness perception scale, The Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ) is a widely used multifactorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive and emotional illness representations and comprehensibility. Five of the items assess cognitive illness representations: consequences (Item 1), timeline (Item 2), personal control (Item 3), treatment control (Item 4), and identity (Item 5). Two of the items assess emotional representations: concern (Item 6) and emotions (Item 8). One item assesses illness comprehensibility (Item 7). Higher scores indicate greater levels of illness perception, four months after treatment completion|Cortisol levels, Cortisol is a hormone that is mainly released at times of stress, four months after treatment completion|Cytokine levels of IL-6 and TNF-a, Cytokines are a broad and loose category of small proteins (\~5-20 kDa) important in cell signaling. Cytokines have been related with anxiety and depression symptoms, four months after treatment completion|Estradiol levels, Sexual hormones as estradiol play an important role in mammary carcino- genesis, being able to induce carcinogenic initiation, promotion and progression, fofour months after treatment completion|Monoamines levels, Monoamines refer to the particular neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. These neurotransmitters are involved in different psychopathologies., four months after treatment completion|Psychological distress scale HADS, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale ( HADS) was originally developed by Zigmond and Snaith (1983) and is commonly used by doctors to determine the levels of anxiety and depression that a person is experiencing. The total score is out of 42, (21 per anxiety and 21 per depression). Higher scores indicate greater levels of anxiety or depression., one year after treatment completion|Social support perception scale MOS-SSS, The Social Support Scale (MOS-SSS) aims to assess the extent to which the person has the support of others to face stressful situations. 19 items with answer categories that range on a 7-point rating scale. Higher scores indicate greater levels of social support perception, one year after treatment completion|Coping scale COPE28, The COPE inventory was created by Carver (1989). It is a multi-dimensional inventory developed to asses the different coping strategies people use in response to stress. Self-distraction, items 1 and 19 Active coping, items 2 and 7 Denial, items 3 and 8 Substance use, items 4 and 11 Use of emotional support, items 5 and 15 Use of instrumental support, items 10 and 23 Behavioral disengagement, items 6 and 16 Venting, items 9 and 21 Positive reframing, items 12 and 17 Planning, items 14 and 25 Humor, items 18 and 28 Acceptance, items 20 and 24 Religion, items 22 and 27 Self-blame, items 13 and 26. Range: 2-8. Higher scores indicate greater levels of coping, one year after treatment completion|Resilience scale, The Resilience Scale (RS) was developed to evaluate the levels of resilience in the general population. The items are rated on a 7-point scale ranging 1 (strongly disagree) to 7 (strongly agree), with a score ranging 14 to 98. Higher scores indicate greater levels of resilience, one year after treatment completion|Quality of life scale SF-12, The SF-12 is a self-reported outcome measure assessing the impact of health on an individual's everyday life. It consists of physical and mental component scores (PCS/MCS), ranging from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater quality of life., one year after treatment completion|emotional inteligence scale TMMS, The Trait Meta-Mood Scale (TMMS; Salovey, Mayer, Goldman, Turvey, \& Palfai, 1995) is a well-established measure of perceived emotional intelligence, an aspect of emotional intelligence that includes people's beliefs and attitudes about their own emotional experience. The TMMS-24 contains three key dimensions of emotional intelligence with 8 items each: Emotional Attention, Emotional Clarity and Emotional Repair. The score ranges from 7 to 56. Higher values indicate higher emotional intelligence, one year after treatment completion|illness perception scale, The Illness Perception Questionnaire (IPQ) is a widely used multifactorial pencil-and-paper questionnaire which assesses the five cognitive and emotional illness representations and comprehensibility. Five of the items assess cognitive illness representations: consequences (Item 1), timeline (Item 2), personal control (Item 3), treatment control (Item 4), and identity (Item 5). Two of the items assess emotional representations: concern (Item 6) and emotions (Item 8). One item assesses illness comprehensibility (Item 7). Higher scores indicate greater levels of illness perception, one year after treatment completion|Cortisol levels, Cortisol is a hormone that is mainly released at times of stress, one year after treatment completion|Cytokine levels of IL-6 and TNF-a, Cytokines are a broad and loose category of small proteins (\~5-20 kDa) important in cell signaling. Cytokines have been related with anxiety and depression symptoms, one year after treatment completion|Estradiol levels, Sexual hormones as estradiol play an important role in mammary carcino- genesis, being able to induce carcinogenic initiation, promotion and progression, one year after treatment completion|Monoamines levels, Monoamines refer to the particular neurotransmitters dopamine, noradrenaline and serotonin. These neurotransmitters are involved in different psychopathologies., one year after treatment completion
The general aim of the present research will be to evaluate the effectiveness of a peer social support intervention in cancer patients at the Onkologikoa Foundation of Guipuzcoa. Specifically, the immediate and long-term effect that such intervention will have on symptoms of psychological distress, quality of life, coping strategy, perception of social support, perception of the disease and emotional regulation will be evaluated. As a secondary aim of this study, we intend to evaluate the immediate and long-term effect of the peer social support intervention on the immune system (through the determination of the levels of cytokines IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IFN-γ and TNF-α), on the monoaminergic system (through the determination of plasma levels of serotonin, tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, quinurenine, quinurenic acid and 3-HK), on the HPA axis (through the measurement of the diurnal cycle of cortisol), and on sex hormones (through the measurement of estradiol and testosterone levels), systems that have been related both to the development of anxious-depressive symptoms and to the development, progression and recurrence of cancer.

In addition, it will be studied at what time the application of the program is most effective, being applied in newly diagnosed patients (experimental group 1) and in patients who have just finished medical treatment (experimental group 2).