Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in Advanced Metastatic Cancer
This is an open-label, exploratory study to evaluate nivolumab with or without ipilimumab based on percentage of tumoral CD8 cells at the time of treatment in participants with varying advanced solid tumors. Participants who have a tumor with ≥ 15% CD8 cells (classified as CD8 high) will receive nivolumab monotherapy, and participants who have a tumor with \< 15% CD8 cells (classified as CD8 low) will receive ipilimumab in combination with nivolumab.
Advanced Metastatic Cancer|Advanced Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab Monotherapy|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab and Ipilimumab and Combination for Metastatic Cancer|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab and Ipilimumab (3 mg/kg) Combination for Prostate Cancer|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab and Ipilimumab (5 mg/kg) Combination for Prostate Cancer
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) of Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab, CBR is defined as the percentage of participants who show clinical benefit, defined as obtaining a complete response (CR; disappearance of all target and non-target lesions), partial response (PR; ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions), or stable disease (SD) for ≥ 6 months, as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) v1.1., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred first, up to 43 months|Percentage of Participants Whose Tumors Convert From CD8 Low (<15% Tumoral CD8) to CD8 High (>=15%)., Percentage of participants in the nivolumab plus ipilimumab ("CD8 low") arm whose tumors convert from CD8 low (\<15%) to CD8 high (\>=15%) as measured by the percentage of tumoral CD8 cells. Participants in the CD8 high arms are not evaluated for this outcome.

On-treatment biopsies for the advanced metastatic cancer cohort were scheduled for as early as possible after the 2nd and 4th doses of ipilimumab (Day 2 - 10 of Cycle 2 and Cycle 6, respectively). On-treatment biopsies for the advanced prostate cancer cohort were scheduled for within 3 days (+/-) of the 2nd and 4th doses of nivolumab (Day 22 of Cycle 1 and Cycle 2, respectively)., From initiation of study intervention through the 2nd on-treatment tumor biopsy, up to 8 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events (TRAE), Investigators recorded adverse events (AEs) during each participant encounter. AE severity was assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, which grades AEs on a 1 to 5 scale: Grades 1 and 2 indicate mild to moderate events; Grade 3 denotes severe events; Grades 4 and 5 signify life-threatening or fatal outcomes.

A TRAE is defined as any event that either occurs after the initiation of study intervention, having been absent at baseline, or, if present at baseline, appears to have worsened in severity or frequency, that is deemed 'Possibly', 'Probably', or 'Definitely' related to the intervention by the Investigator.

All TRAEs were collected from the time the participant signed informed consent until 100 days after the last dose of study intervention. Prior to initiation of study intervention, only TRAEs that were related to a protocol mandated intervention, including those that occurred prior to being assigned to a study arm, were reported., From signing informed consent (prior to Screening) through 100 days after last dose, up to 43 months.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of participants who attain a best overall response of complete response (CR; disappearance of all target and non-target lesions) or partial response (PR; \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions), as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) version 1.1., Initiation of study drug through radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred first, up to 43 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from initiation of study intervention to the date of first documented radiographic progression of disease or date of death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Initiation of study drug through death, radiographic progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurred first, up to 43 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from initiation of study intervention until death due to any cause. Participants not reported as having died at the time of analysis were censored at the most recent contact date they were known to be alive., From initiation of study drug until death due to any cause, up to 43 months
The aim of this study is to provide a prospective classification of CD8 high (immunologically "hot") versus CD8 low (immunologically "cold") tumors at the time of treatment, based on the percentage of CD8 cells in a tumor biopsy, and to address the predictive value of the CD8 biomarker for selecting patients for treatment with nivolumab with or without ipilimumab.

A total of up to approximately 200 participants with advanced metastatic cancer will be enrolled. Ongoing monitoring for safety and futility will be implemented based on the method of Thall and colleagues (Thall et al, 1995) separately in the CD8 high and CD8 low tumor groups. Single-agent nivolumab will be administered at 360 mg intravenously (IV) every 3 weeks (Q3W). Participants who continue to show clinical benefit after the first disease assessment will receive nivolumab 480 mg IV every 4 weeks (Q4W) until progressive disease (PD) or intolerable toxicity. At PD, participants will be allowed to add ipilimumab. For nivolumab and ipilimumab combination therapy, nivolumab will be administered at 360 mg IV Q3W, and ipilimumab will be administered at 1 mg/kg IV Q3W for the first 2 doses and then every 6 weeks for the 3rd and 4th doses, followed by nivolumab 480 mg IV Q4W until PD or intolerable toxicity. After receipt of the first dose of ipilimumab, the Investigator may determine (based on clinical symptoms) the number of future doses of ipilimumab the participant will receive, for a maximum of 4 doses. Participants who stop ipilimumab dosing early due to toxicities, may start nivolumab maintenance (ie, 4 doses \[12 weeks\] of nivolumab following the first dose).

Advanced prostate cancer participants with tumoral CD8 ≥ 15% will be enrolled in the nivolumab monotherapy arm. A total of approximately 20 participants with Advanced Prostate Cancer and tumoral CD8 \< 15% will be allocated to 1 of 2 cohorts using combinations of ipilimumab and nivolumab.