High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound Ablation in Treating Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Highly focused ultrasound energy may be able to kill tumor cells by heating the tumor without affecting the surrounding tissue.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well highly focused ultrasound energy works in treating patients with localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Sexual Dysfunction|Urinary Incontinence
OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: biopsy|PROCEDURE: high-intensity focused ultrasound ablation|PROCEDURE: magnetic resonance imaging|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Feasibility, patient acceptability and side effect profile of high-intensity focal ultrasound ablation as determined by adverse events|Patient acceptability, urinary symptoms, and erectile function as assessed by Functional Assessment of Cancer Treatment-Prostate (FACT-P); Item International Index of Erectile Dysfunction (IIEF-15); International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS); I ...
Effectiveness of high-intensity focal ultrasound ablation to control prostate cancer as determined by time to PSA nadir, MRI at 10-20 days and again at 6 months, biopsies of treated areas at 6 months, and by recording the need for secondary or adjuva ...
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To evaluate feasibility, side effect profile, and patient acceptability of high-intensity focused ultrasound ablation in patients with organ-confined, MRI and histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the prostate.

Secondary

* To determine the effectiveness of therapy via biopsy, MRI, PSA level and estimated time to PSA nadir, and by recording the need for secondary or adjuvant treatment following therapy.

OUTLINE: A probe is inserted into the rectum. High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) energy using the Sonablate system is delivered to the prostate tissue over approximately 2 hours. Patients are then evaluated over a 12-month period.

Patients undergo multi-sequence MRI within 10-20 days after HIFU to assess the extent and volume of tumor necrosis and again at 6 months to assess for disease recurrence. Blood is collected for PSA levels at baseline and then at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Patients also undergo transrectal ultrasound biopsy at 6 months to evaluate disease response.

Patients complete questionnaires at baseline and at 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months to evaluate erectile and sexual function, urinary flow and continence, and quality-of-life.