Efficacy Study of T Cell Depleted Allogeneic Non-myeloablative Stem Cell Transplant
The central hypothesis of this study is that use of a less toxic chemotherapy preparative regimen for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in combination with T cell depletion with alemtuzumab for patients with high risk hematologic malignancies will allow effective control of disease and improved disease free and overall survival compared with historical expectations. Specifically, the objectives are to estimate toxicity, disease free, progression free, event free, and overall survival rates in patients treated with alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation; evaluate immune recovery following this reduced intensity allogeneic immunotherapy; develop an in vitro assay to allow patient individualized targeted dosing.
Hodgkin's Disease|Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Myeloma|Leukemia|Myelodysplasia
DRUG: Non-myeloablative Stem Cell Transplantation
Disease Free Survival, Estimate disease free survival rates in participants treated with an alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation. Disease-free survival (DFS), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) rates after SCT were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. We performed univariate comparisons by using the log-rank test. DFS was defined as the period of time between the day of transplantation and either disease relapse or death due to the disease. The following variables were considered as confounders: recipient age, recipient sex, disease (myeloid or lymphoid), disease risk (standard or high), and donor type (MRD, MUD, or HAPLO donor). The percentage of participants who were disease free at 2 years is reported by donor type., 2 years
Immune Recovery, Evaluate immune recovery following this reduced intensity allogeneic immunotherapy. Quantification of CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells was performed by flow cytometry on fresh peripheral blood at approximately 1 month before transplantation and then 1.5, 3, 6, and 12 months after transplantation. The immune recovery rates of the CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ T cells in the MRD, MUD, and HAPLO groups were compared by performing an analysis of variance at each time point after transplantation. The median T cell counts at 12 months for each type of cell are reported by donor type., 1 year|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) rates after stem cell transplant were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. We performed univariate comparisons by using the log-rank test. PFS was defined as the period of time between the day of transplantation and either the day underlying disease progression was documented or death occurred by any cause. The following variables were considered as confounders: recipient age, recipient sex, disease (myeloid or lymphoid), disease risk (standard or high), and donor type (MRD, MUD, or HAPLO donor). The percentage of participants progression free at 2 years is reported by donor type. Progression = \> 25% increase of serum M-protein and/or urine M-protein. Also, an absolute increase in bone marrow plasma cells \> 10%, new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas or increase in the size of existing bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas or development of hypercalcemia that can be attributed solely to the plasma cell proliferative disorder., 2 years|Overall Survival, Estimate overall survival rates in participants treated with an alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation. Disease-free survival (DFS), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) rates after SCT were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. We performed univariate comparisons by using the log-rank test. OS was defined as the period of time between the day of transplantation and death. The following variables were considered as confounders: recipient age, recipient sex, disease (myeloid or lymphoid), disease risk (standard or high), and donor type (MRD, MUD, or HAPLO donor). The percentage of participants surviving 2 years by donor type is reported., 2 years|Graft Failure, Estimate toxicity including graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in participants treated with an alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation. Bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy were performed 3-5 weeks after transplant to assess donor-cell engraftment. Primary Graft Failure was defined as a neutrophil count below 500/μL or the absence of donor-derived hematopoiesis (\<5%donor cells) before relapse, death, or re-transplantation. Secondary Graft Failure was defined as the achievement of primary engraftment and a subsequent decrease in neutrophils to 3 consecutive counts of less than 100/μL or the absence of donor-derived hematopoiesis (\<5% donor cells) before relapse, death, or re-transplantation., 180 days
Graft Versus Host Disease, Estimate toxicity including graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in participants treated with an alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation. Bone marrow aspiration and/or biopsy were performed 3-5 weeks after transplant to assess donor-cell engraftment. Acute or chronic GVHD was diagnosed and graded according to standard criteria. Toxicity was formally graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 3.0., 180 days
The central hypothesis of this study is that use of a less toxic chemotherapy preparative regimen for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in combination with T cell depletion with alemtuzumab for patients with high risk hematologic malignancies will allow effective control of disease and improved disease free and overall survival compared with historical expectations. Specifically, the objectives are to estimate toxicity, disease free, progression free, event free and overall survival rates in patients treated with an alemtuzumab T cell depleted, reduced intensity preparative regimen followed by allogeneic hematopoietic transplantation; evaluate immune recovery following this reduced intensity allogeneic immunotherapy; develop an in vitro assay to allow patient individualized targeted dosing. The study population is HIV negative, adult patients who are not pregnant but have confirmed diagnosis of disease; must have Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) performance status (PS) 0, 1, or 2; must have a 3-6/6 human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related donor or 8/8 (A, B, C, DRB1, DQ are the primary determinants) or better HLA-matched unrelated donor who is evaluated and deemed able to provide peripheral blood stem cells (PBPCs) and/or marrow by the transplant team. The target population of patients is those with a high chance of progressive lymphoid or myelomatous diseases, progressive myeloid diseases, marrow failure syndromes or myeloproliferative disorders.