Effect of Irradiation of the Cavernous Sinus and the Sellar Region on Autobiographical Memory
Several studies showed that radiotherapy as brain tumors treatment may affect cognition. It was observed that durable memory impairments could arise at irradiated patients if radiotherapy is applied on medial temporal lobes.

However, results concerned studies of anterograde memory and none, this day, estimates the impact of radiotherapy on autobiographical memory which also involves hippocampus.

The aim of this study is to evaluate effects of cavernous sinus or sellar region irradiation on autobiographical memory.

Thirty 35 to 65 years old patients, with cavernous sinus meningioma or pituitary adenoma for who radiotherapy is indicated will be recruited.
Cavernous Sinus Meningioma|Pituitary Adenoma
OTHER: Evaluation of autobiographical memory
Autobiographical memory test (TEMPau) score, Two years after irradiation treatment end
Autobiographical memory test (TEMPau) score, One year after irradiation treatment end|Revised Self Consciousness Scale (RSCS) score, One and two years after irradiation treatment end|Quality of life questionnaire (QLQC-30/BN20) score, One and two years after irradiation treatment end|California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT) score, One and two years after irradiation treatment end
Several studies showed that radiotherapy as brain tumors treatment may affect cognition. It was observed that durable memory impairments could arise at irradiated patients if radiotherapy is applied on medial temporal lobes. However, results concerned studies of anterograde memory and none, this day, estimates the impact of radiotherapy on autobiographical memory which also involves hippocampus, as specified in Nadel and Moscovitch model, the Multiple Trace Theory.

Autobiographical memory impairment issue is fundamental for identity construction. Prevent those impairments is important to quality of life improvement after such treatments.

The aim of this study is to evaluate effects of cavernous sinus or sellar region irradiation on autobiographical memory.

A pilot study was conducted with 10 patients affected by left cavernous sinus meningioma divided in two groups: the first one with untreated patients and the second one with patients who received cavernous sinus irradiation between 2 and 5 years before pilot study. This study indicated autobiographical memory deterioration in two groups and a worsening in treated group. Study limits did not allow us to draw conclusions. That is why, sample size will be extended and patients with cavernous sinus meningioma or pituitary adenoma will be recruited because of proximity between cavernous sinus, pituitary gland and hippocampus. Investigators wish to recruit 30 patients with cavernous sinus and meningioma.

Investigators hope for confirm our results from pilot study.