A Phase I Study With Lymfactin® in the Treatment of Patients With Secondary Lymphedema
Indicated for the Treatment of Secondary Lymphedema Associated with the Treatment of Breast Cancer.

Primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of a single dose of Lymfactin® in patients with secondary lymphedema associated with the treatment of breast cancer.
Secondary Lymphedema
DRUG: Lymfactin® [1 x 10E10 vp]|DRUG: Lymfactin® [1 x 10E11 vp]
Safety as measured by number of patients with treatment related adverse events and serious adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Adverse events and serious adverse events assessed by CTCAE v4.0 to evaluate the safety profile after administration of Lymfactin, baseline to 1 year, yearly up to 5 years|CT scan of chest and abdomen, Changes in the CT scan of chest and abdomen in order to detect malignancies, baseline, yearly up to 5 years|Biodistribution of Lymfactin in blood, Changes in Lymfactin genome copy number in blood, 90 days|Formation of anti-Lymfactin antibodies, Changes in the anti-Lymfactin antibody titer in blood, 6 months
Measurement of the volume of the arms, Changes in the volume of the affected arm and comparison to the unaffected arm, baseline, 6, 12, 24 and 36 months|Measurement of the lymphatic flow of the affected arm by quantitative lymphoscintigraphy (99Tc-nanocolloid clearance rate with calculation of transport index), Assessment of the changes in the lymphatic flow, baseline, 12, 24 and 36 months|Questionnaire according to the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory (LQOLI), Assessment of changes in the quality of life using Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory (LQOLI) in which patients assess how their lymphedema is affecting the activities of daily living. LQOLI consists of three dimensions: Physical, psychosocial and practical, which are reported separately as the mean score of each dimension. Each dimension of the LQOLI is scored from 0 to 3, where score 0 means "no impact", 1 means "a little bit impact", 2 means "somewhat impact", and 3 means "significant impact" on the quality of life of the patient, the smaller score thus being the better., baseline, 6, 12, 24 and 36 months
This is an open label, multi-center, uncontrolled first in human trial that uses a standard 3 + 3 dose escalation scheme. Lymfactin® will be administered as a single dose by ex vivo perinodal injection into the fat pad of a flap of tissue containing lymph nodes from the abdominal wall. This flap of tissue will then be surgically implanted into the axillary region of the affected arm. This treatment with Lymfactin® may be performed in conjunction with or without breast reconstruction surgery.

Up to two dose cohorts are planned to be included. Each dose of Lymfactin® will be administered as a single dose via perinodal injection in a volume of 2 mL:

* Cohort 1: Lymfactin® \[1 x 10E10 vp\]
* Cohort 2: Lymfactin® \[1 x 10E11 vp\]

Should the dose escalation go up to Cohort 2 with initiation of a subsequent Extension Cohort a total of 15 - 21 patients may be treated in this study.