Psychological Mobile App for Patients With AML
This research study is evaluating whether a psychological mobile application (app), is efficacious in reducing anxiety and depression symptoms and improving quality of life for patients diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) compared to a physical health promotion app.
AML|Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BEHAVIORAL: DREAMLAND|BEHAVIORAL: CERENA
Anxiety Symptoms, Compare anxiety symptoms between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-anxiety subscale over 20 days.

Higher scores on the HADS anxiety subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater anxiety symptoms., Day 20
Anxiety Symptoms, Compare anxiety symptoms between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-anxiety subscale over 90 days.

Higher scores on the HADS-anxiety subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater anxiety symptoms., Up to Day 90|Depression Symptoms, Compare depression symptoms between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-depression subscale and the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) over 90 days.

Higher scores on the HADS-depression subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater depression symptoms.

Higher scores on the PHQ-9 (range 0-27) indicate greater depression symptoms., Up to Day 90|Quality of Life in Patients with Leukemia, Compare quality of life between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Leukemia (FACT-Leukemia) over 90 days.

Higher scores on FACT-Leukemia (range 0-176) indicate better quality of life., Up to Day 90|Symptom Burden, Compare symptom burden between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale-Revised (ESAS-R) over 90 days.

Higher scores on the ESAS-R (range 0-100) indicate worse symptom burden., Up to Day 90|Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Symptoms, Compare PTSD symptoms between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version over 90 days.

Higher scores on the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version (range 17-85) indicate greater PTSD symptoms., Up to Day 90
Coping, Compare coping between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Measure of Current Status - Part A (MOCS-A) over 90 days.

Higher scores on the MOCS-A (range 0-52) indicate better coping., Up to Day 90|Self-efficacy, Compare self-efficacy between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured by the Cancer Self-Efficacy Scale (CASE) over 90 days.

Higher scores on the CASE (range 0-170) indicate greater self-efficacy., Up to Day 90|Health care utilization, to explore differences in hospitalizations, emergency department visits, and days spent in the hospital between participants receiving DREAMLAND versus CERENA as measured based on data obtained from the Electronic Health Record up to 6 months, Up to 6 months
Patients with a new diagnosis of AML often confront a sudden and life-threatening diagnosis, requiring an immediate disruption of their life and an urgent 4-6 week hospitalization to initiate intensive chemotherapy. During this hospitalization, they endure substantial physical symptoms due to the side-effects of intensive chemotherapy, which negatively impacts their quality of life. Patients with AML also experience significant psychological distress as they struggle with the abrupt onset of illness, uncertainty regarding their prognosis, physical and social isolation during their hospitalization, and complete loss of independence.

From our prior studies, we learnt that the use of DREAMLAND, a psychological mobile app, was feasible to integrate in the care of patients with AML receiving intensive chemotherapy and has promising efficacy for improving patients' physical and psychological symptoms and their quality of life. In this project, the study doctors want to compare the effectiveness of DREAMLAND versus CERENA in improving the patient experience when diagnosed with AML. CERENA is a mobile app that provides medical information about how to best take care of one´s health. Using this research, the study doctors hope to find out the best way to help patients cope with the diagnosis and treatment for AML.

The study will use questionnaires to measure patient's quality of life, physical symptoms, mood, and the participant sense of control over their situation. Study questionnaires will be completed in the hospital or clinic. The participants will also have the option of completing these questionnaires remotely through a secure web link or through a mailed paper copy.

Blue Note Therapeutics, Inc. is supporting this research study by providing funding. Blue Note Therapeutics is a digital health technology company that focuses on the health needs of patients with a cancer diagnosis.