Ph3 Study of Exemestane With or Without Entinostat in Chinese Patients With Hormone Receptor-Positive, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purpose of this randomized phase III trial is to evaluate the clinical benefit of combining entinostat with exemestane in Chinese patients with HR-positive, HER2-negative, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer, who have disease progression on endocrine therapy. Additionally，the safety, tolerability, and PK profile of the treatment combination are evaluated.
Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Entinostat|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Exemestane
PFS (The Randomized Double-blinded Part), Progression Free Survival, defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (v1.1). The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan- Meier method, with 95% confidence intervals calculated using Greenwood's formula. In the primary analysis of PFS, differences in treatment effect will be tested using stratified log rank tests, stratifying on the randomization stratification factors. Stratified univariate and multivariable Cox proportional-hazard models will be built to estimate the hazard ratios (HRs) for treatment effect for PFS as a supportive analysis. In all analyses, P-values will be two-sided., From the day of randomization, assessment will be made every 8 weeks (±3 days) to the earliest of documented disease progression (PD) or death caused by any reason (whichever happens first), assessed up to 40 months.
OS (both the Open-label and Randomized Double-blinded parts), Overall Survival, From the day of first administration to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 48 months.|Safety and tolerability (both the Open-label and Randomized Double-blinded parts), Incidence of toxicity graded according to National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0. All treatment-emergent, baseline adverse events and hematological/biochemical toxicities based on laboratory measurements, as well as drug related AEs, will be summarized by both groups. The incidence of deaths and treatment-emergent serious AEs (defined as number of patients experiencing the AE divided by all treated patients) will be summarized and compared between Arm Entinostat+Exemestane and Arm Placebo+Exemestane. Also, the incidence of adverse events leading to discontinuation of investigational product and/or patient's withdrawal from the study will be summarized and listed., From the first administration of the investigational product to 30 days after the last administration. The Randomized Double-blinded: assessed up to 48 months|ORR (both the Open-label and Randomized Double-blinded parts), Objective Response Rate, defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) among all patients assessed per RESIST v1.1. Objective response in the two arms will be evaluated by comparing objective response rate (ORR, PR+CR) on the intention-to-treat patients with one-sided type I error of 2.5%. ORR will be summarized along with the exact binomial 95% confidence interval. In all analyses, P-values will be two-sided., From the first administration on Day 1 Run-in Period or randomization day, evaluation will be made every 8 weeks (±3 days), until the earliest of documented PD or death caused by any reason (whichever happens first), assessed up to 48 months.|Pharmacokinetics (The Randomized Double-blinded Part), Time at which maximum plasma concentration was observed., Cycle 1 Day 1, within 3h and 5h after the administration; Cycle 1 Day 15,1h after the administration; Cycle 2 Day 1, within 72h prior to administration.|CBR (both the Open-label and Randomized Double-blinded parts), Clinical Benefit Rate, defined as CR+PR+SD≥ 24 weeks, Estimated per 8 weeks (±3 days) from the first administration of the investigational product on Day 1 Run-in Period or randomization day, to the earliest of documented PD or death caused by any reason (whichever happens first),assessed up to 48 months.
PBMC acetylation, To evaluate whether the efficacy of exemestane with entinostat varies with changes in acetylation status in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs)., Cycle 1 Day 1, prior to administration; ; Cycle 2 Day 1, prior to administration.
This randomized phase III trial studies entinostat combination with exemestane to see how well they work compared to exemestane alone in treating Chinese patients with hormone receptor-positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancers.

Estrogen can drive the growth of breast cancer cells. Exemestane may fight breast cancer by lowering the amount of estrogen the body makes from tissue aromatase. Entinostat may enhance the anti-tumor effect of exemestane in breast cancer by helping to overcome tumor resistance via epigenetic modifications. Previous Phase II trial in US breast cancer patients have demonstrated significant effects of combined therapy in slowing disease progression and on patient survival when compared to exemestane alone. It is not yet known whether exemestane is more effective when combined with entinostat in Chinese patients with advanced breast cancer. In this parallel, randomized, double blind, active controlled study, we will study the effect of entinostat/placebo in combination with exemestane in Chinese patients with hormone receptor-positive, HER2 receptor-negative, locally advance or metastatic breast cancer, who have experienced disease progression with prior endocrine therapies.