Predicting Local and Distant Recurrence in T1 Colorectal Cancer
Tumor recurrence significantly affects survival rates following the local resection of submucosal colorectal cancers (T1 CRC). Despite this, there are currently no reliable biomarkers established to predict recurrence in T1 CRC.

This study seeks to improve the prediction of recurrence-free survival in individuals who have survived T1 CRC.
Colorectal Cancer|Colorectal Neoplasms|Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Colorectal Cancer Stage I|Colorectal Neoplasms Malignant|Colorectal Cancer Recurrent
OTHER: Tw1CE
Recurrence-free Survival, Time from curative-intent resection to the development of recurrence (or death), Up to 60 months
The incidence of invasive submucosal colorectal cancer (T1 CRC) is increasing, likely as a reflection of improved screening and endoscopy use. Current treatment options for T1 CRC focus on less invasive methods (i.e., endoscopic submucosal dissection), and treatment decisions are based on the risk of lymph node metastasis (LNM). Up to 70-80% of T1 CRC patients may undergo surgery, with adjuvant chemotherapy recommended only for those with LNM.

However, current clinical practice guidelines are considered to be overly aggressive and recommend the administration of aggressive treatment to many patients who may be cured with non-invasive therapy alone. This results in the overtreatment of many patients, especially those that are currently defined as 'high-risk' T1 CRC. Existing surveillance methods may not adequately predict the prognosis of T1 CRC, lacking established biomarkers for assessing disease-free survival.

This study seeks to validate tissue-based biomarkers (micro-RNA and messenger RNA) that are associated with tumor recurrence after curative resection. The identification of patients at high risk of recurrence may help in the selection of patients who truly benefit from additional oncologic surgery or adjuvant therapy. Previous research by this group has identified miRNA signatures for detecting postoperative tumor recurrence and metastasis in CRC, highlighting their potential as biomarkers for disease progression.