Predictive Value of Epicardial Adipose Tissue for Pulmonary Embolism and Death in Patients With Lung Cancer
The occurrence and progression of lung cancer is related to visceral adipose tissue (VAT). Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a kind of VAT, producing a variety of inflammatory cytokines and adipokines, participating in the formation of local inflammation, promoting the formation of pre-thrombotic state, and leading to the occurrence of thromboembolism. Patients with lung cancer have increased inflammatory response and are more prone to suffer thrombosis. However, in lung cancer patients, the clinical correlation between EAT and pulmonary embolism has not been reported. Objective: To analyze the risk factors of poor prognosis in lung cancer patients with PE, and to explore the predictive value of EAT in pulmonary embolism events and death in lung cancer patients. Methods: EAT volume and density, as well as anthropometric and blood biomarkers, were evaluated in a sample of lung cancer patients, half with pulmonary embolism and half without. The incidence of adverse prognosis and related factors were followed up by telephone.
Pulmonary Embolism|Lung Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CTPA (computed tomography pulmonary angiography)
EAT volume, volume of epicardial adipose tissue (EAT), Cm3, May, 20, 2023|EAT density, density of epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) , Hounsfield Units (HU), May, 20, 2023
The occurrence and progression of lung cancer is related to visceral adipose tissue (VAT). Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is a kind of VAT, producing a variety of inflammatory cytokines and adipokines, participating in the formation of local inflammation, promoting the formation of pre-thrombotic state, and leading to the occurrence of thromboembolism. Patients with lung cancer have increased inflammatory response and are more prone to suffer thrombosis. However, in lung cancer patients, the clinical correlation between EAT and pulmonary embolism has not been reported. Objective: To analyze the risk factors of poor prognosis in lung cancer patients with PE, and to explore the predictive value of EAT in pulmonary embolism events and death in lung cancer patients. Methods: EAT volume and density, as well as anthropometric and blood biomarkers, were evaluated in a sample of lung cancer patients, half with pulmonary embolism and half without. The incidence of adverse prognosis and related factors were followed up by telephone.