Dual 64Cu-DOTATATE and 18F-FDG PET/CT Imaging of Patients With Neuroendocrine Neoplasms
Prospective clinical trial investigating combined, dual 18F-FDG PET/CT and 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT imaging of patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms (GEP-NEN)
GEP-NET|Neuroendocrine Tumors|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma Metastatic
DRUG: 18F-FDG|DRUG: 64Cu-Dotatate
Progression free survival (PFS), Time to disease progression from PET/CT scans. Disease progression is defined as a composite measure (whichever occurs first) of RECIST-1.1 defined radiological progression, commencement of another systemic therapy and/or surgery/embolization/ablation related to worsening to the patient's disease status after the index scan, progression evaluated by a multidisciplinary tumor board, and death related to the patient's NEN disease. In case of uncertainty if progression has occurred, the patient's disease status will be evaluated by a multidisciplinary tumor board., 12 months after last-patients-last-visit
Overall survival (OS), Time to death from PET/CT scans., 12 months after last-patients-last-visit|Correlation between tumor standardized uptake values (SUV) on 18F-FDG PET and 64Cu-DOTATATE PET, SUV measured on matched tumors on 18F-FDG PET and 64Cu-DOTATATE PET are compared, 12 months after last-patients-last-visit|Proportion of patients eligible for peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT), The proportion of patients who are considered eligible for PRRT based on their 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT according to the routine clinical guidelines at the department, 12 months after last-patients-last-visit
Patients with neuroendocrine neoplasms (NEN) represent a heterogeneous disease group with variable prognosis. NEN most frequently arise from the gastrointestinal tract or the pancreas; collectively termed GEP-NEN. Grading of GEP-NEN is based on tumor proliferation index (Ki-67) from biopsies or surgical resection specimens into: low grade G1 neuroendocrine tumor (NET) (Ki-67\<3%), intermediate grade G2 NET (Ki-67 3-20%) and high grade NEN (Ki-67%\>20). High grade NENs are further categorized according to tissue morphology into well-differentiated G3 neuroendocrine tumors (NET) and poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (NEC).

A common feature of most NETs is the overexpression of somatostatin receptors (SSR) on the tumor cell surface. Whole-body PET/CT imaging with radiolabelled SSR-targeted tracers, e.g. 64Cu-DOTATATE, plays a key role in diagnosis, staging, treatment selection and response evaluation of patients with NET. Measurements of 64Cu-DOTATATE tumor standardized uptake values (SUV) and tumor volume on PET/CT provide prognostic value for patients with NET. Patients with high grade NEN often have lower SSR expression and SSR PET/CT is infrequently routinely performed in these patients. However, we expect that the SUV and tumor volume from 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT also holds prognostic information for patients with high grade NEN and that some patients may prove eligible for PRRT based on the scans.

18F-FDG PET/CT imaging is widely used in cancers, but is routinely primarily reserved for patients with high grade NEN. However, 18F-FDG PET/CT also holds prognostic information for patients with lower grade NET.

By combining 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18F-FDG PET/CT imaging, we expect to obtain complementary prognostic information for patients with GEP-NEN of all grades. In this clinical trial, we will therefore investigate and compare the tumor phenotypes found on 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT performed within 4 weeks in patients with GEP-NET G1-3 and GEP-NEC. The aim of the trial is to establish prognostic models for progression-free-survival (PSF) and overall survival (OS) including tumor status (positive/negative), SUV measurements, and tumor volume derived from the dual 64Cu-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT scans.