Cardiovascular Reserve Evaluation in Survivors of Transplant, CREST Study
This study evaluates how well the heart, lungs, and muscles are working individually, and how these systems are working together in transplant survivors. Information collected in this study may help doctors to understand why hematopoietic stem cell transplant survivors are at higher risk for developing cardiovascular disease.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Plasma Cell Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Bioelectric Impedance Analysis|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Physical Performance Testing|PROCEDURE: Pulmonary Function Test|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound
Cardiovascular reserve capacity, as measured by VO2peak, in HCT survivors, We will measure initial VO2peak in patients prior to HCT and its post-HCT trajectory over time; compare VO2peak in HCT survivors at baseline (pre-HCT), 6m, 1Y, and 2Y post-HCT to established age- and sex-normative data; and define the association between VO2peak and self-reported health-related quality of life (HRQOL) at baseline/over time., Up to 24 months post-hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)|Determinants of VO2peak impairment in HCT survivors, We will use Generalized Estimating Equation(GEE) and generalized linear models to examine the correlation between VO2peak and measures of:

1. cardiac (left ventricular function/ contractility \[systolic, diastolic, cardiac output, strain\], ventricular-arterial (VA) coupling, arterial elastance);
2. pulmonary (obstructive, restrictive lung disease, diffusion capacity);
3. musculoskeletal (body composition \[% lean muscle mass\], muscle quality, two minute step in place test, 30 second sit to stand test, timed up and go); and
4. hematologic function, adjusting for potential confounding variables (e.g. age, sex) and time since HCT., Up to 24 months post-hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate cardiovascular reserve capacity, as measured by peak oxygen consumption (VO2peak), in hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) survivors.

II. Define the determinants of VO2peak impairment in HCT survivors.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo echocardiogram to assess cardiac function and mechanics, cardiopulmonary exercise test, pulmonary function test, musculoskeletal ultrasound, bioelectrical impedance analysis to measure total lean body mass and percent body fat), physical function tests, and collection of blood samples within 45 days from the start of conditioning therapy, and at 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years post-transplant.