A Study of Xeloda (Capecitabine) as Adjuvant Monotherapy in Patients With Colon Cancer.
This single arm study will evaluate the safety profile of Xeloda as monotherapy for adjuvant treatment of colon cancer. All patients will receive Xeloda 1250mg/m2 p.o. twice daily as intermittent treatment (3 week cycles consisting of 2 weeks of treatment followed by 1 week without treatment). The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: capecitabine [Xeloda]
Percentage of Participants With an Adverse Event (AE), Serious AE, or Death Due to an AE, The postmarketing safety profile of capecitabine was evaluated by collection of AEs, clinical laboratory data, vital signs, and other findings from physical examination. Abnormalities in these findings were captured as AEs, defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant regardless of the suspected cause. Serious AEs were those which, at any dose, met one or more of the following criteria: resulted in fatality, were life-threatening, necessitated new or prolonged existing hospitalization, produced persistent or significant disability, resulted in congenital anomaly or birth defect, were considered medically significant, or required intervention to prevent any of the aforementioned outcomes. Those specific serious AEs which resulted in fatality were also reported separately. The percentage of participants with an AE, serious AE, or AE resulting in death was calculated as \[number of participants with event divided by number analyzed\] multiplied by 100., Up to 25 weeks (from Baseline to the end of safety follow-up)
Percentage of Participants With Early Withdrawal or Discontinuation Due to an AE, The postmarketing safety profile of capecitabine was evaluated by collection of AEs, clinical laboratory data, vital signs, and other findings from physical examination. Abnormalities in these findings were captured as AEs, defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant regardless of the suspected cause. The percentage of participants with early withdrawal or treatment discontinuation due to an AE was calculated as \[number of participants with event divided by number analyzed\] multiplied by 100., Up to 25 weeks (from Baseline to the end of safety follow-up)
This single arm study will evaluate the safety profile of Xeloda as monotherapy for adjuvant treatment of colon cancer. All patients will receive Xeloda 1250mg/m2 p.o. twice daily as intermittent treatment (3 week cycles consisting of 2 weeks of treatment followed by 1 week without treatment). The anticipated time on study treatment is 3-12 months, and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.