Dabrafenib Combined With Trametinib After Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly-Diagnosed High-Grade Glioma
This phase II trial studies how well the combination of dabrafenib and trametinib works after radiation therapy in children and young adults with high grade glioma who have a genetic change called BRAF V600 mutation. Radiation therapy uses high energy rays to kill tumor cells and reduce the size of tumors. Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking BRAF and MEK, respectively, which are enzymes that tumor cells need for their growth. Giving dabrafenib with trametinib after radiation therapy may work better than treatments used in the past in patients with newly-diagnosed BRAF V600-mutant high-grade glioma.
Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Anaplastic Astrocytoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Anaplastic Ganglioglioma|Anaplastic Pleomorphic Xanthoastrocytoma|Glioblastoma|Malignant Glioma|WHO Grade 3 Glioma|WHO Grade 4 Glioma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Dabrafenib Mesylate|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Trametinib Dimethyl Sulfoxide
Event-free survival (EFS) for stratum 1, The EFS curve for the new treatment cohort (stratum 1) will be estimated by Kaplan Meier estimates. A 2-sample, 1 sided log-rank test will be used to test whether the EFS distribution is better in new treatment compared with historical control. Calculation of the EFS will be based on the site determination as central review will be performed retrospectively., From the date of diagnosis until disease progression date, secondary malignant neoplasm occurrence date, death date of any cause, or last follow-up, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS) for stratum 1, stratum 2, and stratum 3, The OS curve for the new treatment cohort (stratum 1) will be estimated by Kaplan Meier estimates. A 2-sample, 1 sided log-rank test will be used to test whether the OS distribution is better in new treatment compared with historical control. For stratum 2 and stratum 3, Kaplan Meier estimates will be provided for OS distribution., From the date of diagnosis until death date of any cause or last follow up date, assessed up to 5 years|Event-free survival (EFS) for stratum 2 and stratum 3, For stratum 2 and stratum 3, Kaplan Meier estimates will be provided for EFS distribution., Follow up date, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Graded per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Grade 3 and higher toxicities observed by cycle will be listed for each stratum separately. The grade 3 and higher toxicities observed by cycle and by system organ class for the eligible patients will also be listed for each stratum separately. Toxicity data will be reported separately for the radiation therapy phase versus the maintenance therapy phase for clarity of attribution. Toxicity monitoring will include toxicities such as grade 2 or higher pyrexia, uveitis, retinal vein occlusion, retinal pigment epithelial detachment, and decreased left ventricular ejection fraction., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the event-free survival (EFS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with BRAF\^V600-mutant high-grade glioma (HGG) without H3 K27M mutations excluding anaplastic pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (aPXA) and anaplastic ganglioglioma (aGG) treated with radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib mesylate (dabrafenib) and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide (trametinib) and to compare this EFS to contemporary historical controls.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with BRAF\^V600-mutant HGG without H3 K27M mutations excluding aPXA and aGG treated with radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

II. To describe the EFS and overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with BRAF\^V600E-mutant aPXA and aGG without H3 K27M mutations treated with radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

III. To describe the EFS and overall survival (OS) distribution for newly-diagnosed patients with BRAF\^V600E-mutant HGG including aPXA and aGG with H3 K27M mutations treated with radiation therapy followed by a maintenance combination of dabrafenib and trametinib.

IV. To define and evaluate the toxicities of combination therapy with dabrafenib and trametinib after radiation therapy in newly-diagnosed patients with HGG.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank tumor specimens and body fluids (blood, urine and cerebrospinal fluid) for future studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo standardized local radiation therapy (RT) 5 days a week (Monday-Friday) for 6-7 weeks. Four weeks after completion of RT, patients receive dabrafenib mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib dimethyl sulfoxide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) at baseline, on day 1 of cycles 1, 3, 5, 7, 11, 14, 17, 20, and 23 while on treatment, then at time of relapse, every 3 months for year 1, every 4 months for year 3, every 6 months for year 3, and annually for years 4-5. Patients may also undergo lumbar puncture for cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) testing during treatment. Patients also undergo collection of blood on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at disease relapse, every 3 months for year 1, every 4 months for year 2, every 6 months for year 3, then annually for years 4-5.