Treatment Outcomes of Retroperitoneal Sarcoma
Investigators tried condult a retrospective study to analysis the prognostic factors and oncological outcome analysis of Retroperitoneal Sarcoma treated in our high volume medical center.
Retroperitoneal Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: tumor wide excision
Overall survival, After treatment, patients will undergo long-term follow-up to record their survival status., The proportion of patients still alive at 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years after treatment.
Progression free survival, Progression defined as local, regional, or distant metastasis, The rates of local recurrence, regional recurrence, or distant metastasis at 1 year, 3 years, and 5 years after treatment.
The resectability of preoperative embolization, Preoperative embolization for assessing resectability combines radiology, angiography, and transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE). Initially, imaging techniques such as X-rays or CT scans are used to understand the characteristics of the lesions. Then, angiography is employed to observe the tumor\&#39;s blood supply. Finally, TAE not only evaluates the vascular supply to the tumor but also helps reduce its size through embolization, enhancing resectability. The comprehensive results of these assessments contribute to developing a safe and effective surgical plan., From the start of preoperative evaluations to the day of surgery, it typically spans 7 days.|The value of eGFR in renal function, eGFR is an important biomarker used to assess kidney function and monitor renal health. It represents the volume of blood filtered by the glomeruli per minute, typically expressed in milliliters per minute (mL/min). A venous blood sample will be collected and analyzed in the laboratory to determine the value., Period from date before surgery to the date one year after suregry
Retroperitoneal Sarcoma (RPS) which is a rare disease which incidence is 1.79/100,000. The treatment is difficult to due to it anatomy position which often invade to multiple organs and cause the complete surgical resection to be very complex and difficult. It was known to sacrifice one side kidney will improve the resection rate. To this days, successful surgical resection was still the gold standard that provide most benefit in overall survival. To reach that goal, pre-operative radiotherapy was applied to RPS which intended to achieve similar effect in rectal cancer for the down staging effect and improved the respectability but with limited benefit. Herein, investigators conducted this study to find the best way to achieve successful surgical resection and prognostic factor analysis.