A Study of Ivosidenib or Enasidenib in Combination With Induction Therapy and Consolidation Therapy, Followed by Maintenance Therapy in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Myedysplastic Syndrome EB2, With an IDH1 or IDH2 Mutation, Respectively, Eligible for Intensive Chemotherapy
AML and MDS-EB2 are malignancies of the bone marrow. The standard treatment for these diseases is chemotherapy. Patients participating have a special type of this disease because the leukemia cells (blasts) have developed an error in the genetic material (DNA). This error is called an IDH1 mutation or an IDH2 mutation (a mutation is a change in the DNA), which leads to changes in specific substances in the leukemia cells. This trial will investigate whether the addition of the new drugs Ivosidenib (for patients with IDH1 mutation) or Enasidenib (for patients with IDH2 mutation) to the standard treatment of chemotherapy controle the disease more effectively and for a longer period.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts-2
DRUG: AG-120|DRUG: Placebo for AG-120|DRUG: AG-221|DRUG: Placebo for AG-221
Event-free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization to failure to achieve CR or CRi after remission induction, death after achieving CR or CRi or relapse after achieving CR or CRi, whichever occurs first. A patient is said to have failed to achieve CR or CRi after induction therapy, if his/her best response during or at completion of the induction treatment is less than CRi. Patients who achieved CR/CRi after remission induction and are not known to have relapsed or died will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment., Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment
Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. Patients still alive or lost to follow up will be censored at the time they were last known to be alive., Approximately up to 84 months following first patient enrollment|Relapse-free survival (RFS) after CR/CRi, RFS is defined as time from the date of achievement of CR/CRi until relapse or death from any cause, whichever comes first. Patients still in first CR/CRi and alive or lost to follow up will be censored at the date of last clinical assessment., Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|Cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) after CR/CRi, CIR is measured from the date of achievement of CR/CRi until the date of relapse. Patients not known to have relapsed will be censored on the date of last clinical assessment. Patients who died without relapse will be counted as a competing cause of failure., Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|Cumulative incidence of death (CID) after CR/CRi, CID is measured from the date of achievement of CR/CRi until the date of death from any cause. Patients not known to have died will be censored on the date they were last known to be alive. Patients who experienced relapse in CR/CRi will be counted as competing cause of failure., Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|Complete remission without minimal residual disease (CRMRD-) rate after induction cycle 2, CRMRD- rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved CR or CRi with no evidence of MRD in bone marrow, Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|Frequency and severity of adverse events according to CTCAE version 5.0, Adverse events will be evaluated using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for AEs (CTCAE) version 5.0, Continuously throughout the study, starting from informed consent until 30 days following the last administration of any study drug|CR/CRi rates after induction cycle 1 and 2, CR and CRi are determined by the Investigator based on the European LeukemiaNet (ELN2017) recommended response criteria, Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|CR/CRi rate after remission induction (i.e., CR or CRi as best response during or at completion of induction therapy), CR+CRi rate after remission induction is defined as the percentage of patients with best response of CR or CRi during or at completion of induction therapy, Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|Time to hematopoietic recovery after each chemotherapy treatment cycle, Time to hematopoietic recovery is defined as the time from the start of the cycle until recovery, Approximately up to 60 months following first patient enrollment|EQ-5D-5L visual analogue scale (VAS), The EQ-5D-5L is a 5 item questionnaire that assesses 5 domains including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression plus a visual analog scale rating "health today". Each domain has 5 levels. Each level has a 1 digit number expressing the level selected for that dimension. These levels are summed up and the self-rated health is recorded on a 20 cm vertical, visual analogue scale, with endpoints labelled 'the best health you can imagine' and 'the worst health you can imagine'., At entry, 1st day of maintenance, every 3 months during the first year of maintenance, every 6 months during the second year of maintenance until relapse or treatment discontinuation (approximately up to 84 months following first patient enrollment)|EORTC-QLQ-C30 global health status/QoL scale., The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire that assesses 5 functional subdomains (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning and social functioning), 1 global health status, 3 symptom subdomains (fatigue, nausea and vomiting and pain) and 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level. Estimate the average of the items that contribute to the scale; this is the raw score. a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., At entry, 1st day of maintenance, every 3 months during the first year of maintenance, every 6 months during the second year of maintenance until relapse or treatment discontinuation (approximately up to 84 months following first patient enrollment)
AML and MDS-EB2 are malignancies of the bone marrow. The standard treatment for these diseases is chemotherapy. Patients participating have a special type of this disease because the leukemia cells (blasts) have developed an error in the genetic material (DNA). This error is called an IDH1 mutation or an IDH2 mutation (a mutation is a change in the DNA), which leads to changes in specific substances in the leukemia cells. This trial will investigate whether the addition of the new drugs Ivosidenib (for patients with IDH1 mutation) or Enasidenib (for patients with IDH2 mutation) to the standard treatment of chemotherapy controle the disease more effectively and for a longer period.