Palifermin in Lessening Oral Mucositis in Patients Undergoing Radiation Therapy and Chemotherapy for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Cancer
RATIONALE: Growth factors, such as palifermin, may lessen the severity of mucositis, or mouth sores, in patients receiving radiation therapy and chemotherapy for head and neck cancer. It is not yet known whether palifermin is more effective than a placebo in lessening mucositis in patients receiving radiation therapy and chemotherapy for head and neck cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying palifermin to see how well it works compared to a placebo in lessening oral mucositis in patients undergoing radiation therapy and chemotherapy for locally advanced head and neck cancer.
Head and Neck Cancer|Mucositis|Pain|Radiation Toxicity
BIOLOGICAL: palifermin|DRUG: cisplatin|OTHER: placebo|PROCEDURE: neck dissection|RADIATION: radiation therapy
Duration of Oral Mucositis as Measured in Terms of Days, Duration in days of World Heath Organization (WHO) Grades 3 and 4 oral mucositis during the acute period (defined to be 105 days \[15 weeks\] or less from the start of treatment); duration is calculated from the onset of a Grade 3 or 4 oral mucositis to the day when an oral mucositis of ≤ Grade 2 is reported after the last oral mucositis of Grade 3 or 4. Patients with grade 0-2 mucositis have a duration of 0.

This study required 298 patients to detect via two-sided t-test a reduction of mean duration of at least 9 days from 29 days (standard deviation = 23 days) on the placebo arm with 90% power and alpha = 0.05.

Statistical testing was not done due to the small sample size., Twice-weekly from start of treatment up to 15 weeks after the start of treatment.
Number of Patients With Grade 3 or 4 Mucositis as Measured by the World Heath Organization (WHO) Scale, Adverse events are graded using CTCAE v3.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v3.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild AE, Grade 2 Moderate AE, Grade 3 Severe AE, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE, Grade 5 Death related to AE., Twice-weekly from start of treatment up to 15 weeks after the start of treatment.|Time to Onset of Grade 3 or 4 Oral Mucositis as Measured by the World Heath Organization (WHO) Scale, Adverse events are graded using CTCAE v3.0. Grade refers to the severity of the AE. The CTCAE v3.0 assigns Grades 1 through 5 with unique clinical descriptions of severity for each AE based on this general guideline: Grade 1 Mild AE, Grade 2 Moderate AE, Grade 3 Severe AE, Grade 4 Life-threatening or disabling AE, Grade 5 Death related to AE., Twice-weekly from start of treatment up to 15 weeks after the start of treatment.|Overall Survival, An event is death from any cause. Overall survival was not calculated due to the limited number of events. Number of patients with an event is reported., From randomization to maximum follow-up at time of analysis of 21 months|Progression-free Survival, An event is defined as the first occurrence of local, regional, distant disease. Progression-free survival is calculated at the time from registration to the death of progression, death in the absence of progression, or last follow-up. Progression-free survival was not calculated due to the limited number of events. Number of patients with an event is reported., From randomization to maximum follow-up at time of analysis of 21 months|Time to Second Primary Tumor, An event is occurrence of a second primary other than basal cell. Time to second primary tumor was not calculated because there were no events. Number of patients with an event is reported., From randomization to maximum follow-up at time of analysis of 21 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare the efficacy of palifermin vs placebo, in terms of burden of acute mucositis (defined to be 105 days \[15 weeks\] or less from the start of treatment), in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity, oropharynx, hypopharynx, or larynx undergoing concurrent radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

Secondary

* Compare incidence and time to onset of Grades 3 or 4 oral mucositis in patients treated with these regimens.
* Compare overall and progression-free survival and time to second primary in patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage (III vs IVA or IVB), tumor site (oral cavity or oropharynx vs hypopharynx or larynx), and radiotherapy technique used on study (intensity-modulated radiotherapy \[IMRT\] vs 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy \[3D-CRT\]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Mucositis, pain, and symptom burden are assessed at baseline, during radiotherapy, and post radiotherapy. Xerostomia is assessed at baseline, during radiotherapy, and several times after completion of study therapy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for 10 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 298 patients will be accrued for this study.