Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Cancer of the Urinary Tract
This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients with advanced or metastatic cancer of the urinary tract. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Metastatic Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Recurrent Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Regional Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter|Stage III Bladder Cancer|Stage IV Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of Paricipants With Tumour Response Defined as Partial or Complete Response Per the RECIST 1.0 Criteria, Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years
Number of Participants With Stable Disease for More Than 3 Months, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD), \>=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD., From the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met, up to 5 years|Time to Progression, Progression is defined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours Criteria (RECIST v1.0) as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in non-target lesions, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Summary statistics, such as the mean, median, counts and proportion, will be used to summarize the patients. Survival estimates will be computed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Potential association between variables will be measured using Pearson correlation coefficients, chi-square tests, one- or two-sample t-tests or logistic regression analyses as appropriate. Non-parametric tests such as Spearman correlation coefficients, Fisher's exact tests and Wilcoxon tests may be substituted if necessary. 95% confidence intervals will be constructed and selected results will be illustrated., From start of treatment to progression or death, assessed up to 1 year|Frequency of Common Grade 3 Adverse Events, Will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy (response rate and stable disease rate) of Bay 439006 given to patients with advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer.

II. To assess the toxicity, time to progression and response duration of Bay 439006 given to patients with advanced or metastatic urothelial cancer.

III. To measure Ras mutational status and EGFR/HER2 on archival specimens. To determine baseline and post-treatment levels of pERK, pAKT, VEGFR2, CD31, Ki-67/MIB-1, and cleaved caspase 3 and to explore the relationship between these correlative endpoints and clinical outcome.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 3 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.