Testing A New Anti-cancer Drug Combination, Entinostat and ZEN003694, for Advanced and Refractory Solid Tumors and Lymphomas
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of entinostat and ZEN003694 in treating patients with solid tumors or lymphoma that has spread to other places in the body (advanced) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Entinostat may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is in a class of drugs called histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor. ZEN003694 is an inhibitor of a family of proteins called the bromodomain and extra-terminal (BET). ZEN003694 may prevent the growth of tumor cells that produce high levels of BET protein. This trial aims to test the safety of combination therapy with entinostat and ZEN003694 in treating patients with advanced or refractory solid tumors or lymphoma.
Advanced Lymphoma|Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Advanced Pancreatic Carcinoma|B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Carcinoma|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Lymphoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Pancreatic Carcinoma|Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: BET Bromodomain Inhibitor ZEN-3694|PROCEDURE: Core Biopsy|DRUG: Entinostat
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (Phase Ib), The MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which \< 33% of the dose cohort (0 of 3 or 1 of 6) experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in the first cycle. Up to 3 additional patients (maximum enrollment 6) will be added at the MTD level to more fully characterize the safety of the drug combination. If \< 33% (2) patients in this expanded cohort experience a DLT, this will be declared the MTD, and thus the phase 2 dose. If 2 or more patients experience a DLT, this dose level will be adopted as the maximum administered dose (MAD) and drop to the dose level immediately below, for the MTD and the phase 2 dose., Up to 28 days|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (Phase Ib), The RP2D is generally defined as =\<1 out of 6 at highest dose level below the maximally administered dose., Up to 28 days|Objective response rate (ORR) (Phase II), Each patient will be assigned one of the following categories: 1) complete response, 2) partial response, 3) stable disease, 4) progressive disease, 5) early death from malignant disease, 6) early death from toxicity, 7) early death because of other cause, or 9) unknown (not assessable, insufficient data). All of the patients who met the eligibility criteria (with the possible exception of those who received no study medication) should be included in the main analysis of the response rate. Patients in response categories 4-9 should be considered to have a treatment failure (disease progression). Thus, an incorrect treatment schedule or drug administration does not result in exclusion from the analysis of the response rate. Precise definitions for categories 4-9 will be protocol specific., Up to 4 weeks post intervention
Response rate (RR) in patients with advanced/progressive pancreatic cancer (Phase II), The exact two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the RR will be reported., Up to 4 weeks post intervention|Duration of response, The 95% CIs for the duration of response will be reported., Up to 4 weeks post intervention|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the 95% CIs. The CI based on Greenwood's variance will be reported. In addition, the possible risk factors will be compared for survival with log-rank test. In addition, the 95% CIs for the duration of response will be reported., Up to 4 weeks post intervention|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method with the 95% CIs. The CI based on Greenwood's variance will be reported. In addition, the possible risk factors will be compared for survival with log-rank test. In addition, the 95% CIs for the duration of response will be reported., Up to 4 weeks post intervention
Whole-exome sequencing analysis, The statistical analysis for selecting winner features, analysis will be completed using Lasso-based elastic net method. The elastic net method is a variable selection procedure by L1 and L2 penalized estimation that enforces variable selection and shrinkage simultaneously. The penalty parameter that controls the shrinkage of fixed terms and the variable selection will be determined by leave-one-out cross-validation (LOOCV)., Up to 4 weeks post intervention|Non-sequencing biomarker analysis, Statistical and bioinformatic data analysis for laboratory non-omics data and clinical data will utilize the following general strategies, as appropriate. For single time-point lab data, tests of hypotheses concerning within-group comparisons will be completed using the paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test for continuous parameters of interest, or McNemar's Chi-square test for categorical parameters of interest. Between-group comparisons will be assessed using either analysis of variance (ANOVA) with adjusted least squares means or Fisher's exact test, for continuous or categorical variables of interest, respectively. For count or binary multiple time-points or correlated data, tests of between-group comparisons will be completed using the generalized estimating equation (GEE) statistical procedure for longitudinal data analysis with multiple observable vectors for the same subject., Up to 4 weeks post intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of BET bromodomain inhibitor ZEN-3694 (ZEN003694) and entinostat in combination in patients with advanced and refractory solid tumors and lymphomas based on dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) of the combination of ZEN003694 and entinostat. (Phase I) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of ZEN003694 and entinostat in advanced/progressive pancreatic cancer. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety profile of ZEN003694 and entinostat in advanced and refractory solid tumors and lymphomas. (Phase I) II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival (OS) of ZEN003694 and entinostat in this patient population. (Phase I) III. To describe the safety profile of ZEN003694 and entinostat in advanced/progressive pancreatic cancer. (Phase II) IV. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS), duration of response (DOR), and overall survival (OS) of ZEN003694 and entinostat in this patient population. (Phase II) V. To assess the effect of ZEN003694 and entinostat therapy on apoptosis, as measured by an apoptosis multiplex immunoassay. (Phase I \& II)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of ZEN003694 and entinostat therapy on c-MYC and YAP1 as measured by apoptosis immunofluorescence assay.

II. To assess the effect of ZEN003694 and entinostat therapy on c-MYC and YAP1 as measured by ribonucleic acid (RNA) and protein expression.

III. To assess the effect of ZEN003694 and entinostat therapy on tumor burden and gene expression patterns as measured by whole exome sequencing (WES) and RNA sequencing (RNASeq) on circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) specimens.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ZEN003694 in combination with entinostat followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I RUN-IN PERIOD: Patients receive ZEN003694 orally (PO) once daily (QD) during days -14 to 1. Patients also undergo core needle biopsy within 30 days prior to starting therapy.

PHASE II RUN-IN PERIOD: Patients receive ZEN003694 PO QD or entinostat PO once per week (QW) during days -14 to 1 based on the order to which they are enrolled to the study (e.g. every other patient starts by taking ZEN003694 alone for 14 days). Patients also undergo core needle biopsy within 30 days prior to starting therapy.

PHASE I \& II COMBINATION TREATMENT: Patients receive entinostat PO QW on days 1, 8, 15, and 22, and ZEN003694 PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo core needle biopsy on day 1 of cycle 1, and on day 1 of cycle 14.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days.