Virtual Peer-to-Peer (VP2P) Support Mentoring for Adolescents With Cancer
The overall aim of this research program is to develop and examine the impact of a Cancer virtual peer-to-peer (VP2P) Support Program on health-related quality of life (HRQL) in adolescents with cancer (AWC). In the current proposal, the feasibility of trialing the Skype-based VP2P program providing peer-support from mentors and the magnitude of program effect estimates will be evaluated in a pilot randomized control trial (RCT). This pilot RCT will enable us to refine the program and determine the appropriate sample size for a future large-scale RCT, which will compare the effectiveness of VP2P to a waitlist control group at a major Children's Oncology Group- affiliated centers in Canada and the United States.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Virtual Peer-to-Peer Support Mentoring
Accrual and Attrition rates, 2 months|Adherence, 100% if calls completed over 10 weeks, 2 months|Proportion of completed questionnaires, 100% if all questions completed, 2 months|Technical difficulties - developed by the investigator, Date, time and issue will be collected, 2 months|Acceptability - semi structured interviews with AWC and mentors, Semi-structured interviews will be developed by the investigator, 2 months
Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL), Using PedsQL and its Cancer Module, 2 months|Knowledge, Using Adolescent Cancer Knowledge Questionnaire, 2 months|Perceived social support, Perceived Social Support from Friends, 2 months|Self-efficacy, Generalized Self-Efficacy Sherer Scale will be used to measure self-efficacy where 1 = not true and 4 = exactly true.

Reliability: Internal consistency is good for adolescents. α = 0.87 Validity: Evidence of good construct validity as positively correlated with Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale., 2 months|Transition readiness, Transition-Q Readiness scale will be used to measure transition readiness. Reliability: Internal consistency good, α = 0.87. Test-retest reliability = 0.90 Validity: Construct validity supported by scores for transition readiness being lower for younger children (p \< 0.01) and those who needed assistance completing the scale (p \< 0.01). Scores were incrementally higher according to agreement with the statement, "I am ready to transfer to adult health care" (p \< 0.01).

Scale options are from 0 to 2; 0 = never, 1 = sometimes, 2 = always. A higher score refers to higher transition readiness, 2 months
Frequency and content, The nature (frequency and content) of the emotional, appraisal and informational support provided by mentors during VP2P sessions will be established. Data for this outcome will be collected from the audio-recorded Skype calls and text messages from each AWC-mentor dyad., 2 months|Mentor physical and emotional symptoms SF-36 physical and mental scales, Effect sizes for mentor physical and emotional symptoms (using SF-36 physical and mental scales), 2 months|Mentor perceived social role satisfaction - PROMIS Satisfaction with Social Roles and Activities, 2 months
The aim of this project is to develop and examine the impact of a virtual peer support program on health outcomes and quality of life of adolescents with cancer using a waitlist randomized controlled trial. In addition to standard medical care, adolescents in the experimental group will receive a manualized peer mentorship program that will provide modelling and reinforcement by trained young adults aged 18-25 years who have learned to function successfully with their pain. Mentoring sessions consist of 10 sessions of 30-45 minute Skype calls over 8 weeks. Feasibility of the program will be measured in addition to quality of life, physical and emotional symptoms, pain coping, self-efficacy, social support, and self-management skills.