The LINFU® U.S. Registry for the Detection of Asymptomatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
Adenocyte has developed LINFU®, (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas) as a method of identifying early, asymptomatic pancreatic cancer and its noninvasive precancerous lesions. The test involves ultrasound and an analysis of pancreatic juice. A neural network-based computer-assisted system may be utilized to enhance the analysis. Patients enrolled are being screened for pancreatic cancer because they have known risk factors (i.e. smoking, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, family history of pancreatic cancer, or certain genetic syndromes).
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia
The number of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® will be compared to standard screening methods, The total number of asymptomatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified with LINFU® by analysis of pancreatic fluid will be compared to the number of these lesions identified with current screening tests, including EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS., 5 years
The change in size of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® will be determined over a 5 year period., Patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be monitored long- term (5 years) by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS to assess whether these tumors increase in size (measured in mm) and to determine how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years|Determine the number of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® that require medical or surgical intervention., Patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be monitored long- term (5 years) by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS to assess whether these tumors increase how many require medical or surgical intervention., 5 years
Yearly survival rate of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas or their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU®, Patients will be followed by EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT and CEUS and yearly survival rates of patients with early pancreatic ductal adenocarcinomas and their noninvasive precursor lesions identified only with LINFU® and not detected with other diagnostic tests will be recorded., 5 years
Adenocyte has developed a proprietary pancreatic cancer detection method, LINFU®, (Low Intensity Non-Focused Ultrasound excitation of the pancreas) to increase the sensitivity of pancreatic juice cytology. LINFU® consists of analysis of pancreatic fluid collected with the help of low intensity non-focused ultrasound excitation of the pancreas. A contrast agent will be used to create bubbles and possibly increase the number of pancreatic cell we collect for the study. Secretin is also used to increase the number of pancreatic cell excretion to maximize the number of cells collected. A neural network-based computer-assisted system may be used to enhance the analysis of specimens.

In this registry, LINFU® will be studied in patients who are at increased risk for developing pancreatic cancer including those being screened because they have known risk factors (i.e. smoking, diabetes, chronic pancreatitis, family history of pancreatic cancer, or certain genetic syndromes) and are undergoing other diagnostic tests (i.e. EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT, CEUS).

In this registry, a standardized Case Report Form will be completed for every subject enrolled. Information obtained at baseline will include patient history, clinical and demographic information including relevant comorbidities and pancreatic disease history, and screening and pathology test results. The results of all diagnostic tests, surgeries, and biopsies performed after the LINFU® technique for a period of 5 years will be recorded and maintained as clinical registry data. This includes testing and procedures received since enrollment including EUS- FNA, MRI/MRCP, ERCP, CT, CEUS, treatments performed, pathology results, and pancreatic disease history since enrollment.

The registry case report form is the primary data collection instrument for the registry. All data requested on the form must be recorded and these forms will be monitored carefully by the sponsor to ensure they are completely filled out properly.

.