Study Title: Peri-operative Immuno-Chemotherapy in Operable Oesophageal and Gastric Cancer
A single centre phase II trial of peri-operative chemo-immunotherapy in operable gastro-oesophageal adenocarcinoma (GOA). This trial is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of administering Avelumab, an anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody, with cytotoxic FLOT chemotherapy for patients with operable GOA treated according to a peri-operative protocol.

This trial is in 2 stages: the first stage will establish the safe and tolerated maximum administered dose (MAD) of Avelumab in combination with FLOT and the second stage will assess the efficacy of this combination therapy in achieving pathological complete response (pCR) and peri-operative safety.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Oesophageal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: FLOT-A
Pathological complete response rate of combination FLOT-A, The primary objective is to assess the efficacy of FLOT-A in the peri-operative setting in patients with operable GOAs. We aim to increase the pCR rate after peri-operative treatment from 10% (minimum expected path CR rate for peri-operative FLOT chemotherapy), to a superior pCR rate of \>25%, by adding Avelumab to FLOT.

Complete histopathologic response is defined by no vital tumour cells neither in the oesophagus, the stomach nor in the regional lymph nodes. In cases of residual tumour, the response assessment will follow criteria described by Mandard et al., Within 2 years of study opening
Number of participants with grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Safety of peri-operative FLOT-A will be assessed by summarising grade 3-4 toxicity and DLT rates as proportions., Within 2 years|Radiological response rate using RECIST 1.1 criteria, Radiological response rate assessed at the pre-operative scan using RECIST 1.1 criteria. Radiological tumour response before surgery will be defined as partial response or complete response., Within 3 years|Median progression free survival by Kaplan Meir method, PFS will be summarised using Kaplan Meier methods, presenting median survival with 95% confidence intervals. PFS is defined as time from registration to clinical/radiological progression or death from any cause. Patients event free at time of analysis will be censored at last follow-up date., Within 5 years|Median overall survival by Kaplan Meir method, OS will be summarised using Kaplan Meier method, presenting median survival with 95% confidence intervals. OS is defined as time from registration to date of death of any cause. Patients event free at time of analysis will be censored at last follow-up date., Within 5 years
Patients will receive chemo-immunotherapy consisting of FLOT chemotherapy (Folinic acid 200mg/m2 iv infusion day 1, Oxaliplatin 85mg/m2 iv infusion day 1, Docetaxel 50mg/m2 iv day 1, Fluorouracil 2600mg/m2 over 24 hours iv) and the PD-L1 inhibiting monoclonal antibody Avelumab. The safe dose of Avelumab in combination with FLOT will be established in a safety run-in phase with a standard 3+3 design, starting with the recommended dose of 10mg/kg iv Avelumab (dose level 0) in which a dose reduction to 7mg/kg iv (dose level -1) may occur. Four cycles of two-weekly chemo-immunotherapy will be administered before surgery and four further cycles post-operatively in patients who are fit enough to receive further chemo-immunotherapy after surgery. Resectional surgery will take place 4-8 weeks following the last dose of chemo-immunotherapy in patients who remain fit.

Study Objectives:

To evaluate the safety, efficacy and toxicities and to explore biomarkers of peri-operative chemo-immunotherapy with Avelumab and FLOT.