A Study of Brentuximab Vedotin, Rituximab, and Dose Attenuated CHP in Elderly Patients With Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
This is a study incorporating brentuximab vedotin and dose attenuated rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (R-CHP) into initial therapy for elderly patients with DLBCL. Vincristine will be omitted from the standard R-CHOP regimen given the overlapping toxicities with brentuximab vedotin.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab vedotin|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone
Percent of Subjects Completing Regimen, Number of subjects who complete all 6 cycles of the therapy divided by the total number of subjects., 20 weeks
Overall Survival, Number of participants who are alive after two years., 2 years|Progression Free Survival, Per the Lugano Criteria, progression is defined as an individual node/lesion that increases in size by 50% or in the setting of splenomegaly, the splenic length must increase by 50% of the extent of its prior increase beyond baseline (eg, a 15-cm spleen must increase to 16 cm). If no prior splenomegaly, must increase by at least 2 cm from baseline or any new or recurrent splenomegaly or new or clear progression of preexisting non-measured lesions or regrowth of previously resolved lesions. or assessable disease of any size unequivocally attributable to lymphoma or new or recurrent involvement., 2 years|Overall Response Rate, The overall response rate is the proportion of subjects who achieve a complete response or partial response based on the Lugano Criteria. Per the Lugano Criteria, complete response is defined as a Deauville score of 1, 2 or 3 and partial response is defined as Deauville score of 4 or 5, but decreased from baseline. Using CT measurements a complete response is defined as decrease in lymph node size to 1.5 cm, while a partial response is a 50% or greater reduction in size in 6 target lesions., 20 weeks|Complete Response Rate, Proportion of participants who have a complete response rate. Per the Lugano Criteria, complete response is defined as a Deauville score of 1, 2 or 3 and partial response is defined as Deauville score of 4 or 5, but decreased from baseline. Using CT measurements a complete response is defined as decrease in lymph node size to 1.5 cm, while a partial response is a 50% or greater reduction in size in 6 target lesions., 20 weeks
Number of participants with impairment in physical function, Activities of daily living (ADL): ADLs are measures of self-care. ADL independence will be assessed using the Katz Index of Independence in Activities of Daily Living, commonly referred to as the Katz ADL. The Katz ADL is the most appropriate instrument to assess functional status as a measurement of the client's ability to perform activities of daily living independently. Clinicians typically use the tool to detect problems in performing activities of daily living and to plan care accordingly. The Index ranks adequacy of performance in the six functions of bathing, dressing, toileting, transferring, continence, and feeding. Clients are scored yes/no for independence in each of the six functions. A score of 6 indicates full function, 4 indicates moderate impairment, and 2 or less indicates impairment., 20 weeks|mean number of falls per participant, 20 weeks|Mean change in objective physical performance, Physical performance will be tested using the short physical performance battery (range 0-12). Impairment is a score of less than or equal to 9., baseline and 20 weeks|Mean number of comorbidities, 20 weeks|mean change in mini nutritional assessment, The current MNA® is a 6 question assessment that identifies older adults who are malnourished or at risk of malnutrition. Scale=0-30. A score of less than or equal to 11 indicates impairment., baseline and 20 weeks|Number of participants with any documented change in the Older Americans Resources and Services social resources assessment., This is a descriptive assessment., baseline and 20 weeks|mean change in the geriatric depression screen, The Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS) is a 30-item self-report assessment used to identify depression in the elderly. Scale ranges from 0-15 with a score of greater than or equal to 5 signifying impairment., baseline and 20 weeks|mean change in cognition score, Cognition will be assessed using the blessed orientation memory-concentration (BOMC) test. The BOMC is a screening tool allowing family members, caregivers, or health care professionals to check for suspected dementia in an elderly. Dementia is described as the progressive loss of memory and at least of one other cognitive area, such as language or behavior. The scale is -20 with a score of greater than 10 signifying impairment., baseline and 20 weeks
This is a multicenter, single-arm pilot study incorporating brentuximab vedotin and dose attenuated rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and prednisone (R-CHP) into initial therapy for elderly patients with DLBCL. Vincristine will be omitted from the standard R-CHOP regimen given the overlapping toxicities with brentuximab vedotin. CD30 positivity will be determined at enrollment and patients will be enrolled into a CD30 positive and negative group in equal numbers. Additionally, a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA) will be performed on all patients, but this will not be used to guide treatment decisions.