Testing the Addition of a New Anti-Cancer Drug, Triapine, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment (Cisplatin) During Radiation Therapy for Advanced-stage Cervical and Vaginal Cancers
This randomized phase III trial studies radiation therapy and cisplatin with triapine to see how well they work compared to the standard radiation therapy and cisplatin alone in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage IB2, II, or IIIB-IVA cervical cancer or stage II-IVA vaginal cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy protons to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Triapine may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether radiation therapy and cisplatin are more effective with triapine in treating cervical or vaginal cancer.
Advanced Vaginal Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Vaginal Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Advanced Vaginal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Cervical Adenocarcinoma|Cervical Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IB2 Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage II Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Cervical Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Cervical Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Vaginal Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Unresectable Vaginal Carcinoma|Vaginal Adenocarcinoma|Vaginal Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Vaginal Carcinoma|Vaginal Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Not Otherwise Specified
RADIATION: Brachytherapy|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Triapine
Overall Survival (OS) Rate at 3 Years, Estimate for probability of overall survival at 3 years by Kaplan-Meier method, where overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to time of death due to any cause or the date of last contact, whichever occurs first., At 3 years from randomization.
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate at 3 Years, Estimate for probability of progression free at 3 years by Kaplan-Meier method, where progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documented disease recurrence/progression, death from any cause or date of last contact, whichever occurs first. Recurrence is defined as clinical, radiological or histological evidence of recurrent disease post study treatment. Disease progression will be determined from the physical examinations, which were conducted during treatment (day 9, 16, 23, 30 and 37) and follow-up (1 and 3 months after completing protocol therapy, every 3 months for years 1 and 2, and every 6 months for years 3, 4 and 5), and the PET/CT scan conducted 3 months after the end of treatment. Please note that progression defined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1) is not required by the protocol., At 3 years from study randomization.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) During Treatment Period, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during treatment period. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v4.0., During treatment period and up to 30 days after stopping the study treatment with a median treatment time as 53 days ranging from 1 to 189 days.
Number of Participants With Hematologic Toxicity During Treatment Period, Number of participants with hematologic toxicity during treatment period, where hematologic toxicity is defined as occurrence of any grade 3 or higher adverse events for neutropenia, leukopenia, lymphopenia, anemia, or thrombocytopenia. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v4.0., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Grade 3 or Higher) That Occurred During Follow-Up Period, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher that occurred during follow-up period. Adverse events are graded and categorized using CTCAE v4.0., Up to 5 years|Peripheral Blood Methemoglobin, Peripheral blood methemoglobin collected at baseline and 1, 3, 5 and 24 hours after Triapine infusion on Day 1 in Arm II., Baseline to 24 hours after triapine infusion|Metabolic Complete Response (mCR), The assessment of metabolic complete response is based on the ratio of post 3-month therapy PET/CT maximum standardized update value (SUV) to pre-therapy PET/CT maximum SUV. The metabolic complete response is classified as complete response for a ratio of 0.33 or less, or partial response for a ratio between 0.34 and 0.75, or stable response for a ratio greater that 0.75 but less than 1.25, or progressive response for a ratio greater than 1.25., Up to 3 months after completion of treatment|Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IG-IMRT), Number of Participants with KBP IG-IMRT, Up to 60 days.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of the experimental regimen of triapine (3AP), cisplatin, and radiation to increase overall survival relative to the standard/control regimen of cisplatin and radiation in women with uterine cervix or vaginal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the relative progression-free survival impact of triapine-cisplatin radio-chemotherapy and cisplatin radio-chemotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate incidence and severity of hematologic and gastrointestinal (GI) adverse events by radiation modality; image guided intensity modulated radiation therapy (IG-IMRT) versus conventional pelvic radiotherapy. (05/30/2017) II. To summarize and compare differences in acute adverse events (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\], version \[v\]4.0) by treatment arm and by radiation modality. (05/30/2017) III. To summarize and compare differences in chronic or late (\>= 30-days from off study treatment date) adverse events (CTCAE, v4.0) by treatment arm and by radiation modality. (05/30/2017) IV. To determine peripheral blood methemoglobin proportion before and after triapine infusion (optional for Arm 2 patients).

V. To explore whether knowledge-based planning (KBP) can improve IG-IMRT plans compared to plans that would have been delivered without KBP, estimate the resulting toxicity reduction using normal tissue complication probability (NTCP) models, and determine whether KBP should be a requirement for future IG-IMRT protocols.

VI. To determine the post-therapy 3-month fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) PET/CT metabolic complete response rate by treatment arm VII. To compare acute toxicity and chemotherapy delivery for atlas-based IG-IMRT vs. positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT)-based IG-IMRT vs. conventional radiation therapy (RT), and assess the impact of treatment on changes in hematopoietic compensatory response.

VIII. To develop and validate machine learning and radiomics techniques for dose accumulation, automated treatment planning, and prediction of treatment response.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 2, 9, 16, 23, 30, (and day 36 or 37 at the treating physician's discretion). Patients then undergo external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) (either conventional RT or intensity modulated radiation therapy \[IMRT\]) once daily (QD) 5 days a week for 25 fractions followed by low dose rate (LDR) or high dose rate (HDR) brachytherapy according to institution's standards. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive cisplatin and undergo EBRT followed by brachytherapy as in Arm I. Patients also receive triapine IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 17, 19, 22, 24, 26, 29, 31, and 33. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months, every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months for 3 years.

The patient data from NCI #9434 will be merged with NRG-GY006 per the Protocol Analysis Plan.