A New Fast DWI-based MR Protocol for Surveillance in Patients With a High Risk of Ovarian Cancer Recurrence During PARP-inhibitors Maintenance to Enhance Secondary Cytoreduction Results
In ovarian cancer (OC), complete surgical debulking and platinum-based chemotherapy are the standard treatment, now followed by maintenance therapy with PARP inhibitors or Bevacizumab. However, in advanced-stage ovarian cancer, recurrence is common, with a progression-free survival of about 16 months. Secondary cytoreductive surgery (SCS) at the time of recurrence prolongs the overall survival and gives the possibility to extend the use of PARP-i. SCS is possible only when recurrence has limited extension. However, in OC, there is no well-established and widely accepted scheme for surveillance during maintenance therapy; ESMO guidelines suggest physical examination for the follow-up and allow ultrasound, CT, PET-CT and MRI to confirm the recurrence and plan surgical treatment if appropriate.
Ovarian Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma
OTHER: Magnetic resonance imaging as fpr clinical practice
Cytoreductive surgery rate, Optimal cytoreductive surgery rate, 36 months
Concordance rate between MRI results and CA125 variations, Percentage of Concordance between MRI results and CA125 variations, 36 months|Concordance between MRI results and CT findings, Percentage of Concordance between MRI results and CT findings, 36 months|Rate of Survival, Progression-Free Survival and Overall Survival Rate, 36 months
Patients with OC in surveillance after first-line treatment usually have a scheme of clinical visits and serum marker evaluation every three months, associated with alternated transvaginal ultrasound and chest, abdomen and pelvis CT with contrast every three months and MRI with a confirmatory role in some cases.

We will use an abbreviated MR protocol of the abdomen (the most common location of relapse and the only one that can be treated by surgery) in association with CT. The abbreviated protocol is based on axial b50, b600 and b900 DWI with three-dimensional coronal maximum intensity projection (MIP) reconstruction of b900 values, ADC maps and axial single-shot T2-weighted sequences, which will take less than 20 minutes. This MRI protocol does not need contrast injection and does not add any risk for patients.

Any positive findings will be discussed at the Multidisciplinary Tumour Board and secondary cytoreductive surgery will be evaluated. Surgery outcome and subsequent clinical information (secondary PFS and OS) derived by normal clinical practise will be registered in a dedicated database.