Re-treatment 225Ac-J591 for mCRPC
The purpose of this study is to find out if re-treatment with 225Ac-J591 can be given without severe side effects.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: 225Ac-J591
Change in the proportion of subjects in assessing safety of 225Ac-J591 in those previously treated with PSMA-TRT., Proportion of subjects with dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) from treatment cycle 1 to the end of the safety evaluation period at the end of the study. Acceptable safety is determined if no more than 2 (33%) of the subjects in a cohort experience DLT., Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months
Change in the number of subject with Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) decline following 225Ac-J591 administration, PSA will be analyzed through blood specimen collection, Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in adverse event rate response, National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 is used to grade all adverse events, Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in the number of subjects with dose limiting toxicity (DLT), DLTs will be measured by the recommended phase I fractionated dose and multiple dose regimens of 225Ac-J591 dose by utilizing the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in radiographic response rate, Radiographic response rate will be captured through radiographic scans such as MRI, CT and bone scans. Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) criteria with Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG3) modifications, Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in circulating tumor cells (CTC) response, CTCs will be analyzed through blood specimen collection via CellSearch methodology lab testing, Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in progression-free survival following re-treatment doses of 225Ac-J591, Will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months|Change in Overall Survival Following re-Treatment Doses of 225Ac-J591, Overall survival will be captured through in-clinic or telephone contact with subjects, Survival will be collected at the time of visit 1 through end of study or 100 months
This is an open-label, pilot study designed to determine the safety of PSMA-TRT re-treatment with 225Ac-J591, which will be given in a single dose on D1, in men with progressive mCRPC. If the patient responds and tolerates this dose, another may be given upon progression, provided at least 12 weeks after the initial dose.

This research study is being done because the standard treatments for prostate cancer that has spread beyond the prostate gland are intended to minimize the adverse effects of the disease and make men live longer. These treatments, however, are not curative so additional treatments are needed. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a protein that is on the surface of most prostate cancer cells. It is absent from most other normal places in the body, but is present to some degree in the kidney, small intestine, salivary glands, and brain. J591 is a monoclonal antibody (an engineered protein) which recognizes PSMA. Actinium-225 (225Ac) is a small radioactive particle that emits alpha-particles (damaging/ionizing radiation). 225Ac-J591 is the combination compound that has the radioactive particle linked to J591. It is designed so that J591 will recognize PSMA and drags the radioactive particle 225Ac with it wherever it goes. This drug used currently is not FDA approved for any indication and is considered experimental.

In the first part of the study, a small group of subjects will receive a dose of 225Ac-J591 based upon a prior study. If that dose does not lead to severe side effects in many subjects, an additional small group will be treated. If the initial dose leads to too many severe side effects, another group will receive a lower dose. If it is determined by a physician that a subject's tumor has responded favorably to treatment, did not experience severe side effects and subject in agreement, then the subject will be allowed to receive one additional dose of the study drug 225Ac-J591, provided that at least 3 months have passed since the initial dose. For subjects receiving re-treatment, they will also participate in the same study procedures and followed for treatment including short-term and long-term follow up.

All treatment visits and all visits involving investigational PSMA PET imaging are required to be performed at the Weill Cornell Medicine - NewYork Presbyterian site located in the upper east side of Manhattan.