Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Antagonist Chimeric Anti-EGFR Monoclonal Antibody Trial
The study is an double blind, randomized, multicenter phase 3 trial. The efficacy analyses are based on 570 Chinese patients with RAS wt mCRC treated with mFOLFOX-6 ± cetuximab. Study treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (ie, not for a fixed number of courses). The primary endpoint of the study is progression-free survival (PFS) time according to RECIST 1.0; key secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS) time, overall response rate (ORR), and safety/tolerability.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: KL-140|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was defined as the duration (in months) from randomization until the first progressive disease (PD) observation as assessed by the investigators according to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0, or death due to any cause when death occurred within 90 days of randomization or the last tumor assessment, whichever was later. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of the target lesions, taking as references the smallest sum LD since the treatment started (including baseline), or appearance of one or more new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Time Frame: Baseline up to 128 weeks
Overall Survival (OS) Time, OS was defined as the time (in months) from randomization to death. For subjects who were still alive at the analysis data cut-off date or who lost to follow-up, survival was censored at the last recorded date that the subject was known to be alive., Time Frame: Baseline up to 258 weeks|Best Overall Response Rate (ORR), The Best ORR was defined as the percentage of subjects having achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST version 1.0 as determined by the IRC. CR: defined as disappearance of all target and all non-target lesions and no new lesions. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions.

The Best ORR was defined as the percentage of subjects having achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST version 1.0 as determined by the investigators. CR: defined as disappearance of all target and all non-target lesions and no new lesions. PR: defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions., Time Frame: Baseline up to 128 weeks|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF was defined as time from randomization to date of the first occurrence of radiologically confirmed PD. Clinical PD according to the Investigator's assessment , discontinuation of treatment due to progression or adverse event, start of new anticancer therapy, withdrawal of consent, or death within 90 days of last tumor assessment or randomization. Subjects without event were censored on the date of last tumor assessment., Time Frame: Baseline up to 128 weeks|quality of life score, Quality of life score is defined of questionnaire EORTC QLQ-C30., Time Frame: Baseline up to 258 weeks
The study is an double blind, randomized, multicenter phase 3 trial. The efficacy analyses are based on 570 Chinese patients with RAS wt mCRC treated with mFOLFOX-6 ± cetuximab. Study treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity (ie, not for a fixed number of courses). The primary endpoint of the study is progression-free survival (PFS) time according to RECIST 1.0; key secondary endpoints include overall survival (OS) time, overall response rate (ORR), and safety/tolerability.