Telehealth Exercise Intervention to Improve Physical Function and Frailty in Multiple Myeloma Survivors
This clinical trial examines a telehealth exercise intervention in improving physical function and frailty in multiple myeloma survivors. The exercise program uses a telehealth platform (delivered by smart phones, tablets, or computers) to view pre-recorded exercise videos on coordination, posture, stretching, balance, and resistance/aerobic (cardio) training. Frailty includes being underweight, slow walking speed, exhaustion, low physical activity, and weakness. Participating in an exercise program may help improve patient's physical function and strength.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Exercise Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Physical function, Assessed by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) test., Up to 8 weeks
Frailty index, Assessed using a 5-scale frailty index: body mass index (self-report), tiredness (questionnaire), level of physical activity (self-report), gait speed (sensors), and muscular strength (hand grip dynamometer)., Up to 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the effects of an 8-week telehealth exercise intervention on physical function as assessed by the Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) test (Aim 1)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effects of an 8-week telehealth exercise intervention as assessed using a 5-scale frailty index: body mass index (self-report), tiredness (questionnaire), level of physical activity (self-report), gait speed (sensors), and muscular strength (hand grip dynamometer) (Aim 2).

II. Determine the sustainability of the intervention on physical function and frailty at week 17 (Aim 3).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients undergo home-based exercise program 3 times per week for 8 weeks. Patients complete questionnaires at baseline (before 1 week) and at weeks 9 and 17.

ARM B: Patients complete questionnaires at baseline and at week 9 and 17. Patients continue maintaining current activities of daily living and do not participate in any exercise program. Patients may then participate in home-based exercise program 3 times per week for 8 weeks.