Mutant p53-based Personalized Trial Using Decitabine and Arsenic Trioxide on AML/MDS
TP53 mutation is commonly associated with poor cancer patient prognosis yet no mutant p53 (mp53)-targeting regimen was clinically established. Here the investigators try to evaluate the side effect and treatment potential of DAC+ATO in p53 mutated high-risk AML/MDS patients.

About 200 AML/MDS patients will be sequenced for TP53 sequence before recruitment. The investigators estimated about 5 patients, based on the reported p53 mutation frequency in AML/MDS, will be p53-mutated. In the trial, the investigators will selectively recruit the mp53 AML/MDS patients that are predicted to respond to DAC+ATO regimen with highest chance (based on the relevant basic studies).

The investigators designate mutant p53-based clinical trials as 'PANDA (P53 AND Arsenic)-Trials'.
P53 Mutation|Myeloid Malignancy|MDS|Aml
DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Arsenic Trioxide
side effect, evaluate the side effects of current regimen, during the whole treatment
Overall response rate, Partial response (PR) + complete response (CR) rate, at the end of cycle 4 (each cycle is 28 days)
TP53 mutation is commonly associated with poor cancer patient prognosis yet no mutant p53 (mp53)-targeting regimen was clinically established. In two independent clinical trials reported recently, DNA demethylating drug Decitabine (DAC) treatment yielded a surprisingly high rate of complete remission (CR) in mp53-expressing myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) patients and acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. Notably, all of the mp53-expressing patients in the two clinical studies, despite of CR, relapsed quickly. This was attributed to a failure in thoroughly clearing all leukemia-specific mutations and the preexisting mp53 subclone outgrew in all of the relapse patients. Indeed, The investigators also found p53 dysfunctional cells quickly develop a DAC resistance mechanism in cultured tissue (unpublished data). Meanwhile, the investigators found arsenic trioxide (ATO) selectively inhibit p53-mutated cells involving mutant p53 reactivation and mutant p53 degradation (presumably mediated by upregulated mdm2 and RCHY1/Pirh2 through reactivated mutant p53). In addition, DAC and ATO show synergy in inhibiting p53-mutated cells.

In current phase I trial, the investigators try to evaluate the side effect and treatment potential of DAC+ATO in p53 mutated high-risk MDS patients. About 200 AML/MDS patients will be recruited for TP53 sequencing before being trialed. The investigators estimated about 50 patients, based on p53 mutation frequency in AML/MDS, will be sequenced to be mp53-positive. The mp53-positive AML/MDS patients are known to have an extremely poor prognosis. The investigators will select high-risk mp53 MDS patients that are predicted to respond to DAC+ATO with highest chance based on our relevant basic studies.

The other participants (free of p53 mutation) will be excluded from the trial.