A Study on Precutting Methods of Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection for Gastric Neoplasms Located at Lesser Curvature Side of Antrum
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an advanced technique that enables en bloc resection of superficial tumors in the gastrointestinal tract. ESD, however, is a time-consuming procedure that requires a high level of endoscopic skill to achieve a desirable oncologic outcome. Especially, ESD for the lesion which is located in the antrum of lesser curvature side is difficult. Because the antrum of lesser curvature side is dependent position, irrigated water and blood may prevent visual field of ESD.

Generally, whole precutting around the lesion during the ESD is performed prior to dissection. However, it is expected that partial precutting method for the lesion located in the antrum of the lesser curvature may improve the visibility of ESD because it can help us the flap of the lesion evaginated easily. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the procedure time of ESD for the lesion located in the antrum of the lesser curvature according to the precutting methods (whole precutting vs. partial precutting).
Gastric Adenoma and Early Gastric Cancer
PROCEDURE: Partial precutting|PROCEDURE: Whole precutting
Procedure time, Procedure time for the lesion located in the antrum of lesser curvature according to the precutting methods., Within 5 mins after the procedure
En bloc resection rate, En bloc resection rate according to the precutting methods., Within 7 days after the procedure
complete resection rate, complete resection rate according to the precutting methods., Within 7 days after the procedure
Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an advanced technique that enables en bloc resection of superficial tumors in the gastrointestinal tract. ESD, however, is a time-consuming procedure that requires a high level of endoscopic skill to achieve a desirable oncologic outcome. Especially, ESD for the lesion which is located in the antrum of lesser curvature side is difficult. Because the antrum of lesser curvature side is dependent position, irrigated water and blood may prevent visual field of ESD.

Generally, whole precutting around the lesion during the ESD is performed prior to dissection. However, it is expected that partial precutting method for the lesion located in the antrum of the lesser curvature may improve the visibility of ESD because it can help us the flap of the lesion evaginated easily. Therefore, we aimed to evaluate the procedure time of ESD for the lesion located in the antrum of the lesser curvature according to the precutting methods (whole precutting vs. partial precutting).