LY2157299 Monohydrate (LY2157299) and Radiotherapy in Metastatic Breast Cancer
Patients with metastatic breast cancer receiving at least one single agent chemotherapy and demonstrating stable disease or disease progression at two consecutive clinical/radiological assessments (at an interval of at least 2 weeks).

Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFΒ) blockade will enhance response of irradiated tumors and improve the function of Dendritic and T cells. Patients will receive 300 mg/day of study drug administered via oral drug tablet every day for 14 days on and 14 days off (=28 day cycle). Radiation to a metastatic site will be delivered at a dose of 7.5 Gy, given consecutively on days 1-3-5.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Radiation therapy|DRUG: Study Drug
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Patients who have received at least one 14 days cycle of the study drug will be followed for toxicity (lack of grade 4 toxicity- primary safety end point). Physical exam (including labs) will be performed every 2 weeks while on the study. Patients will be followed with follow-up visits monthly for the first three months after completing therapy then annually for 5 years. Adverse Events will be monitored throughout the course of the study using the NCI CTCAE vers. 4.0., until end of study|Number of Participants Non-irradiated Tumor Lesions That Had a Response., To determine if treatment with TGFΒ receptor I kinase inhibitor LY2157299 and localized RT achieves an abscopal tumor regression, Until next progression up to 3 years
Number of Participants Who Received Radiation to the Tumor Who Had a Response., to estimate the local response rate of combining TGFΒ receptor I kinase inhibitor LY2157299 and local radiotherapy, 25 weeks|Number of Participants Who Had a Change in Their T Regulatory Cell Numbers and Function Over the Course of the Study., To determine if treatment with TGFβ receptor I kinase inhibitor LY2157299 and localized RT alters the numbers and function of T-reg cells in patients with metastatic breast cancer, 2 years|Number of Participants With Enhanced Tumor Specific Immunity., 2 years
Transforming growth factor-beta (TGFβ) is a pleiotropic cytokine which belongs to a superfamily of ligands, including bone morphogenetic proteins and activins \[1-5\]. Under normal conditions, members of the TGFβ family maintain homeostasis in many organ systems. In normal and non-cancerous cells, TGFβ limits the growth of epithelial, endothelial, neuronal, and hematopoietic cell lineages through anti-proliferative and apoptotic responses. In addition, TGFβ exerts potent effects that influence immune function, cell proliferation/ functional differentiation, cell adhesion, extracellular matrix production, cell motility, angiogenesis, and cytokine production. TGFβ has been implicated as an important factor in the growth, progression, and metastatic potential of advanced cancers. Although TGFβ has been shown to suppress the growth of epithelial cells in the early stages of tumor development (premalignant conditions), the effect on advanced cancers is more complex \[1, 5-6\]. Increased production of TGFβ has been found in many neoplasms such as breast, prostate, gastric, renal, and epidermal carcinomas, and elevated plasma TGFβ levels in patients have been correlated with advanced disease, metastases, and lower survival rates \[7-13\]. In these later stage cancers, TGFβ induced growth suppression is lost, and instead, TGFβ promotes tumor growth and metastasis.

Eli Lilly has developed and produced a Transforming Growth Factor-beta (TGF-β) receptor type-1 kinase inhibitor. LY2157299 monohydrate (LY2157299) is a small molecule that inhibits the TGF-β receptor type 1 kinase activity. LY2157299 was developed to investigate its activity in patients with glioblastoma where TGF-β has been demonstrated to play a specific role in tumor progression. In addition, LY2157299 was investigated in other patient populations, either as a stand-alone therapy or in combination with standard anti-tumor treatment regimens for indications including hepatocellular carcinoma and pancreatic cancer. Future investigations include indications with likely TGF-β associated pathway activation, such as melanoma, breast and prostate cancer as well as hematologic malignancies.