Donor Cellular Therapy After Cytarabine in Treating Patients With Intermediate-Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
This phase II trial studies how well donor cellular therapy after cytarabine works in treating patients with intermediate-risk acute myeloid leukemia with a decrease in or disappearance of signs and symptoms of cancer. Donor cellular therapy is a short-term transfusion of cells from a family member who is incompletely matched. The use of these partially matched white blood cells may help improve response to standard chemotherapy (cytarabine) and reduce some of the risks of infection, without a permanent transplant. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving donor cellular therapy after cytarabine may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission|Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
DRUG: Cytarabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Therapeutic Allogeneic Lymphocytes|BIOLOGICAL: G-CSF mobilized peripheral blood cells
Disease free survival (DFS), The 2-year DFS will be estimated, and the corresponding 90% confidence intervals will be constructed. The data will be displayed using a Kaplan-Meir curve to plot the DFS over time. Calculate bilateral 95% confidential interval of mean difference of disease-free survival rate, and compare the lower limit of the bilateral 95% confidential interval and 15% superiority boundary value., Beginning of therapy to the date of death or the date of last follow-upexamination, assessed at 2 years
Cumulative incidence acute GVHD, classified as clinically significant (grades 2 to 4) or severe (grades 3 to 4), At single time point, if univariate quantitative data of the meets the normal distribution and homogeneity of variance, perform test of univariate quantitative data, otherwise, adopt the rank-sum test of corresponding design; for univariate quantitative data under multiple time points, use mixed effects model to design variance analysis with repeated measure factors., 6 months after microtransplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess 2-year disease-free survival (as defined by time to death from any cause or disease relapse, whichever is earlier) for patients \< 60 years of age with intermediate-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML), in complete remission (CR) after induction chemotherapy, who receive microtransplantation, compared to patients who received consolidation chemotherapy only in a historical published comparable cohort of patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain estimates of rate of relapse, treatment related mortality (TRM), all cause mortality, in the microtransplantation (MST) group and compare it with allogeneic stem cell group (historical cohort).

II. To obtain estimates of rate acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), chronic GVHD, time to recovery of absolute neutrophil counts and platelets in patients with intermediate risk AML receiving of chemotherapy in combination with microtransplantation.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Presence or absence of detectable donor chimerism post-microtransplantation until 6 months after the last infusion.

II. Characteristics of the infused cells and composition of the graft. III. Dynamics of T-cell clonality. IV. Immune cell subset analysis.

OUTLINE:

Approximately 4-6 weeks after completion of induction chemotherapy, patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) over 1-3 hours twice daily (BID) on days -7 to -2 and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) mobilized peripheral blood cells (microtransplant) IV over 15-20 minutes on day 0. Treatment repeats every 8-10 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at least every 3 months for 2 years.