Evaluation of Combined Sensitising and Hypomethylating Therapy Outcomes in AML PDX
The goal of this observational study is to develop new ways to test new drug combinations to kill tumour cells, in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Are there new ways to speed up discovery of better treatments for AML patients using AML cells from individual from patients in special mice that can accept human tissue?
* Do these mice show treatment responses that are similar to the individual AML patient from whom cells were derived?

Participants with AML who are taking standard of care treatment of venetoclax and azacitidine will be asked to donate blood and bone marrow samples for this study.
AML - Acute Myeloid Leukemia
Primary Endpoint - Generation of ≥20 adult AML PDX models with clinically annotated samples, including treatment regimen and clinical outcome, The outcome measures are 1) establish an adult AML PDX drug testing platform; 2) determine how accurately the AML PDX model replicates the clonal architecture and cellular characteristics of the original tumour by comparing donors' samples to AML PDX samples; 3) compare efficacy of standard of care and candidate therapies by engrafting multiple immune-deficient mice with the same donor sample; and 4) biomarker discovery through correlation of treatment response and single-cell and cytokine analysis., From enrolment (i.e., C1D1 of Ven+AZA treatment) up to end of treatment or 52 weeks post C1D1 (whichever applies first)
Secondary Endpoint - Frequency and phenotype of leukemic cells measured by flow cytometry in AML PDX models and primary donor samples before and after VEN+AZA treatment., A) Peripheral blood and bone marrow samples will be collected from Cohort 1 and Cohort 2 participants at baseline and relapse and will undergo molecular and cellular characterisation, these samples will be used to generate AML PDX models. B) Cells isolated from participant samples will be used to generate adult AML PDX models by reconstituting immune-deficient mice and expand the cell stock in vivo. Expanded cells will be used to reconstitute additional immune-deficient mice. C) Samples will be collected from immune-deficient mice before and after treatment to assess the efficacy of individual treatments. Participant and PDX samples will also be compared to assess the fidelity of the PDX model to their matching donor., From enrolment (i.e., C1D1 of Ven+AZA treatment) up to end of treatment or 52 weeks post C1D1 (whichever applies first)
Treatment options for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are unfit or refractory to intensive chemotherapy, or who have relapsed after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, remain limited. Hypomethylating agents (HMAs) are effective in prolonging patient survival, but they are often associated with adverse events and their therapeutic effects are temporary. By elucidating the resistance mechanisms used by AML cells, we have identified drugs that selectively sensitise these tumour cells to HMAs, with minimal toxicity to healthy blood cells. Patient-derived xenografts (PDX) have emerged as a valuable tool for drug testing in cancer research. They can better replicate the primary tumour and its environment in vivo, mimicking the disease progression and treatment responses of their corresponding donor with superior fidelity and predictive potential compared to current in vitro systems. The COSMOS-Avatar study aims to establish a drug testing platform to guide precision therapies tailored to defined tumour profiles. Tumour cells obtained over two years through altruistic donation for research will be used to generate AML PDX mouse models or avatars that will be used to compare standard of care and multiple candidate therapies simultaneously. Promising drug combinations identified through the COSMOS-Avatar study will proceed to a dedicated independent Phase I clinical trial platform to accelerate drug discovery and development of AML therapies.