A Phase 1 Trial of Perfusion Induced Systemic Hyperthermia (PISH) Over Multiple Cycles for Terminal Ovarian Cancer
To confirm the safety of 6 cycles of Perfusion Induced Systemic Hyperthermia (PISH) provided every 28 days in 3rd line ovarian cancer patients.
Ovarian Cancer
DEVICE: ThermalCore Hyperthermia System
Organ toxicity, Patients continue to meet the entry criteria for organ toxicity defined in the trial by the time prior to next scheduled treatment at 28 days., 28 days
Time To Progression of Disease, Time To Progression (TTP, defined as the interval from treatment initiation to disease progression) for the cohort. Measurement of Time To Progression (TTP) for the cohort will be conducted using PET CT, CA-125, and physical examination. Progression is defined as radiologic progression RECIST criteria, CA-125 doubling per Gynecologic Intergroup Definition of progression of disease, or any evidence of palpable lesion growth on physical examination., 8 months
Number of patients with unexpected serious adverse events, Determine the frequency and severity of unexpected serious adverse events, 8 Months
This study is a prospective, single-arm phase I trial of 20 ovarian cancer patients to be treated with PISH for 6 cycles, delivered every 28 days. This mimics chemotherapy treatments, in concordance with the fractional cell kill hypothesis of cytotoxic agents.

As this study is for safety, only, metastatic peritoneal or ovarian cancer, of any histology (epithelial, sex-cord stromal, germ cell, or sarcoma) that has progressed after 2 cycles of chemotherapy, and is considered incurable, will be included. All patients must meet performance status and organ function entry criteria. Patients must have first undergone standard first line primary surgery and chemotherapy, and have then gone on to fail second line chemotherapy treatment, (with or without secondary cytoreductive surgeries). Patients must be candidates for, and expecting treatment by, the usual third line chemotherapy agent palliation traditionally offered by medical oncology. Patients may have received treatment beyond third-line therapy, as long as they meet entry requirements for this study.