Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of the Combination of Niraparib and Dostarlimab (TSR-042) in Participants With Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
This is an open-label, single-arm Phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of combination of niraparib and dostarlimab (TSR-042) in participants with advanced, relapsed, high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube, endometrioid, clear cell ovarian or primary peritoneal cancer without known breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutation who have platinum-resistant disease and who have also been previously treated with bevacizumab.
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Dostarlimab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Participants With Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer (PROC), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) criteria based on Investigator assessment and computed tomography (CT) scans were commonly used for tumor imaging., Up to approximately 22 months|ORR in Participants With PROC Who Have Programmed Cell Death-ligand 1 (PD-L 1) Positive Status, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved confirmed CR or PR, as determined by RECIST v1.1 criteria based on Investigator assessment and CT scans were commonly used for tumor imaging. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with combined positive score (vCPS) \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months
Duration of Response (DOR) in Participants With PROC, DOR is defined as the time from first documentation of response (CR or PR) until the time of first documentation of disease progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Investigator assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|DOR in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status, DOR is defined as the time from first documentation of response (CR or PR) until the time of first documentation of disease progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Investigator assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) in Participants With PROC, PFS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Investigator assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|PFS in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status, PFS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Investigator assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with a vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|Overall Survival (OS) in Participants With PROC, OS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death by any cause., Up to approximately 22 months|OS in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status, OS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death by any cause. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR) in Participants With PROC, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved best overall response (BOR) of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) per RECIST v.1.1 based on the investigator's assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|DCR in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved BOR of CR, PR, or SD per RECIST v.1.1 based on the investigator's assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|ORR in Participants With PROC Based on Independent Review Committee (IRC) Assessment, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved confirmed CR or PR per RECIST v1.1 based on the independent review committee assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|ORR in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status Based on IRC Assessment, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved confirmed CR or PR per RECIST v1.1 based on the independent review committee assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with a vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|DOR in Participants With PROC Based on IRC Assessment, DOR is defined as the time from first documentation of response (CR or PR) until the time of first documentation of disease progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Independent Review Committee assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|DOR in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status Based on IRC Assessment, DOR is defined as the time from first documentation of response (CR or PR) until the time of first documentation of disease progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Independent Review Committee assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with a vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|PFS in Participants With PROC Based on IRC Assessment, PFS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on Independent Review Committee Assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|PFS in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status Based on IRC Assessment, PFS is defined as the time from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression by RECIST v.1.1 based on IRC Assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with a vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|DCR in Participants With PROC Based on IRC Assessment, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved BOR of CR, PR, or SD per RECIST v.1.1 based on IRC Assessment., Up to approximately 22 months|DCR in Participants With PROC Who Have PD-L 1 Positive Status Based on IRC Assessment, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved BOR of CR, PR, or SD per RECIST v.1.1 based on Independent Review Committee Assessment. PD-L1 is a ligand that binds to PD-L1 protein on tumor infiltrating T cells and renders the T cells inactive. Any PD-L1 positive tissue sample with vCPS \>=5% was used as specified cut-point for the assessment of PD-L1 positive patient subset with PROC. vCPS was defined as the percentage of tumor cells and immune cells staining positive within the total tumor area., Up to approximately 22 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Adverse Event of Special Interest (AESI), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient administered with a medicinal product and that does which may or may not have a causal relationship with this treatment. A SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment. TEAEs are any event that occurred between first dose of study drug up to 22 months, which were absent before treatment or that had worsened relative to pretreatment state. AESI were any AE (serious or non-serious) that is of scientific and medical concern specific to the study treatment, for which ongoing monitoring and rapid communication by the Investigator to the Sponsor was done., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Hematology, Blood samples were collected for the analysis of hematology parameters and each parameter was graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.3. Grade 0: Normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. Data has been presented for the number of participants with hematology grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants With Grade Shift From Baseline in Plasma Chemistry, Blood samples were collected and the clinical chemistry parameters assessed were Albumin (Alb), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), amylase, aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), sodium, total bilirubin (TB), creatinine, glucose, magnesium and potassium. The Grade shift post baseline data of each parameter from Grade 0 through Grade 4 was based on the CTCAE version 4.03, grading scale, as per intensity, namely Grade 0: Normal, Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: severe or medically significant; Grade 4: life-threatening consequences. Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. Data has been presented for the number of participants with plasma chemistry grade shifts from baseline grade to grade 3 and 4 for each parameter., Up to approximately 27 months|Change From Baseline in Systolic Blood Pressure (SBP) and Diastolic Blood Pressure (DBP), Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. The change from baseline was calculated by subtracting the baseline values from the individual post-randomization values. The minimum (min) and maximum (max) change from baseline values have been reported., Up to approximately 27 months|Change From Baseline in Pulse Rate, Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. The change from baseline was calculated by subtracting the baseline values from the individual post-randomization values. The minimum (min) and maximum (max) change from baseline values have been reported., Up to approximately 27 months|Change From Baseline in Temperature, Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. The change from baseline was calculated by subtracting the baseline values from the individual post-randomization values. The minimum (min) and maximum (max) change from baseline values have been reported., Up to approximately 27 months|Change From Baseline in Prothrombin International Normalized Ratio, Blood samples were collected to evaluate Prothrombin International Normalized Ratio (INR). Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value., Baseline and up to approximately 27 months|Change in Baseline in Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time, Blood samples were planned to be collected to evaluate activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value., Baseline and up to approximately 27 months|Change From Baseline in Thyrotropin, Blood samples were collected to evaluate thyrotropin at indicated time points. Baseline was defined as the most recent measurement prior to the first administration of study treatment. Change from Baseline was calculated by subtracting Baseline value from the post-dose visit value., Baseline and up to approximately 27 months
This is an open-label, single-arm Phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of combination of niraparib and dostarlimab (TSR-042) in participants with advanced, relapsed, high-grade ovarian, fallopian tube, endometrioid, clear cell ovarian or primary peritoneal cancer without known breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutation who have platinum-resistant disease and who have also been previously treated with bevacizumab.