Tislelizumab in Combination With Eribulin for Patients With Metastatic Previously heaviLy-treAted TriplE-negative Breast Cancer：A Prospective Multiple-center Phase II Study
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) lacks effective treatment options due to the absence of traditional therapeutic targets.This study is a multicentre, prospective trial. The primary objective of the trial was to evaluate the objective response rate to tslelizumab combined with eribulin in different subgroups（subgroup A: TMB High, B: PD-L1 positive，C, immunomodulatory (IM)，D，NanoString superiority，E，other types）of relapse or metastasis TNBC after failure of second-line chemotherapy. Therefore, exploring new therapeutic options and identifying subgroups of patients who may benefit from special treatments has been a focal point of research. Doing so, we expect to guide new investigation efforts in this area.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Tislelizumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the percentage of participants with the best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1. CR = Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm; PR = At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 12 weeks
Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of randomization to the date of death from any cause, Up to approximately 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first evidence of disease progression as defined by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) v1.1 or death from any cause. Progressive Disease (PD) was at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, with reference being the smallest sum on study and an absolute increase of at least 5 mm, or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, or 1 or more new lesions. If a participant does not have a complete baseline disease assessment, then the PFS time was censored at the date of randomization, regardless of whether or not objectively determined disease progression or death has been observed for the participant. If a participant was not known to have died or have objective progression as of the data inclusion cutoff date for the analysis, the PFS time was censored at the last adequate tumor assessment date., Up to approximately 30 months
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) lacks effective treatment options due to the absence of traditional therapeutic targets.This study is a multicentre, prospective trial. The primary objective of the trial was to evaluate the objective response rate to tslelizumab combined with eribulin in different subgroups（subgroup A: TMB High, B: PD-L1 positive，C, immunomodulatory (IM)，D，NanoString superiority，E，other types）of relapse or metastasis TNBC after failure of second-line chemotherapy. Therefore, exploring new therapeutic options and identifying subgroups of patients who may benefit from special treatments has been a focal point of research. Doing so, we expect to guide new investigation efforts in this area.