Relation of C-reactive Protein/ Albumin Ratio and Coagulation Profile in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients
The investigators will investigate the relation between CAR and coagulation profile in newly diagnosed AMl patients
AML
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CRP and Albumin and coagulation profile
Correlation between C- reactive protein and coagulation profile in AML patients, the investigators will investigate the correlation between CAR and coagulation profile in newly diagnosed AMl patients by measure crp and coagulation profile in newly diagnosed patient and up to 3 month follow up, Study complete an average 2 years
Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is an aggressive haematological malignancy with a high degree of heterogeneity. It has long been recognized that systemic inflammation is associated with tumorigenesis it revealed that elevated C-reactive protein levels were associated with worse survival outcomes in patients with various types of cancer, including hematologic malignancies. Serum albumin is a measure of an individual's nutritional status. Systemic inflammation can reduce serum albumin concentrations by increasing capillary permeability . The ratio of CRP to albumin (CAR) is a useful score based on inflammation and nutrition, reflecting not only systemic inflammation status but also nutritional status. The Glasgow prognostic score (GPS) and modified GPS (mGPS), determined by the serum CRP and albumin levels, have been proposed as prognostic indicators for AML patients. However, the clinical correlations of CAR and its prognostic value in AML patients have not yet been clarified. Abnormalities of hemostasis can occur in leukemia in the form of disseminated intravascular coagulation(DIC), coagulation protein defect and primary fibrinolysis . Clinically, Types of acute myeloid leukemia like acute promyelocyticleukemia has a high frequency of haemorrhage due to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which contributes to the high mortality rate of this disease . Therefore, the investigators will investigate CAR its relation with inflammatory response and coagulation profile levels in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia and after 3 month follow up to compare their level and the relation between .