An Extension Long-term Safety and Tolerability Trial of Degarelix in Chinese Patients With Prostate Cancer
This trial is an open-label, multi-centre, single arm extension for the 000006 trial in Chinese patients with prostate cancer. Eligible patients will receive monthly (28-day intervals) maintenance doses of 80 mg (20 mg/mL) degarelix administered by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection for a period of 2 years from first visit in this extension trial. Patients, who received goserelin treatment in the main trial, will get a degarelix starting dose (240 mg; 40 mg/mL) at the first visit and continue on degarelix treatment. The purpose of this 2-year extension trial is to collect long-term safety and tolerability data for the one-month dosing regimen.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Degarelix
Number and percentage of patients with Adverse Events (AEs), Baseline to Month 26|Change in ECG parameters, Baseline to Month 26|Change in body weight and vital signs, Baseline to Month 26|Clinically significant changes in laboratory values (clinical chemistry, haematology, and urinalysis), Baseline to Month 26
Change in testosterone levels, Baseline to Month 26|Change in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels, Baseline to Month 26|Cumulative probability of no PSA failure, PSA failure is defined as two consecutive (at least two weeks apart) increases of 50%, and at least 5 ng/mL, compared to nadir (obtained in either trial 000006 or trial 000006A), Baseline to Month 26
This trial is an open-label, multi-centre, single arm extension for the 000006 trial in Chinese patients with prostate cancer. Eligible patients will receive monthly (28-day intervals) maintenance doses of 80 mg (20 mg/mL) degarelix administered by subcutaneous (s.c.) injection for a period of 2 years from first visit in this extension trial. Patients, who received goserelin treatment in the main trial, will get a degarelix starting dose (240 mg; 40 mg/mL) at the first visit and continue on degarelix treatment. The purpose of this 2-year extension trial is to collect long-term safety and tolerability data for the one-month dosing regimen.