Open-Label Extension of Zilucoplan in Subjects With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
The RAISE-XT study is an open-label extension study to evaluate the long-term efficacy, safety, and tolerability of zilucoplan in subjects with gMG who have previously participated in a qualifying Ra Pharmaceuticals sponsored zilucoplan study.
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: zilucoplan (RA101495)
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), A treatment-emergent adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study medication, whether or not considered related to the study medication., From Baseline (Day 1) to Safety Follow-Up Visit (up to 36 months)
Change from Baseline to Week 12 in the Myasthenia Gravis-Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) Score, The MG-ADL profile provides an assessment of MG symptom severity and measures 8 items on a 0-3 scale, with 0 being the least severe. The total sum of the 8 items represents the ADL score. The ADL score can range from 0 (least severe) to 24 (most severe)., From Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12|Change from Baseline to Week 12 in the the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Score, The QMG test is a standardized quantitative strength scoring system and measures 13 items on a 0-3 scale, with 0 being the least severe. The total sum of the 13 items represents the QMG score. The QMG score can range from 0 (least severe) to 39 (most severe)., From Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12|Change from Baseline to Week 12 in the Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC) Score, The MGC is a 10-item scale that has been used to measure the clinical status of patients with Myasthenia Gravis (MG) in order to evaluate treatment response. The MGC has 4-point Likerttype Scale response options ranging from 0 to 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 9 according to the item (weighted response options). The total score is the sum of all items (range 0-50) where higher scores indicate more severe impairment due to the disease., From Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12|Change from Baseline to Week 12 in the Myasthenia Gravis - Quality of Life revised (MG-QOL15r) Score, The MG-QOL15r is a 15-item survey that was designed to assess quality of life in patients with MG. The MG-QoL has 3-point Likert Scale response options ranging from 0 to 2. The MGQoL15r score can range from 0 to 30, where higher scores indicate more severe impact of the disease on aspects of the patient's life., From Baseline (Day 1) to Week 12
The RAISE-XT study is an open-label extension study to evaluate the long-term efficacy, safety, and tolerability of zilucoplan in subjects with gMG who have previously participated in a qualifying Ra Pharmaceuticals sponsored zilucoplan study.