SOX Combined With Tislelizumab and LDRT for Neoadjuvant Treatment of Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy has become the standard neoadjuvant regimen for locally advanced G/GEJ cancer and has been recommended by a series of treatment guidelines. Although with clinical benefits of neoadjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy, the pCR and long-term survival rates are still unsatisfactory and perioperative treatment mode for locally advanced G/GEJ cancer still needs further optimization. In this study, we will explore the efficacy and safety of chemotherapy combined with tislelizumab and LDRT in the neoadjuvant treatment for locally advanced G/GEJ cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: SOX+Tislelizumab+LDRT
pCR rate, defined as the absence of viable tumor cells assessed by histological evaluation criteria after neoadjuvant therapy, 5 months after the last subject participating in
R0 resection rate, defined as the rate of the complete surgical removal of any residual cancer cells in the tumor bed, 5 months after the last subject participating in|MPR rate, defined as tumor residual cells ≤10% in the surgical specimen, 5 months after the last subject participating in|ORR, defined as the proportion of patients with the best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) before surgery, 5 months after the last subject participating in|2-year disease-free survival (DFS) rate, defined as the proportion of patients without disease relapse 2 years after enrolment, every 3 month postoperation up to 24 months|2-year OS rate, defined as the proportion of patients survived 2 years after enrolment, every 3 month postoperation up to 24 months
This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, phase Ib/II trial. In the phase Ib, 5 cases will be enrolled in each treatment group. In the phase II study, a total of 44 patients will be enrolled. Eligible patients will be registered and receive three cycles of SOX plus tislelizumab regimen. Simultaneously, LDRT will be planned and administered. Radical D2 gastric cancer resection will be performed 4-6 weeks after the last administration of chemotherapy plus tislelizumab. The primary endpoint of Phase Ib is to determine the optimal radiation dose for phase II study. The primary endpoint of phase II is the pathological complete response (pCR) rate. Secondary endpoints include R0 resection rate, major pathological response (MPR), objective response rate (ORR), 2-year disease-free survival (DFS) rate, 2-year overall survival (OS) rate and safety profile of the neoadjuvant regimen.