Pemetrexed-free vs. Pemetrexed-based Immunochemotherapy in Metastatic TTF-1 Negative Lung Adenocarcinoma
This is an open-label randomized, controlled, multicenter, phase II trial with two arms. Patients with metastatic TTF-1 negative, treatment-naive lung adenocarcinoma without actionable genomic alterations are randomized in a 1:1 manner to investigate the efficiency of atezolizumab, carboplatin and nab-paclitaxel (Arm A) versus pembrolizumab, cis-/carboplatin and pemetrexed (Arm B) as first-line treatment.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Overall Survival (OS), time from randomization to the date of death due to any case, 30 months
Objectice Response Rate (ORR), proportion of subjects with best response of complete or partial response (CR \& PR) according to RECIST v1.1, 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), time from randomization until progression defined by RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, 30 months|One-Year Overall Survival Rate, percentage of patients alive at 12 months after randomization, 30 months|Time to Next Treatment or Death (TNTD), time from initial study randomization to the start of next subsequent treatment or death, whichever occurs first, 30 months|Progression-Free Survival 2 (PFS2), time from initial study randomization to second disease progression or death from any cause to assess efficacy post-trial-treatment anti-cancer therapy, 30 months|Health-related quality of life 1 (HRQoL), assessed with the QoL questionnaire QLQ-C30 on general health conditions in lung cancer patients using numeric scales ranging from 1-4. Lower numbers indicate no, higher numbers high agreement., Assessed after randomization at cycle 1 day 1, after completion of cycle 4 (each cycle is 21 days) of the chemoimmunotherapy and at progressive disease (if occurring within the maximum time frame of 30 months)|Health-related quality of life 2 (HRQoL), assessed with the lung cancer symptom-specific QoL questionnaire QLQ-LC13 using numeric scales ranging from 1-4. Lower numbers indicate no, higher numbers high agreement., Assessed after randomization at cycle 1 day 1, after completion of cycle 4 (each cycle is 21 days) of the chemoimmunotherapy and at progressive disease (if occurring within the maximum time frame of 30 months)
Thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1) is expressed in the majority of lung adenocarcinoma and has a clear prognostic value. Pemetrexed-based immunochemotherapy is a standard of care for advanced lung adenocarcinoma. However, real-world data suggest that TTF-1 negative patients might derive superior outcome using pemetrexed-free regimens. The aim of this study is to compare a pemetrexed-free (Arm A) vs. a pemetrexed-based immunochemotherapy (Arm B) as first-line treatment for metastatic TTF-1 negative lung adenocarcinoma without actionable genomic alterations.