Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine and Venetoclax in Treating Participants With Relapsed, Refractory or Untreated Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine and venetoclax work in treating participants with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed), does not respond to treatment (refractory), or has not been treated (untreated). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine and venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Achievement of composite complete remission, Defined as complete remission/complete remission without blood count recovery/complete remission without platelet recovery. Will be monitored simultaneously using the Bayesian approach of Thall, Simon, Estey. Will be estimated along with the 95% credible interval., Up to 3 cycles (84 days)|Incidence of adverse events, Will be monitored simultaneously using the Bayesian approach of Thall, Simon, Estey. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics such as mean, standard deviation, median and range. Safety data will be summarized by category, severity and frequency., Up to 28 days
Event-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., Number of days from the date of treatment initiation up to 1 year|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Comparisons of time-to-event endpoints by important subgroups will be made using the log-rank tests., Time from treatment start till death or last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Biomarker changes, The comparison regarding biomarkers between response and non-response will be conducted by two-sample t-test if the data is normally distributed, otherwise Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy (complete remission \[CR\], complete remission without blood count recovery \[CRi\], complete remission without platelet recovery \[CRp\]) of liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (CPX-351) in combination with venetoclax in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety of CPX-351 in combination with venetoclax in patients with AML.

II. To assess the event free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients with AML.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance in AML treated with CPX-351 and venetoclax.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of venetoclax.

INDUCTION: Participants receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1, 3, and 5 of cycle 1 and on days 1 and 3 of cycle 2. Participants also receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 2-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Participants receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine IV over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 and venetoclax PO QD on days 2-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for 3 years.