JING SI HERBAL TEA and Urinary Tract Symptoms in Bladder Cancer
To identify the effects of JING SI HERBAL TEA in the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms after intravesical therapy in patients with bladder cancer.
Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms|Intravenous Drug Usage|Bladder Cancer|Herbal Interaction
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: JING SI HERBAL TEA|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
Urinary symptoms, Change from baseline score at the following time will be recorded. The American urological association symptom index is a 7-item self report measure to assess the urinary symptoms. The score range from 0 to 35, the higher the severity., The outcome evaluation will be at the following time points: 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks and 6 weeks
Life quality, Change from baseline score at the following time will be recorded. The 12-item shor form survey is a general health questionaire for life quality evaluation. The higher the value obtained, the more significant the impact on life., The outcome evaluation will be at the following time points: 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks, 4 weeks, 5 weeks and 6 weeks
The patients with bladder cancer usually required trans urethral resection of bladder tumor (TUR-BT). Post-operative intravesical installation therapy is standard therapy. However, new onset lower urinary tract symptoms often occurred after these installation therapies. JING SI HERBAL TEA is a food contain of many herbal extracts with anti-inflammation effects. The current study is to find out the effects of JING SI HERBAL TEA in the treatment of this condition.

The patients will be divided into two groups by randomly assigned (estimated case number=100, experimental: control = 1: 1). The first group will receive two sachets of JING SI HERBAL TEA a day (one in the morning and one in the evening). The second group will receive two sachets of placebo a day (same way as group 1). The therapy will be three days after each intravesical installation therapies.

The outcome evaluations will use the American Urological Association Symptom Index and 12-Item Short Form Survey (SF-12). The baseline symptoms will be recorded before the first intravesical therapy. Patients will be asked to fill out the questionnaire every week (the same time for the next installation). Every other standard cancer therapies will not be will not be affected.