Anti-CD7 U-CAR-T Cell Therapy for T/NK Cell Hematologic Malignancies
The prognosis of patients with relapsed and/or refractory T-cell hematologic malignancies is poor due to lacking sufficient treatment.Anti-CD(cluster of differentiation antigen)19 CAR(chimeric antigen receptor)-T cell therapies are efficient for patients with B-cell hematologic malignancies. As for T-cell hematologic malignancies, CD7 is a promising target expressed on most malignant T cells. The outcome of CD-7 CAR-T cell therapy pre-clinical experiments is cheerful.however, how to select the functional T cells from the malignant T cells is a challenge. In addition to this, auto-CAR-T cell therapy is not affordable for the majority of patients. Using T cells aphesis from healthy donors edited to avoid rejection of the host as the material of anti-CD7 universal CAR-T cells could be accessible and affordable, which is adapted for patients with CD7+ relapsed and/or refractory T/NK-cell hematologic malignancies.
T-cell Leukemia|T-cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: CD7 UCAR-T cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytoxan|DRUG: Melphalan
the anti-tumor efficiency of anti-CD7 UCAR-T cells, ratio of bone marrow blast cells and/or the measurable lesion size and standralized uptake value, 4 weeks after infusion
the long-term efficiency of anti-CD7 UCAR-T cells, ratio of bone marrow blast cells and/or the measurable lesion size and standralized uptake value, 3 and 6 months after infusion
The prognosis of patients with relapsed and/or refractory T-cell hematologic malignancies is poor due to lacking sufficient treatment.Anti-CD(cluster of differentiation antigen)19 CAR(chimeric antigen receptor)-T cell therapies are efficient for patients with B-cell hematologic malignancies. As for T-cell hematologic malignancies, CD7 is a promising target expressed on most malignant T cells. The outcome of CD-7 CAR-T cell therapy pre-clinical experiments is cheerful.however, how to select the functional T cells from the malignant T cells is a challenge. In addition to this, auto-CAR-T cell therapy is not affordable for the majority of patients. Using T cells aphesis from healthy donors edited to avoid rejection of the host as the material of anti-CD7 universal CAR-T cells could be accessible and affordable, which is adapted for patients with CD7+ relapsed and/or refractory T/NK-cell hematologic malignancies.