Study of the Combination of VELCADE, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, and Prednisone or Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Non-Germinal Center B-Cell Subtype of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This is a randomized, open-label, active-control, parallel-group, multicenter, multinational Phase 2 Study of the efficacy and safety of VELCADE, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, and Prednisone (VR-CAP) or Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone (R-CHOP) in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Non-Germinal Center B-Cell (non-GCB) Subtype of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: VELCADE|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Vincristine
Complete Response (CR) Rate, Complete response was evaluated by an Independent Radiology Review Committee using available computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scans collected at Baseline, end of cycle 3, and end of cycle 6 (or end of treatment) based on the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma.

1. Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms if present before therapy.
2. PET scan was negative.
3. The spleen and/or liver, if enlarged before therapy on the basis of physical examination or CT scan, was not palpable on physical examination and was considered normal size by imaging studies; all splenic and hepatic nodules related to lymphomas disappeared.
4. If bone marrow was involved before treatment, the infiltrate cleared on repeated bone marrow biopsy.
5. No new sites of disease were detected., 6 cycles
Overall Response Rate, Overall response = Complete Response (CR) + Partial Response (PR) Response was evaluated by an Independent Radiology Review Committee using available computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scans collected at Baseline, end of cycle 3, and end of cycle 6 (or end of treatment) based on the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma.

Complete Response: see primary endpoint Partial Response: At least a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of up to 6 of the largest dominant nodes or nodal masses., 6 cycles|Rate of Durable Response, Proportion of subjects who achieved a CR or PR with duration of at least 6 months. Duration of response (CR or PR) was calculated from the date of initial documentation of a response to the date of first documented evidence of disease progression or death due to disease progression. Response was evaluated by an Independent Radiology Review Committee using available computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET) scans collected at Baseline, end of cycle 3, end of cycle 6 (or end of treatment) based on the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma., Median follow up approx. 12 months|Rate of Durable Complete Response, Proportion of subjects who achieved a CR with duration of at least 6 months, Median follow up approx 12 months|Subsequent Anti-lymphoma Therapy Rate at 1-year, Kaplan-meier estimate of subsequent anti-lymphoma therapy at 1-year. Time to subsequent anti-lymphoma therapy was measured from the date of randomization to the start date of new treatment. Death due to disease progression prior to subsequent therapy was considered as an event. Otherwise, time to next anti-lymphoma treatment was censored at the date of death or the last date known to be alive., 1 year|Progression-free Survival (PFS)Rate at 1-year, Kaplan-meier estimate of progression-free survival at 1-year. Progression-free survival was defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the date of first documented evidence of disease progression or death., 1 year|Overall Survival Rate at 1-year, Kaplan-meier estimate of overall survival at 1-year measured from date of randomization., 1 year|Change in Fatigue and Patient Utility Scores, 18-24 months
This is a randomized, open-label, active-control, parallel-group, multicenter, multinational Phase 2 Study of the efficacy and safety of VELCADE, Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, and Prednisone (VR-CAP) or Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisone (R-CHOP) in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Non-Germinal Center B-Cell (non-GCB) Subtype of Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)