CCCG Relapsed Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia 2017 Study in Children
Relapsed acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) has a poorer outcome than newly diagnosed ALL patients with only about 40% overall survival after re-treatment. The study CCCG Relapsed ALL 2017 study will adopt the UK R3 study stratification and treatment backbone with two new agents added. There will be a 4-week induction, followed by two consolidation courses. High-risk patients will receive allogeneic stem cell transplant. While intermediate and standard risk groups will continue maintenance treatment for another 2 years or one year. New agents will be added aiming at improving survival outcome.

1. Study of adding anti-CD20 antibody (rituximab) with chemotherapy: CD20 is found to be expressed in 40-50% of B-lineage ALL, and rituximab has been studied in adult ALL with superior survival (75% vs 47%,). There is little experience of using rituximab in pediatric ALL thus a CCCG Relapsed ALL 2017 Study will perform the study assessing the remission rate and MRD response of CD20+ ALL treated with rituximab. Six doses of rituximab and will be monitored the week 5 MRD and relapse rate as study outcome.

   (This arm was terminated in October 2020 after interim analysis showing lack of efficacy)
2. Adding bortezomid during the induction: The very early or early bone marrow relapse has low remission rate. Previous case studies showed that Bortezomib, a proteasome inhibitor, may achieve remission in refractory ALL, 80% remission in B-ALL with combination of chemotherapy and bortezomib. Thus adding bortezomib, may improve the remission rate, thus bridging to allogeneic stem cell transplant. Adding bortezomib in the relapsed chemotherapy protocol may increase the toxicity and even treatment related mortality. In this protocol, we suggested to add during the induction therapy.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, in Relapse
DRUG: Bortezomib Injection|DRUG: rituximab injection
remission rate, bone marrow blast count \< 5% and MRD \<0.01%, week 5 MRD and relapse rate
event-free survival rates, survive without relapse or death or second cancer, with or without HSCT, 2-year|overall survival, survive without death event, 5 years
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) is now having over 80% event-free survival after frontline chemotherapy treatment. There is still 15-20% of patients having a relapse after initial control. Relapsed ALL is associated with lower second remission rate and also high chance of further relapse. Currently there are only a few large scale studies targeting this challenging disease. BFM Relapsed ALL studies have been organized since 1990s and have identified several important prognostic factors, including timing and site of relapse and also immunophenotyping. COG has performed several studies on relapsed ALL (AALL02P2, AALL0433, ADVL04P2) but the results are rather fragmented. Recently UK group conducted a nationwide randomized study, ALL R3 study, testing the type of anthracycline and prognostic value of minimal residual disease after induction therapy.

T-ALL relapse is having poor prognosis except for the late isolated extramedullary relapse. Long-term survival of T-ALL bone marrow relapse treated with chemotherapy is less than 10%, thus allogeneic stem cell transplant is always indicated. Whereas B-ALL has been better studied and the risk stratification of relapsed ALL is better defined.

According to previous studies, patients can be stratified into Standard, Intermediate and High-Risk groups based on site of relapse, time of relapse from first diagnosis and immunophenotyping. Early bone marrow relapse at less than 18-36 months from diagnosis is having the worst prognosis and is classified as HR. Those with late relapse at \>36 months from diagnosis is in general having a better prognosis. Bone marrow relapse is having a poorer outcome as compared to isolated extramedullary relapse (IEM). Somehow combined marrow and extramedullary relapse appear to have a better prognosis than isolated bone marrow relapse. Early B-ALL marrow relapse was only having 15-30% long-term survival, and early B-ALL IEM around 30-50% survival.

Late B-ALL marrow relapse has a higher second remission rate of around 95% and also better long term survival of 50-60%. Late B-ALL IEM is having a better prognosis of up to 70-80% survival. Based on the above criteria, several study groups including BFM, UK and COG also adopted similar strategies of stratifying patients and delivered risk-adapted treatment, with some minor variation among these groups.