DEBIRI Combined With Chemotherapy and Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Unresectable Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases
To study the efficacy and safety of embolization therapy with uniform particle size drug-eluting beads loaded with irinotecan (DEBIRI) in patients with unresectable colorectal cancer liver metastases.
Colorectal Neoplasms
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: DEBIRI Combined With Chemotherapy and Bevacizumab
converted resection rate, Discussed and determined by the MDT of the research center., 1, 3, 6 months after surgery
Actual R0 resection rate, Postoperative pathological examination.No cancer cells can be found at the resection margin of the postoperative specimen under a microscope. There are no cancer cells remaining either to the naked eye or under a microscope, and the lesion has been completely removed., 1, 3, 6 months after surgery|Progression Free Survival, Time from initiation of treatment to tumor progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, 1, 3, 6 months after surgery|Recurrence-free survival, Time from date of curative surgery to recurrence or death, 1, 3, 6 months after surgery|Adverse events, Adverse medical events that occur to subjects during clinical trials, 1, 3, 6 months after surgery
Colorectal cancer is the second most common malignant tumor and the fifth cause of cancer death in my country, and its incidence rate is increasing year by year. The liver is the main target organ for hematogenous metastasis of colorectal cancer and the main cause of death in patients with colorectal cancer. About 15% to 25% of patients with colorectal cancer have liver metastases when diagnosed, and another 15% to 25% of patients will develop liver metastases after radical resection of the primary colorectal cancer site. The vast majority (80%) %\~90%) of liver metastases cannot be curatively resected initially. The median survival of patients with untreated liver metastases is only 6.9 months, and the 5-year survival rate of patients with unresectable liver metastases is less than 5%. The median survival time of patients who have completely resected liver metastases or reached a state of no evidence of disease is 35 months, and the 5-year survival rate can reach 30% to 57%.

For patients with unresectable colorectal cancer liver metastases, the first-line treatment option recommended by the guidelines is multi-agent chemotherapy with or without targeted therapy.

Currently, there are limited clinical studies on the use of uniform particle size drug-loaded microspheres combined with chemotherapy drugs and targeted drugs to treat unresectable colorectal cancer liver metastases. Based on this, a single-arm, prospective study is planned to be carried out, using conversion resection rate as the main efficacy indicator, to explore the efficacy of embolization therapy with uniform particle size drug-loaded microspheres loaded with irinotecan combined with systemic chemotherapy and bevacizumab versus systemic chemotherapy combined The efficacy and safety of bevacizumab in the treatment of patients with unresectable colorectal cancer liver metastases provide a more reliable basis for clinical treatment in this field.