Genistein Supplementation to Mitigate Cardiometabolic Dysfunction in Patients Undergoing Androgen Deprivation Therapy for Prostate Cancer
Genistein is a natural supplement that comes from soy. The purpose of this study is to see if genistein has any effect on preventing or reducing heart disease and diabetes risk in men receiving Androgen Deprivation Therapy for prostate cancer. A combination of nutritional measures, blood markers and imaging tools will assess body composition, lipid levels and insulin resistance. Information from this pilot study will increase understanding of interventions which may prevent or reduce health risks during prostate cancer treatment. This project involves 24 men who will receive androgen deprivation therapy for prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Genistein|DRUG: Placebo
Matsuda Index of Whole-Body Insulin Sensitivity at Baseline and Week 8 Post-baseline, The Matsuda index is a measurement of insulin sensitivity from plasma glucose and insulin concentrations during the oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT).

Insulin sensitivity was calculated at baseline and after 8 weeks with Matsuda index \[10,000 / √glucose 0' x insulin 0') (mean glucose oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) x mean insulin OGTT)\]. Higher values are reflective of better insulin sensitivity. This test is not used to clinically diagnose disease, and there is no accepted, standard cutoff to define impaired insulin sensitivity or insulin resistance based on this index., Baseline, Week 8 post-baseline|β-cell Insulin Secretion Capacity Assessed by the Insulinogenic Index at Baseline and Week 8 Post-baseline, β-cell insulin secretion was determined from the OGTT. It is calculated as the ratio of the change in insulin values over the first 30 minutes of the OGTT and the change in glucose values over the first 30 minutes. Higher values are reflective of higher insulin secretion. This test is not used to clinically diagnose disease, and there is no accepted, standard cutoff to define impaired insulin secretion based on this index., Baseline, Week 8 post-baseline
Arterial Stiffness, Arterial stiffness will be assessed by applanation tonometry. Results will be reported in m/s (meters/seconds). A higher value indicates a worse outcome., Baseline, Week 8|Vascular Endothelial Function at Baseline and Week 8 Post-baseline, Vascular endothelial function was measured with flow-mediated dilation (FMD in %) via ultrasound. A lower FMD indicates a worse outcome., Baseline, Week 8 post-baseline
This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial of daily oral genistein in 24 men initiating Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer (PCa). Genistein is a natural supplement that comes from soy. The purpose of this study is to see if genistein has any effect on preventing or reducing heart disease and diabetes risk in men receiving ADT for PCa. A combination of nutritional measures, blood markers and imaging tools will assess body composition, lipid levels and insulin resistance. Information from this study will increase understanding of interventions which may prevent or reduce health risks during prostate cancer treatment.

All participants will receive standard counseling for diet and exercise by their oncology care team. Participants will be asked to withhold from any additional dietary supplements (with the exception of 1 standard daily multivitamin) during the study period. Participants will also be asked to complete a food diary for three days (on two weekdays and 1 weekend day).

Subjects will be randomized and stratified by diabetes status to either 60 mg/day oral genistein (30 mg taken twice daily), or matching placebo. The goal for randomizing based on diabetes status is to ensure approximately the same number of subjects who have diabetes and do not have diabetes receive genistein and placebo.

During follow-up, subjects will receive weekly reminders via phone call, text, or email to enhance compliance and monitor for potential adverse events. The 3-month study visit will be scheduled to coincide with the subject's standard of care follow-up visit. Three-month assessments will be the same as baseline assessments.

Investigators seek to assess indexes of insulin dynamics (insulin sensitivity and secretion) determined from an oral glucose tolerance test before and 12 weeks after a daily genistein or placebo supplement. Measures of vascular function before and 12 weeks after a daily genistein or placebo supplement will also be assessed via ultrasound along with other metabolic measures via blood draw.