Impact of eHealth-support on Quality of Life in Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients Treated With Palbociclib and Endocrine Therapy
In this study the investigators assess the impact of the eHealth-supported therapy management system CANKADO on Quality of Life in patients with HR+, HER2-locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer treated with the cyclin dependent kinase 4/6 (CDK4/6) Inhibitor Palbociclib in combination with an aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant. Furthermore this approach will be combined with biomarker screening to identify predictive markers for and to learn more about adherence, symptoms, response, and resistance.
Breast Neoplasm
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
DQoL, The event "deterioration of quality of life" (DQoL) will be measured every 28 days after enrolment using the FACT-B scale., From start of study treatment up to 4 years
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is considered to be the main clinical outcome and is defined as the time between treatment allocation and either first documentation of objective progression of disease (PD), as assessed by Investigator or death due to any cause in absence of PD., From start of study treatment up to 4 years|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time between treatment allocation and death due to any cause., From start of study treatment up to 4 years|Drug intake, Daily electronic documentation of dosage and time of drug intake., From start of study treatment up to 4 years|Global health status, Daily electronic rating of overall health-related quality of life on a visual analogue scale (EQ-VAS) between 100 (best health imaginable) and 0 (worst health imaginable)., From start of study treatment up to 4 years
This is a multicenter (80 sites) , randomized, parallel-group, Phase IV clinical trial with the primary objective of testing the hypothesis of superiority for time to deterioration (TTD) in patients using the ePRO system CANKADO active over CANKADO inform version.

Eligible patients will have histologically or cytologically proven diagnosis of hormone receptor positive (HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)- negative locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer and will be either candidates to receive palbociclib in combination with aromatase inhibitor or candidates to receive palbociclib in combination with fulvestrant for their locally advanced or metastatic disease. Patients who are candidates for palbociclib in combination with aromatase inhibitor (AI) or fulvestrant will not be candidates for curative therapies. For Patients who are candidates for palbociclib in combination with aromatase inhibitor or fulvestrant one prior line of chemotherapy for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer is allowed in addition to a maximum of two lines of endocrine therapy. Patients will be stratified according their eligibility of receiving palbociclib with endocrine therapy (AI or fulvestrant) as first or later lines.

Patients allocated to the combination of palbociclib with aromatase inhibitor will receive:

* Palbociclib, 125 mg, orally once daily on Day 1 to Day 21 of every 28-day cycle followed by 7 days off treatment and
* Aromatase inhibitor, orally once-daily (continuously).
* Pre- or peri-menopausal patients should additionally receive a Gonadotropin-Releasing-Hormon (GnRH)-agonist

Patients allocated to the combination of palbociclib with fulvestrant will receive:

* Palbociclib, 125 mg, orally once daily on Day 1 to Day 21 of every 28-day cycle followed by 7 days off treatment and
* Fulvestrant , 500 mg, intramuscularly on Days 1 and 14 of Cycle 1, every 28 days (± 7 days) thereafter starting.
* Pre- or peri-menopausal patients should additionally receive a Gonadotropin-Releasing-Hormon (GnRH)-agonist

Patients of each treatment group (palbociclib / aromatase inhibitor and palbociclib/fulvestrant) will randomized 2:1 in the Intervention Arm A CANKADO active is the fully functional CANKADO-based eHealth treatment support service, including a high density observation of patient reported outcome (HDOB-PRO).

And in the Control Arm B CANKADO inform stands for a CANKADO-based eHealth service with a personal login. On-site surveys without feedback functions for the patient will be available. CANKADO inform will be used for the initial ePRO and further on-site ePROs. Patients can login from at home and can document their drug intake. Further features will not be available.

Patients will continue to receive study treatment together with the assigned ePRO assessment until investigator assessed disease progression, symptomatic deterioration, unacceptable toxicity, death, or withdrawal of consent, whichever occurs first. In addition, should palbociclib related toxicity mandate discontinuation; patients can continue to receive fulvestrant alone.

Patients discontinuing the active treatment phase will enter a follow-up period phase during survival further progression and new anti-cancer therapy information will be collected once a year up to 48 month after randomization.

In addition biomarkers will be assessed as a scientific program within this study. Tumor material (tumor tissue and Blood samples (plasma and serum)) will be collected. Tumor tissue from available primary tumor and available biopsies from recurrent disease will be collected. Blood samples will be collected at four time points (cycle 1 (C1D1), after 2 weeks (C1D14), after 12 weeks (C4D1), and upon progression (End of treatment).