Observational Study of Real World Effectiveness Data and Safety in Patients Receiving Pazopanib With Advanced or Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
This is a global, multi-centre, long-term, prospective, observational study to evaluate treatment patterns and clinical outcomes in patients with advanced or metastatic RCC treated for the first time with pazopanib. The study is designed to enroll approximately 700-1000 patients in over the course of an enrollment period of approximately 18 months.There are no protocol-mandated visits or procedures associated with the study. Each patient is expected to participate for a maximum of 30 months or until premature discontinuation (i.e., due to death, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up or study termination).
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: Pazopanib
Efficacy, To evaluate overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS) and the overall response rate (ORR) in patients treated with pazopanib, Approximately 30 months|Relative Dose Intensity(RDI), To characterize the relative dose intensity (RDI) and its observed effect on treatment outcomes, Approximately 30 months|Characterise the RCC patient population treated, To characterise the RCC patient population treated with pazopanib (e.g., by demographics, disease characteristics, previous RCC treatment history) in comparison to a selected clinical trial population, Approximately 30 months|Evaluate the change in health-related quality of life (HRQoL), To evaluate the change in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) relative to baseline in patients treated with pazopanib, Approximately 30 months from baseline|Evaluate Safety, To evaluate the frequency of serious adverse events(SAEs) and adverse events of special interest (AESIs) in patients treated with pazopanib. Endpoint: Any adverse event that results in a pazopanib dose modification or discontinuation. Evidence of liver toxicity (e.g., increased ALT and/or AST, liver failure). New onset or worsened hypertension. Cardiac dysfunction (e.g., decreased left ventricular function, congestive heart failure). Thyroid dysfunction., From first treatment with pazopanib till 30 days after last dose of pazopanib treatment
Evaluate efficacy and safety comparable to VEG105192, To evaluate clinical effectiveness, safety and RDI in those patients with comparable baseline characteristics to those included in the Phase III clinical trial \[VEG105192\]. Endpoints: Same as primary effectiveness, safety and RDI objectives, Approximately 30 months|Evaluate efficacy, safety, RDI, and HRQoL, To evaluate clinical effectiveness, safety, RDI and HRQoL in relevant subgroups treated with pazopanib, Approximately 30 months
This is a global, multi-centre, long-term, prospective, observational study to evaluate treatment patterns and clinical outcomes in patients with advanced or metastatic RCC treated for the first time with pazopanib. The study is designed to enroll approximately 700-1000 patients in over the course of an enrollment period of approximately 18 months. Sites will be contacted and qualified by the estimated number of advanced or metastatic RCC patients available for enrollment annually. To the extent possible, consecutive patients meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled. Sites will be required to maintain a patient enrolment log of eligible patients at their treatment centres. This log will document how patients came to be included or excluded from the study, in order to assess the representativeness of the study population. The overall number of patients and sites may be adjusted during the study to meet enrollment goals, if needed. Eligible patients will be enrolled by medical oncologists and potentially by urologists experienced in the management of patients with RCC, if consistent with local practice. There are no protocol-mandated visits or procedures associated with the study. Each patient is expected to participate for a maximum of 30 months or until premature discontinuation (i.e., due to death, withdrawal of consent, lost to follow-up or study termination). Follow-up information will be collected approximately every 3 months (a window of ± 4 weeks around the date of the suggested data collection will be allowed). If the patient is not seen for a regularly scheduled visit at that time, the site may contact the patient by telephone to solicit information regarding the events of interest and to limit loss to follow up. It is anticipated that frequency of patient assessment and imaging will differ according to local standard practice; therefore the quarterly data collection time points are intended to collect all assessments (with the date of assessment) since the previous visit date.