Plasma and Tissue SAA1 Levels in Cancer Patients to Predict Hyperprogression of Immunotherapy
Immune checkpoint inhibitors have ushered in a new era of cancer treatment, bringing significant survival benefits to patients. However, some patients have accelerated tumor growth in the early stage of immunotherapy, called hyperprogression. The quality of life of patients with hyperprogression is seriously reduced, and there is no effective treatment at present, and the prognosis is extremely poor. Therefore, early identification of high-risk groups of hyperprogression is the key to prevent hyperprogression. However, there are no effective biomarkers to predict hyperprogression. By sequencing, proteomics and metabolomics analysis of clinical tissue and blood samples, we found that the level of SAA1 was significantly increased in patients with hyperprogression, and SAA1 was an effective marker for predicting hyperprogression in pan-cancer. We planned to conduct a multicenter, prospective cohort study to verify the reliability of SAA1 as a marker for predicting hyperprogression of immunotherapy in pan-cancer patients.
Immunotherapy|Hyperprogression|Biomarker
Incidence of hyperprogression, Incidence of hyperprogression will be calculated., 2 years
Event-free survival, Event-free survival was defined as the time from the date of inclusion until hyperprogression or death from any cause., 3 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of inclusion until disease progress or death from any cause., 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of inclusion until death from any cause., 3 years
Immune checkpoint inhibitors have ushered in a new era of cancer treatment, bringing significant survival benefits to patients. However, some patients have accelerated tumor growth in the early stage of immunotherapy, called hyperprogression. The quality of life of patients with hyperprogression is seriously reduced, and there is no effective treatment at present, and the prognosis is extremely poor. Therefore, early identification of high-risk groups of hyperprogression is the key to prevent hyperprogression. However, there are no effective biomarkers to predict hyperprogression. By sequencing, proteomics and metabolomics analysis of clinical tissue and blood samples, we found that the level of SAA1 was significantly increased in patients with hyperprogression, and SAA1 was an effective marker for predicting hyperprogression in pan-cancer. We planned to conduct a multicenter, prospective cohort study to verify the reliability of SAA1 as a marker for predicting hyperprogression of immunotherapy in pan-cancer patients.