Neoadjuvant FOLFOX6 + Cetuximab in Patients With Colorectal Cancer and Unresectable Liver Metastasis
An innovative therapeutic strategy to increase the complete resection rate is of utmost importance in order to enhance survival in colorectal cancer patients with unresectable liver-only metastasis. Therefore, the investigators propose a prospective study of neoadjuvant chemotherapy using FOLFOX6 plus cetuximab to convert initially unresectable liver metastasis to potentially resectable disease.
Colorectal Cancer|Unresectable Liver Metastasis
DRUG: FOLFOX6/cetuximab
To evaluate overall R0 resection rates following neoadjuvant FOLFOX6 plus cetuximab in patients with colorectal cancer and unresectable liver-only metastasis, 18 months
Response rate (according to RECIST), 24 months|Progression-free survival time, 24 months|Overall survival timeToxicity profile (according to NCI CTCAE v3), 24 months|Correlative analyses between pretreatment EGFR, KRAS mutation and response rate/survival, 24 months
We will include the patients with unresectable liver-only metastatic disease independent of EGFR status. The results of this study will show the resection rate with neoadjuvant treatment in patients with colorectal cancer with liver-only metastasis.

Restaging including CT after #3, #6, #9, and #12 cycles of FOLFOX + Cetuximab

If any time, patients have PD, Off-study SD, Continue study treatment until resectable, up to #12 cycles, PD, or toxicities PR or more, If resectable, go to surgery : resection of liver metastasis and primary tumor, if present If unresectable, continue until resectable, up to #12 cycles, PD, or toxicities

Overall, a total of 12 cycles of treatment including neoadjuvant therapy will be given either before, after or without surgery.

CT scans will be performed every 3 cycles during the first 12 cycles (6 months). After that, CT scans will be performed every 2 months for another 6 months, then every 3 months for 6 months, then once a year or earlier if a PD is probable.

AEs will be evaluated once every cycle and during the CT evaluation visit.. Patients that can only undergo R1 resection or are unable to get surgery at all, will be evaluated regularly until PD.

Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) may be allowed as a palliative local therapy in patients that are suitable for it. RFA is not considered equal to a resection.