SPORT High-Risk Trial Evaluating SABR in Prostate Cancer
The study will examine stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR), a new technique to deliver radiotherapy to men with prostate cancer. In addition to this, it will look at the effect of SABR on levels of markers of radiation exposure and bowel damage, along with other potential markers of outcome and side effects. Quality of life and any side effects that develop during and after treatment will also be assessed.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotatic Radiotherapy
Adequate recruitment rate, adequate recruitment rate (30 patients in 24 months), 24 months|Acute toxicity of SABR, Acute toxicity of SABR (as assessed by CTCAE v4.03 scores until 90 days of completion of SABR), 90 days of completion of SABR|Acute quality of life during and after SABR, Acute quality of life during and after SABR (as assessed by EPIC and IPSS scores until 90 days after completion of SABR), 90 days after completion of SABR|Number of SABR plans delivered as planned and on schedule, Number of SABR plans delivered as planned and on schedule, 29 days (treatment period)|Quantification of acute toxicity in each treatment group, Quantification of acute toxicity in each treatment group to enable calculation of the sample size for the Phase II RCT (using CTCAE v4.03 scores measured until 90days post completion of radiotherapy), until 90 days post completion of radiotherapy
Late toxicity of SABR, Late toxicity of SABR (as assessed by GI and GU RTOG late toxicity scores from 90 days to ten years post completion of SABR), from 90 days and up to ten years post completion of SABR|Late patient-reported quality of life, Late patient-reported quality of life (as assessed by EPIC and IPSS scores from 90 days to ten years post completion of SABR), up to ten years post completion of SABR|Rate of PSA failure, Rate of PSA failure as assessed by Phoenix criteria, up to ten years post completion of SABR|Prostate cancer-specific survival, Prostate cancer-specific survival, up to ten years post completion of SABR|Overall survival, Overall survival, up to ten years post completion of SABR
The study will examine stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy (SABR), a new technique to deliver radiotherapy to men with prostate cancer. In addition to this, it will look at the effect of SABR on levels of markers of radiation exposure and bowel damage, along with other potential markers of outcome and side effects. Quality of life and any side effects that develop during and after treatment will also be assessed.

Participants will be treated with five treatments (instead of the standard 37). This is more convenient for them and also allows the treatment of many more people in the same time frame, which should improve the timely delivery of radiotherapy for all patients.

Thirty men with high-risk prostate cancer will be enrolled into the study. They will all be treated with hormone therapy and radiotherapy to the prostate and seminal vesicles. In addition, half of the men will receive an additional dose of radiation to their pelvis. Gold markers will be placed in the prostate before radiotherapy to allow precise targeting of the prostate during treatment. CT scans are taken before and after each treatment to ensure the accuracy of its delivery.

Blood urine and prostate tissue samples will be taken before, during and after radiotherapy. Side effects and quality of life will also by assessed during this time.

Ultimately, this may allow us to predict which men are at increased risk of side effects from radiotherapy and allow closer monitoring, earlier intervention and perhaps alternative treatments in some cases. This should improve the control of prostate cancer and reduce the risk of serious treatment-related side effects