Basket Study for Oligo-metastatic Breast Cancer
The study will include patients with HER2-positive breast cancer and 1- 3 distant metastatic lesions, all amenable for curative intervention. Patients will be stratified by prior therapy and ER expression. In the initial baskets patients with be treated with trastuzumab-deruxtecan.

Patients are treated with T-DXd 5.4mg/kg on a three weekly (21 day) basis, with the goal of 16 cycles leading to a treatment period of year, including local treatment. The first 8 cycles of T-DXd are administered neo-adjuvant, and 8 cycles adjuvant, after completion of local treatment.

The proposed M22BOL trial is based on an important knowledge gap for regarding breast cancer patients with 'oligo-metastatic' disease who are usually not included in clinical trials for patients with metastatic disease since loco-regional treatments (radiation, surgery) with curative intent is not allowed in clinical trials for metastatic breast cancer. Moreover, neo-adjuvant trial protocols for early breast cancer exclude patients with distant metastases that can be treated with curative intent. This basket trial evaluates T-DXd for oligo-metastatic breast cancer with the goal to induce deep responses and subsequently long-lasting disease remissions and potentially cure.
HER2-positive Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab deruxtecan
Complete radiologic response, Number of patients to achieve radiologic response as defined by RECIST 11 with clearnace of ctDNA, up to one year after start treatment
Number of patients free of progression, as defined by RECIST, assessed up to 10 years|Overall Survival, time from start treatment to death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Number of patients with pathological complete response, after resection of primary tumor and/or metastatic lesions after neo-adjuvant treatment, assessed immediately after surgery|Number of patients with metabolic response, as measured with PDG-PET, assessed up to 12 months|Number of patients with metabolic response, as measured by clearance of ctDNA, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), determined accoriding to CTCAE v5.0 or Clavien-Dindo (in case of surgical resection), assessed up to 30 days after last treatment
The study will include patients with HER2-positive breast cancer and 1- 3 distant metastatic lesions, all amenable for curative intervention. Patients will be stratified by prior therapy and ER expression. Given the basket-design of this trial other baskets for oligo-metastatic breast cancer can be added, such as but not limited to other breast cancer subtypes or with other promising drugs.

Baskets for de novo oligo-metastatic disease I. ER+/HER2+ II. ER-/HER2+ Baskets for oligo-metastatic disease after prior chemo/anti-HER2 therapy for primary disease III. ER+/HER2+ IV. ER-/HER2+