Family Caregivers in Underserved Populations Providing Complex Cancer Care
This clinical trial develops and tests a model of family caregiver education focused on the role of underserved family caregivers as providers of complex care in the home. Cancer patients have symptoms from their cancer or treatment and are then supported by family caregivers at home with tasks requiring technical skill. Family caregivers are often asked to provide complex care whether it involves decisions about managing symptoms or providing technical care for ports/pumps, tubes, or devices. Family caregivers often are not given enough information on how to provide care for patients at home needing complex care. The results from this study may help researchers refine and improve the intervention for caregivers through future research for caregivers on a much larger scale.
Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Stage 0 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA3 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in Family caregiver distress scale, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the distress scale. Analysis of variance (ANOVA) will be used to compare scores at the three points of baseline, 3 weeks, and 7 weeks., up to 7 weeks|Change in Quality of life (QOL) scale, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the Caregiver QOL scale. ANOVA will be used to compare scores at the three points of baseline, 3 weeks, and 7 weeks., Up to 7 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop methods of assessing and supporting family caregiving skills in providing complex care.

II. Develop family caregiver (FCG) teaching materials and methods of instruction to enhance skills preparedness.

III. Pilot test the intervention in a cohort of underserved FCGs.

OUTLINE:

Participants attend 2 teaching sessions with a research nurse. Participants also complete questionnaires at baseline, 3, and 7 weeks.