Toripalimab Vs. Placebo Wtih GP Induction Chemotherapy in Locoregionally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Does the combination of GP induction chemotherapy and toripalimab improve the 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) compared to GP induction chemotherapy with placebo?
2. What are the differences in CR after induction therapy, 3-year overall survival (OS), locoregional progression, and distant progression between the two groups?
3. What are the differences in safety between the two groups?
4. Are there predictive biomarkers of therapeutic efficacy, such as changes in EBV DNA or immune parameters, that correlate with treatment outcomes?

Researchers will compare the GP + toripalimab group with the GP + placebo group to see if the toripalimab combination shows superior efficacy.

Participants will:

Receive either GP chemotherapy with toripalimab or GP chemotherapy with placebo as induction therapy.

Undergo concurrent chemoradiotherapy ± adjuvant metronomic capecitabine following induction therapy.

Be monitored closely for safety and efficacy outcomes.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma (NPC)
DRUG: TORIPALIMAB INJECTION (JS001 ) combine with GP chemotherapy|DRUG: GP plus placebo induction therapy
Progression-free Survival, Defined as the time from randomisation to first progression (locoregional or distant) or death, whichever occurred first., 3 years
Overall Survival, Defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., 3 years|Locoregional Progression, Defined as the time from randomization to the occurrence of a locoregional progression. Cumulative incidence of locoregional progression will be calculated within a competing risk framework (Fine and Gray 1999)., 3 years|Distant Progression, Defined as the time from randomization to the occurrence of a distant progression. Cumulative incidence of distant progression will be calculated within a competing risk framework (Fine and Gray 1999)., 3 years|Complete Response Rate, CR assessed by investigator, according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST1.1) from the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Disease response evaluated after the completion of the induction therapy. Complete response defined as the complete disappearance of the target and non-target lesion(s) identified at baseline after radiological evaluation by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) ., 9 weeks|Incidence of Acute and Late Toxicity, Incidence of acute toxicity is calculated for each adverse event respectively and severity is evaluated on basis of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0 criteria. Late radiation toxicities were assessed using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group and European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer late radiation morbidity scoring scheme., 3 years
The correlation of pre-treatement plasma EBV DNA and dynamic change after induction therapy between with the PFS, Plasma EBV DNA testing will be conducted before treatment and after induction therapy, 3 years
Platinum-based concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard of care for patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). Gemcitabine plus cisplatin (GP) has been demonstrated an effective chemotherapy regimen for NPC patients in previous studies. The results of GP combined with concurrent chemoradiotherapy in the treatment of locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma showed 10% of locoregionally advanced NPC patients had complete response after three cycles of GP induction chemotherapy, and GP induction chemotherapy added to chemoradiotherapy significantly improved recurrence-free survival (85.3% vs 76.5%) and overall survival (94.6% vs 90.3%) among locoregionally advanced NPC patients , as compared with chemoradiotherapy alone. Therefore, GP regimen has been established as the highest level of evidence-based induction chemotherapy in the 2020 National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines. Despite this intensified treatment approach, 20-30% of patients still have disease recurrences, highlighting the need for novel treatments in this population. Anti-PD-1 therapy and chemotherapy is a recommended first-line treatment for recurrent or metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma. So we hypothesize that GP induction chemotherapy combined with toripalimab could further improve survival of patients with locoregionally advanced NPC. The goal of this randomized, double-blind, controlled phase III clinical trial is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the GP induction chemotherapy combined with toripalimab or placebo , followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy ± adjuvant metronomic capecitabine in patients with high-risk locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.