Comparison Study of Brachytherapy and Endoscopic Stenting for Dysphagia in Esophago-Gastric Junction Cancer
The objective of the study is comparison of the efficacy and safety of palliative therapy with single-dose brachytherapy or selfexpanding metal stents (SEMS) in malignant dysphagia resulting from adenocarcinoma of the esophago-gastric junction.
Adenocarcinoma of the Esophago-gastric Junction
RADIATION: Brachytherapy|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic stenting
The highest improvement of dysphagia grade, 1 year|Time to the best swallowing improvement, 1 year|Time to recurrent worsening of swallowing, 1 year|The highest improvement of stricture diameter, 1 year
the procedure related morbidity, 1 year|the procedure related mortality, 1 year|The frequency of dysphagia related additional endoscopic interventions, 1 year|Overall survival, 1 year|Quality of life, 1 year
Cost analysis, 1 year
Over the past two decades it has been observed a clear trend in the increasing incidence of adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and esophago-gastric junction. More than half of these patients already have inoperable disease at presentation. Most of them need palliative treatment to relieve progressive dysphagia. Presently, endoscopic placement of a covered selfexpanding metal stent is the most commonly used method for treatment of malignant dysphagia. Cancer overgrowth and stent migration are the most common complications of endoscopic stenting and they occur more frequently with longer time from stenting. Specific location at esophago-gastric junction at the end point of the propulsive force after swallow may predispose stents for easier migration to the stomach. Additionally, the advances in chemotherapy have resulted in improved median survival of advanced adenocarcinoma ot the stomach and esophago-gastric junction even up to 10-12 months increasing a potential for higher chance for occurrence of stent complications. Brachytherapy has been proved to be a valuable and durable method to treat malignant dysphagia resulting from esophageal and mainly squamous cell cancer. For many years irradiation was not recommended for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus and esophago-gastric junction due to their putative low sensitivity to radiotherapy. Recently external beam radiation has been incorporated to a combined modality therapy regimens also for adenocarcinoma of the esophagus. Thus, brachytherapy could be an attractive and durable method for improving swallowing in adenocarcinoma of the esophago-gastric junction, as well. Single-dose brachytherapy and endoscopic stenting with SEMS in relieving dysphagia resulting from clearly defined adenocarcinoma of the esophago-gastric junction have not been compared yet.