Afatinib in Locally Advanced and Metastatic Chordoma
In this phase 2, single arm trial patients with locally advanced or metastatic, pathologically proven, EGFR expressing chordoma will be treated with afatinib. Two cohorts of patients will be included: 20 first line patients and 20 second or further line patients. The treatment will be given in 4 week cycles until disease progression. Median PFS according to RECIST 1.1 will be evaluated. The objective is to increase the median PFS ≥ 12 months in first-line treatment cohort and ≥ 9 months in later-line treatment cohort. Additional exploratory research will be performed, consisting of a pharmacokinetic study and translational studies on EGFR pathway activation and signalling on blood and tumor samples.
Chordoma
DRUG: Afatinib
Median PFS according to RECIST 1.1 criteria on afatinib treatment (first-line cohort), The objective is to increase the median PFS ≥ 12 months in first-line treatment cohort., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression or withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Median PFS according to RECIST 1.1 criteria on afatinib treatment (second or later line cohort), The objective is to increase the median PFS ≥ 9 months in later-line treatment cohort., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression or withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Quality of life assessment by EORTC QLC-30 questionnaire., Change from baseline in EORTC QLC-30 questionnaire score., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Quality of life assessment by Brief pain inventory short form, Change from baseline on Brief pain inventory short form score., From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression of withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).
Growth modulation index., Time to progression during afatinib treatment (TTP2) divided by time to progression before start of this treatment TTP1 (= growth modulation index), From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Toxicity determined by CTCAE v 4.03 criteria, Toxicity determined by CTCAE v 4.03 criteria, From date of start treatment until date of first documented of progression or withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year).|Overall survival., Overall survival from start of afatinib treatment, Survival follow-up after end of treatment every 3 months for up to 2 years followed by contact at 3 years.
Translational research - EGFR pathway analysis in tumor tissue, EGFR status by FISH / immunohistochemistry, From date of inclusion until date of first documented of progression or withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year)|Translational research - Genome sequence analysis of available tumor samples, Genetic mutations by DNA whole genome sequencing of fresh samples, From date of inclusion until date of first documented of progression or withdrawal (through study completion, an average of 1 year)|Translational research - circulating tumor DNA, Circulating chordoma tumor DNA identification by WGS and PCR, Analysis on blood samples to be taken at baseline, cycle 4 day 1, cycle 7 day 1 and at end of treatment (within 30 days after last dose of study drug).|Translational research - circulating exosomes, Circulating exosomes identification by PCR, Analysis on blood samples to be taken at different time points on cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 3 day 1 and cycle 5 day 1.|Pharmacokinetic research, Area under the curve, Analysis on blood samples to be taken at different time points on cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 3 day 1 and cycle 5 day 1.
In this phase 2, single arm trial patients with locally advanced or metastatic, pathologically proven, EGFR expressing chordoma will be treated with afatinib. Two cohorts of patients will be included: 20 first line patients and 20 second or further line patients. The treatment will be given in 4 week cycles until disease progression. Median PFS according to RECIST 1.1 will be evaluated. The objective is to increase the median PFS ≥ 12 months in first-line treatment cohort and ≥ 9 months in later-line treatment cohort. Additional exploratory research will be performed, consisting of a pharmacokinetic study and translational studies on EGFR pathway activation and signalling on blood and tumor samples.