Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial tests the safety and side effects of cyclophosphamide given together with dexamethasone in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic). Chemotherapy drugs, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving low doses of cyclophosphamide daily may reduce side effects. Dexamethasone is a corticosteroid drug that is used to treat some of the problems caused by chemotherapy treatment. The combination of cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) V8
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Feasibility, Feasibility, defined as \>= 80% of participants completing treatment, and safety as defined by Grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs) observed per National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteriafor Adverse Events (CTCAE 5.0) criteria, Treatment initiation through treatment completion, an average of up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Number of participants experiencing adverse events (AEs), both non treatment related and treatment related, classified by severity and graded., Treatment initiation through treatment completion, an average of up to 4 years
Total prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response rate, Defined as a decline in PSA of 50% or greater, confirmed evaluation every 28 days with no evidence of clinical progression or disease progression on imaging, consistent with previous definitions by the Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 (PCWG2). The PSA response rate will be estimated along with an exact 95% confidence interval. Kaplan-Meier analysis will be used to depict time-to-event outcomes graphically and estimate medians with 95% confidence intervals., From date of treatment initiation through PSA response (as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 [PCWG2]), an average of up to 4 years|Time to no longer clinical benefit (NLCB), Treatment initiation through treatment completion, an average of up to 4 years|Time to prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression, From date of treatment initiation to PSA progression (as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 [PCWG2]), an average of up to 4 years|Time to radiographic progression free survival (rPFS), From date of treatment initiation to radiographic progression (as defined by Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 [PCWG2]) or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, an average of up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the feasibility of using the combination of oral metronomic cyclophosphamide and oral dexamethasone for treatment of men with metastatic castration -resistant prostate Cancer (mCRPC) who have progressed on 2 or more prior treatments. II. To assess the safety of cyclophosphamide + dexamethasone in men with mCRPC who have progressed on 2 or more prior treatments. SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:I. To evaluate prostate specific antigen (PSA) response and progression free survival and time to event outcome in participants with mCRPC treated with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone. EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE: I. To analyze serial blood samples for PSA monitoring and tumor tissue for pRb (encoded by the RB1 gene) and p53 (encoded by the TP53 gene) mutations. OUTLINE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months thereafter.