Non-invasive Testing for Early oEesophageal Cancer and Dysplasia
This study aims to determine whether a breath test could be used for early detection of oesophageal cancer and Barrett's high grade dysplasia.

Patients who are attending for a planned gastroscopy or who are scheduled to undergo elective resection of histologically confirmed early stage oesophageal adenocarcinoma or dysplasia will be approached to provide a breath sample.

Multi platform mass spectrometry analysis will be performed to establish volatile biomarkers that can discriminate between early stage (T1) oesophageal cancer/ Hight grade dysplasia from non cancer healthy controls/non dysplastic Barrett's cancer.
Oesophageal Cancer|Barrett Esophagus|Barretts Esophagus With Dysplasia
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Breath test
Determine the diagnostic accuracy of breath test for detection of early oesophageal cancer and Barrett's high grade dysplasia, Diagnostic accuracy will be measured by calculating the sensitivity and specificity of the test for detection of early oesophageal cancer/ high grade dysplasia. Sensitivity and specificity values are represented by a number between 0 to 1 indicating the test's ability to pick up true positive results and true negative results respectively, where a number closer to one indicates a greater detection ability., 4 years
Diagnostic validation study of the breath profile for prediction of early oeosphageal cancer and high grade dysplasia, After diagnostic accuracy has been determined as per objective 1 by the discovery phase of the proposed study, a validation phase will then follow to confirm findings. Diagnostic accuracy of the validation phase results will be measured by calculating the sensitivity and specificity of the test for detection of T1 oesophageal cancer and dysplasia. Sensitivity and specificity values are represented by a number between 0 to 1 indicating the test's ability to pick up true positive results and true negative results respectively, where a number closer to one indicates a greater detection ability., 3
The incidence of oesophageal adenocarcinoma has been rising over the last decade. Despite improvements in oncological and surgical therapies the associated survival remains poor, mainly due to delays in diagnosis and advanced stage at presentation. Identifying patients at earlier stages as well as those at risk of cancer may lead to survival benefit. Barrett's oesophagus is an established risk factor for the development of oesophageal adenocarcinoma. It has an established histopathologic progression from low-grade, through high-grade dysplasia (HGD) to oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC). Barrett's oesophagus patients currently undergo regular endoscopic surveillance to allow earlier detection of oesophageal cancer.

The primary objective is to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility of the volatile organic compounds (VOC) in exhaled breath to detect early stage oesophageal adenocarcinoma and high-grade dysplastic Barrett's oesophagus.

All patients will be fasted for a minimum of 6 hours prior to the breath sample as part of their routine clinical care. Breath collection will be conducted using a previously validated method. Samples of breath (500ml) collected using "breath collecting device utilising bags". Breath samples collected within thermal desorption tubes (Markes International, Llantrisant, UK) will be transferred to a central laboratory for analysis by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and proton transfer reaction time of flight mass spectrometry (PTR-ToF-MS). Raw data files will be extracted and analysed in accordance with established protocols.