Evaluation of the Responsiveness of Investigator Global Assessment Score for Keratosis Pilaris
This prospective study aims to evaluate the responsiveness of the validated investigator global assessment (IGA) and composite area index score for keratosis pilaris by data collection through treatment and scoring sessions held at a private practice and relevant statistical analysis.
Keratosis Pilaris
DEVICE: Cutera laser machine
KP-IGA, KP-IGA is a standard 0-4 IGA score., through study completion, an average of 1 year|KPAI, KPAI is a 5-point IGA score (0-4) of five main body areas: face, upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and buttocks, for a maximum of 20 in two main categories, activity (erythema, skin roughness and papulation) and damage (pigmentation and scarring). The final score will be a maximum of 100., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Likert Scale of Magnitude of CHange, 15-point Likert scale from -7 (deterioration) to +7 (improvement), through study completion, an average of 1 year|Physician's Global Assessment, 10-point scale form 0 to 10 showing the worst skin condition to the best, through study completion, an average of 1 year
This is a prospective study aiming to evaluate the responsiveness of the IGA score for KP. KPAI is a 5-point IGA score (0-4) of five main body areas: face, upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and buttocks, for a maximum of 20 in two main categories, activity (erythema, skin roughness and papulation) and damage (pigmentation and scarring). The final score will be a maximum of 100. KPIGA, on the other hand, is a standard 0-4 IGA score. A Physician's Global Assessment Score and a 15-point Likert Scale would also be used by investigators, data collected act as external anchor for further responsiveness statistical analysis purpose.

4 scoring sessions will take place at Premier Specialists, Kogarah, Sydney with all co-investigators conducting the study in person at this single study site. Each dermatologist and medical professional involved will receive training on using the scores through a slideshow of training photos prior to the live scoring session. Firstly, a baseline score will be determined using the proposed scoring systems on the first scoring session. After that, participants will be offered 3 sessions of Nd: YAG laser 1064nm treatments at 4-week intervals on the affected skin of all body regions (face, upper limbs, lower limbs, trunk, and buttocks). The baseline KPIGA and KPAI scores obtained on the first scoring visit acts as the control for this pilot study and the scores obtained in the 3 progressive visits will be compared to the baseline. According to relevant study, the recommended Nd: YAG laser 1064nm treatment regimen is 3 treatment sessions at 4-week intervals. They will be scored before subsequent treatment sessions to see if there is any improvement in their KP and if the score is responsive to change.

Every participant will also complete the DLQI questionnaire during each visit. This data will be used to provide insight of patient's subjective perceptions of KP and the psychological impact it may have on them.