BOLSTER: Learning New Skills to Thrive
This research study is evaluating a new program called Building Out Lifelines for Safety, Trust, Empowerment, and Renewal or (BOLSTER), which was designed to support participants with a gynecological or gastrointestinal cancer and new and complex care needs.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer|Advanced Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: BOLSTER Program
Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the FACT-G, a 27-item scale designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in FACT-G Score From Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the FACT-G, a 27-item scale designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge
Change in FACT-G Score From Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the FACT-G, a 27-item scale designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in FACT-G Score From Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the FACT-G, a 27-item scale designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 108. Higher scores indicate better quality of life., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General 7 item Version (FACT-G7) Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the FACT-G7, a 7-item designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer in the past 7 days. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 28. A higher score indicates better quality of life., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in FACT-G7 Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the FACT-G7, a 7-item designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer in the past 7 days. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 28. A higher score indicates better quality of life., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in FACT-G7 Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the FACT-G7, a 7-item designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer in the past 7 days. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 28. A higher score indicates better quality of life., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in FACT-G7 Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the FACT-G7, a 7-item designed to measure physical, emotional, social, functional, and family well-being in patients with life-limiting cancer in the past 7 days. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 "Not At All" to 4 "Very Much" with a total scores range of 0 to 28. A higher score indicates better quality of life., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions - Short Form 4a, an 8-item measure for determining managements of symptoms and medications. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 "I am not at all confident" to 5 "I am very confident" with a total scores range of 0 to 40. A higher score indicates greater self-efficacy., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions - Short Form 4a, an 8-item measure for determining managements of symptoms and medications. Answers are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 "I am not at all confident" to 5 "I am very confident" with a total scores range of 0 to 40. A higher score indicates greater self-efficacy., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the PROMIS Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions - Managing Care Needs and Managing Medications and Treatment. The Managing Care Needs (7 items) and Managing Medications and Treatment - Short Form 4a (6 items) evaluate confidence in handling medical care, including managing devices, medications, and symptoms. Responses are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 ("Not at all confident") to 5 ("Very confident"), with higher scores indicating greater self-efficacy., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the PROMIS Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions - Managing Care Needs and Managing Medications and Treatment. The Managing Care Needs (7 items) and Managing Medications and Treatment - Short Form 4a (6 items) evaluate confidence in handling medical care, including managing devices, medications, and symptoms. Responses are rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 ("Not at all confident") to 5 ("Very confident"), with higher scores indicating greater self-efficacy., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Health Care Utilization from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Defined as the numeric value of the frequency of health care utilization by participant and collected by the Health Care Utilization Report, which is a log that covers the previous 12 weeks and collects emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and rehabilitation admissions., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Health Care Utilization from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Defined as the numeric value of the frequency of health care utilization by participant and collected by the Health Care Utilization Report, which is a log that covers the previous 12 weeks and collects emergency room visits, hospitalizations, and rehabilitation admissions., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Advanced care planning (ACP) from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), ACP measures a patient's preferences, understanding, and preparedness for future medical care, as documented in the electronic health record., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Advanced care planning (ACP) from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), ACP measures a patient's preferences, understanding, and preparedness for future medical care, as documented in the electronic health record., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant Hospital Anxiety and Depression (HADS) Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Participant HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Caregiver Perception of Quality of End-of-Life Care, Caregiver perception of end-of-life care will be assessed through a validated after-death bereaved family interview, evaluating healthcare utilization, quality of care, symptom management, and goal attainment., Up to 12 weeks|Change in Caregiver Short Form ZARIT Burden Interview (ZBI-12) Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Short Form ZARIT Burden Interview, a 12-item measure rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Nearly always." A total scores range is 0 to 48 with a higher score indicating higher caregiver burden., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver ZBI-12 Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Short Form ZARIT Burden Interview, a 12-item measure rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Nearly always." A total scores range is 0 to 48 with a higher score indicating higher caregiver burden., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver ZBI-12 Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Short Form ZARIT Burden Interview, a 12-item measure rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Nearly always." A total scores range is 0 to 48 with a higher score indicating higher caregiver burden., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver ZBI-12 Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Short Form ZARIT Burden Interview, a 12-item measure rated on a 5-point Likert scale with answers ranging from 0 "Never" to 4 "Nearly always." A total scores range is 0 to 48 with a higher score indicating higher caregiver burden., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Anxiety Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Anxiety Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for anxiety., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver HADS Depression Subscale Score from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), Assessed by the Depression Subscale of the HADS questionnaire, a 7-item survey with answers scored on a 0-3 point scale. A total scores range is 0 - 21 with a higher score indicating increasing abnormality (or caseness) for depression., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver-Patient Activation from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 1), The Caregiver Patient Activation Survey is a 10-item survey used to measure a caregiver's knowledge, skills, confidence, and willingness to advocate for and support a patient's healthcare needs. It assesses the caregiver's ability to navigate the healthcare system, communicate with providers, manage medications, and ensure adherence to treatment plans., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver-Patient Activation from Baseline to Week 6 (Arm 2), The Caregiver Patient Activation Survey is a 10-item survey used to measure a caregiver's knowledge, skills, confidence, and willingness to advocate for and support a patient's healthcare needs. It assesses the caregiver's ability to navigate the healthcare system, communicate with providers, manage medications, and ensure adherence to treatment plans., Baseline to 6 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver-Patient Activation from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 1), The Caregiver Patient Activation Survey is a 10-item survey used to measure a caregiver's knowledge, skills, confidence, and willingness to advocate for and support a patient's healthcare needs. It assesses the caregiver's ability to navigate the healthcare system, communicate with providers, manage medications, and ensure adherence to treatment plans., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge|Change in Caregiver-Patient Activation from Baseline to Week 12 (Arm 2), The Caregiver Patient Activation Survey is a 10-item survey used to measure a caregiver's knowledge, skills, confidence, and willingness to advocate for and support a patient's healthcare needs. It assesses the caregiver's ability to navigate the healthcare system, communicate with providers, manage medications, and ensure adherence to treatment plans., Baseline to 12 weeks post-discharge
This multi-center, randomized trial is to test the efficacy of the BOLSTER Program and to improve participant quality of life (QOL), alleviate symptoms, reduce burden, and decrease the need for hospital care in participants with complex care needs from advanced gastrointestinal and gynecologic (GI/GYN) cancers.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, questionnaires, and telehealth visits.

Participation in this research study is expected to last about 12 weeks.

About 300 dyads (patients with family caregivers) are expected to participate in this research study.

The National Cancer Institute is funding this research study by providing funding.