Sertraline and Cytosine Arabinoside in Adults With Relapsed and Refractory AML
This is a Phase I study with the goals of determining the feasibility, safety, and toxicity of administering sertraline in combination with timed-sequential cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) in adults with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

Primary objective:

* To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of sertraline administered in combination with timed-sequential cytosine arabinoside in adult patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
* To evaluate the safety and tolerability of sertraline given in combination with timed-sequential cytosine arabinoside in adult patients with relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Sertraline|DRUG: Cytosine arabinoside|PROCEDURE: allogeneic stem cell transplantation
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of sertraline administered in combination with timed-sequential cytosine arabinoside, Standard 3+3 dose-escalation design will be used to determine the MTD. The MTD will be determined as the highest dose level where 1/6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Three patients will be treated at a given dose level combination and observed for at least 4 weeks to assess toxicity. Doses will not be escalated in any individual patient., Up to 24 months
Relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemias are characterized by net drug resistance. At the root of this drug resistance is an enhanced survival that relates to intrinsic cell cycle dysregulation and aberrations in the overall process of the repair of DNA damage. These malignancies represent a continuing therapeutic challenge, since currently no "standard treatments" for these diseases exist. Approximately 30% of adults with newly diagnosed AML are primary refractory to chemotherapy and at least 50% of those who achieve remission will relapse. For patients with relapsed or refractory AML, the expected CR/CRi rates with traditional multi-agent chemotherapies range from \< 10% for primary refractory AML to 25-30% for relapsed AML and cure rates \< 20%, even with allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Thus, novel treatment approaches are needed.