A Study to Test the Addition of the Drug Cabozantinib to Chemotherapy in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Osteosarcoma
This phase II/III trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of the drug cabozantinib in combination with standard chemotherapy, and to compare the effect of adding cabozantinib to standard chemotherapy alone in treating patients with newly diagnosed osteosarcoma. Cabozantinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors which block protein signals affecting new blood vessel formation and the ability to activate growth signaling pathways. This may help slow the growth of tumor cells. The drugs used in standard chemotherapy for this trial are methotrexate, doxorubicin, and cisplatin (MAP). Methotrexate stops cells from making DNA and may kill tumor cells. It is a type of antimetabolite. Doxorubicin is in a class of medications called anthracyclines. It works by slowing or stopping the growth of tumor cells in the body. Cisplatin is in a class of medications known as platinum-containing compounds. It works by killing, stopping or slowing the growth of tumor cells. Adding cabozantinib to standard chemotherapy may work better in treating newly diagnosed osteosarcoma.
High Grade Osteosarcoma|Localized Osteosarcoma|Metastatic Osteosarcoma|Secondary Osteosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|DRUG: Cisplatin|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Methotrexate|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Occurrence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) (Feasibility), Only patients with high risk osteosarcoma who have a primary tumor considered resectable at the time of enrollment will be enrolled to this part of the trial. If a feasible dose cannot be established, the study committee will consult with Children's Oncology Group (COG) leadership and National Cancer Institute Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (NCI CTEP) regarding possible modifications of the regimen and subsequent protocol amendment., Baseline up to 6 weeks|Event-free survival (EFS) (Phase II), The randomization and analysis will be stratified according to risk group. An assessment of the reduction in risk for EFS-event at the designated landmark time will be used to determine whether the trial continues to part 3. If the study proceeds to part 3, patients enrolled to part 2 of the trial will contribute to the primary analyses for part 3 of the study. If the interim criterion for continuation is not obtained, accrual will be closed with the conclusion that cabozantinib does not reduce sufficiently the risk for EFS-event for patients with newly-diagnosed osteosarcoma., From randomization until disease progression, relapse, diagnosis of a second malignant neoplasm, death or last contact, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Event-free survival (EFS) (Phase III), Will consist of two randomized phase 3 sub-studies ('Phase 3'). One will be conducted in standard risk patients and one will be conducted in high risk patients., From randomization until disease progression, relapse, diagnosis of a second malignant neoplasm, death or last contact, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years after completion of study treatment|Overall survival (OS), From randomization until death or last contact, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of adding cabozantinib S-malate (cabozantinib) to standard MAP (high dose methotrexate, doxorubicin hydrochloride \[doxorubicin\], and cisplatin) chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed metastatic osteosarcoma with a resectable primary tumor.

II. To determine whether MAP chemotherapy plus cabozantinib results in more favorable event-free survival (EFS) than MAP chemotherapy alone in patients with localized, resectable osteosarcoma.

III. To determine whether MAP chemotherapy plus cabozantinib results in more favorable event-free survival (EFS) than MAP chemotherapy alone in patients with metastatic, pelvic and unresectable osteosarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether MAP chemotherapy plus cabozantinib results in more favorable overall survival (OS) than MAP chemotherapy alone in patients with localized, resectable osteosarcoma.

II. To determine whether MAP chemotherapy plus cabozantinib results in more favorable overall survival (OS) than MAP chemotherapy alone in patients with metastatic, pelvic and unresectable osteosarcoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of good histologic response (\> 90%) of resected primary tumor specimens following neoadjuvant chemotherapy with MAP plus cabozantinib and compare with response rates for MAP chemotherapy alone.

II. To describe the toxicities of the addition of cabozantinib to MAP chemotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed osteosarcoma.

III. To describe frequency of application of local control methods (surgery, hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy, or radiofrequency ablation) for extrapulmonary metastatic osteosarcoma.

IV. To compare total cumulative delivered doses of MAP chemotherapy agents between standard and experimental arms across multiple phases of therapy.

V. To assess the pharmacokinetics of cabozantinib when administered concomitantly with standard chemotherapy agents during feasibility.

VI. To collect pulmonary metastatic lesions, paired primary tumor tissue, and serial blood samples for tumor profiling, liquid biopsies, and future testing of correlative biology studies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of cabozantinib (Feasibility Phase) followed by a randomized phase II/III study (Efficacy Phase).

FEASIBILITY PHASE: Patients receive cabozantinib orally (PO), methotrexate intravenously (IV), doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "induction" cycles. Patients are then considered for appropriate local control. Then they receive "consolidation" with methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for one 35-day cycle, followed by cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for one 35-day cycle, and cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, and doxorubicin IV for two 35-day cycles. Patients then receive cabozantinib PO for six 28-day "maintenance" cycles.

EFFICACY PHASE: Patients with standard risk osteosarcoma are randomized to Arm A or Arm B. Patients with high risk osteosarcoma are randomized to Arm C or Arm D.

ARM A: Standard risk patients receive methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "induction" cycles, followed by appropriate local control. Patients then receive "consolidation" with methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day cycles and methotrexate IV and doxorubicin IV for two additional 35-day cycles.

ARM B: Standard risk patients receive cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "induction" cycles, followed by appropriate local control. Patients then receive "consolidation" with cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "consolidation" cycles, and cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, and doxorubicin IV for two additional 35-day cycles. Patients then receive cabozantinib PO for six 28-day "maintenance" cycles.

ARM C: High risk patients receive methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "induction" cycles, followed by appropriate local control. Patients then receive "consolidation" with methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day cycles and methotrexate IV and doxorubicin IV for two additional 35-day cycles.

ARM D: High risk patients receive cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for two 35-day "induction" cycles, followed by appropriate local control. Patients then receive "consolidation" with methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for one 35-day cycle, followed by cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV for one 35-day cycle and cabozantinib PO, methotrexate IV, and doxorubicin IV for two additional 35-day cycles. Patients then receive cabozantinib PO for six 28-day "maintenance" cycles.

All patients also undergo X-ray, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET) or bone scintigraphy at diagnosis and additonal time points throughout the trial. All patients also undergo collection of blood samples during screening and on study.