Evaluating the Combination of Everolimus and Sorafenib in the Treatment of Thyroid Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the combination of sorafenib and everolimus will have on your thyroid cancer. Treatment guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network include sorafenib as a treatment option for thyroid cancer. Sorafenib is pill that is approved by the FDA for the treatment of kidney and liver cancers. Sorafenib may work in many different ways. It helps decrease the blood supply to tumors. By doing so, it may limit the tumor's source of oxygen and nutrients and prevent the tumor from growing. Everolimus is an oral medication that is FDA approved for the treatment of kidney cancer. It inhibits a protein kinase called mTOR ("mammalian Target of Rapamycin"). In laboratory studies, the addition of everolimus to sorafenib works better than sorafenib alone. These two drugs are being used together to treat other types of cancer in other clinical studies. In addition, the cancer will be evaluated to help us find factors that can help predict who would benefit most from this combination of drugs.
Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: sorafenib with everolimus
Determine the response rate of the combination sorafenib and everolimus., 16 weeks
Evaluate if mutations in the pTEN, PI3K AKT, mTOR pathway, predict response to therapy., done prior to the start of therapy and again 3-5 weeks after the start of treatment|Determine the progression free survival under the combination of sorafenib and everolimus., 2 years|Assess safety and toxicity., This study will utilize the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 4.0 for toxicity and Serious Adverse Event reporting., once a week
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the combination of sorafenib and everolimus will have on your thyroid cancer. Treatment guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network include sorafenib as a treatment option for thyroid cancer. Sorafenib is pill that is approved by the FDA for the treatment of kidney and liver cancers. Sorafenib may work in many different ways. It helps decrease the blood supply to tumors. By doing so, it may limit the tumor's source of oxygen and nutrients and prevent the tumor from growing. Everolimus is an oral medication that is FDA approved for the treatment of kidney cancer. It inhibits a protein kinase called mTOR ("mammalian Target of Rapamycin"). In laboratory studies, the addition of everolimus to sorafenib works better than sorafenib alone. These two drugs are being used together to treat other types of cancer in other clinical studies. In addition, the cancer will be evaluated to help us find factors that can help predict who would benefit most from this combination of drugs.