Long-term Follow-up Study of Lentiviral-based Gene-edited Immune Cell Therapy
According to health authorities guidances (FDA 2006, EMA(European Medicines Agency) 2009) for gene therapy clinical trials, observing subjects for delayed adverse events for 15 years is recommended. This purpose of this long-term follow-up study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy in patients who have ever received lentiviral-based gene-edited immune cells which are manufactured by Pell Bio-Med Technology Co. Ltd.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Large B-cell Lymphoma|Primary Mediastinal Large B Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma Grade 3A|Follicular Lymphoma Grade 3B
GENETIC: Pell's lentiviral-based gene-edited immune cell therapy
To assess delayed adverse events which are suspected related to previous gene-edited immune cell therapy, • Proportion of patients with any events of the following items which are suspected related to previous gene-edited immune cell therapy.

1. New malignancies
2. New incidence or exacerbation of a pre-existing neurologic disorder
3. New incidence or exacerbation of a prior rheumatologic or other autoimmune disorder
4. New incidence of a hematologic disorder, including hypogammaglobulinemia
5. New incidence of infection (potentially product-related)
6. Other than the above adverse events, which are suspected related to gene-edited immune cell therapy judged by the investigator, 15 years
Monitor for Replication Competent of Lentivirus (RCL), Proportion of patients with detectable RCL in peripheral blood by VSV-G(Vesicular stomatitis virus G) qPCR, 15 years|Monitor the persistence of gene-edited immune cells in peripheral blood(By qPCR), Proportion of patients with detectable transgene level in peripheral blood by qPCR, 15 years|Monitor the persistence of gene-edited immune cells in peripheral blood(By Flowcytometry), Persistence of gene-edited immune cells in peripheral blood using flow cytometry, 5 years|To assess the long-term efficacy of gene-edited immune cells, 1. Proportion of patients with relapse or progress among patients who didn't progress or relapse at study entry/reentry
2. Incidence of death, 15 years
After completion or early withdraw from the other treatment protocol, patients should be enrolled into this long-term follow-up study. If patients do not enter this study right after leaving the treatment protocol, they may have the option to enter this long-term follow-up study at any time within 15 years after the last lentiviral-based gene-edited immune cell infusion.