Community-Based Cervical Cancer Prevention and Education Among Women Living With HIV
The long-term goal is to build a sustainable, community-based outreach program to promote cervical cancer screening among women living with HIV (WLH), thereby reducing related morbidity and mortality. The strategy for achieving this goal is to develop an intervention incorporating health literacy approaches and principles of community-based participatory research. Health literacy is a relatively new concept that has been applied mainly toward identifying high-risk individuals rather than toward changing health behaviors and outcomes. The proposed intervention is the first to integrate health literacy into educating WLH to promote cervical cancer screening. Community Health Workers (CHW) support has also rarely been incorporated into cancer screening interventions targeting WLH, making the proposed intervention a uniquely comprehensive approach. Building on recent successful testing by the investigators of a health literacy-focused intervention to promote cervical cancer screening in recent immigrant women, the investigators will test whether health literacy-focused interventions delivered by trained CHWs will be effective in promoting health literacy and increasing Pap test rates in a new population, WLH. The investigators hypothesize that, compared to WLH in the control group, WLH who receive the health literacy-focused CHW intervention will demonstrate: (1) higher rates of Pap test, (2) greater levels of health literacy, (3) higher levels of cervical cancer knowledge, and (4) higher self-efficacy.
Cervical Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Health-Literacy Focused Education Session
Completion of Pap test (medical records), Participants medical records will be audited to verify completion of a Pap test within 6 months of completing baseline survey. The measure of completion of Pap testing by 6 months after baseline visit will be tested using a one-sided, two-group test of proportions set at an alpha of 0.05. Known covariates of Pap test screening (e.g., age, education, insurance, and provider recommendation) will be controlled in the analyses., 6 months
Change scores for health literacy, Health Literacy scores will be measured using Assessment of Health Literacy-Cancer, a cervical cancer specific instrument with 52 items. Scores on the scale range from 0-52 with a score \> 26 signifying a high health literacy score and scores \<26 signifying low health literacy score. The rationale for using change scores is to account for differences in baseline performance for study participants, and to focus on improvement in scores after intervention. Differences in change scores between groups will be tested using a one-sided, two-group test of means with p=0.05, Baseline and 6 months|Change scores for cervical cancer knowledge, Cervical cancer knowledge will be measured with the Cervical Cancer Knowledge Test, a 22- item which measures knowledge of cervical cancer using a binary (true/false) scale. Higher scores indicate higher cervical cancer knowledge. The rationale for using change scores is to account for differences in baseline performance for study participants, and to focus on improvement in scores after intervention. Differences in change scores between groups will be tested using a one-sided, two-group test of means with p=0.05, Baseline and 6 months|Change scores for self-efficacy, Self-efficacy will be measured with the Self Efficacy Scale, a 4- item instrument which measures how confident a woman is in carrying out tasks in relation to Pap testing. Higher scores indicate higher self-efficacy. The rationale for using change scores is to account for differences in baseline performance for study participants, and to focus on improvement in scores after intervention. Differences in change scores between groups will be tested using a one-sided, two-group test of means with p=0.05, Baseline and 6 months
The long-term goal is to build a sustainable, community-based outreach program to promote cervical cancer screening among women living with HIV (WLH), thereby reducing related morbidity and mortality. The strategy for achieving this goal is to develop an intervention incorporating health literacy approaches and principles of community-based participatory research. Health literacy is a relatively new concept that has been applied mainly toward identifying high-risk individuals rather than toward changing health behaviors and outcomes. The proposed intervention is the first to integrate health literacy into educating WLH to promote cervical cancer screening. Community Health Workers (CHW) support has also rarely been incorporated into cancer screening interventions targeting WLH, making the proposed intervention a uniquely comprehensive approach. Building on recent successful testing by the investigators of a health literacy-focused intervention to promote cervical cancer screening in recent immigrant women, the investigators will test whether health literacy-focused interventions delivered by trained CHWs will be effective in promoting health literacy and increasing Pap test rates in a new population, WLH. The investigators hypothesize that, compared to WLH in the control group, WLH who receive the health literacy-focused CHW intervention will demonstrate: (1) higher rates of Pap test, (2) greater levels of health literacy, (3) higher levels of cervical cancer knowledge, and (4) higher self-efficacy.