Double Cord Versus Haploidentical (BMT CTN 1101)
Hematopoietic cell transplants (HCT)are one treatment option for people with leukemia or lymphoma. Family members,unrelated donors or banked umbilical cordblood units with similar tissue type can be used for HCT. This study will compare the effectiveness of two new types of bone marrow transplants in people with leukemia or lymphoma: one that uses bone marrow donated from family members with only partially matched bone marrow; and, one that uses two partially matched cord blood units.
Acute Lymphocytic Leukemia|Acute Myelogenous Leukemia|Burkitt's Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Haploidentical Bone Marrow Transplant|BIOLOGICAL: Double Umbilical Cord Blood Transplant
Percentage of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS), The primary endpoint is PFS at 2 years post-randomization. Death or disease relapse/progression will be considered as events. The time to event is defined as the time interval from randomization to relapse/progression, to death or to last follow-up, whichever comes first. Relapse is defined by either morphological or cytogenetic evidence of acute leukemia consistent with pre-transplant features, or radiologic evidence of progressive lymphoma. Minimal residual disease will not be considered evidence of relapse, however, minimal residual disease that progresses will be considered as relapse and the date of relapse will be the date of detection of minimal residual disease that prompted an intervention by the treating physician. Finally, institution of any therapy to treat persistent, progressive or relapsed disease, including withdrawal of immunosuppressive therapy or DLI, will be considered evidence of relapse/progression regardless of whether the criteria described above are met., Year 2
Percentage of Participants With PFS by Treatment Arms in Subgroups, Participants' primary diagnosis was categorized into two large groups: leukemia versus lymphoma. Age was dichotomized into two large groups: age \<= 59 versus age \> 59. The Kaplan-Meier estimate for PFS at 2 years post-randomization are provided for each subgroup., Year 2|Percentage of Participants With Neutrophil Recovery, Neutrophil recovery is defined as achieving an absolute neutrophil count greater than or equal to 500/mm\^3 for three consecutive measurements on three different days. The first of the three days will be designated the day of neutrophil recovery., Day 56|Percentage of Participants With Platelet Recovery, Platelet recovery is defined by two different metrics as the first day of a sustained platelet count greater than 20,000/mm\^3 or greater than 50,000/mm\^3 with no platelet transfusions in the preceding seven days. The first day of the sustained platelet count will be designated the day of platelet engraftment., Day 100|Participants With Primary Graft Failure, Primary graft failure is defined as less than 5% donor chimerism on all measurements up to and including Day 56., Day 56|Percentage of Participants With Secondary Graft Failure, Secondary graft failure is defined as initial donor chimerism ≥ 5% declining to \< 5% on subsequent measurements with time to secondary graft failure beginning at the first day of primary engraftment., Year 2|Percentage of Participants With Acute Graft-versus-Host Disease (aGVHD), The cumulative incidences of grade II - IV and III - IV acute aGVHD will be determined., Day 180|Percentage of Participants With Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease (cGHVD), The cumulative incidence of cGVHD from the time of transplant will be determined. Data were collected directly from providers and chart review according to the recommendations of the NIH Consensus Conference., Year 2|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time interval between date of randomization and death from any cause or for surviving patients, to last follow-up. The time interval between date of transplant and death from any cause or for surviving patients, to last follow-up are also analyzed., Year 2|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related Mortality (TRM), The cumulative incidence of TRM will be estimated, event for this endpoint is death without evidence of disease progression or recurrence., Day 100, Day 180, Year 1, and Year 2|Percentage of Participants With Relapse/Progression, Incidence of relapse/progression will be estimated using cumulative incidence function, treating death in remission as a competing risk. Relapse is defined by either morphological or cytogenetic evidence of acute leukemia consistent with pre-transplant features, or radiologic evidence of progressive lymphoma. When in doubt, the diagnosis of recurrent or progressive lymphoma should be documented by tissue biopsy. Minimal residual disease will not be considered evidence of relapse, however, minimal residual disease that progresses will be considered as relapse and the date of relapse will be the date of detection of minimal residual disease that prompted an intervention by the treating physician. Finally, institution of any therapy to treat persistent, progressive or relapsed disease, including withdrawal of immunosuppressive therapy or DLI, will be considered evidence of relapse/progression regardless of whether the criteria described above are met., Year 1, year 2|Toxicities, They are all Grade ≥ 3 toxicities based on NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4., Day 28, Day 56, Day 180, 1 year, and 2 years|Participants With Infections, All Grade 2 and 3 infections will be reported. Grade 1 CMV infections through Day 56 will also be reported., Up to 2 years|Hospital Admission and Length of Stay, Total Time Alive and Not Hospitalized within 6 Months Post Randomization, Month 6
Reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) blood or marrow transplantation (BMT) has allowed older and less clinically fit patients to receive potentially curative treatment with allogeneic HCT for high risk or advanced hematological malignancies. Patients lacking an HLA-matched sibling may receive a graft from a suitably HLA-matched unrelated donor. However, up to a third of patients will not have an HLA-matched sibling or a suitably matched adult unrelated donor (i.e., no more than a mismatch at a single locus). Even when a suitably matched unrelated donor is identified, data from the National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP) indicate that a median of four months is required to complete searches that result in transplantation; thus, some number of patients succumb to their disease while awaiting identification and evaluation of a suitably matched adult unrelated donor.

Single or dual center studies have shown that partially HLA-mismatched related bone marrow (haplo-BM) and unrelated double umbilical cord blood (dUCB) are valuable sources of donor cells for RIC HCT, thus extending this treatment modality to patients who lack other donors. In order to study the reproducibility, and thus, the wider applicability of these two alternative donor strategies, The Blood and Marrow Transplantation Clinical Trials Network (BMT CTN) conducted two parallel multicenter prospective Phase II clinical trials. These two studies evaluated the safety and efficacy of related haplo-BM (BMT CTN 0603) and dUCB (BMT CTN 0604) transplantation after RIC. Both of these alternative donor approaches produced early results similar to that reported with unrelated donor, and even HLA-matched sibling, HCT. These data demonstrate not only the efficacy of both of these approaches, but also that both can be safely exported from the single center setting. Both haplo-BM and dUCB grafts can be obtained rapidly for greater than 90% of patients lacking an HLA-matched donor. This study will test the hypothesis that progression free survival at two years after RIC haplo-BM transplantation is similar to the progression free survival after RIC dUCB transplantation.