Lenvatinib Combined With PD-1 Inhibitors as First-line Treatment for Unresectable/Advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma
This is a multi-center, single-arm,phase Ⅱ study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Lenvatinib in combination with PD-1 inhibitors as first-line treatment in patients with unresectable advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma (BTC)
Biliary Tract Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: PD-1 inhibitors
ORR, ORR was assessed by the investigator based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Confirmation of CR or PR was performed at least 28 days following the initial achievement of the response, 12-months
Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1. DCR was defined as the percentage of participants whose BOR was CR, PR or SD, 12-months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was assessed by the investigator based on RECIST 1.1. PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of last documentation of disease progression or date of death from any cause, whichever occurred first. For participants who did not have an event, PFS were censored. PFS was calculated using Kaplan-Meier method, 12-months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For the participants who were alive or unknown, OS was censored on the last date participant was known to be event-free or date of data-cut-off. OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 24-months|Overall Survival (OS) Rate at 9 months, OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For the participants who were alive or unknown, OS was censored on the last date participant was known to be event-free or date of data-cut-off., 9-months|Overall Survival (OS) Rate at 12 months, OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For the participants who were alive or unknown, OS was censored on the last date participant was known to be event-free or date of data-cut-off., 12-months
This is a multi-center, single-arm,phase Ⅱ study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Lenvatinib in combination with PD-1 inhibitors as first-line treatment in patients with unresectable advanced Biliary Tract Carcinoma (BTC)