Golimumab and Apalutamide for the Treatment of Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer, TRAMP Study
This phase II trial tests how well golimumab and apalutamide work in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer. Golimumab is in a class of medications called tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of TNF, a substance in the body that causes inflammation. Apalutamide is in a class of medications called androgen receptor inhibitors. It works by blocking the effects of androgen (a male reproductive hormone) to stop the growth and spread of cancer cells. Giving golimumab and apalutamide may work better in treating patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Apalutamide|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Golimumab|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: PSMA PET Scan|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan
Prostate specific antigen (PSA)50 response rate, Defined by at least a 50% decline in PSA from baseline, in subjects with castrate resistant prostate cancer after combination treatment with TNF-alpha alpha blockade (golimumab) and AR antagonism (apalutamide)., Up to 12 weeks
Objective response rate, Will determine objective response rate of measurable or evaluable disease as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 criteria for soft tissue metastases and Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 criteria for bone metastases., Up to 4 years|Radiographic progression free survival (PFS), The sample mean and standard errors of the time to radiographic progression after the treatment will be summarized, and the post-treatment radiographic response rate together with its 95% confidence interval will be reported., Up to 4 years|PSA PFS, The interval between enrollment and the date of documented PSA progression. Progression will be declared if patient has documented to have a testosterone less than 50 ng/dL. In cases where a testosterone level has not been obtained and patient has not had an orchiectomy, progressive disease will be deemed if patient had a documented rise in PSA on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone analogue therapy. Progression free survival curves will be generated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., Up to 4 years|PSA Doubling Time, The rate of PSA doubling will be calculated from nadir to confirmed PSA progression after 2 subsequent rises 1 week apart using standard calculators, Up to 4 years|Time to subsequent antineoplastic therapy, The interval between enrollment and the date of documented initiation of next therapy., Up to 4 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assess the incidence and severity of adverse events according to the National Cancer Institute - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after final receipt of golimumab administration
OUTLINE:

Patients receive golimumab subcutaneously (SC) every 4 weeks for 6 doses and apalutamide orally (PO) daily. Treatment with apalutamide continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo tumor biopsy at baseline and during cycle 4. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) scans or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET), bone scan, and collection of blood samples throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.