S1013: Validation of Cancer Questionnaire for Skin Toxicities in Patients With Colorectal Cancer or Lung Cancer Receiving Cetuximab, Panitumumab, or Erlotinib Hydrochloride
RATIONALE: Questionnaires that patients can use to assess skin toxicities related to treatment may help identify the intermediate-and long-term effects of cetuximab, panitumumab, or erlotinib hydrochloride.

PURPOSE: This trial studies the validation of a cancer questionnaire for skin toxicities in patients with colorectal or lung cancer receiving cetuximab, panitumumab, or erlotinib hydrochloride.
Colorectal Cancer|Dermatologic Complications|Lung Cancer|Therapy-related Toxicity
PROCEDURE: assessment of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Psychometric properties of the FACT-EGFRI 18, 127 days from registration
Change in severity and impact of skin symptoms, 127 days from registration|Agreement between site physician ratings with the CTCAE Version 4 and patient ratings for the FACT-EGFRI 18 items, 127 days from registration|Associations between toxicity profile and treatment profiles, 127 days from registration|Feasibility as measured by accrual, time to specified accrual, time to complete forms, 2 years from study activation
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To establish psychometric properties for the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitor (FACT-EGFRI 18) module (based on criterion validity, known group's validity, internal consistency reliability, and responsiveness to change) as a patient-reported outcome (PRO) measure of EGFRI-induced skin-related toxicity.

Secondary

* To document minimally important differences over time for the FACT-EGFRI 18 by comparing mean changes in this PRO measure to the patient's direct assessment of change using two anchor items (change in skin condition severity and impact).
* To examine the association between toxicity profiles (severity and time to onset), and treatment profiles (e.g., delays and discontinuation) and the FACT-EGFRI 18 scores.
* To assess degree of concordance between FACT-EGFRI 18 ratings and study site physician CTCAE Version 4.0 EGFRI-Induced Dermatologic Toxicity Grading Assessment ratings.
* To evaluate feasibility outcomes.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients complete the S1013 Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Inhibitor (FACT-EGFRI 18) at baseline and prior to beginning therapy and clinical assessment. Patients also complete FACT-EGFRI 18 and the Changes in Skin Symptoms on days 1\*, 8\*\*, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 71, 99, and 127. Patients who do not develop any grade of papulopustular rash within 42 days are removed from study.

Investigators performing the patients' clinical assessment complete the EGFRI-Induced Dermatologic Toxicity Grading Assessment on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 71, 99, and 127, and the Treatment Form assessment on days 22, 43, 71, 99, and 127. Nurses or clinical trial administrators (CRA) also complete the S1013 Cover Sheet for Patient Complete Questionnaires accompanying the FACT-EGFRI 18 patients' questionnaires at each schedule assessment.

NOTE: \*Patients start EGFRI therapy.

NOTE: \*\*Change in Skin Symptoms questionnaire starts on Day 8.