Evaluate the Safety of UF-KURE19 Cells in Non-Hodgkin Lymphomas
This treatment uses T cells already present in the participant's body that have been modified outside of the body by a lentivirus and then returned by an infusion to target the cancer. Lentivirus is a family of viruses that can be used by scientists to alter cells. The specific type of cells that will be used is called UF-KURE19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells). The CAR-T cells that will be reinfused into the body are modified using a lentivirus that is no longer active. The investigators are evaluating UF-KURE19 because it uses a process that is shorter than other approved CAR-T cells. While the shorter manufacture time can be an advantage, the safety of this approach has not been demonstrated.
Non Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: UF-KURE19 CAR-T cells|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Recommend dose(s) of UF-KURE19 CAR-T Cells, Safety will be assessed by the number of DLT experienced at the target dose which is hypothesized to be less than 33%., Up to 28 days after treatment|Toxicities associated with the target dose of UF-KURE19 CAR-T Cells, Toxicities will be reported as specific adverse events as a result of the target dose of UF-KURE19 CAR-T Cells. An adverse event (AE) is any unfavorable or unintended event, physical or psychological, associated with a research study, which causes harm or injury to a research participant as a result of the participant's involvement in a research study., Up to 12 months after treatment
Rate of UF-KURE19 CAR-T cells manufacture success, Defined as the percentage of UF-Kure19 CAR-T patient products manufactured that meet the release criteria., 2 weeks after culture of UF-KURE19 CAR-T cells|Incidence of treatment- emergent AEs (TEAEs), Number of serious adverse events (SAEs), therapy - related AEs, Grade 3 or 4 TEAEs, TEAEs with an outcome of death and TEAEs leading to study discontinuation., Up to 12 months after treatment|Overall Response, The number of subjects with partial response (PR) and complete response (CR). Using the 2014 Lugano Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, partial response is defined as a decrease in the size of a tumor or in the amount of cancer in the body and complete response is defined as a complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease, and disease-related symptoms if present prior to therapy., Up to 12 months after treatment
This treatment uses T cells already present in the participant's body that have been modified outside of the body by a lentivirus and then returned by an infusion to target the cancer. Lentivirus is a family of viruses that can be used by scientists to alter cells. The specific type of cells that will be used is called UF-KURE19 chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-T cells). The CAR-T cells that will be reinfused into the body are modified using a lentivirus that is no longer active. The investigators are evaluating UF-KURE19 because it uses a process that is shorter than other approved CAR-T cells. While the shorter manufacture time can be an advantage, the safety of this approach has not been demonstrated.