Real-Time MRI-Guided 3-Fraction Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation in Early Breast Cancer
This trial will investigate a novel 3-fraction radiation regimen for participants undergoing breast-conserving therapy (BCT) for early breast cancer that will: 1) significantly reduce the duration of treatment and can be completed in one-week (5 working days) and 2) MRI-guided radiotherapy (MRIdian) would limit the volume of normal tissue radiated and therefore resultant toxicity. The hypothesis is that 3-fraction radiation therapy can be delivered safely without compromising the therapeutic ratio. Participants can expect to be on study for follow up up to 5 years.
Breast Cancer|DCIS|LCIS
RADIATION: MRIdian Radiation Treatment Unit
Physician Reported Cosmesis: 1-year, The Harvard Cosmesis Scale will be used to report cosmesis at 1 year post treatment. The physician will report how the breast looks relative to original appearance or untreated breast (excellent, good, fair, poor). The physician answers 9 questions on a scale of 0-2 where 0 is none, 1 is present but does not affect cosmesis, 2 is present and affects cosmesis. Scoring is objective with lower scores indicating improved conditions., up to 1-year
Participant Quality of Life: BCTOS Survey, Participant Quality of Life will be assessed prior to starting treatment, at end of radiotherapy (RT), 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, 12 months post RT and yearly through 5 years by collecting measures from three scales.The Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS) is a 22-item scale scored 1-4 where 1 is none, 2 is slight, 3 is moderate, and 4 is large. Total score ranges from 22-88 where lower scores indicated better outcomes., up to 5 years|Participant Quality of Life: Convenience of Care Scale, Participant Quality of Life will be assessed prior to starting treatment, at end of radiotherapy (RT), 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, 12 months post RT and yearly through 5 years by collecting measures from three scales. The Convenience of Care scale is an 8-item scale scored 0 (not at all) to 10 (a lot). The total score ranges from 0-80 where lower scores indicate less disruptive interventions., up to 5 years|Participant Quality of Life: MOS SF-36 Survey, Participant Quality of Life will be assessed prior to starting treatment, at end of radiotherapy (RT), 4 weeks post RT, 6 months post RT, 12 months post RT and yearly through 5 years by collecting measures from three scales.The Medical Outcomes Study Short Form - 36 (MOS SF-36) Vitality scale measures how a participant has felt in the last 4 weeks. 4-items are scored from 1-5 where 1 is all of the time and 5 is none of the time. 4-items are scored from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine). Total score ranges from 4-60 where lower scores indicate increased vitality., up to 5 years|Physician Reported Cosmesis: 3-year, The Harvard Cosmesis Scale will be used to report cosmesis at 1 year post treatment. The physician will report how the breast looks relative to original appearance or untreated breast (excellent, good, fair, poor). The physician answers 9 questions on a scale of 0-2 where 0 is none, 1 is present but does not affect cosmesis, 2 is present and affects cosmesis. Scoring is objective with lower scores indicating improved conditions., up to 3 years|Physician Evaluated Fat Necrosis, Fat necrosis will be assessed prior to treatment, at 6 months post RT, at 12 months post RT, and yearly through 5 years, graded as follows: Grade 0 is no fat necrosis, Grade 1 is Asymptomatic fat necrosis (only radiologic and/or cytologic findings), Grade 2 is Symptomatic fat necrosis not requiring medication (palpable mass with or without mild pain), Grade 3 is Symptomatic fat necrosis requiring medication (palpable mass with significant pain), Grade 4 is Symptomatic fat necrosis requiring surgical intervention., up to 5 years|Acute Radiation Toxicity, The NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 will be used to identify the type and to grade the severity of acute toxicities. Acute toxicities will be scored from the start of radiation to 90 days after completion of radiotherapy and late toxicities will be scored \> 90 days from completion of radiation therapy., up to 90 days from completion of radiation therapy|Late Radiation Toxicity, The NCI's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0 will be used to identify the type and to grade the severity of late toxicities., up to 5 years|Ipsilateral Breast Tumor Recurrence (IBTR), Defined as evidence of invasive or in situ breast cancer (except LCIS) in the ipsilateral breast. Participants who develop clinical evidence of tumor recurrence in the remainder of the ipsilateral breast must have a biopsy of the suspicious lesion to confirm the diagnosis with documentation of the location., up to 5 years|Ipsilateral Regional Nodal Recurrence, Defined as the development of tumor in the ipsilateral internal mammary, ipsilateral supraclavicular, ipsilateral infraclavicular and/or ipsilateral axillary nodes, as well as the soft tissue of the ipsilateral axilla, after operation., up to 5 years|Disease Free Survival (DFS), Disease free survival (DFS) defined as the time from start of radiation to the time of documented recurrent disease in the ipsilateral breast or regional nodes (supraclavicular, axillary or internal mammary) or distant sites (e.g. bone, liver, lung or brain)., up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) defined as the time from start of radiation to death from any cause., up to 5 years
This trial will investigate a novel 3-fraction radiation regimen for participants undergoing breast-conserving therapy (BCT) for early breast cancer that will: 1) significantly reduce the duration of treatment and can be completed in one-week (5 working days) and 2) MRI-guided radiotherapy (MRIdian) would limit the volume of normal tissue radiated and therefore resultant toxicity. The hypothesis is that 3-fraction radiation therapy can be delivered safely without compromising the therapeutic ratio. Participants can expect to be on study for follow up up to 5 years.