Better Options for Chronic Cancer Pain
This proposal is relevant to the 240,000 cancer survivors who continue to use opioids long after they have successfully completed treatment for cancer at the VHA, placing them at risk of opioid addiction and overdose, and other opioid-related problems. Yet, there are no programs at the VHA to help them find alternatives to opioids, nor evidence to inform the choice of interventions. This study will meet these needs by examining four interventions that are effective at reducing opioid use in patients with chronic musculoskeletal pain but have yet to be tested in cancer survivors on long term opioid therapy. The proposed work is relevant to the VHA Pain Office's mission to provide Veterans better pain management while limiting the risks of long-term opioid therapy and it aligns with VHA Research and Development's priority to examine clinical interventions for tapering opioids. Successful completion this project will keep VHA at the forefront of the battle against the opioid epidemic with a strategy that may be adapted to address the same needs in non-Veterans.
Chronic Pain|Cancer Survivor|Opioid Dependence
BEHAVIORAL: Multimodal pain care|DRUG: Medication optimization|DEVICE: Buprenorphine rotation|OTHER: Opioid tapering
Opioid dose reduction + Pain response (binary: yes/no), The primary outcome is a composite variable which combines one objective outcome (opioid dose reduction) and one subjective outcome (pain interference) to reflect two outcomes of equal importance to Veterans. Veterans will be considered as achieving this outcome if they experience 20% reduction in opioid daily dose (in MEDD) from baseline and no worsening of pain interference by more than 1 point on the Pain Enjoyment of Life and General Activity (PEG) score., 9 months
Opioid dose, total daily opioid dose will be measured in MEDD and based upon prescription tracking records and adjusted based upon self-report in the patient's diary., 9 months|Pain interference, Pain interference will be measured using PROMIS Pain Interference 6b measure, 9 months|Pain intensity, Pain intensity will be measured using a 0-10 Numeric Rating Scale, 9 months
Background: Twenty-four percent of Veterans who survive cancer remain on long term opioid therapy (LTOT) after completing cancer treatment, placing them at significant risk of opioid addiction, overdose, and other opioid-related health conditions. To reduce opioid use in this population, the investigators will examine the impacts of multimodal pain care and buprenorphine rotation - two strategies that have demonstrated efficacy in Veterans with musculoskeletal pain on LTOT but have not been tested in cancer survivors on LTOT, revealing a critical knowledge gap. The overall scientific premise of this project is that these two approaches can effectively reduce LTOT in cancer survivors without worsening chronic pain, and that they are better than pain medication optimization and opioid tapering. The primary objective is to examine which treatment strategy or combination of strategies is most successful at achieving a reduction in LTOT without worsening chronic pain over 6 and 9 months. The investigators will also identify the key challenges and strategies in the implementation of each treatment strategy to facilitate future translation of study findings into VA practice.

Significance: There are currently no care pathways at the VHA to help cancer survivors on LTOT find alternatives to opioids for managing chronic pain, nor evidence to guide which interventions to include. By addressing these unmet needs, this work aligns with POU-AMP's priority to examine clinical interventions for tapering opioid medications.

Innovation: The investigators are among the first to examine multimodal care and buprenorphine rotation to reduce LTOT in cancer survivors. Also, the investigators are among the first to apply VHA's evidence-based, stepped care model of multidisciplinary pain care to cancer survivors on LTOT.

Aim 1: To test if Veterans who receive multimodal pain care will be more likely to decrease total daily opioid use by at least 20% at 6 and 9 months without experiencing worsened pain interference compared to those who receive optimization of non-opioid pain medications.

Aim 2: To test if Veterans who do not respond to 6 months of multimodal care or medication optimization are more likely to achieve the desired outcome at 9 months when they are offered buprenorphine rotation as opposed to opioid tapering.

Exploratory Aim 3: To examine which combination of interventions is most likely to achieve the desired outcome at 9 months.

Aim 4: To understand the key challenges and strategies in the implementation of each intervention to facilitate future translation of study findings into practice.

Methodology: The investigators plan a two-site, two-stage, response-adaptive, comparative effectiveness trial following SMART (Sequential, Multiple-Assignment Randomized Trial) principles. The investigators will enroll 294 Veteran cancer survivors on LTOT who receive their care at the Indianapolis or Ann Arbor VAMC. Subjects will be randomized to either multimodal pain care or pain medication optimization at Stage 1. After 6 months, non-respondents will be randomized to buprenorphine rotation or opioid tapering in Stage 2. The primary outcome is a composite variable combining one objective outcome (opioid dose reduction) and one subjective outcome (pain interference), assessed at 6 and 9 months. The secondary outcomes are opioid dose reduction and pain interference individually.

Next Steps/Implementation: Successful execution of this project will provide actionable information, including an implementation strategy, that VHA's Offices of Pain Management and Oncology can put in place to support over 240,000 cancer survivors on LTOT for chronic pain.