Phase II Study of Sunitinib Malate Following Hepatic Artery Embolization
The purpose of this study is to decide if a medicine that slows growth of new blood vessels can be give after the embolization procedure to prevent or delay new growth of blood vessels to tumors.
Neuroendocrine Tumor|Islet Cell Tumor
DRUG: Sunitinib malate|PROCEDURE: Hepatic Artery Embolizations
Percentage of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 12 Months, Kaplan-Meier analysis of PFS. Progression-free survival rate at 12 months after first embolization. PFS was defined as time from start of treatment until disease progression or death as a result of any cause. Response and progression endpoints refer specifically to hepatic metastases. Extrahepatic metastases were included for assessment of response and progression by RECIST version 1.0. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded since the treatment started., 12 months
Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) at One Year, Overall survival at 12 months. OS was defined as time from start of treatment until death as a result of any cause, with patients censored at the date of last follow-up if still alive., 12 months|Number of Participants With Partial Radiographic Response, Objective radiographic response rate. Response and progression endpoints refer specifically to hepatic metastases. Extrahepatic metastases were included for assessment of response and progression by RECIST version 1.0. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (SLD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SLD., 12 months|Number of Participants With Biochemical Response, Biochemical response rate (\>50% reduction in tumor marker). Response and progression endpoints refer specifically to hepatic metastases., 12 months|Number of Participants Requiring Dose Reduction, Treatment related toxicity. Participants requiring dose reductions of sunitinib to 25 mg due to side effects., 12 months|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) at 4 Years, Participant overall survival at 48 months. OS was defined as time from start of treatment until death as a result of any cause, with patients censored at the date of last follow-up if still alive., 48 months
This is a single-center, open-label, non-randomized, prospective phase II trial. Sutent treatment will be continued until disease progression, or excessive toxicity (as determined by treating physician or primary investigator), or until a maximum of eight cycles, whichever duration is shorter.