Nivolumab in Combination With TACE/TAE for Patients With Intermediate Stage HCC
This study evaluates the addition of nivolumab to TACE/TAE in the treatment of patients with intermediate stage hepatocellular carcinoma. All patients will receive TACE/TAE and half will receive nivolumab.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab and TACE/TAE|PROCEDURE: TACE/TAE
Overall Survival - phase III primary outcome, Measured in days, The time until death. Patients discontinuing the study, lost to follow-up or still alive at the end of the study will be censored at the last know date alive, this can be assessed up until 2 years after the last patient.|Time to TACE Progression (TTTP) - phase II primary outcome, Measured in days, The time to confirmatory scan 4 weeks after progression this can be assessed up until 2 years after the last patient is randomised
Time to Progression, Measured in days, Time to date of progression confirmed by RECIST1.1 assessed up until 2 years after the last patient is randomised|Radiological response rate, RECIST 1.1, Through study completion|Safety and Toxicity: the number and percentage of patients reporting a Serious Adverse Event (SAE) and Grade 3 or higher Adverse Event (AE), the number and percentage of patients reporting a Serious Adverse Event (SAE) and Grade 3 or higher Adverse Event (AE), measured and categorised based on CTCAE (version 4)., Through study completion|Progression Free Survival, Measured in days, Time to progression or death. Assessed up until 2 years.|QOL: EORTC QLQ-C30, QoL will be scored according to the EORTC QLQ-C30 manual and guidelines., baseline, pre - TACE (first treatment) and 12 weekly thereafter until end of treatment. Assessed up until 2 years after the last patient is randomised
A significant proportion of HCC patients present with, or progress to, intermediate stage disease and these patients are typically treated with transarterial chemo-embolisation (TACE) or transarterial embolisation (TAE).

However, since TACE/TAE is generally a palliative therapy, it provides a potential backbone for the addition of effective systemic therapies with the aim of improving survival outcomes. Since TACE may liberate an abundance of tumour antigens and 'danger' signals, it may lend itself to combination with immunotherapeutic strategies.

Nivolumab is a human monoclonal antibody. Nivolumab targets the programmed death-1 PD-1) cluster of differentiation 279 (CD279) cell surface membrane receptor. PD-1 is a negative regulatory molecule expressed by activated T and B lymphocytes.