Activating Collaborative CIS Support Via Targeted Provider Mailing
RATIONALE: Receiving a reminder letter from their doctor with questions to ask the Cancer Information Service may be more effective than a standard reminder letter in helping patients who have had an abnormal Pap test keep their follow-up colposcopy appointment.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying a personalized letter with Cancer Information Service support to see how well it works compared with a standard reminder letter in women scheduled for colposcopy after an abnormal Pap test.
Precancerous Condition
OTHER: Usual care mailing intervention|OTHER: CIS support mailing intervention
Patient Satisfaction in the 2 Interventions, Patient satisfaction with provider-patient communication was assessed via administration of the Consumer Assessment of Health Plans Study (CAHPS) satisfaction questionnaire which rates satisfaction on a 1 to 3 scale. Scores are added together, with minimum score being 4 and the maximum score being 12, with a higher score indicating greater satisfaction., within 6 months of PAP|CIS Experience of Patients in Arm II and the Effect of the Intervention on Their Follow-up Colposcopy, within 6 months of PAP
Attendance at a Follow-up Colposcopy Appointment Within 6 Months of Their Pap Test, within 6 months of PAP|Latency Between the Pap Test and the Colposcopy Appointment, within 6 months of PAP|Number of CIS Callers Who Provided the Specific Codes Listed in the Intervention Letter, WITHIN 6 MONTHS OF PAP
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the effect of a usual care mailing intervention vs a Cancer Information Service (CIS) support mailing intervention on the likelihood that women with an abnormal Pap test will keep their medical follow-up appointments and be satisfied with how they talk to their provider.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

* Arm I (Usual-care mailing intervention): Patients receive a generic letter reminding them of their follow-up colposcopy appointment.
* Arm II (Cancer Information Service \[CIS\] support mailing intervention): Patients receive a targeted letter reminding them of their follow-up colposcopy appointment, asking them or someone they designate to call the CIS, and suggesting some questions to ask the CIS about colposcopies and Pap tests.

At their follow-up appointments, all patients undergo an exit interview to compare patient satisfaction between the 2 interventions. Patients in arm II also answer questions about their CIS experience, and if the intervention made their follow-up visit less difficult.