Dexamethasone, Flurbiprofen Axetil and Long-term Survival After Lung Cancer Surgery
Surgical resection is the first choice treatment for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. Despite of advances in surgical techniques, the long-term survival rate of postoperative patient is far from optimal. In a recent retrospective cohort study of the applicants, 588 patients after surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer were followed up for a medium of 5.2 years. The results showed that perioperative use of dexamethasone was associated with prolonged survival; perioperative use of flurbiprofen axetil was also associated with a slightly longer survival but not statistically significant. Further analysis showed that combined administration of dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil had additive effect in prolonging survival. We hypothesize that, for patients undergoing surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer, perioperative administration of dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil may improve long-term survival. However, evidences from randomized controlled trials are still lacking in this aspect.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Surgery|Dexamethasone|Flubiprofen Axetil|Long-term Effects Secondary to Cancer Therapy in Adults
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Normal saline|DRUG: Flurbiprofen axetil|DRUG: Lipid microsphere
3-year survival after surgery, Duration of survival within 3 years after surgery., From end of surgery until 3 years after surgery.
Survival rates at different times after surgery, Survival rates at 6 months and 1, 2, 3 years after surgery., At 6 months and 1, 2, 3 years after surgery.|Duration of recurrence-free survival, Duration of recurrence-free survival within 3 years after surgery, From end of surgery until 3 years after surgery.|Recurrence-free survival rates at different times after surgery, Recurrence-free survival rates at 6 months and 1, 2, 3 years after surgery., At 6 months and 1, 2, 3 years after surgery.|Quality of life (WHOQOL-BREF) at 3 years after surgery, Assessed with World Health Organization Quality of Life Brief Scale (WHOQOL-BREF)., At 3 years after surgery.|Cognitive function (TICS-m) at 3 years after surgery, Assessed with Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status-modified (TICS-m)., At 3 years after surgery.
Surgical resection is the first choice treatment for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. Although improvements of surgical techniques have reduced the incidence of complications, the long-term survival rate of postoperative patient is far from optimal. Cancer metastasis and recurrence are the main reasons that lead to long-term postoperative death. It is unavoidable that some cancer cells will be disseminated into the blood circulation or the lymphatic systems during surgery. The development of metastasis and recurrence are dependent on the balance between the immune function of the body and the cancer-promoting factors during the perioperative period.

Studies showed that surgical stress inhibits the cytotoxic effects of natural killer cells and the activity of T cells, and thus leads to immunosuppression of the body. Furthermore, perioperative management such as anesthetic techniques, anesthetics and related drugs, blood transfusion and hypothermia can also affect immune function. For example, studies showed that inhalational anesthetics and opioids aggravate immunosuppression, and may lead to worse outcome; whereas regional anesthesia and non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs relieve immunosuppression, and thus may improve outcome. Glucocorticoids (mainly dexamethasone) are frequently used for prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting. A recent retrospective study showed that, for patients undergoing surgery for pancreatic cancer, perioperative use of dexamethasone was associated with improved long-term survival. However, prospective randomized controlled trials are still lacking to demonstrate the relationship between perioperative management and long-term outcome in cancer patients.

A recent retrospective cohort study of the applicants recruited 588 patients after surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer and performed a postoperative follow-up for a medium of 5.2 years. After adjusting the confounding factors with multivariate logistic regression model, perioperative use of dexamethasone (medium dose 10 mg, for prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting) was associated with prolonged survival (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.54-0.89; P = 0.004); perioperative use of flurbiprofen axetil (medium dose 200 mg, for postoperative analgesia) was also associated with a slightly longer survival but not statistically significant (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.63-1.03; P = 0.083). Further analysis showed that combined administration of dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil had additive effect in prolonging survival (compared to no use of both: adjusted HR 0.57, 95% CI 0.38-0.84, P = 0.005).

The investigators hypothesize that, for patients undergoing surgery for non-small-cell lung cancer, perioperative administration of dexamethasone and flurbiprofen axetil may improve long-term survival. However, evidences from randomized controlled trials are still lacking in this aspect.