A Study of (Neo)Adjuvant Intismeran Autogene (V940) and Pembrolizumab in Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (V940-007).
This is a two-part (Phase 2/Phase 3) study of intismeran autogene, an individualized neoantigen therapy (INT), plus pembrolizumab in participants with locally resectable advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (LA cSCC). Phase 2 has three arms intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab given as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment with standard of care (SOC), standard of care (surgical resection with/without adjuvant radiation therapy (RT) only at investigator's discretion) and pembrolizumab monotherapy given as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment with SOC. This phase will assess the safety and efficacy of intismeran autogene in combination with pembrolizumab as neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy in participants with resectable LA cSCC as compared to standard of care SOC only. The primary hypothesis is that intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab with SOC is superior to SOC only with respect to event free survival (EFS) as assessed by the investigator. Phase 3 expansion will be determined by prespecified Go-No-Go decision in which 412 additional participants will be randomized to intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab with SOC and SOC only, without changing the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the additional enrollment or study endpoints.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Skin Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Intismeran autogene|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS is defined as the time from randomization to any of the following events as assessed by the investigator: progression of disease that precludes surgery, or inability to undergo R0 or R1 surgical resection; disease recurrence (local, regional, or distant); new primary high-risk cSCC; death due to any cause. EFS will be presented., Up to ~59 months
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who have a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). ORR will be presented., Up to ~38 months|Freedom from surgery (FFS) rate, FFS rate is defined as the proportion of participants with clinical CR with no residual tumor on clinical exam and imaging with the confirmation of negative biopsy. FFS rate will be presented., Up to ~38 months|Pathological complete response (pCR) rate, pCR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have complete absence of viable tumor in the surgical resection specimen. The pCR rate will be presented., Up to ~38 months|Major pathological response (mPR) rate, mPR rate is defined as the proportion of participants who have ≤10% of viable tumor cells in the surgical resection specimen. The mPR rate will be presented., Up to ~38 months|Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time from surgery for participants who are free of disease (R0 or R1 resection) at completion of neoadjuvant therapy, or from negative biopsy for participants who are free from surgery to first recurrence (local, regional, or distant), new primary high-risk cSCC or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. DFS will be presented., Up to ~59 months|Disease-specific survival (DSS), DSS is defined as time from randomization to death due to progression of cancer under study. DSS will be presented., Up to ~59 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause. The OS will be reported for all participants., Up to ~59 months|Percentage of participants who experience and adverse event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experience an AE will be reported., Up to ~59 months|Percentage of participants who discontinue study intervention due to AEs, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue intervention due to an AE will be reported., Up to ~19 months|Change from baseline in Global health status/QoL score (QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" will be scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a better overall health status. Per protocol, the change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~38 months|Change from baseline in physical functioning score of QLQ (C30 Items 1-5), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a better level of physical functioning. The change from baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~38 months|Change from baseline in Role functioning score of QLQ-C30 Items 6-7, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "Were you limited in doing either your work or other daily activities during the past week?" and " Were you limited in pursuing your hobbies or other leisure time activities during the past week?" will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a more impaired level of role functioning. Change from baseline in the role functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6-7) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~38 months
This is a two-part (Phase 2/Phase 3) study of intismeran autogene, an individualized neoantigen therapy (INT), plus pembrolizumab in participants with locally resectable advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (LA cSCC). Phase 2 has three arms intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab given as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment with standard of care (SOC), standard of care (surgical resection with/without adjuvant radiation therapy (RT) only at investigator's discretion) and pembrolizumab monotherapy given as neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment with SOC. This phase will assess the safety and efficacy of intismeran autogene in combination with pembrolizumab as neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy in participants with resectable LA cSCC as compared to standard of care SOC only. The primary hypothesis is that intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab with SOC is superior to SOC only with respect to event free survival (EFS) as assessed by the investigator. Phase 3 expansion will be determined by prespecified Go-No-Go decision in which 412 additional participants will be randomized to intismeran autogene plus pembrolizumab with SOC and SOC only, without changing the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the additional enrollment or study endpoints.