Phase I/Ib Study of Nivolumab & Veliparib in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors & Lymphoma
The purpose of this research study is to determine the highest and safest dose of the experimental drug veliparib when combined with nivolumab. We will also study how safely this combination of medication can be given in advanced cancer and lymphoma and benefits of receiving this therapy. Nivolumab is currently approved in certain cancers such as melanoma, lung cancer and kidney cancer. Veliparib is not yet approved for use in the United States, and is considered experimental. Veliparib inhibits (blocks) the activity of the enzyme PARP. This blocking activity may prevent the cancer cell from repairing itself and resume growing. Nivolumab increases T cells in your immune system, which allows your immune system to attack the cancer. We think the combination of these drugs will be more effective against your cancer.
Advanced Solid Neoplasm|Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Unresectable Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Veliparib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD will be defined as the highest dose that causes dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) in \<2 of 6 patients. Toxicity will be assessed using CTCAEv4.03. A DLT is defined as an Adverse Event (AE) or abnormal laboratory value assessed as at least possibly related to the study medication, occurs ≤ 28 days (1 cycle) following the first dose of veliparib and nivolumab and meets any of the following criteria:

Grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic toxicities that represent at least a 2-grade increase from baseline excluding Nausea, vomiting, diarrhea lasting ≤48 hours, Electrolyte abnormalities resolving within ≤24 hours, Hypersensitivity reactions,and Alopecia.

Grade 4 thrombocytopenia (platelets \< 25.0 x 109 /L) Grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding (platelets \< 0.5 x 109 /L) 5. Grade 3 febrile neutropenia with fever lasting for \> 7 days 6. Grade 4 febrile neutropenia of any duration 7. Dosing delay due to toxicity for \> 14 consecutive days from the date nivolumab or veliparib is due., First Cycle of Treatment with velaparib and nivolumab (28 days)
Number of Participants With Adverse Events Possibly Related to Study Drugs Graded 3, 4, and 5, Toxicity, both frequency and severity, will continue to be measured by monitoring the occurrence of adverse events. Adverse events will be defined as those included in CTCAE v 4.03. AEs that were determined to be at least possibly related to study drug and graded 3, 4, 5 are included here. Grade 1 (mild): the event causes discomfort without disruption of normal daily activities. Grade 2 (moderate): the event causes discomfort that affects normal daily activities. Grade 3 (severe): the event makes the patient unable to perform normal daily activities or significantly affects his/her clinical status. Grade 4 (Life-threatening): the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event. Grade 5 (fatal): the event caused death., Up to 30 days after treatment discontinuation, where 1 cycle =28 days, and range of cycles is 1-12.|ORR (Overall Response Rate), Overall response rate or ORR, (partial response (PR) + complete response (CR)) will be evaluated using RECIST criteria v1.1 or Lugano 2014 classification for assessment of Lymphoma.

Per RECIST v. 1.1: PR= : At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR= Disappearance of all target lesions.

Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.

Per Lugano 2014 classification, scored on a Deauville 5-point scale (an internationally-recommended scale using FDG PET-CT in the initial staging and assessment of treatment response in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL).

* Partial metabolic response (PMR): score of 4 or 5 with reduced uptake compared with baseline and residual mass(es) of any size.
* Complete metabolic response (CMR): Score of 1, 2 or 3 in nodal or extranodal sites with or without a residual mass, after 2 cycles at first response time point (1 cycle = 28 days)|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR= stable disease for ≥12 weeks + Partial Response + Complete Response per RECIST v1.1 for solid tumors or Lugano 2014 classification for lymphomas. Lugano scored on a Deauville 5-point scale. RECIST v. 1.1: PR= : At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR= Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. SD=Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters while on study. Lugano 2014 classification: PR: score of 4 or 5 with reduced uptake compared with baseline and residual mass(es) of any size. CR: Score of 1, 2 or 3 in nodal or extranodal sites with or without a residual mass. SD: No metabolic response, Score 4 or 5 with no significant change in FDG uptake from baseline at interim or end of treatment., From the start of treatment and every 2 cycles during treatment where 1 cycle =28 days, average number of cycles is 4 and range of cycles is 1-12.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate Progression Free Survival (PFS) for patients treated with nivolumab and veliparib, defined as the time from treatment initiation to documented disease progression. Evaluated by RECIST criteria v1.1 for solid tumors or Lugano 2014 classification for assessment of Lymphoma. RECIST v. 1.1 definition for PD (Progressive disease): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Lugano 2014 classification, scored on a Deauville 5-point scale (an internationally-recommended scale using FDG PET-CT in the initial staging and assessment of treatment response in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). Per Lugano criteria: Partial metabolic disease (PMD):Score 4 or 5 with an increase in intensity of uptake from baseline and/or new FDG-avid foci consistent with lymphoma at interim or end-of-treatment assessment., From the start of treatment and every 2 cycles during treatment, and up to three years, where 1 cycle =28 days, and range of cycles is 1-12.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from treatment initiation until death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years from the start of treatment., From the start of treatment and up to 3 years, where 1 cycle =28 days, and range of cycles is 1-12.|Number of Patients Alive and Progression Free at 24 Weeks, To evaluate the number of patients alive and progression free at 24 weeks. -Per RECIST v. 1.1 (for solid tumors) progression is defined as : At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression.) -Lugano 2014 classification, scored on a Deauville 5-point scale (an internationally-recommended scale using FDG PET-CT in the initial staging and assessment of treatment response i Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). Per Lugano criteria: Partial metabolic disease (PMD):Score 4 or 5 with an increase in intensity of uptake from baseline and/or new FDG-avid foci consistent with lymphoma at interim or end-of-treatment assessment., At 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for the combination treatment of nivolumab and veliparib in patients with advanced refractory solid cancers and lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of nivolumab and veliparib in patients with advanced refractory solid cancers and lymphoma with and without mutations in selected DNA repair genes.

II. To evaluate the efficacy of treatment with nivolumab and veliparib in this population by objective response rate (ORR, defined as partial response \[PR\] + complete response \[CR\]), clinical benefit rate (CBR, defined as stable disease \[SD\] for \>= 12 weeks, PR, + CR), and progression free survival (PFS, defined as the time from treatment initiation to documented disease progression) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria version (v)1.1 or Lugano criteria.

III. To evaluate efficacy of treatment with nivolumab and veliparib in this population by ORR, CBR, and immune-related PFS (irPFS) using irRECIST criteria.

IV. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in this population at 3 years from the start of treatment.

V. To evaluate the proportion of patients alive and progression free at 24 weeks in this population.

VI. To evaluate ORR to nivolumab and veliparib in patients with prior exposure to single agent PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if any of the following predict response to veliparib in combination with nivolumab: tissue PD-L1 protein expression, immune cell infiltration markers.

II. To demonstrate the pharmacodynamic effects of veliparib and nivolumab on biomarkers including PD-L1, TILs, T cell subpopulations, and T cell receptor genotype.

III. To explore the pattern of clonal changes through circulating cell free DNA assay.

IV. To assess the dynamic change in both immune and genomic biomarkers in blood that may correlate with response to veliparib.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib.

Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on day 1 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15 of courses 1-4 and IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of subsequent courses. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, and 12 months and then every 6 months for 3 years.