QLB and Radical Cystectomy, Postoperative Pain
There are ca 1000 new cases of bladder cancer in Finland/year. The curative therapy for high risk bladder cancer is radical cystectomy. The golden standard is still an open surgery despite development of laparoscopic techniques. Epidural analgesia is considered as most effective for the treatment of postoperative pain. However, there is a need for other effective options, because epidural analgesia has some contraindications and risks for serious complications. Recently quadratus lumborum block has gained popularity in the treatment of postoperative pain after various surgeries in the area from hip to mamilla. It is more beneficial than other peripheral blocks, since it covers also the visceral nerves. Contrary to the need of epidural catether a single shot QLB has reported to last up to 48 hours.

Inadequately treated acute postoperative pain is considered as one of the main risk factors for persistent postoperative pain.

44 patients aging 18-85 will be recruited based on a power calculation. The primary outcome measure is the acute postoperative need for rescue analgesics. Secondary outcomes are acute pain (NRS scale), nausea, vomiting, mobilisation and longterm outcomes such as quality of life and persistent pain.
Postoperative Pain|Chronic Pain Post-Proceduraal|Nausea and Vomiting, Postoperative
PROCEDURE: QLB
opiate consumption, intravenous patient controlled analgesia, 24 hours
pain score, numerical rating scale, 7 days|postoperative nausea and vomiting, numerical rating scale and amount of vomites, 72 hours|mobilisation, standing up and mobilizing, 72 hours after surgery|quality of life, SF 36, 12 months|persistent pain, paindetect McGill, 12 months|functional query, assessment how pain in operation region limits daily functions, 12 months
44 patients, uindergoing radical cystectomy, aging 18-85 will be recruited based on a power calculation. The 44 patients will be divided in 2 groups, the intervention group receiving a quadratus lumborum block (75mg ropivacaine) and the no intervention group receiving the current standard care of our hospital -an epidural.

The primary outcome measure is the acute postoperative need for rescue analgesics. Secondary outcomes are acute pain (NRS scale), nausea, vomiting, mobilisation and longterm outcomes such as quality of life and persistent pain.