Carrageenan for the Prevention of Oral HPV Infection
This is a placebo-controlled, triple-blind randomized clinical trial (RCT) designed to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a larger multicentric RCT investigating the effect of a Carrageenan mouthwash on oral HPV infection. Eligible participants will complete a single in-person visit at baseline, filling out a questionnaire on their electronic device and giving an oral rinse sample for HPV testing. They will receive an adequate supply of mouthwash and instructions on its use. They will subsequently be followed up for up to six months. Every two weeks, participants will fill out a follow-up questionnaire on mouthwash use and sexual activities and self-collect oral rinse sample to be returned by mail.
Human Papilloma Virus
OTHER: Mouthwash gargling
Recruitment rate, This will be measured by the total number of participants recruited into the study. The investigators intend to recruit 40 participants. Recruitment rate will be calculated as number of participants per month., 1 year|Drop-out rate, The proportion of individuals who enrolled into the study but left before the end of the study will be documented., 1 year|Adherence rate for mouthwash use, This will be calculated as the proportion of participants who completed the study and complied with the mouthwash use regimen., 6 months|Adherence rate for self-sampling, This will be calculated as the proportion of participants who completed the study and complied with the bi-weekly self-sampling procedure, 6 month|Acceptability of study procedures as assessed by satisfaction on a Visual Analog Scale, Qualitative and quantitative assessment will be used to evaluate participants' experience with the RCT through the follow-up questionnaire and an exit question. Participants will be asked to rate their satisfaction with the study procedure on a scale of 1-10 (10 being the highest satisfaction level). This will focus on level of satisfaction of the participants with mouthwash use around sexual activities and the level of satisfaction of the participants with the biweekly self-sampling., 6 months
Mouthwash safety (Pain score) as assessed by the Visual Analog Scale, The mean pain score (for any pain ascribed to the mouthwash e.g., burning mouth, recurrent aphthous stomatitis e.t.c.) measured on the VAS (1-10; 10 being the worst pain) will be recorded., 6 months
Time to oral HPV infection, Time to type-specific oral HPV infection will be recorded for participants with negative type-specific oral HPV status at baseline, 6 months|Time to oral HPV clearance, Time to type-specific oral HPV clearance will be recorded for participants with positive type-specific oral HPV status at baseline, 6 months
This is a placebo-controlled, triple-blind randomized clinical trial (RCT) designed to evaluate the feasibility of conducting a larger multicentric RCT investigating the effect of a Carrageenan mouthwash on oral HPV infection. Eligible participants will complete a single in-person visit at baseline, filling out a questionnaire on their electronic device and giving an oral rinse sample for HPV testing. They will receive an adequate supply of mouthwash and instructions on its use. They will subsequently be followed up for up to six months. Every two weeks, participants will fill out a follow-up questionnaire on mouthwash use and sexual activities and self-collect oral rinse sample to be returned by mail.