Intravenous Weekly Topotecan In Subjects With Recurrent Or Persistent Endometrial Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out if Hycamtin given weekly is safe and effective for treating your endometrial cancer.
Neoplasms, Endometrial|Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: topotecan
Best Overall Response, Tumor response based on GOG (Gynecological Oncology Group) modified RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) criteria. A 4-point scale used specifying tumor response. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions; (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD; (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, Week 0 to Week 98 when endpoints were met
Time to Progression, Kaplan-Meier Estimate. Time to progression is defined as time from start of treatment until the first documented sign of disease progression or death due to progressive disease. Subjects who have not progressed or died at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of initiation of alternative anti-cancer therapy or time of last contact. Percentiles represent a set of points on a scale arrived at by dividing a group into parts in order of magnitude., Week 0 to Week 19 when endpoints were met|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier Estimate. Overall survival is defined as time from start of treatment until death due to any cause. Subjects who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the time of last contact., Week 0 to Week 98|Response Duration, The time from initial documented response to the first documented sign of progression or death due to progressive disease. Not calculated due to no Complete response and only 1 partial response., Week 0 to week 98|Time to Response, The time from start of treatment until the first documented response. Not calculated due to no Complete response and only 1 partial response., Week 0 to week 98|Safety and Tolerability as Summarized Through Adverse Event Reporting, AE = Adverse Event reported at a frequency of greater than or equal to 16%. SAE = Serious Adverse Events where all were reported at 0% frequency., Week 0 to week 98
The purpose of this study is to find out if Hycamtin given weekly is safe and effective for treating your endometrial cancer.