Zinc-L-Carnosine Prevents Dysphagia in Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Adjuvant Radiotherapy
Irradiation of level III and IV draining nodes in breast cancer patients is often associated with dysphagia, requiring treatment with FANS and/or steroids. The present randomized phase III trial determined whether Zinc-L-Carnosine ( Hepilor), prevents or delays the onset of dysphagia in these patients.
Breast Cancer Female|Dysphagia|Adjuvant Radiotherapy
DEVICE: Hepilor
Zinc-L-Carnosine prevents dysphagia in breast cancer patients undergoing adjuvant radiotherapy: clinical outcome assessed by Eating Assessment Tool (EAT-10) questionaire, The Primary end-point was no dysphagia. The study aim is to assess whether the medical device is able to avoid or delay the onset of dysphagia. The patients were evaluated before the start of radiotherapy and weekly to identify the possible appearance of dysphagia. Dysphagia was assessed weekly by means of self-assessment EAT10 questionnaire that is a tool used to assess objectively the presence of dysphagia, in details (0 = No problem 4 = Severe problem): 1. My swallowing problem has caused me to lose weight; 2. My swallowing problem interferes with my ability to go out for meals; 3. Swallowing liquids takes extra effort; 4. Swallowing solids takes extra effort; 5. Swallowing pills takes extra effort; 6. Swallowing is painful; 7. The pleasure of eating is affected by my wallowing; 8. When I swallow food sticks in my throat; 9. I cough when I eat; 10. Swallowing is stressful., once a week during the radiotherapy and once at first month of follow-up|Degree of dysphagia, The degree of dysphagia was evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 scale.

When the patient showed a score of the questionnaire greater than 3 the target was reached dysphagia was present and this was evaluated according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 Dysphagia =Grade 1: Symptomatic, able to eat regular diet. Grade 2: Symptomatic and altered eating/swallowing. Grade 3: Severely altered eating/swallowing; tube feeding or TPN or hospitalization indicated. Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5: Death., only in the presence of dysphagia:once a week during the radiotherapy and once at first month of follow-up
. This is a randomized phase III prospective placebo-controlled trial with patients recruited from one single university teaching hospital. Inclusion criteria were: age ≥18 years, breast cancer patients who were candidates for post-operative RT by means of HeT to the breast /chest wall and SC/IC nodes (III-IV levels).Exclusion criteria were: pregnancy or lactation, known or suspected hypersensitivity or allergy to ZLC or to any of the excipients in its oral solution.

All patients were randomized by a pre-determined computer code to two groups.

1. HEPILOR arm: patients received ZLC solution
2. Placebo arm: patients received a placebo solution Toxicity was assessed weekly in all patients immediately before or after the RT session. Acute toxicity was defined as occurring during RT or in 30 days after it ended and assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 4.0 scale). Dysphagia was assessed weekly by means of EAT 10, a self-administered questionnaire