Rituximab Plus Venetoclax in Front Line Marginal Zone Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to see if the combination of rituximab and venetoclax is effective in treating participants with untreated Marginal Zone Lymphoma (MZL).

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Venetoclax (a type of inhibitor)
* Rituximab (a type of antibody)
Lymphoma|Marginal Zone Lymphoma|MZL
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Rituximab
Complete Response Rate (CRR), Complete Response (CR) rate is defined as the proportion of participants achieving CR during study treatment. CR is defined based on RECIL criteria., Up to 24 months
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be measured as the proportion of participants that achieve a PR or CR per RECIL criteria., Up to 24 months|Partial Remission (PR) Rate, Partial remission (PR) rate is defined as the proportion of participants achieving partial remission RECIL criteria., Up to 24 months|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS based on Kaplan-Meier methodology will be measured from the time the participant initiates treatment until the first occurrence of documented progression of disease or death from any cause, censored for participants alive without progression., Up to 24 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on Kaplan-Meier methodology will be measured from the time the participant initiates treatment until death from any cause, censored for participants alive., Up to 36 months|Median Event Free Survival (EFS), EFS will be measured from the time the participant initiates treatment until documented off therapy for any reason, censored for participants who remain on therapy., Up to 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DoR will be measured from the time of initial response until documented progression of disease, censored for participants who remain in response., Up to 24 months
This is a phase II study of rituximab plus venetoclax in participants with MZL who have not had prior chemotherapy. The purpose of this study is to see if the combination of rituximab and venetoclax is effective in treating Marginal Zone Lymphoma.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved venetoclax for MZL but it has been approved for other uses.

The FDA has approved rituximab as a treatment option for MZL.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment visits, Computerized Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans, Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans, blood tests, bone marrow and tumor biopsies, and electrocardiograms.

Participants will receive study treatment for up to 24 months and will be followed for 1 year after discontinuation of the study drugs.

It is expected that about 33 people will take part in this research study.

Abbvie, Inc. is funding this research study by providing venetoclax.