Maintenance With OSE2101 Plus FOLFIRI, or FOLFIRI After FOLFIRINOX-based Induction Therapy in Locally Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
TEDOPAM is a randomized (1.1.1) non-comparative phase II study. This study will assess the efficacy and safety of OSE2101 alone or in combination with nivolumab followed by FOLFIRI reintroduction, versus FOLFIRI as maintenance therapy in patients with advanced PDAC after induction therapy with FOLFIRINOX.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
DRUG: FOLFIRI|DRUG: OSE2101
Overall Survival (OS), The OS is defined according to the DATECAN (Definition for the Assessment of Time-to-event Endpoints in CANcer trials) consensus as the time from randomization to death for any reason. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time will be censored at the date of the last clinical assessment, At 12 months
Progression free survival (PFS) by centralized review of CT-scan imaging., The PFS is defined according to the DATECAN consensus as the time from randomization to first progression or death for any reason, whichever occurs first. In the absence of event (confirmation of progression or death), PFS status will be censored at the date of the last radiological assessment.

PFS according to RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) v1.1 in the FOLFIRI arm (Arm A) and iRECIST (immune Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) in the immune therapy arms (Arm B and C) by centralized review of CT-scan imaging, assessed up to 60 months|Rate of patients with success of the strategy (SSR), The SSR is derived from the duration of disease control (DDC), which is defined as the PFS, or, if FOLFIRI is reintroduced and achieves partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD), as the addition of the initial PFS (PFS1) and the PFS of the reintroduction PFS (PFS2), At 6 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events [NCICTCAE] v5.0, All grade and severe (grade 3-5) toxicities, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, from signature of informed consent to 28 days after the last administration of the investigational product in Arm A and B and 100 days after the last administration of the investigational product in Arm C.|Objective response rate (ORR), Response according to RECIST v1.1 in the FOLFIRI arm (Arm A) and iRECIST in the immune therapy arms (Arms B and C) (centralized review of CT-scan imaging); a comparative analysis of tumor response according to these two evaluation rules will be performed in Arm B and C, assessed up to 60 months|Health-related Quality of life (HRQoL) evaluation assessed by EORTC QLQ (quality of life questionnaire) -C30 questionnaire, Rate of patients with an improvement of their quality of life score according to EORTC QLQ-C30. A quality of life score is obtained according to the answers to the 30 questions. The Minimal Clinically Important Difference (MCID) will be fixed to 10 points., Baseline, Month 2, Month 4, Month 6, Month 8, Month 10, Month 12, Month 14, Month 16, Month 18, Month 20, Month 22, Month 24 (until the date of first documented progression or date of death, assessed up 60 months)|Estimate the Quality-Adjusted Time Without Symptoms of Disease or Toxicity of Treatment (Q-Twist) for each participant, Q-TWiST analysis considers three health states, TOX (toxicity), TWiST, and REL (The duration of the relapse), and the duration of each state is calculated for every patient.

The TOX state comprises the total number of days after randomisation and before strategy failure spent with toxicity, regardless of when the toxicity started or whether there were gaps between toxicities. All grade 3 or 4 toxicities attributable to the study drugs are included in the analysis, apart from those starting after strategy failure.

The TWiST state is defined as DDC time minus time with toxicities.

The duration of the relapse or REL state is defined as OS time minus DDC time, or the period of time from progression to death. Patients alive at the end of the study are censored for the OS endpoint., assessed up to 60 months
Current standard of care for patients with advanced pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is chemotherapy, preferential regimen being FOLFIRINOX (5FU, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin) in fit patients (PS 0-1, bilirubin \< 1.5 ULN). The question of how and when the FOLFIRINOX regimen and doses can be deescalated after a period of disease control (i.e. maintenance therapy) remains unanswered. In routine practice, oxaliplatin is usually stopped after 6-8 cycles due to limiting neuropathy, and the fluoropyrimidine is continued, either alone or, more frequently, in combination with irinotecan (FOLFIRI regimen), until disease progression.

Immune therapies have opened new opportunities in cancer therapy. However, results of immunotherapy in PDAC have been disappointing so far, with failure of checkpoint inhibitor monotherapies (anti-CTLA4 and anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibodies \[mAb\]) in progressive advanced PDAC, while monovalent vaccines were demonstrated to be safe but with limited activity.