Acupuncture for Insomnia in Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy
The proposed study is a randomized, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, subject- and assessor-blind trial. It is designed according to CONSORT and STRICTA recommendations. The 138 subjects will be randomly assigned to one of the two arms using block randomization in a 1:1 ratio: (I) acupuncture treatment, and (II) sham treatment. In groups (I) and (II), acupuncture or sham acupuncture treatment will be given twice a week for 6 weeks (12 sessions). A maintenance tapering treatment schedule will then be applied once per month for 3 months (3 sessions). The primary outcome will be improvement in sleep quality as measured by the change of ISI after 6 weeks of treatment. Secondary outcome assessment tools will include PSQI, HADS, BPI, BFI, FACT-B, sleep diaries, drug diaries, blinding success questionnaire and reports of adverse events. The subjects will be scheduled for on-site follow-up assessments at 3 and 6 months after the last treatment. An intention to treat (ITT) approach will be used for data analysis.
Insomnia, Secondary|Breast Cancer Female|Chemotherapy
PROCEDURE: Electroacupuncture (EA) and Auricular Acupressure (AA)|PROCEDURE: Sham Electroacupuncture (SE) and Sham Auricular Acupressure (SA)
Insomnia Severity Index (ISI), The primary outcome will be the change of ISI score between the baseline and the end of the 6-week treatment. The ISI is a seven-item questionnaire devised to diagnose and assess the severity of insomnia., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.
Actiwatch, The subjects will wear Actiwatch for 1 week at baseline period and the end of 6-week treatment., Baseline, 6 week.|Sleep diary, Subjects will be given daily sleep diary for 1 week at baseline period and the end of 6-week treatment., Baseline, 6 week.|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), The PSQI is a reliable and valid self-reported questionnaire that assesses sleep quality over 1 month., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), The HADS, a 14-item self-rated questionnaire, evaluates the severity of depressive and anxiety symptoms., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.|Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form (BPI-SF), The BFI is a brief screening tool designed to assess the severity and impact of cancer-related fatigue on daily functioning., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.|Brief Fatigue Inventory (BPI), The BPI is a self-administered questionnaire designed to assess cancer pain., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast Cancer (FACT-B), The FACT-B is a patient-reported outcome measure used to assess health-related quality of life in breast cancer patients., Baseline, 3 week, 6 week, 10 week, 14 week, 18 week, 30 week, 42 week.
Insomnia is a frequent and disturbing symptom among cancer patients. Studies have found that cancer treatments, particularly chemotherapy, are a major cause of cancer-related insomnia. However, insomnia is under-treated in most breast cancer patients because effective, safe evidence-based treatments are lacking.

Acupuncture has been used for thousands of years to treat various diseases, including insomnia. Our previous research demonstrated the efficacy and safety of acupuncture as a treatment for insomnia. However, the effect of acupuncture on insomnia in breast cancer patients who undergo chemotherapy has been rarely studied. We propose this randomized controlled trial to examine the feasibility, effect and safety of acupuncture as a treatment for insomnia in breast cancer patients who undergo chemotherapy.

Hypothesis: We hypothesize that acupuncture is a feasible, effective and safe method for the alleviation of insomnia symptoms in breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy as compared with a sham control.

Primary Aim: To determine whether the insomnia condition in the acupuncture group is significantly improved when compared to the sham control group, as measured by the ISI after 6 weeks of treatment.

Secondary Aims: 1) To determine whether other sleep-related parameters in the acupuncture group improve more than those of the control group, as measured at different time points by Actiwatch, sleep diary, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast Cancer (FACT-B), Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) and Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). 2) To assess by adverse event (AE) analysis whether acupuncture is safe for treatment of insomnia in breast cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.