Study of LY2835219 for Mantle Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to estimate the disease control rate with abemaciclib for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Abemaciclib
Percentage of Participants Who Achieve Disease Control Rate (DCR) Which Includes Complete Response (CR), Complete Response Unconfirmed (CRu), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD), The DCR was estimated based on the Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas (Cheson et al. 1999). DCR was assessed from date of first dose until disease progression or death or start of new anticancer therapy. CR is defined as the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms based on CT scan or bone marrow biopsy; CRu = the CR criteria is met and a residual lymph node mass greater than 1.5 cm in greatest transverse diameter that has regressed by more than 75% in the sum of the product diameter (SPD). PR is \>= 50% decrease in SPD of the six largest nodal masses/no new sites of disease. Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as an increase by 25% in longest diameter, new lesion or assessable disease progression. SD=small changes not meeting the above criteria; DCR and its exact 95% confidence interval (CI) was estimated for treated participants using the Clopper-Pearson method., From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression or Death or Start of New Anticancer Therapy (Up to 28 Months)
Percentage of Participants Who Achieve Best Overall Disease Response (BOR) That Includes CR, CRu or PR, BOR was assessed based on the Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas and was measured from date of first dose until the earliest evidence of objective progression or start of new anticancer therapy. Any responses observed after objective progression or after the start of new anticancer therapy are excluded from the determination of best response. A second confirmatory radiological tumor assessment was performed at least 28 days after the first evidence of response (CR, CRu, or PR). Two objective status determinations of CR (or CRu) before progression were required for a best response of CR (or CRu). Two determinations of PR or better before progression, but not qualifying for CR or CRu, were required for a best response of PR., From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression (Up to 28 Months)|Duration of Objective Response (DOR), DOR is from the date when criteria for objective response (ie, CR, CRu or PR) are met, to the first documentation of relapse or disease progression or death due to any cause. DOR is based on the Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas of the Cancer and Leukemia Group B. CR is defined as disappearance of all disease, no symptoms and must last 4 weeks or "unconfirmed CR, (CRu)". PR is defined as \>= 50% decrease in sum of product diameter (SPD), no increase or new lesion, or assessable disease stable or decreased, must last 4 weeks or CRu. Progressive Disease or PD is defined as an increase by 25% in longest diameter, new lesion, or assessable disease progression. DOR was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods. If the participant receives other anticancer therapy prior to progression, the participant was censored at the start date of this other therapy., From Date of CR, CRu or PR until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the date of first dose until disease progression or death due to any cause based on the Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas. Disease progression is defined as the first date of documentation of a new lesion or enlargement of a previous lesion, or the date after radiologic assessment has been completed. PD is defined as an increase by 25% in longest diameter, new lesion, or assessable disease progression. Progression-free survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods. If the participant receives other anticancer therapy prior to progression, the participant was censored at the start date of this other therapy., From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression or Death Due to Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as from the date of first dose until death due to any cause. For each participant who is not known to have died as of the data-inclusion cutoff date for overall survival analysis, OS were censored on the last date the participant is known to be alive. Overall survival was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods., From Date of First Dose until Death Due to Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)|Event-Free Survival, Event-free survival (time to treatment failure) is measured from date of first dose to disease progression, or discontinuation of treatment for any reason (eg, disease progression, toxicity, participant preference, initiation of new treatment without documented progression, or death due to any cause). 2 participants were censored. Event-free survival is defined only for responders (participants with a CR, CRu, or PR)., From Date of First Dose until Disease Progression, Discontinuation of Treatment, or Death Due to Any Cause (Up to 28 Months)|Time to Disease Progression, Time to Disease Progression is based on the response criteria of Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas. Time to progression (TTP) is defined as the time from date of first dose until documented disease progression or death as a result of lymphoma. In TTP, deaths from other causes are censored either at the time of death or at an earlier time of assessment., From Date of First Dose Until Disease Progression (Up to 28 Months)|Disease-Free Survival, Disease-free survival is measured from first dose until date of disease progression or the time of occurrence of disease-free state or attainment of a CR to disease recurrence or death as a result of lymphoma or acute toxicity of treatment. Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as an increase by 25%, new lesion, or accessible progressive disease. Disease-Free Survival was assessed based on the response criteria of Non-Hodgkins Lymphomas. Disease-free survival is only defined for participants with response., First Dose Until Date of Disease Progression or Time of Occurrence Disease-Free State or CR to Disease Recurrence or Death (Up to 28 Months)|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lymphoma (FACT-Lym) TOI and Subscale Scores, Change From Baseline in FACT-Lym Total Outcome Index (TOI) Score (Follicular Lymphoma Population). The FACT-Lym TOI Score for the follicular lymphoma population was derived from the following 3 individual FACT-Lym questionnaire subscale scores: Physical Well-being (range: 0-28), Functional Well-being (range: 0-28) and Lymphoma (range: 0-60). The FACT-Lym TOI Score is the sum of the 3 individual subscales (range 0-116). Higher scores indicate better outcomes and lower scores indicate worse outcomes. A positive change from baseline indicates an improvement and a negative change is a detriment., Baseline, Cycle 5 (Up To Day 140)|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Abemaciclib, Predose, 1 hour (hr), 2 hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, 10 Hours Postdose|PK - Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From Zero to Last Time Point (AUC[0-tlast]) of Abemaciclib, Predose, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, 10 Hours Postdose|PK - Terminal Half Life (T 1/2) of Abemaciclib, Predose, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, 10 Hours Postdose|PK: Volume of Distribution (Vd) of Abemaciclib, Predose, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, 10 Hours Postdose|PK: Clearance (CL) of Abemaciclib, Predose, 1 hr, 2 hr, 4 hr, 6 hr, 8 hr, 10 Hours Postdose
The purpose of this study is to estimate the disease control rate with abemaciclib for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma.