Diagnostic Accuracy of Optical Coherence Tomography in Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to establish in vivo sensitivity and specificity of OCT in the diagnosis of Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma.
Transitional Cell Carcinoma of Urinary Tract
DEVICE: Optical Coherence Tomography|DEVICE: Optical Coherence Tomography
Sensitivity of 1300nm OCT in grading and staging UUT-UC, Only a single OCT measurement will be done during surgery. This measurement will take a maximum of 10 minutes, including preparation of the OCT device, up to 10 minutes|Specificity of 1300nm OCT in grading and staging UUT-UC, Only a single OCT measurement will be done during surgery. This measurement will take a maximum of 10 minutes, including preparation of the OCT device, up to 10 minutes
Optical properties of cancerous and healthy ureter and collecting system tissue, only a single OCT measurement will be done during surgery. This measurement will take a maximum of 10 minutes, including preparation of the OCT device, up to 10 minutes
Minimal invasive endoscopic treatment for Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma (UUT-UC) has been accepted as a treatment option instead of radical nephroureterectomy for patients with low grade, low stage disease. For this reason, information on tumour stage and grade is important for a clinical decision. Until now,diagnostic ureterorenoscopy combined with histology/cytology is the gold standard. Unfortunately, histology/cytology is often inconclusive.

Optical Coherence Tomography is a new high resolution imaging technique that has potential to provide the urologist real time per-operative information of grade and stage of the disease.

In this study the investigators aim to establish in vivo sensitivity and specificity of OCT in the diagnosis of Upper Urinary Tract Urothelial Carcinoma. Secondary objectives are inter-observer variability of 1300 nm OCT in the diagnosis of UUT-UC and optical properties of cancerous and healthy ureter and collecting system tissue in vivo in humans.