Impact of Intensive Follow-up for Bone Metastasis on Characteristics and Prognosis of Chinese Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to retrospectively collect and analyse the characteristics of breast cancer patients with bone metastasis, and compare the impact of intensive follow-up with standard post-operative surveillance on survival of Chinese breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer|Bone Metastases
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Intensive screening / routine screening
Overall survival, defined as the period from randomization to death from any cause, and it is censored at the last follow-up date when the patient is alive, 60 months, and bone scan is repeated every 12 months
disease-free survival, defined as time to disease recurrence (invasive local, regional, or distant metastasis) or death from any cause, 60 months, and bone scan is repeated every 12 months|distant metastasis-free survival, defined as time to distant metastasis, 60 months, and bone scan is repeated every 12 months
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in women, and the incidence rate is gradually increasing, accounts for the first place in the incidence of female malignant tumors. Bone metastasis is the most common distant metastatic site for breast cancer, accounting for approximately 70% of all patients with advanced breast cancer. About 26%-50% of breast cancer patients with primary metastases are bone. Autopsy results showed that the overall incidence of breast cancer bone metastasis was about 47%-85%.

Postoperative routine screening for bone metastases in breast cancer patients, whether domestic or foreign, is not recommended in most guidelines. These recommendations were based on two prospective randomized controlled trials in Italy in 1990s, indicated that a bone scan every six months or annually didn't provide a survival benefit to the patient. However, there were researches showing that about 11% of patients with asymptomatic breast cancer have bone metastases, suggesting that early screening might detect more patients with asymptomatic bone metastases. The meta-analysis also pointed out that early screening may prolong the disease-free survival of patients. Besides, the imaging techniques have advance rapidly and remarkably since then. New trials are needed to figure out whether imaging screening of asymptomatic patients should be routinely performed to detect more asymptomatic bone metastases needs further investigation.