Hypofractionated Stereotactic Radiotherapy With Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Recurrent Malignant Glioma
The best dose of radiation to be given with bevacizumab is currently unknown. This study will use higher doses of radiation with bevacizumab than have been used before. This study will test the safety of radiation given at different doses with bevacizumab to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on the patient and the malignant glioma or related brain cancers.
Brain Cancer|MALIGNANT GLIOMA|Glioblastoma|Anaplastic Astrocytoma (AA)|Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma (AO)|Anaplastic Oligo-astrocytoma (AOA)|Anaplastic Mixed Gliomas|Malignant Glioma NOS
OTHER: Bevacizumab & Stereotactic Radiotherapy
To establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), of hypofractionated stereotactic re-irradiation delivered with concomitant bevacizumab in recurrent malignant gliomas (using a standard 3+3 design)., 1 year
Response rate, Median overall survival and progression-free survival, along with the estimated survival and PFS rates at specified time points will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Confidence intervals will be included with all point estimates. Response rate will be estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval., 1 year|Median progression free survival, Median overall survival and progression-free survival, along with the estimated survival and PFS rates at specified time points will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Confidence intervals will be included with all point estimates. Response rate will be estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval., 1 year|6 month progression-free survival rate, Median overall survival and progression-free survival, along with the estimated survival and PFS rates at specified time points will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Confidence intervals will be included with all point estimates. Response rate will be estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval., 1 year|Median overall survival, Median overall survival and progression-free survival, along with the estimated survival and PFS rates at specified time points will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Confidence intervals will be included with all point estimates. Response rate will be estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval., 1 year|Use of tractography to predict routes of progression in gliomas (MSKCC only), DTI will be acquired at the time of the patient's routinely scheduled brain MRIs but at least on the baseline scan and the MRI 1 month after cycle 2. DTI parameters: A spin-echo echo-planar sequence using 25 gradient directions, TR/TE 11000/100 msec; matrix 128 × 128; in-plane resolution 1.88 × 1.88 mm; slice thickness 3 mm; b-value 1000 sec/mm2; NEX 1 and maximum diffusion gradient strength 22mTm-1., 1 year|Correlation of VEGF and VEGFR IHC and related pathways (MSKCC only) and MGMT promoter methylation with efficacy, Exploratory analyses related to VEGFR signaling including IHC for VEGF and VEGFR on pre-treatment tissue and post-treatment tissue and the analysis of biological correlate data has the overall goal of providing increased understanding of the nature of the response to bevacizumab but the amount of data available for the various measures is uncertain. Information may also be limited by the impact of intervening treatment between the most recent surgery and initiation of study treatment., 1 year
The best dose of radiation to be given with bevacizumab is currently unknown. This study will use higher doses of radiation with bevacizumab than have been used before. This study will test the safety of radiation given at different doses with bevacizumab to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on the patient and the malignant glioma or related brain cancers.