Biomarker Based Neoadjuvant Strategies for Locally Advanced Resectable ESCC
This study aims to evaluate the impact of the neoadjuvant treatment strategy based on CPS score on the pathological complete response (pCR) rate in patients with resectable locally advanced esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Serplulimab|DRUG: Paclitaxel+Cisplatin (Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy)|DRUG: Paclitaxel+Cisplatin(Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy)|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Pathological Complete Response (pCR) Rate, The proportion of patients achieving a pathological complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant treatment and surgical resection. pCR is defined as the absence of any residual invasive cancer or high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia/dysplasia in the resected esophagus and all sampled lymph nodes (ypT0N0) based on hematoxylin and eosin staining., after the pathological examination of surgical speciments within 14 days after the operation
R0 Resection Rate, The proportion of patients achieving an R0 resection, defined as a microscopically margin-negative resection with no residual tumor at the resection margins., after the pathological examination of surgical speciments ie within 14 days after the operation|Treatment-Related Toxicity, The incidence and severity of treatment-related adverse events, graded according to CTCAE 5.0. This includes adverse events related to Serplulimab, Paclitaxel, Cisplatin, and radiotherapy, as well as surgical complications., From the start of treatment to 30 days post-surgery|3-Year Disease-Free Survival (DFS), The percentage of patients who remain disease-free three years after surgical resection. DFS is defined as the time from R0 resection to the first occurrence of disease recurrence or death from any cause., 36 months after treatment completion|Tumor Mutational Burden (TMB), Tumor mutational burden (TMB) score as measured in tumor tissue samples., 36 months after treatment completion.|Microsatellite Instability (MSI), Percentage of patients with high microsatellite instability (MSI-H) in tumor tissue, 36 months after treatment completion|Circulating Tumor DNA (ctDNA), Change in circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) levels as measured by liquid biopsy., 36 months after treatment completion
Esophageal cancer is a malignant tumor with a high incidence in China, with most patients diagnosed at the advanced stage. Traditional treatment modalities include surgery, chemoradiotherapy, and chemotherapy. However, under current standard treatments, approximately 50% of patients remain incurable, primarily due to postoperative recurrence and distant metastasis. Therefore, seeking a new treatment strategy to improve efficacy is crucial.

This clinical trial aims to evaluate the use of immune checkpoint inhibitors in neoadjuvant therapy based on CPS scoring to enhance the pathologic complete response (pCR) rate. Patients pathologically confirmed with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) will undergo surgical assessment for operability. Eligible patients will further undergo CPS testing and will receive different neoadjuvant treatment strategies based on CPS results: patients with CPS ≥20 will receive neoadjuvant immunotherapy alone; CPS 10-20 patients will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by immunotherapy; and CPS \<10 patients will receive standard neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy.

After completing neoadjuvant therapy, patients will rest for 4-6 weeks before undergoing curative surgery, which will be reassessed by thoracic surgeons for R0 resection feasibility preoperatively. Postoperatively, pathological evaluation will assess the pCR rate and other secondary study endpoints, with the most severe toxicities included in the analysis.

This study anticipates a group-wide pCR rate of 45% based on a PD-L1 biomarker-guided neoadjuvant treatment strategy. The trial is designed to exclude a pCR rate of 30% or lower using a one-sided 95% confidence interval (α set at 0.025) and 80% statistical power, with a total sample size of 90. The null hypothesis will be rejected if fewer than 34 patients achieve pCR in the entire cohort.

Based on reference studies (EC-CRT-001, ESCORT-1, JUPITER-06, and KEYNOTE-590) and CPS distribution data for esophageal squamous cell carcinoma from our institution, it is expected that the proportions of patients with CPS ≥20, 10-20, and \<10 will be 10%, 40%, and 50%, respectively, corresponding to 9, 36, and 45 eligible patients for each group. It is anticipated that biological specimens will be obtained from more than 30 patients.