Extensive Intraoperative Peritoneal Lavage After Curative Gastrectomy for Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer (SEIPLUS)
The investigators study aims to explore the potential function of extensive intraoperative peritoneal lavage in improving the overall survival and progression-free survival for locally advanced gastric cancer after curative resection.

Hypothesis: Overall survival and progression-free survival of locally advanced gastric cancer are improved by extensive intraoperative peritoneal lavage.
Gastric Cancer
OTHER: Extensive Intraoperative Peritoneal Lavage
Overall survival, The survival rate between the surgery to the 3rd year due to all-cause death or last follow-up., 3-year
Disease-free survival, The progression-free or all-cause death rate between the surgery and the 3rd year., 3-year|Peritoneal recurrence, The Peritoneal recurrence rate between the surgery and the 3rd year, 3-year|Postoperative complications, complications such bleeding, infection, obstruction and leakage, an average of 10 days|Post-operative quality of life, The postoperative quality of life will be assessed by factors such as Swallowing，Pain and discomfort，Dietary restrictions, Upper gastrointestinal symptoms, mental status and others., an average of 10 days
Gastric cancer has been one of the most frequently common cancers and remains the third leading cause of death among malignant tumors all over the world. Surgery has always been considered as the most effective treatment. While significant surgical technique and perioperative management have dramatically improved the survival of patients with advanced gastric cancer, patients with T4 stage or serosal-positive gastric cancer often suffer from recurrence as peritoneal dissemination, and the prognosis of those patients is extremely poor. Despite curatively resected, Peritoneal metastasis is completed by the implantation of peritoneal free cancer cells exfoliated from serosa-invasive tumors. Therefore, things need to be done to eliminate the free exfoliated cancer cells on the peritoneal lining in order to reduce the risk of peritoneal recurrence.

A multi-institutional prospective, randomized trial has been launched by Kuramoto recently. The trail was intended to demonstrate the superiority in overall survival of addition of Extensive Intraoperative peritoneal Lavage (EIPL) to standard treatment in patients with≥T3 carcinoma of stomach. Based on the'limiting dilution theory', after total or distal gastrectomy with D2 lymphadenectomy, the peritoneal cavity is extensively rinsed 10 times with 1 L physiological saline at a time, followed by complete aspiration of the fluid. In total, 10 L saline is to be used. In this study, the EIPL-IPC group had a significantly lower incidence of peritoneal recurrence. Furthermore, the 5-year overall survival rate of the patients in the EIPL-IPC group (43.8%) was significantly better than that of the intraperitoneal chemotherapy (IPC) group (4.6%) and the surgery-alone group (0%). All in all, EIPL is easy to carry out, safe and inexpensive. Therefore, gastrectomy with EIPL will be a new standard treatment of gastric cancer.

To ensure the quality of the study, two interim analyses will be planned at the half and the completion of the study respectively. The Data and Safety Monitoring Committee will independently review the interim analysis and stop the study ahead of schedule if necessary. Furthermore, to improve the study progress and quality, the in-house interim monitoring will be performed.