PD-1 Inhibitor Combined With Radiotherapy for Elderly ESCC
Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is now considered to be the standard treatment modality for esophageal cancer patients who are medically unfit for surgery. However, elderly patients have limitations in their ability to tolerate concurrent chemoradiotherapy in comparison to nonelderly patients because of medical comorbidities and reduced functional reserve of organs. Immune checkpoint inhibitors, including PD-1 inhibitor, have been used in a large number of clinical studies on esophageal cancer and have achieved certain results. PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy may be a new strategy for elderly patients with esophageal cancer. This study aims to explore the efficacy and safety of PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy in the treatment of elderly patients with esophageal cancer. PD-1 inhibitor was delivered 200mg once before radiotherapy and 200mg every 3-4 weeks after radiotherapy for one year.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor 200mg per three to four weeks, for one year
Progression-free survival, The time from the start of treatment to disease progression as assessed by the treating physicians in the study (investigator-assessed), Two years
Overall Survival, The time from the start of treatment to death from any cause, Three years
Study Design Primary Purpose: To investigate the safety and efficacy of PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy for elderly patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

Study Phase: Phase II Intervention Model: PD-1 inhibitor combined with radiotherapy Number of Arms: One Masking: No Allocation: 68 patients for one single group Enrollment: 68 patients Eligibility Criteria Inclusion Criteria: 1. ≥ 70 year-old, 2. Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma with stage II to IVA, 3. No previous surgery, radiotherapy or chemotherapy of cancer was allowed, 4. Estimated survival time ≥ 3 months, 5. KPS ≥ 70, 6. No serious diseases of important organs, 7. Signed consent forms voluntarily.

Exclusion Criteria: 1. Psychopath, 2. History of other malignant disease which has not been cured, 3. Severe autoimmune disease, 4. Joining other clinical trial prior this study.

Intervention: PD-1 inhibitor delivered 200mg once before radiotherapy and 200mg every 3-4 weeks after radiotherapy for one year. Radiotherapy:56-60Gy/28-30 fraction.