Vorinostat, Carboplatin, and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial is studying carboplatin, paclitaxel, and vorinostat to see how well they work compared with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and a placebo in treating patients with stage III or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Vorinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether giving carboplatin and paclitaxel together with vorinostat is more effective than giving carboplatin and paclitaxel together with a placebo in treating non-small cell lung cancer
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: carboplatin|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate, Each patient will be assigned one of the following categories: 1) complete response, 2) partial response, 3) stable disease, 4) progressive disease, 5) early death from malignant disease, 6) early death from toxicity, 7) early death because of other cause, or 9) unknown (not assessable, insufficient data).

Patients with confirmed CR or PR according to the RECIST criteria were considered to have responded to treatment., Assessed every two cycles
Progression-free Survival, Evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Compared between arms using the log-rank test., Up to 1 year|Overall Survival, Evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Compared between arms using the log-rank test., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the response rate associated with the combination of vorinostat, carboplatin, paclitaxel versus carboplatin, paclitaxel and placebo for patients with previously untreated, advanced NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the time to progression and overall survival for the two regimens.

II. To assess the safety profile of the regimen of vorinostat, carboplatin and paclitaxel for patients with advanced NSCLC.

III. To understand mechanistic aspects of drug effect by conducting correlative science studies on peripheral blood, archived tumor tissue, and paired biopsies in consenting patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to gender and brain metastasis (present vs absent). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive oral vorinostat (SAHA) once daily on days 1-14 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 3.

Arm II: Patients receive an oral placebo once daily on days 1-14 and paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm l.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 4-6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.