Impact of Adjuvant Chemotherapy on the Quality of Life of Patients Treated for Stage II / III Endometrial Cancer
Through this study, The investigator believe to evaluate the impact in terms of overall quality of life of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced endometrial cancer at a distance from their care
Endometrial Cancer|Chemotherapy Effect|Quality of Life
OTHER: Self questionnaires of quality of life and living conditions
The impact in terms of overall quality of life of adjuvant chemotherapy by the QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The Quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) contains 29 items dealing with fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, general condition and social, emotional and cognitive functions. It is currently used in many clinical trials in oncology, 2 years after chemotherapy
Neurotoxicity induced by adjuvant chemotherapy by the CIPN20 questionnaire, The quality of life Questionnaire Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy QLQ-CIPN20) is a questionnaire specifically dedicated to the evaluation of peripheral neuropathies induced by chemotherapy. This quality of life questionnaire is composed of 20 items from 0 to 4 and has been tested in a large international clinical trial., 2 years after chemotherapy|Different domains of quality of life impacted remotely by chemotherapy by the QLQ-C30 questionnaire, The Quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) contains 29 items dealing with fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, general condition and social, emotional and cognitive functions. It is currently used in many clinical trials in oncology, 2 years after chemotherapy
Anxiety by the HADS questionnaire, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) It is a quick and easy self-questionnaire that assesses both anxious and depressive dimensions (7 items for each dimension)., 2 years after chemotherapy|Depression by the HADS questionnaire, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) It is a quick and easy self-questionnaire that assesses both anxious and depressive dimensions (7 items for each dimension)., 2 years after chemotherapy
Endometrial cancer is the fourth most common cancer in women in developed countries. The diagnosis is often made at a localized stage (67% of cases), making it a relatively good cancer prognosis with a 5-year all-stage survival of 81.7%.

Its management at the localized stage is based on surgery and radiotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy may be offered in addition to radiotherapy, but its place is still debated. It is classically delivered sequentially before or after radiotherapy, concomitant radiochemotherapy not being a standard. It is generally recommended in case of stage III, and for the earlier stages, its use is based on various prognostic factors (histological type, grade, emboli) and the feasibility of treatment (age, general condition, comorbidities). In fact, patients treated for endometrial cancer are elderly (median age 63 years) and in the majority of cases present comorbidities (diabetes, obesity and hypertension). Chemotherapy can induce side effects that can persist and potentially alter the quality of life of these often fragile patients. Although the impact of surgery and radiotherapy on the quality of life has been well studied, there is insufficient literature data for adjuvant chemotherapy. The investigator propose a case-control study that will evaluate the quality of life and late sequelae of patients treated for locally advanced endometrial cancer with sequential adjuvant chemotherapy before or after radiotherapy at a distance from their management. comparing their results to a group of patients who had been treated with postoperative radiotherapy alone.