Combined Anti-IL6R and Anticoagulation Therapy in Advanced NPC Patients
The investigators have demonstrated the crucial role of the liver-lung axis in the distant metastasis of NPC. Furthermore, the investigators have identified a potential therapeutic approach to improve outcomes in NPC patients by identifying those most suitable for anticoagulant therapy. Further, the combination of anticoagulant therapy and anti-IL6R therapy has shown promising results in enhancing the prognosis of NPC patients. These findings highlight the significance of targeting the liver-lung axis and utilizing personalized treatment strategies for NPC.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Tocilizumab Asprin|OTHER: Placebo
Tumor progression and metastasis, After the patients are diagnosed and treated, CT scans is used semi-annually to determine the progression and metastasis of tumor., Five to Ten years
Distant metastasis accounts for nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)-related mortalities. Recently, extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been widely explored as key mediators of bidirectional tumor-host cell interactions by mediating pre-metastatic niche (PMN) formation. However, considering the complexity of the human body, multiple organ studies of tumor metastasis remain poorly understood. Here, the investigators have demonstrated the crucial role of the liver-lung axis in the distant metastasis of NPC. The investigators demonstrated mechanistically that hepatocellular derived EVs can be specifically taken up by the lung to form a hypercoagulable pre-metastatic microenvironment associated with IL6.Furthermore, the investigators have identified a potential therapeutic approach to improve outcomes in NPC patients by identifying those most suitable for anticoagulant therapy. Further, the combination of anticoagulant therapy and anti-IL6R therapy has shown promising results in enhancing the prognosis of NPC patients. These findings highlight the significance of targeting the liver-lung axis and utilizing personalized treatment strategies for NPC.