Acceptance-based Intervention at Colorectal Cancer Patients
Taking into account the unavoidable effect of a major oncologic surgery commonly required for colorectal cancer patients and the recognized psychological and functional sequelae of the surgical treatment on their status, we will evaluate the influence of a psychological intervention, known as acceptance-based intervention, offered to those patients at the preoperative setting. Reduction of anxiety and assessmemt of indices of post-intervention psychological and functional recovery will be the primary goals of the study.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Acceptance Process|Pain, Procedural
BEHAVIORAL: ACCEPTANCE-BASED INTERVENTION
Postoperative pain as measured by VAS score, A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is a measurement instrument that tries to measure a characteristic or attitude that is believed to range across a continuum of values and cannot easily be directly measured. The pain VAS is a unidimensional measure of pain intensity, which has been widely used in diverse adult populations.The most simple VAS is a straight horizontal line of fixed length, usually 100 mm. The ends are defined as the extreme limits of the parameter to be measured orientated from the left (worst) to the right (best)., Third postoperative day
Functional status as measured by "Maintain Function" Scale (MFS), "Maintain function" scale is a validated 5-item summative. Each item begins with the stem, "How confidant are you that you know or can," and assesses an aspect of daily life-function, such as work and social activities. The responses are a 5-level Likert scale from 0 = "not at all confident" to 4 = "completely confident." We did not include a "not applicable" response option. The self-efficacy scores range between 0 and 20, with a higher score indicating better self-efficacy to maintain function., Third postoperative day|Anxiety and depression measured by Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire (Brief IPQ), The Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire (Brief IPQ) is a 9-item questionnaire designed to rapidly assess cognitive and emotional representations of illness. The Brief IPQ uses a single-item scale approach to assess perception on a 0-10 response scale. The Brief IBQ comprises 5 items on cognitive representation of illness perception: consequences, timeline, personal control, treatment control, and identity. There are 2 items on emotional representation: concern and emotions. One item is on illness comprehensibility. The last item is on perceived cause of illness, in which respondents list the three most important causal factors in their illness., Third postoperative day|Anxiety and depression measured by State-Trait Anxiety (STAI) questionnaire, The State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) is a psychological inventory based on a 4-point Likert scale and consists of 40 questions on a self-report basis. The STAI measures two types of anxiety - state anxiety, or anxiety about an event, and trait anxiety, or anxiety level as a personal characteristic. Higher scores are positively correlated with higher levels of anxiety., Third postoperative day
Introduction: Uncertainty, fears and anxiety are common reactions to an upcoming colectomy for colorectal cancer patients and are related not only to cancer disease, but also to the inevitable change in colon anatomy, affecting their preoperative psychological and functional condition and their postsurgical recovery.

Purpose: We aim to evaluate the psychological and functional recovery of colorectal cancer patients, who undergo colectomy, after an acceptance-based nursing intervention. The scope of this brief preoperative intervention is to enable patients to cope more efficiently with the upcoming surgery and their health status, as it is expected to reduce anxiety and have positive effect on postsurgical psychological and functional recovery.

Methods: The study includes histologically diagnosed patients with colorectal cancer, regardless of stage, who are scheduled to undergo colectomy. Patients will be divided into two groups-the experimental and the control group-by simple randomization. Both groups are going to complete a set of same questionnaires regarding quality of life, sleep, anxiety, depression and functional status. Patients in the control arm will then receive treatment-as-usual while patients in the experimental arm will also receive an acceptance-based intervention before surgery. Postoperatively, for both groups, apart from the self-reported symptoms, we will assess objective recovery factors, such as postoperative complications