The Effect of Preoperative Walking Exercises on the Prognosis of Supratentorial Brain Tumours Patients After Craniotomy
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn about in patients with supratentorial brain tumours. The main questions it aims to answer is: Can short-term preoperative walking exercise protect cognitive function in the short term after craniotomy in patients with supratentorial brain tumor and reduce the incidence of surgery-related complications? Participants will be asked to receive general care and regular walking exercises prior to surgery. Researchers will compare patients who receive only general care before surgery to see if preoperative walking exercise has an effect on postoperative prognosis.
Supratentorial Brain Tumor|Exercise|Cognition|Postoperative Complications
BEHAVIORAL: Walking exercise
Incidence of postoperative cardiopulmonary complications (pneumonia, thrombosis, etc. [by Japan Clinical Oncology Group postoperative complications criteria]), Type and number of surgery-related cardiopulmonary complications that occurred after the patient's surgery., 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)|Cognitive function change (by Montreal Cognitive Assessment [MoCA], MoCA Chinese 7.1 and MoCA Chinese 7.2 [both ranging from 0 to 30 points, with higher scores generally indicating better cognitive function]), The gap between patients' post-operative and pre-operative cognitive function. MoCA Chinese 7.1 for baseline and 14 days preoperatively, MoCA Chinese 7.2 for three days preoperatively and 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)., Baseline, 14 days preoperatively, three days preoperatively, 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)
Average length of stay, Average length of hospital stay for patients., Discharge (up to 12 weeks)|Postoperative pain (by 0-10 Numerical Rating Scale [0 to 10 points, with higher scores generally indicating more severe pain]), Degree of pain felt by patient in the postoperative period., 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)|Subject satisfaction (by Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire-III [50 to 250 points, with higher scores generally indicating higher satisfaction]), Patient satisfaction with health care provided by physicians., 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)|Cost of care, The researcher will estimate the costs of hospitalisation and interventions based on data from hospital records, with unit costs taken from standard estimated costs from the Office of Medical Pricing. The analysis of program implementation costs will take into account clinician salaries, overheads and equipment costs. Formal care costs will be extracted from medical records and institutional databases, considering preoperative characteristics, type of surgery and postoperative recovery, and any complications., 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)|Incidence of other postoperative surgery-related complications (cerebral haemorrhage, intracranial infections, etc.), Type and number of other surgery-related complications (cerebral haemorrhage, intracranial infections, etc.) that occurred after the patient's surgery., 1 week post-operative/discharge (select whichever occurs first)
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn about in patients with supratentorial brain tumours. The main questions it aims to answer is: Can short-term preoperative walking exercise protect cognitive function in the short term after craniotomy in patients with supratentorial brain tumor and reduce the incidence of surgery-related complications? Participants will be asked to receive general care and regular walking exercises prior to surgery. Researchers will compare patients who receive only general care before surgery to see if preoperative walking exercise has an effect on postoperative prognosis.