Trametinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive Low-Grade Ovarian Cancer or Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
This phase II/III trial studies how well trametinib works and compares it to standard treatment with either letrozole, tamoxifen, paclitaxel, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin, or topotecan in treating patients with low-grade ovarian cancer or peritoneal cavity cancer that has come back (recurrent), become worse (progressive), or spread to other parts of the body. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether trametinib is more effective than standard therapy in treating patients with ovarian or peritoneal cavity cancer.
Borderline Ovarian Serous Tumor|Micropapillary Serous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Low Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Tamoxifen Citrate|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Trametinib Dimethyl Sulfoxide
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and documentation of disease progression (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Patients still alive and disease free at the last followup were censored on the date of last CT Scan.Participants were analyzed based on their group of assignment. Patients on Arm A who progressed were permitted to receive Arm B treatment. Study time for Arm A patients who crossed over was not included in the PFS endpoint definition., Time from study entry to time of progression or death, an average of 7 months for arm A and 13 months for arm B
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), Number of treated patients with Adverse Events (grade 3 or higher) observed while receiving randomized therapy. Excludes AEs observed among control patients treated with trametinib after crossover.Participants were analyzed based on their group of assignment. Patients on Arm A who progressed were permitted to receive Arm B treatment. Study time for Arm A patients who crossed over was not included in the AE endpoint definition., During treatment period and up to 100 days after stopping the study treatment|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and death from any cause. Patients still alive at the last follow-up were censored on the date of last contact. Patients with disease progression on the Control arm were allowed to cross over to the trametinib arm. Per the protocol, the intent-to-treat OS analysis was not adjusted for crossover., Time from study entry to time of death or date of last contact, an average of 29 months for arm A and 37 months for arm B|Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete Response and Partial Response), The Response Rates were estimated as the binomial proportion of patients with Best Overall Response of Complete or Partial response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Time from study entry to time of progression or death, an average of 7 months for arm A and 13 months for arm B|Patients Reported Acute Quality of Life, Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Treatment Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for ovarian cancer (FACT-O TOI). The FACT-O TOI is a scale for assessing general QOL of ovarian cancer patients. It consists of three subscales: Physical Well Being (7 items), Functional Well Being (7 items), and Ovarian Cancer subscale (11 items). . The FACT-O TOI score is calculated as the sum of the subscale scores if more than 80% of the FACT-O TOI items provide valid answers and all of the component subscales have valid scores. The FACT-O TOI score ranges 0-100 with a large score suggesting better QOL. Participants were analyzed based on their group of assignment. Patients on Arm A who progressed were permitted to receive Arm B treatment. Study time for Arm A patients who crossed over was not included in the quality of life endpoint definition, 1. baseline (prior to cycle 1), 12 weeks (prior to cycle 4), 24 weeks (4 weeks post cycle 6), 36 weeks post cycle 1, 52 weeks post cycle 1.|Patient Reported Acute Peripheral Neuropathy Symptoms, Patient reported peripheral neuropathy symptoms was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group - neurotoxicity subscale (short version) (FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale). The FACT/GOG-Ntx subscale contains 4 items. Each item was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). According to the FACIT measurement system, the Ntx score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the scale. The Ntx score ranges 0-16 with a large score suggesting less peripheral neuropathy symptoms, Up to 52 weeks|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as the number of months between study enrollment and documentation of disease progression (RECIST 1.1) or death from any cause. Patients still alive and disease free at the last followup were censored on the date of last CT Scan. RECIST v1.1 defines progression as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Time from study entry to time of progression or death, an average of 7 months for SOC and 13 months for the treatment (Trametinib) arm.|pERK Expression, Will be quantified using the H-score derived from the immunohistochemistry analysis of patient tumor tissue and is expected to present as a continuous measure. will consider the prognostic and predictive abilities of pERK relative to objective response rate (ORR) or PFS. Analysis of the dichotomous markers will be supported by Kaplan Meier plots, and forest plots of the odds-ratio and hazard ratio estimates. Duration of response will be depicted using swimmer plots, with median duration estimated using Kaplan Meier methods. The multivariable models will include covariate adjustment for geographic region, performance status and number of prior regimens, presented using effect coding. The adjusted hazard- and odds- ratio estimates from the multivariable models will be supported by nominal p-values and 2-sided, 95% confidence intervals. Confidence intervals will be interpreted as the plausible range of values for the true (unobserved) ratio that is supported by the data., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) hazard ratio of trametinib compared to that of "commercially available therapies" consisting of one of five commercially available agents in women with recurrent low-grade serous carcinoma of the ovary or peritoneum previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the nature, frequency and maximum degree of toxicity as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4 for each treatment arm.

II. To determine the quality of life, as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O).

IIa. To compare trametinib to the control arm with regard to patients' self-reported acute (up to post-cycle 6) quality of life as measured by the FACT-O-Trial Outcome Index (TOI).

IIb. To compare trametinib to the control arm with regard to patients' self-reported acute (up to post-cycle 6) neurotoxicity as measured by the FACT-Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG)-Neurotoxicity (NTX).

III. To estimate the objective response rate (RR) of patients in each treatment arm.

IV. To test whether high expression of pERK, as quantified by immunohistochemistry (IHC), is associated with better prognosis (RR or PFS) among patients receiving the randomized treatment.

V. To test whether genetic changes associated with MAPK pathway activation (KRAS, NRAS, HRAS, BRAF, MEK, ERBB2 or NF1) are associated with improved prognosis (RR or PFS) among patients receiving the randomized treatment.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive clinician's choice of either letrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, tamoxifen citrate PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride (PLD) IV over 1 hour on day 1, or topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients developing progressive disease may cross over to Arm B.

ARM B: Patients receive trametinib PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.