Analysis of Lung Cancer Tissue With Spatial Frequency Domain Imaging
This study investigates if a new imaging device can detect different types of lung tissue using spatial frequency domain imaging (SFDI). Specifically, this study aims to detect lung nodules within normal lung tissue and determine if lung nodules are cancerous. Patients who have confirmed or suspected lung nodules and who are undergoing resection of those nodules will be recruited for the study. Study participants will undergo standard of care lung nodule resection in the operating room, and the resected specimen will be imaged using the SFDI device immediately after removal from the surgical field. The data captured from the SFDI images will then be compared to the pathology findings to identify optical properties of normal and cancerous lung tissue. Because the intervention is conducted on resected biospecimens, this study yields minimal risk to participants.
Lung Diseases|Cancer, Lung
DEVICE: Spatial Frequency Domain Imaging
Markers of native lung parenchyma, Use SFDI to identify markers of lung nodule vs native lung parenchyma, May 7, 2023 to December 31, 2026
Cancer identification, Distinguish cancer vs non-cancer in lung nodules with SFDI, May 7, 2023 to December 31, 2026
This study investigates if a new imaging device can detect different types of lung tissue using spatial frequency domain imaging (SFDI). Specifically, this study aims to detect lung nodules within normal lung tissue and determine if lung nodules are cancerous. Patients who have confirmed or suspected lung nodules and who are undergoing resection of those nodules will be recruited for the study. Study participants will undergo standard of care lung nodule resection in the operating room, and the resected specimen will be imaged using the SFDI device immediately after removal from the surgical field. The data captured from the SFDI images will then be compared to the pathology findings to identify optical properties of normal and cancerous lung tissue. Because the intervention is conducted on resected biospecimens, this study yields minimal risk to participants.