Curative Study of Chinese Traditional Medicine to Treat Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to observe the efficacy of chemotherapy combined with Chinese patent drugs for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer, also to evaluate the adverse reaction and the reliability.
Cancer
DRUG: JinFuKang|DRUG: XingZaoRuanJian|DRUG: pemetrexed,docetaxel,gemcitabine,paclitaxel or vinorelbine combined with carboplatin、cis-platinum or nedaplatin
Progression-Free Survival, The progression disease is assessed based on CT every 2 months from date of randomization and the endpoints is the date of first documented progression or date of death due to lung cancer., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause，up to 2 months
Objective response rate, up to 2 months|Time-to-Progression, up to 2 months|Number of participants with treatment-related quality of life as assessed by FACT-L4.0, 21 days
Lung cancer is the most common malignant tumor in the world with about 80%-85% non small cell lung cancer.

The investigators perform a multi-center, randomized, controlled, prospective study in patients with advanced NSCLC. Patients are randomized over observational group(Chinese patent drugs plus chemotherapy), and control group (chemotherapy). The investigators will observe 2 cycles and after that regular follow-up will be arranged.

The primary end point is: Objective response rate;

The secondary end points are:

1. progression-free survival(PFS);
2. overall survival(OS);
3. Time to Progression (TTP);
4. quality of life questionnaire（QOL);
5. other end points are: Toxicity, side effects and security of the treatments will be assessed at the same time.

The investigators expect that integrated TCM combined with chemotherapy has a better efficacy on enhancing Objective response rate，prolonging PFS, OS, improving QOL, reducing the adverse reaction of patients than that of chemotherapy.Therefore our study can provide evidences for optimizing and promoting integrated TCM combined with Western Medicine treatment.