Identification and Differentiation of Thyroid Nodules by Acoustic Imaging and Viscoelastic Parameters
This study is being done to identify and differentiate thyroid nodules by acoustic imaging and viscoelastic parameters.
Thyroid Gland Carcinoma
OTHER: Non-Interventional Study
Incidence of nodules successfully sited by vibro-acoustography (VA), Successful nodule localization will be assessed by the review of the VA image relative to the nodule location information from the reference ultrasound (US) image (agree/disagree on location will be determined for each nodule)., Baseline, 3 months post ablation, 6 months post ablation, 12 months post ablation|Specificity of VA in differentiating malignant and benign of thyroid nodules, Specificity of VA in differentiating malignant and benign of thyroid nodules will be determined by comparing the VA image to the US image., Baseline, 3 months post ablation, 6 months post ablation, 12 months post ablation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Identification of thyroid nodules by vibro-acoustography - Determine detection rate.

II. Evaluate the specificity of VA in differentiating malignant and benign of thyroid nodules - Compare the result to that of ultrasound (US).

III. Assess diagnostic value of Shear Wave Ultrasound Vibrometry (SDUV) and Comb Push shear elastography (CUSE) in differentiation of thyroid nodules - correlate SDUV and CUSE results to pathology.

IV. Test and compare the results shear wave imaging with new FDA approved ultrasound device called SuperSonic Imagine Aixplorer.

V. Assess diagnostic value of Shear Wave Ultrasound Vibrometry (SDUV) and Comb Push shear elastography (CUSE) in differentiation of palpable and sonographically detectable cervical lymph nodes or non-thyroidal neck masses.

VI. Assess the diagnostic values of ultrasound quantitative microvessel imaging for differentiation of thyroid nodules and cervical lymph nodes.

VII. Assess the response to alcohol ablation on patients with recurrent thyroid cancer on thyroid bed or new lymph nodes on neck.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Patients undergo ultrasound imaging on study.