Arsenic Trioxide in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase II trial studies how well arsenic trioxide works in treating patients with relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as arsenic trioxide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: arsenic trioxide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Rate of complete remission following arsenic trioxide induction, After 4 weeks of therapy
Median duration of remission, Time from documented complete remission until time of disease relapse, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the complete remission rate of relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients with Mutated Nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1) gene.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the duration of remission in these patients. II. Determine the in vivo biological effect of arsenic trioxide in AML with mutated NPM1.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive arsenic trioxide intravenously (IV) over 1-2 hours daily for up to 45 days. Patients achieving complete remission, receive arsenic trioxide IV over 1-2 hours daily 5 days a week for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 8 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.