Stereotactic Body Proton Radiotherapy for the Treatment of Liver Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of stereotactic body proton radiotherapy in treating patients with liver cancer. Proton radiotherapy is a type of treatment that uses high-energy beams to treat tumors.
Recurrent Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage I Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC V8|Stage II Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC V8|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC V8
RADIATION: Proton Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
3-month rate of patients experiencing an increase in Child-Pugh score by 2 or more points of 5-fraction stereotactic body proton radiotherapy in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), The rate will be estimated and a 95% exact binomial confidence interval reported, and then tested utilizing a one-sample test for proportions versus the historical control of 15%., 3 months
3-month complication rate, Defined by grade 3 or higher acute adverse event. Will be calculated and presented with 95% confidence intervals (CI), while continuous outcomes will be presented with mean, median, 95% CI, and interquartile range (IQR)., 3 months|Incidence of late toxicity, Defined by grade 3 or higher acute adverse event., Up to 2 years|6-month local control, Will be reported via Kaplan-Meier estimates., 6 months|Liver disease control, Will be reported via Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival, Will be reported via Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be reported via Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 2 years|Imaging response rates, Will be determined by Modified (m) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and RECIST criteria. Will be calculated and presented with 95% CI, while continuous outcomes will be presented with mean, median, 95% CI, and IQR., 6 months|Value of volumetric imaging analysis, Will be compared to mRECIST and RECIST in the setting of HCC treated with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)., 6 months
Patient-reported outcomes, Will be evaluated per the validated measure and presented over time with means and 95% CIs., Up to 2 years|Clinical features, treatment technique, and dose-volume parameters, Will be associated with better local control and fewer adverse events., Up to 2 years|Value of additional imaging analyses and techniques, Will be determined assessing tumor response after treatment with SBRT., Up to 2 years|Blood bank patient specimens for future analysis, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the 3-month rate of patients experiencing an increase in Child-Pugh (CP) score by 2 or more points of 5-fraction stereotactic body proton radiotherapy (SBPT) in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 3-month complication rate as defined by grade 3 or higher acute adverse event.

II. To assess late toxicity with 2 year follow-up. III. To estimate the 6-month local control, liver disease control, progression free survival and overall survival.

IV. To determine objective imaging response rates at 6 months by Modified (m) Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and RECIST criteria.

V. To determine the value of volumetric imaging analysis compared to mRECIST and RECIST in the setting of HCC treated with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT).

CORRELATIVE AND EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate patient-reported outcomes. II. To evaluate clinical features, treatment technique, and dose-volume parameters associated with better local control and fewer adverse events.

III. To determine the value of additional imaging analyses and techniques for assessing tumor response after treatment with SBRT IV. To blood bank patient specimens for future analysis.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 1 SBPT fraction over 20-30 minutes per day for a total of 5 fractions.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, 3 , 6, 12 and 24 months, then annually for 3 years.