Phase II Study of Bendamustine and Rituximab Plus Venetoclax in Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma Over 60 Years of Age
Eligible untreated patients will receive single arm venetoclax, bendamustine and rituximab as induction therapy. After 6 cycles, maintenance rituximab may be administered per physician discretion.

Venetoclax is an oral Bcl-2 family protein inhibitor. It targets the B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) protein, which supports cancer cell growth and is overexpressed in many patients with mantle cell lymphoma. Venetoclax may make the cancer cells sensitive to chemotherapy. This may help to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die.

The purpose of this study is to see if venetoclax in combination with bendamustine and rituximab chemotherapy is effective in treating people who have mantle cell lymphoma and to examine the side effects, good and bad, associated with this combination.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Rituximab
Complete Response (CR) Rate at End of Induction, Complete Response (CR) was assessed in accordance with the Lugano Classification Criteria using PET/CT scans (at baseline) and PET/CT or CT scans (during follow-up). Based on this criteria, a Deauville score ≤ 3 corresponds to a CR, a score of 4 or 5 and ≥ 50% decrease in the sum of lesion measurements corresponds to a Partial Response (PR), a score of 4 or 5 and \<50% decrease in sum of lesion measurements corresponds to a Stable Disease (SD), a score of 4 or 5 and \>1.5cm increase in a single lesion or presence of new lesions or bone marrow recurrence denotes Progressive Disease (PD)., Complete Response (CR) status was assessed after 6 months of induction treatment, plus an additional 2 months for end of treatment PET/CT scans.
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Number of participants with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events including Tumor Lysis Syndrome (TLS) were assessed using CTCAE v5.0. The adverse events were graded on a scale of 1 to 5 based on severity: grade 1 is mild, grade 2 is moderate, grade 3 is severe, grade 4 is life-threatening, and grade 5 resulted in death., Adverse events were reported throughout 6 months of induction treatment and up to 2 months following completion of induction treatment|Overall Response, Objective response was assessed in accordance with the Lugano Classification Criteria using PET/CT scans (at baseline) and PET/CT or CT scans (during follow-up). Objective response is defined as the number of patients with a best treatment response of complete (CR) or partial response (PR)., Objective response was assessed after 6 months of induction treatment, plus an additional 2 months for end of treatment PET/CT scans.|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is a measure of patients that are alive and progression-free. Survival status is ascertained via direct contact and disease progression was assessed in accordance with the Lugano Classification Criteria using PET/CT scans (at baseline) and PET/CT or CT scans (during follow-up)., Progression-Free Survival (PFS) was assessed from the start to completion of induction treatment (6 months) through the completion of maintenance treatment (24 months) for up to 60 months of per-protocol study follow-up.|Overall Survival (OS), Patients' survival status was measured by direct contact., Overall survival (OS) was assessed from the start to completion of induction treatment (6 months) through the completion of maintenance treatment (24 months) for up to 60 months of per-protocol study follow-up.
Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a subtype of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) which is considered incurable with conventional therapy. With an incidence of approximately 70,000 cases diagnosed in the United States (US) per year, the disease is rare.

This is an open-label phase II study of venetoclax in combination with bendamustine and rituximab. Patients will receive induction therapy with venetoclax, bendamustine and rituximab for six cycles (1 cycle = 28 days). There will be an interim analysis after 19 patients are enrolled to evaluate for tumor lysis syndrome (TLS). TLS is caused by the fast breakdown of cancer cells which can lead to electrolyte and kidney problems.

Tumor assessments will be performed after Cycle 3-4 and at end of induction therapy.

Mandatory pre-treatment tumor tissue sample (i.e., obtained in the course of standard biopsy or surgery) will be required for research (if sufficient tissue is available).

Mandatory bone marrow aspirate (obtained in the course of standard biopsy) and peripheral blood sample will be collected at the end of treatment for Minimal Residual Disease (MRD). MRD measures the disease remaining after treatment. Optional peripheral blood samples will also be collected for future research.

10/11/2021: Due to slower than anticipated enrollment, the study was redesigned to reflect the current historical complete response rate and with a lowered sample size for prompt primary endpoint readout.