A Trial to Assess the Safety and Effectiveness of Lutetium-177 Octreotate Therapy in Neuroendocrine Tumours
Neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) are rare, slow growing, and diagnosis is often delayed with advanced metastases at presentation. In select patient populations, radioisotope therapy with Lutetium-177 (Lu-DOTA-TATE) has been shown to be a safe and effective palliative therapy, and has been widely used by research groups in Europe. A brand of Lu-DOTA-TATE (Lutathera(R)) is approved for the treatment of gastroenteropancreatic NETs in Europe, the U.S., and more recently in Canada. While Lutathera(R) is approved in Canada, it is not publicly funded in Alberta. Lu-DOTA-TATE has been used at the Cross Cancer Institute to treat more than 300 patients with NETs since August, 2010. Our Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment was initially given under Health Canada's Special Access Programme (SAP), with each individual treatment requiring separate approval. In 2014, Health Canada requested we conduct a clinical trial with Lu-DOTA-TATE instead.

The purpose of this study is to: 1) assess the efficacy of Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment in patients with somatostatin receptor positive tumours; 2) assess the safety of Lu-DOTA-TATE; 3) assess the effect of Lu-DOTA-TATE on Quality of Life and survival.
Carcinoma, Neuroendocrine
DRUG: [177]Lu-DOTA-TATE
Change in Tumour response of the target lesion(s) through end of treatment, Tumor response of the target lesions(s) will be assessed by anatomic criteria in reference to RECIST 1.1 used in conjuction with lesion avidity on Nuclear Medicine scans, such as Lu-177 post-therapy scans, Octreoscan, \[68\]Ga-DOTATATE or \[68\]Ga-HA-DOTATATE PET, \[18\]F-FDG PET, \[18\]F-FDOPA PET, and/or others, as clinically indicated., At screening, 12-20 weeks after each treatment cycle, and 6 months and 1 year after the last treatment|Median progression-free survival, Time from date of enrolment to the first documented target lesion progression or death due to any cause, which ever occurs first., Up to 1 year after last treatment|Lu-177 scan disease evaluation, A post-therapy Lu-177 scan will be conducted up to 3 days after each Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment to determine the intensity of tumour uptake of Lu-DOTA-TATE and the extent of tumour burden. Changes in Lu-177 scan data will also be used to stratify tumour response., Up to 3 days after each Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment|Change in tumour marker levels, As clinically indicated, serum Chromogranin-A, urinary 5-HIAA, metanephrines, and/or other tumour markers will be collected at baseline, at each re-evaluation, at end of treatment, and at 6 months and 1 year after the last treatment. Tumour marker parameters will be recorded and all changes will be summarized., At baseline, 12-20 weeks after each treatment cycle, and 6 months and 1 year after last treatment
Number of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, All participants will be evaluated for AE occurence from treatment 1 up to 5 years after the last treatment., Up to 5 years after last treatment|Change in haematology, Blood samples will be analyzed for hemoglobin, platelet count, white blood cell count, lymphocyte count, and neutrophil count to monitor and record clinically significant out of range values that are indicative of toxicity. Samples will be collected at screening, within 2 weeks prior to each treatment, 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation (12-20 weeks after treatments 4, 6, 8, and 10) and at 6 months and 1 year after the last treatment. Changes will be analyzed using descriptive statistics, and any identified adverse events will be tabulated and categorized according to CTCAE v.4., At screening, within 2 weeks prior to at 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation, and at 6 months and 1 year after last treatment.|Change in renal function, Blood samples will be analyzed for creatinine in order to calculate the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and monitor and record clinically significant out of range values that are indicative of toxicity. Samples will be collected at screening, within 2 weeks prior to each treatment, 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation (12-20 weeks after treatments 4, 6, 8, and 10) and at 6 months and 1 year after the last treatment. Changes will be analyzed using descriptive statistics, and any identified adverse events will be tabulated and categorized according to CTCAE v.4., At screening, within 2 weeks prior to at 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation, and at 6 months and 1 year after last treatment|Change in liver function, Blood samples will be analyzed for total bilirubin, aspartate transaminase, and alanine transaminase to monitor and record clinically significant out of range values that are indicative of toxicity. Samples will be collected at screening, within 2 weeks prior to each treatment, 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation (12-20 weeks after treatments 4, 6, 8, and 10) and at 6 months and 1 year after the last treatment. Changes will be analyzed using descriptive statistics, and any identified adverse events will be tabulated and categorized according to CTCAE v.4., At screening, within 2 weeks prior to at 6 weeks after each treatment, at each re-evaluation, and at 6 months and 1 year after last treatment|Median, 1, 2, 3, and 5-year overall survival, Time from date of enrolment to date of death due to any cause or date of censoring at the last time the participant was known to be alive., Up to 5 years after last treatment|Change in Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ), The European Organisation for Research Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 v.3 in conjunction with the supplementary module QLQ-GI.NET21 Quality of Life questionnaires will be administered prior to each treatment on the visit date. The core questionnaire and supplementary module will be scored according to the scoring manual, and changes analyzed to assess the effect of Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment on Quality of Life., Prior to each treatment|Change in Quality of Life (ESAS-r), The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System Revised (ESAS-r) will be administered prior to each treatment on visit date. The questionnaire will be scored according to the scoring manual, and changes analyzed to assess the effect of Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment on Quality of Life., Prior to each treatment|Change in tumour biology (optional), Subjects who have had surgery prior to or after Lu-DOTA-TATE therapy may have existing tumour tissue sample tested to characterize NET tumour biology and the effects of Lu-DOTA-TATE therapy on tumour cell function., Up to 1 year after last treatment
The proposed clinical trial will be a Phase II, open label, single site study in subjects with somatostatin receptor positive tumours. Radioactive Lu-DOTA-TATE doses are fixed within a range of 1.85 - 5.55 GBq ± 10%, with individual doses based on specified risk factors. There will be two groups of subjects enrolled in this study. Group A subjects (primary therapy) will have progressive somatostatin receptor positive tumours and have never received Lu-DOTA-TATE. Group B subjects (maintenance therapy) will be those subjects who have previously received Lu-DOTA-TATE under the Special Access Programme (SAP) and will maintain their treatment schedule when they are entered into the study.

All subjects in Group A will be treated in an induction stage using 10-14 week dosing for up to 4 treatments. If an individual patient shows stable or improving disease status with no significant toxicities after the 4 induction treatments, they will be assessed 12-20 weeks after the last therapeutic treatment for entry into the maintenance stage. Patients will be re-assessed for stable or improving disease status with no significant toxicities 12-20 weeks after every other treatment of the maintenance stage for consideration of further maintenance treatments (re-evaluations), up to a maximum of 8 treatments per patient if there have been no significant toxicities or progression. At each treatment, an amino acid solution is infused prior to and during the Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion to protect the kidneys. Subjects will be followed for 6 months and 1 year (± 4 weeks) following their last treatment dose to determine progression-free survival, and for 2, 3, and 5 years (± 4 weeks) following their last treatment dose to determine overall survival. All subjects meeting evaluation criteria will be analysed for safety, and all Group A subjects who have received at least two treatments of Lu-DOTA-TATE will be evaluated for efficacy. Those Group B subjects with adequate baseline data for comparison collected retrospectively from a chart review study (REV-LUT-001) may also be evaluated for safety and efficacy. Additional optional characterization of tumour samples from subjects who have had surgery before or during the study may be performed to characterize NET tumour biology changes following Lu-DOTA-TATE treatment.