Whether Opioids Are Factor That Induced POD?
The purpose of this study was to investigate whether perioperative use of low doses of opioids could reduce postoperative delirium .
Postoperative Delirium
DRUG: Sufentanil Citrate|DRUG: Ropivacaine 0.75% Injectable Solution|PROCEDURE: Epidural catheter
Incidence of postoperative delirium, confusion assessment method for the ICU(CAM-ICU), 3 days after surgery|Incidence of postoperative delirium, Richmond agitation and sedation scale(RASS), the RASS score was divided into 10 sedation scales, ranging from +4 to -5, representing the patient's degree from "aggressive" to "unconscious," with each score corresponding to a state of consciousness. When the RASS score was ≥-3, the CAM-ICU assessment was performed., 3 days after surgery
Visual analogue scale(VAS), VAS is a scale of 11 numbers ranging from 0 to 10, with 0 representing no pain and 10 representing the most pain. Patients choose one of the 11 numbers to represent the pain level according to their own pain.

0: no pain;

Less than 3 points: mild pain, tolerable;

4-6 points: the patient's pain and affect sleep, still tolerable;

7-10: Patients have increasing pain, pain is unbearable, affect appetite, affect sleep., 3 days after surgery|Anaesthesia related adverse event, Nausea and vomiting, 3 days after surgery|blood pressure, Hypertension or hypotension was defined as an increase or decrease in mean arterial pressure of more than 30% at baseline, 3 days after surgery
Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common postoperative complication of the elderly caused by a variety of factors. POD is an acute neuropsychiatric disorder characterized by disturbance of attention consciousness and cognitive function fluctuation, and more than 40% of elderly patients have symptoms of hypoactivity POD.The incidence of POD is as high as 17% to 61% in patients with neurocognitive impairment and patients undergoing complex or emergency surgery, which usually occurs between 1 and 3 days after surgery. POD will lead to prolonged hospital stay, functional impairment and even death. How to prevent and treat POD is an urgent clinical problem to be solved at present.

Opiates are commonly used perioperative sedatives and analgesics, which may be associated with the occurrence of postoperative POD in elderly patients and increase the risk of POD. It is not clear whether perioperative use of low doses of opioids could reduces the incidence of POD in elderly patients. In this study, reducing-opioids anesthesia was defined as the use of 1/3 of the conventional opioid dose to observe whether reducing-opioids anesthesia affected the incidence of POD in elderly patients undergoing gastric cancer surgery