Using Information Communication Technology to Deliver Brief Motivational Interviewing
This study aims to examine the efficacy of using Information Communication Technology (ICT) to deliver brief Motivational Interviewing (BMI) to promote regular physical activity among Hong Kong Chinese childhood cancer survivors.
Childhood Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Brief motivational interviewing|BEHAVIORAL: Placebo control
Change in levels of physical activity from baseline to 12-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The primary outcome measure is the physical activity levels of subjects at 12-month follow-up when compare to baseline. The Chinese University of Hong Kong: Physical Activity Rating for Children and Youth (CUHK-PARCY) will be used to assess participants' physical activity levels. It is a one-item scale, scores ranging from 0-2, 3-6 and 7-10 indicate low, moderate and high levels of physical activity respectively., 12-month follow-up
Levels of physical activity at baseline, The Chinese University of Hong Kong: Physical Activity Rating for Children and Youth (CUHK-PARCY) will be used to assess participants' physical activity levels. It is a one-item scale, scores ranging from 0-2, 3-6 and 7-10 indicate low, moderate and high levels of physical activity respectively., baseline|Change in levels of physical activity from baseline at 1-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese University of Hong Kong: Physical Activity Rating for Children and Youth (CUHK-PARCY) will be used to assess participants' physical activity levels. It is a one-item scale, scores ranging from 0-2, 3-6 and 7-10 indicate low, moderate and high levels of physical activity respectively., 1-month follow-up|Change in levels of physical activity from baseline at 3-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese University of Hong Kong: Physical Activity Rating for Children and Youth (CUHK-PARCY) will be used to assess participants' physical activity levels. It is a one-item scale, scores ranging from 0-2, 3-6 and 7-10 indicate low, moderate and high levels of physical activity respectively., 3-month follow-up|Change in levels of physical activity from baseline at 6-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent., 6-month follow-up|Levels of cancer-related fatigue at baseline, The Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. It contains 13 items, rated on a five-point Likert Scale, with scores ranging from 13 to 65. Higher scores represent higher levels of cancer-related fatigue. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent. It contains 12 items, evaluated on a five-point Likert Scale. Scores range from 12 to 60, and higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., Baseline|Change in levels of cancer-related fatigue from baseline at 1-month follow-up between intervention and control group, he Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. It contains 13 items, rated on a five-point Likert Scale, with scores ranging from 13 to 65. Higher scores represent higher levels of cancer-related fatigue. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent. It contains 12 items, evaluated on a five-point Likert Scale. Scores range from 12 to 60, and higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., 1-month follow-up|Change in levels of cancer-related fatigue from baseline at 3-month follow-up between intervention and control group, he Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. It contains 13 items, rated on a five-point Likert Scale, with scores ranging from 13 to 65. Higher scores represent higher levels of cancer-related fatigue. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent. It contains 12 items, evaluated on a five-point Likert Scale. Scores range from 12 to 60, and higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., 3-month follow-up|Change in levels of cancer-related fatigue from baseline at 6-month follow-up between intervention and control group, he Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. It contains 13 items, rated on a five-point Likert Scale, with scores ranging from 13 to 65. Higher scores represent higher levels of cancer-related fatigue. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent. It contains 12 items, evaluated on a five-point Likert Scale. Scores range from 12 to 60, and higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., 6-month follow-up|Change in levels of cancer-related fatigue from baseline at 12-month follow-up between intervention and control group, he Fatigue Scale - Child will be used to assess the fatigue of subjects who are 7 to 12 years old. It contains 13 items, rated on a five-point Likert Scale, with scores ranging from 13 to 65. Higher scores represent higher levels of cancer-related fatigue. For those aged 13 to 18, their fatigue levels will be measured by the Fatigue Scale - Adolescent. It contains 12 items, evaluated on a five-point Likert Scale. Scores range from 12 to 60, and higher scores indicate higher levels of fatigue., 12-month follow-up|Muscle strength at baseline, Hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to assess the children's right- and left-hand grip strengths., Baseline|Change in muscular strength from baseline at 1-month follow-up between intervention and control group, Hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to assess the children's right- and left-hand grip strengths., 1-month follow-up|Change in muscular strength from baseline at 3-month follow-up between intervention and control group, Hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to assess the children's right- and left-hand grip strengths., 3-month follow-up|Change in muscular strength from baseline at 6-month follow-up between intervention and control group, Hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to assess the children's right- and left-hand grip strengths., 6-month follow-up|Change in muscular strength from baseline at 12-month follow-up between intervention and control group, Hand-held dynamometer (HHD) will be used to assess the children's right- and left-hand grip strengths., 12-month follow-up|Lung functionality at baseline, A mini-Wright Standard Handheld peak flow meter will be used to determine subjects' peak expiratory flow., Baseline|Change in lung functionality from baseline at 1-month follow-up between intervention and control group, A mini-Wright Standard Handheld peak flow meter will be used to determine subjects' peak expiratory flow., 1-month follow-up|Change in lung functionality from baseline at 3-month follow-up between intervention and control group, A mini-Wright Standard Handheld peak flow meter will be used to determine subjects' peak expiratory flow., 3-month follow-up|Change in lung functionality from baseline at 6-month follow-up between intervention and control group, A mini-Wright Standard Handheld peak flow meter will be used to determine subjects' peak expiratory flow., 6-month follow-up|Change in lung functionality from baseline at 12-month follow-up between intervention and control group, A mini-Wright Standard Handheld peak flow meter will be used to determine subjects' peak expiratory flow., 12-month follow-up|Quality of life at baseline, The Chinese version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory will be used to measure subjects' quality of life. This scale has 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorized into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The range of possible scores is 0-100, with higher scores representing better quality of Life., Baseline|Change in quality of life from baseline at 1-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory will be used to measure subjects' quality of life. This scale has 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorized into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The range of possible scores is 0-100, with higher scores representing better quality of Life., 1-month follow-up|Change in quality of life from baseline at 3-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory will be used to measure subjects' quality of life. This scale has 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorized into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The range of possible scores is 0-100, with higher scores representing better quality of Life., 3-month follow-up|Change in quality of life from baseline at 6-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory will be used to measure subjects' quality of life. This scale has 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorized into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The range of possible scores is 0-100, with higher scores representing better quality of Life., 6-month follow-up|Change in quality of life from baseline at 12-month follow-up between intervention and control group, The Chinese version of the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory will be used to measure subjects' quality of life. This scale has 23 items rated on a 5-point Likert scale. These items are categorized into four domains: physical functioning (eight items), emotional functioning (five items), social functioning (five items) and school functioning (five items). The range of possible scores is 0-100, with higher scores representing better quality of Life., 12-month follow-up
A substantial body of evidence has indicated that improved childhood cancer survival has inevitably been accompanied by increased chronic physical problems and adverse psychological late-effects of cancer and its treatment. The frequently reported physiological and psychological sequelae included cancer-related fatigue, reduced muscle strength, decreases in functional capacity, activity intolerance, depression and distorted self-esteem, which in turn severely comprises their quality of life.

There is a growing body of evidence highlighting the beneficial effects of physical activity on the physiological and psychological health of childhood cancer survivors. Particularly, substantial evidence reveals that engaging in regular moderate-intensity physical activity can help ameliorate some of the treatment-related adverse effects experienced by childhood cancer survivors, such as reduce cancer-related fatigue, enhance muscle strength, improve cardiovascular fitness and eventually lead to a better quality of life.

Evidence demonstrates that education alone is insufficient or unlikely to change behavior. Motivational interviewing (MI) is a directive, client-centered counseling strategy which differs from prevailing patient education to support clients to explore and resolve their ambivalence about changing their behaviors. Meanwhile, there is an increase in the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) for health care delivery and health promotion. Using instant messaging (i.e. WhatsApp or WeChat) allows quick, direct and continuing professional advice and support for the parents to promote their child's level of physical activity. Therefore, the aim of this study is to examine the efficacy of using ICT to deliver BMI to promote regular physical activity among Hong Kong Chinese childhood cancer survivors.