Fertility Preservation and Pregnancy and Offspring Health Outcomes in Female Cancer
To explore whether there is a significant difference in the cumulative live birth rate and maternal and child health outcomes between cancer patients who undergo or do not undergo fertility preservation before receiving anti-tumor treatment and non-cancer patients who undergo assisted reproductive technology treatment/natural pregnancy.

This study will be conducted in the Clinical Center of Reproductive Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University. 2800 women diagnosed with malignant cancers who has desire to reproduce will be enrolled in this study.

Statistical analysis of the data will be performed.
Fertility Issues|Cancer
OTHER: fertility preservation
5-year cumulative live birth rate, 5-year cumulative live birth rate for female patients who reproduce, 5 years
Ovarian function(AMH levels), AMH levels of all patients, 5 years|Ovarian function(AFC counts), AFC counts of of all patients, 5 years|Newborn malformation rate, Newborn malformation rate for female patients who reproduced, 5 years|Tumor recurrence rate, Tumor recurrence rate of all participants, 5 years|Tumor survival rate, Tumor survival rate of all participants, 5 years
The number of new cancer cases among Chinese women in 2020 will be 2.09 million, showing a trend in younger age at the time of diagnosis. Incomplete statistics show that 25%\~30% of young breast cancer patients in China Need for fertility preservation. In this study, we want to answer the question: Does fertility preservation affect the prognosis in female cancer patients.

This study will be conducted in the Clinical Center of Reproductive Medicine, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University. 2800 women diagnosed with malignant cancers who has desire to reproduce will be enrolled in this study.

If a female tumor patients (focusing on: breast cancer, hematological diseases/lymphoma, gynecological tumors (ovarian borderline tumors, etc.), nasopharyngeal cancer, colorectal cancer, etc.) have a desire to reproduce in the future, she would considered for enrollment. After being admitted into this study, according to the patients'own will, she will receive long term observation or fertility preservation followed by long term observation. Cumulative live birth rate, perinatal and perinatal complications, and offspring health of women who have or have not received fertility preservation before anti-tumor treatment and who have no tumor and who normally receive assisted reproductive technology treatment/natural pregnancy are all recorded, to assess the impact of the current new anti-tumor treatment on female fertility and offspring health.