Tafasitamab Plus Lenalidomide in Relapsed CNS Lymphoma
This is a single arm open-label multicenter phase I/II investigation of combination lenalidomide/Tafasitamab in patients with relapsed central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma. This is the first study to examine a naked anti-CD19 monoclonal antibody in relapsed CNS lymphoma patients as well as the combination of anti-CD19 antibody plus an Immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs) in CNS lymphomas. This study will also test the novel hypothesis that Tafasitamab enhances blood-brain barrier permeability, a potential property that could have broad clinical implications.
CNS Lymphoma|Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Tafasitamab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Proportion of participants with dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) (Phase 1), Toxicities will be classified using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The DLT will be based on the tolerability observed during the first cycle. In order for a patient to be assessed for DLT, they must receive at least 75% of lenalidomide dose (16 of the planned 21 days of lenalidomide administration). The maximum tolerated dose of lenalidomide/Tafasitamab will be the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience dose limiting toxicity. If multiple toxicities are seen, the presence of dose limiting toxicity should be based on the most severe toxicity experienced., Up to 1 cycle (1 cycle is equal to 28 days)|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) (Phase 1), The MTD is the highest dose at which no more than one instance of a DLT is observed among 6 participants treated., Up to 1 cycle (1 cycle is equal to 28 days)|Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) (Phase1), The RP2D is the dose at which the Phase 2 portion of the study will begin enrolling. RP2D will be determined based on all data including available pharmacokinetics (PK), pharmacodynamic (PD), target engagement, efficacy, safety and tolerability data collected during Phase 1, Up to 1 cycle (1 cycle is equal to 28 days)|Percentage of participants with demonstrated Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) (Phase 2), Response to the combination lenalidomide/Tafasitamab treatment is defined as achieving clinical benefit better at three months restaging. That is overall tumor shrinkage within three months of treatment initiation or stable disease at three months restaging. Response criteria will be graded using the Cytologic Response Criteria, Neurologic Response Criteria, and Radiographic Response Criteria developed by the International Workshop to Standardize Baseline Evaluation and Response Criteria in Primary CNS Lymphoma The response rate is defined as the proportion of study participants meeting the definition of response in Efficacy Analysis Set (EAS). Response rate will be summarized by percentage, along with the corresponding exact 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., Up to 3 months
Proportion of participants with Treatment-Related Adverse Events, Serious adverse events, adverse events which are \>=Grade 3, and adverse events resulting in discontinuation of treatment, withdrawal from the study, and deaths on-study will be used to determine the proportion of participants with treatment-related adverse events. Analyses will be performed based on the safety population., Up to 90 days|Median Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase 2), PFS is defined as the duration from first dose to disease relapse, progression, or death, whichever occurs first. The censoring time for PFS is set to be last study assessment for progression, and will be descriptively analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods, Up to 1 year|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the duration from first dose to death. The censoring time for OS is set to be the last study contact. OS will be descriptively analyzed using Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of lenalidomide in combination with Tafasitamab in patients with relapsed central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma (Phase 1).

II. To evaluate the clinical benefit rate of Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in relapsed CNS lymphoma (Phase 2).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicities of Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in relapsed CNS lymphoma.

II. To describe the efficacy of Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide in relapsed CNS lymphoma.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain pilot information about cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) penetration of Tafasitamab as well as CSF partition coefficient of lenalidomide in combination with Tafasitamab to evaluate possibility that Tafasitamab enhances CSF penetration of lenalidomide to an extent greater than CSF/plasma partition coefficient of lenalidomide which was 20% at 15 and 20 milligram (mg) dose levels.

II. To evaluate the relationship between tumor mutational profile and response to Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide, via whole exome sequencing of diagnostic specimens.

II. To evaluate change in immune cell phenotypes in CSF and blood in patients via flow-cytometry of natural killer (NK) cell, T-cells and CSF monocytes/macrophages in patients treated with combination Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide.

IV. To evaluate the relationship between CSF cytokine microenvironment such as Interleukin-10 (IL-10), Chemokine ligand 13 (CXCL13), etc. as well as CSF metabolites, including energy metabolites and neurotransmitters, and response to combination Tafasitamab plus lenalidomide Tafasitamab, PFS, OS, and neurocognitive endpoints.

V. To test the hypothesis that Tafasitamab in combination with lenalidomide impacts blood-brain barrier permeability associated with CNS lymphoma lesions, as assessed by albumin levels and MRI vascular permeability imaging metrics.

VI. To explore the correlation between immune cell subsets and response and/or resistance to lenalidomide/Tafasitamab.

VII. To evaluate the relationship between Minimal Residual Disease status (MRD) and response and PFS using either circulating tumor DNA or Clonoseq technologies.

STUDY DESIGN:

This is a single arm open-label multicenter phase I/II investigation of combination lenalidomide/Tafasitamab in patients with relapsed CNS lymphoma.During the phase 1 portion of the study, the investigators will examine three dose levels of Lenalidomide (10mg, 15mg and 20mg) in combination with Tafasitamab at a dose of 12 mg/kg. After MTD/RP2D is determined during phase 1, the phase 2 portion of the study will begin enrollment to the established dose.

Participants will be followed for AEs 90 days after last dose/decision to discontinue treatment, or new treatments are administered and followed for overall survival/disease status for up to 1 year after last dose. Participants may continue study treatment until disease progression.