Efficacy and Safety Study of M200(Volociximab in Combination With Liposomal Doxorubicin)
This is an open-label study of liposomal doxorubicin with or without volociximab for the treatment of subjects with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer relapsed after prior therapy with Plat/Taxane-based chemo. Volociximab is an anti-angiogenic integrin inhibitor being developed for the treatment of solid tumors. Preclinical data with a surrogate volociximab antibody administered as monotherapy indicate encouraging efficacy in terms of tumor reduction and anti-angiogenic effects in mouse ovarian cancer xenograft models. In clinical studies, volociximab has been evaluated in several solid tumor types, including pancreatic, renal, and melanoma, with many subjects who entered the studies with progressive disease remaining progression-free for several months. In all studies in solid tumors, volociximab has shown a favorable safety profile when administered at 10 mg/kg q2wks and more recently at 15 mg/kg qwk. A study of volociximab in combination with liposomal doxorubicin in subjects with ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer who have relapsed after prior platin/taxane therapies is warranted to further evaluate the drug's efficacy and safety. The investigators have thus far activated stage 2 of this study at 11/25 sites. Worldwide, the study aims to enroll 150 subjects.
Ovarian Cancer, Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: M200 (Volociximab)|DRUG: Liposomal Doxorubicin|DRUG: M200 (Volociximab)|DRUG: M200 (Volociximab)
To evaluate the efficacy of volociximab in combination with liposomal doxorubicin in advanced epithelial ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of volociximab in combination with liposomal doxorubicin., 50-57 days
This is an open-label study of liposomal doxorubicin with or without volociximab for the treatment of subjects with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer relapsed after prior therapy with Plat/Taxane-based chemo. Volociximab is an anti-angiogenic integrin inhibitor being developed for the treatment of solid tumors. Preclinical data with a surrogate volociximab antibody administered as monotherapy indicate encouraging efficacy in terms of tumor reduction and anti-angiogenic effects in mouse ovarian cancer xenograft models. In clinical studies, volociximab has been evaluated in several solid tumor types, including pancreatic, renal, and melanoma, with many subjects who entered the studies with progressive disease remaining progression-free for several months.