ZR-MTX for PIOL Phase II Trial
This is a prospective single-arm phase II study, with the purpose of evaluating the efficiency of ZR-MTX regimen (Rituximab, Zanubrutinib and methotrexate) combined with intravitreal methotrexate, then followed by minimal residual disease directed Zanubrutinib maintenance in newly-diagnosed primary intraocular lymphoma. The primary endpoint of this study is progression-free survival (PFS).
Primary Intraocular Lymphoma
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Rituximab (R)|DRUG: Zanubrutinib|DRUG: Methotrexate (MTX)
2 years progression-free survival, 2 years progression-free survival was calculated from the date of therapy until death from lymphoma or 2-year follow up without relapsing, from the date of treatment to the subject finished his 2 years follow-up phase or the disease relapsed or the death due to lymphoma
overall response rate (ORR), ORR was calculated by the proportion of patients who achieved complete remission and partial remission., 4 weeks after the end of 6 cycles of induction (each cycle is 21 days).
All the patients will be treated with ZR regimen (Rituximab 375mg/m2 IV d1, Zanubrutinib 160mg Bid, 21 days per cycle) as induction regimen. The response will be evaluated after 2 cycles of ZR regimen. Patients who achieved complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) or stable disease (SD) will receive 2 more cycles of ZR regimen. The patients with progressed disease (PD) will withdraw from the trial and receive salvage regimens. Then 2 more cycle of ZR regimen will be administrated. Patients will be evaluated again, those achieved CR or PR or SD will continue to receive 2 cycles of ZR-MTX regimen (Rituximab 375mg/m2 IV d1, Methotrexate 3.5g/m2 IV d1, Zanubrutinib 160mg Bid, 21 days per cycle), while those PD will drop out. In the meantime, intravitreal methotrexate will be given at a dose of 400ug for 16 doses. After total 6 induction cycles, the investigators evaluate the efficiency again, the patients with CR and MRD negativity (by CSF IL-10 and cfDNA) will stop treatment. Those with MRD positive CR or PR or SD will go to Zanubrutinib maintenance for 2 years or until progression of the disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion. And the patients with PD will receive a salvage regimen. During following-up, surveillance ophthalmologic examination, and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans can be performed every 3 months up to the first 2 years, followed by the doctor's visit every 6 months for up to 5 years or disease relapses.