Checkpoint Inhibitor Induced Colitis and Arthritis -Immunomodulation With IL-6 Blockade and Exploration of Disease Mechanisms
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) might induce inflammatory potentially serious and even lethal immune related Adverse Events (irAEs). Diarrhea and/or colitis are ones of the most frequently reported irAEs in patients taking ICI. Although the immune mechanisms underlying irAEs have not been fully elucidated, studies suggest that Th17 and Tregs cells, increases in expression of immunologically-related genes, eosinophilia, microbiome among others and cytokines may be involved in the pathophysiology of immune-related complications in some diseases that resemble irAEs, such as colitis and rheumatic manifestations. Importantly, interleukin-6 (IL-6) promotes the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Th17 cells (17), and IL-6 inhibition may rebalance the altered Th17-Treg axis without inhibiting the Th1-CD8+ T-cell subsets that govern antitumor immunity. These findings raise the possibility of using IL-6 blockade as a strategy for treating colitis and arthritis induced by immune checkpoint blockade.
Solid Tumor|Colitis|Arthritis
DRUG: Tocilizumab (RoACTEMRA®)
Rate of at least one grade improvement using the NCI CTCAE v5.0, Clinical benefit of IL-6 inhibition by tocilizumab on diarrhea and/or colitis and/or arthritis induced by checkpoint inhibitors in patients with solid tumors within 8 weeks of treatment start, 2 months
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Safety and tolerability of the treatment regimens assessed by a summary of adverse events and clinical laboratory assessments, 6 months|Rate of at least one grade improvement without prednisolone using the NCI CTCAE v5.0, Clinical benefit of IL-6 inhibition by tocilizumab on diarrhea and/or colitis and/or arthritis induced by checkpoint inhibitors in patients with solid tumors without corticosteroids within 8 weeks of treatment start, 2 months|Rate of sustained glucocorticoid-free remission, Prolonged sustained glucocorticoid-free remission, 6 months
Biomarkers, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, CD4+ and CD 8+ T cells, Tregs, Th17 T cells, ANA RF, anti-CCP, CRP, WBC, ANC, CD163 and a profile of 90 proteins associated with cancer and inflammation (Olink array), fecal composition of the microflora, imaging changes and inflammation changes in colon if biopsies are available., 6 months
Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) targeting cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed cell death protein-1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1) pathway might induce inflammatory potentially serious and even lethal immune related Adverse Events (irAEs). Diarrhea and/or colitis are ones of the most frequently reported irAEs in patients taking ICI, occurring after an average of three infusions. The incidence is higher among patients taking combination anti-CTLA-4/ anti-PD-1 therapy (44%) than those receiving anti-CTLA-4 (23-33%) or anti-PD-1 (≤19%) monotherapy. The most common autoimmune and musculoskeletal irAEs reported in clinical trials are represented by arthralgia and arthritis. The incidence of arthralgia and/or inflammatory arthritis secondary to nivolumab therapy ranges from 5% to 16% and 5%, respectively. Although the immune mechanisms underlying irAEs have not been fully elucidated, studies suggest that Th17 and Tregs cells, increases in expression of immunologically-related genes, eosinophilia, microbiome among others and cytokines may be involved in the pathophysiology of immune-related complications in some diseases that resemble irAEs, such as colitis and rheumatic manifestations. Previous studies report Th-17, that drives interleukin-17 (IL-17) production, as a key mediator of many immune diseases, including inflammatory bowel disease and ICI-induced colitis, and IL-17 elevations have been observed in experimental colitis. Importantly, interleukin-6 (IL-6) promotes the differentiation of naïve CD4+ T cells into Th17 cells (17), and IL-6 inhibition may rebalance the altered Th17-Treg axis without inhibiting the Th1-CD8+ T-cell subsets that govern antitumor immunity. An imbalance of Th17/Treg may cause the onset and progression of immune-mediated side effects. Thus, a 3-fold increase of IL-17 and IL-6 by week 12, concomitant with the development of fulminant colitis has been reported in a patient who developed presumed ipilimumab-induced colitis. These findings raise the possibility of using IL-6 blockade as a strategy for treating colitis and arthritis induced by immune checkpoint blockade.