Durvalumab and Stereotactic Radiotherapy for Advanced NSCLC
This is a randomized Phase II study which is designed to determine the impact of stereotactic radiotherapy and durvalumab on quality-of-life and oncologic outcomes in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Durvalumab (Imfinzi) and stereotactic radiotherapy, with each fraction of radiotherapy is given every other day on a standard stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SAbR) schedule or every four weeks on the personalized ultra-fractionated stereotactic adaptive radiotherapy (PULSAR) schedule. Subjects will be followed for a period of 2 years after completion of treatment or until death, whichever occurs first. Specifically, subjects will be followed at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 months following treatment. After the 2 year follow up, the patient can continue routine follow up with their physicians, per standard of care. Subjects removed from therapy for unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic radiation therapy|DRUG: Durvalumab
Quality of Life Scores, To assess the impact of durvalumab and stereotactic radiotherapy, in the form of stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SAbR) or personalized ultra-fractionated stereotactic adaptive radiotherapy (PULSAR), on improving QoL (quality of life) in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer using the European organization for Research and treatment of cancer questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ30). The score range is 0-100. Higher the score, the better the results., 2 years post-treatment
Local control (LC), To determine the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on local control. Local control is defined as the percentage of tumors without tumor failure within the irradiated field, as defined as growth on diagnostic imaging studies or evidence of viable cancer cells. Probability will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., 1 year post-treatment|Out-of-field control, To assess the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on out-of-field control (termed abscopal response). Out-of-field control is defined as the percentage of tumors without tumor failure outside of the irradiated field, as defined as growth on diagnostic imaging studies or evidence of viable cancer cells. Probability will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., 1 year post-treatment|Progression free survival (PFS), To determine the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on progression-free survival. Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from random assignment to disease progression or death from any cause. Probability will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., 2 years post-treatment|Overall Survival, To determine the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on overall survival. Overall survival (OS) is defined as the defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. Probability will be assessed using the Kaplan-Meier method., 2 years post-treatment|overall response rate (ORR), To determine the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on overall response rate at 12 weeks. Overall response rate is defined as complete response and partial response at 12 weeks (about 3 months) from randomization., 12 weeks from randomization|Instances of Toxicity, To determine the effect of PULSAR or SAbR plus durvalumab on toxicity. Toxicity will be assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). Only adverse events assessed to be definitely, probably, or possibly related to protocol treatment will be considered., 2 years post-treatment
This is a randomized Phase II study which is designed to determine the impact of stereotactic radiotherapy and durvalumab on quality-of-life and oncologic outcomes in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Durvalumab (Imfinzi) and stereotactic radiotherapy, with each fraction of radiotherapy is given every other day on a standard stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SAbR) schedule or every four weeks on the personalized ultra-fractionated stereotactic adaptive radiotherapy (PULSAR) schedule. Subjects will be followed for a period of 2 years after completion of treatment or until death, whichever occurs first. Specifically, subjects will be followed at 1, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, and 24 months following treatment. After the 2 year follow up, the patient can continue routine follow up with their physicians, per standard of care. Subjects removed from therapy for unacceptable adverse events will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event.