Cytosponge Adequacy Study Evaluation II
This study will assess the Minimally Invasive Esophageal Cytology Collection System in Patients with Barrett's Esophagus or GERD Symptoms.
Barrett's Esophagus|GERD
DEVICE: Cytosponge™ Cell Collection Device
Procedure Preference and Acceptability Questionnaire and Visual Analog Scale, The first primary objective of the study was to assess the acceptability of a novel, minimally invasive esophageal mucosal sampling technique, the Cytosponge™, in subjects undergoing surveillance of BE who have had at least a C1 or M3 segment confirmed, and 2) in subjects with GERD undergoing screening for BE. This includes measures of acceptability as demonstrated on the Impact of Event Scale, a Visual Analog Scale for Pain, and the subject's willingness to undergo repeat Cytosponge™ administration if it were offered to him/her. The Visual Analog Scale is measured from 0-100 scale for pain, 0 representing no pain and 100 representing the highest level of pain., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days|Number of Participants With Adequate Cytosponge™ Sample, To assess the adequacy of cytology samples obtained by Cytosponge in this population after 1 sampling, and after 2 samplings if first sample inadequate., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days
Operating Characteristics, The operating characteristics of this technique against a gold standard of upper endoscopy with biopsies for endoscopic surveillance in subjects with BE who demonstrate an adequate sample on Cytosponge assessment., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days|Cytosponge™ Operating Characteristics vs Worst Histology Ever, The second secondary objective was to assess the operating characteristics of Cytosponge™ against the worst ever histology documented in the subject., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days|Cytosponge™ Operating Characteristics as a Function of Baseline Histology, The third secondary objective was to assess the operating characteristics of Cytosponge™ as a function of baseline histology. At the outset of this study, no data was available regarding the accuracy of TFF3 in samples collected by Cytosponge™ in subjects with BE and more advanced disease (low-grade dysplasia and high-grade dysplasia). These subjects are at greatest risk for progression to cancer. We planned to collect pilot data on operating characteristics of the assay by degree of baseline dysplasia. We hypothesized that TFF3 would perform with similar operating characteristics in this group compared to non-dysplastic BE., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days|Summary of Abrasion, Bleeding, and Perforation Observed Via Endoscopy, The fourth secondary objective was to assess the degree of mucosal abrasion following Cytosponge™ administration, using a standardized scale. The incidence is presented in the data below for abrasion, bleeding and perforation observed during Endoscopy., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days|Ongoing Safety Measures, To collect and analyze ongoing safety measures of Cytosponge use in the target population., Immediately post procedure up to 7 days +/- 3 days
This is a cross-sectional study of subjects with Barrett's esophagus (BE) to assess the utility of the Cytosponge device as a non-endoscopic method for collecting surface cells from the esophagus. This study will enroll 2 groups of subjects: 1) Subjects presenting for routine endoscopic BE surveillance examinations (n=120), and 2) Subjects with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptoms undergoing upper endoscopy for screening for BE (n=55). After informed consent, and on the same day as the endoscopic procedure, the subject will undergo administration of the Cytosponge device and complete a questionnaire. The subject will then undergo routine upper endoscopy, with assessment of BE (where applicable), and biopsy per accepted surveillance or screening recommendations. The Cytosponge will be placed in fixative and shipped to an accredited pathology laboratory for embedding in paraffin and hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E) staining to assess the adequacy of the specimen. Further evaluation of the specimen may be performed using trefoil factor 3 (TFF3). If the Cytosponge tissue specimen is inadequate, the subject will be recalled for a repeat sponge procedure (not endoscopy) 30 days later. Routine care tissue biopsies will undergo standard processing and H\&E staining at the home institution, with assessment by expert gastrointestinal pathologists. Subjects will be contacted via phone 7 days (+/- 2 days) after Cytosponge administration to complete additional questionnaires and assess adverse events.