Versatile Ampification Single-Molecule Detection in Liquid Biopsy
The trial will test a paradigm-changing in vitro diagnostic device for Liquid Biopsy enabling facile simultaneous detection of protein and nucleic acid analytes with sensitivity at single-molecule level, e.g. not achievable with any alternative technology. A novel affinity-mediated transport amplification (AMT) method will be tested allowing for the multiplexed quantification of rare biomarkers circulating in blood. The Versilib AMT photonic biosensor will test two analytes: the known actionable DNA mutation BRAF p.V600E, and a melanoma-restricted protein antigen. The results will be compared to digital PCR and ELISA methods.
Liquid Biopsy|Melanoma (Skin)|Melanoma Stage III|Melanoma Stage IV
PROCEDURE: Blood sampling in addition to the blood normally required for their clinical management|PROCEDURE: Blood plasma and circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA)
Pilot study, descriptive statistics will be adopted (frequency, average, standard deviation, median, interval). Concordance indexes will be calculated, e.g. between dPCR and ELISA assays on the one hand and Versilib data on the other., Concordance will determine whether the Versilib approach is technically feasible, e.g. whether method is sound, tests meet minimal requirements (technical sensitivity, reproducibility, accuracy). False positives and false negatives will be assessed. The results of descriptive statistics will be the basis to elaborate specific hypotheses (e.g. clinical scenarios) that will be the subject of future studies., 48 months
The trial will test a paradigm-changing in vitro diagnostic device for Liquid Biopsy enabling facile simultaneous detection of protein and nucleic acid analytes with sensitivity at single-molecule level, e.g. not achievable with any alternative technology. A novel affinity-mediated transport amplification (AMT) method will be tested allowing for the multiplexed quantification of rare biomarkers circulating in blood. The Versilib AMT photonic biosensor will test two analytes: the known actionable DNA mutation BRAF p.V600E, and a melanoma-restricted protein antigen. The results will be compared to digital PCR and ELISA methods.