Upper Extremity Exercise Capacity Of Breast Cancer
Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers among women worldwide, with an incidence rate of up to 16%. Although survival can be improved with early diagnosis and more effective therapies, physical complications such as lymphedema, upper extremity dysfunction and chronic pain are common during and/or after breast cancer treatments. In addition, lymphedema can cause symptoms such as decreased muscle strength and range of motion of the upper extremity, pain and fatigue, resulting in activity limitations and decreased functional level of the upper extremity.
Breast Cancer Survivor|Healty Controls
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Upper Extremity Exercise Capacity, 6-Minute Pegboard And Ring Test
Upper Extremity Exercise Capacity, 6-Minute Pegboard and Ring Test, One Year
Evaluation of Upper Extremity Functionality, Questionnaire Quick Disability of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (Quick DASH) The score ranges from 0 to 100. A higher score reflects more severe upper extremity dysfunction, and the cutoff scores are 0-15 for normal, 16-40 for having problems but working, and more than 40 for being unable to work, One Year|Lymphedema Evaluation, Arm circumference measurement, One Year|Measurement of arm length, arm and forearm circumference, The circumference and length measurements of the participants' dominant and non-dominant arm will be measured using a tape measure, One Year
Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers among women worldwide, with an incidence rate of up to 16%. While the breast cancer survival rate is 80% in developed countries, this rate varies between 40-60% in low-middle income countries. Although survival can be increased with early diagnosis and more effective therapies, physical complications such as lymphedema, upper extremity dysfunction and chronic pain are frequently observed during and/or after breast cancer treatments. Upper extremity lymphedema that develops after breast cancer treatment usually affects the glenohumeral joint by increasing the tension in the tendons of the rotator cuff muscles and disrupting the scapulohumeral rhythm. In addition, lymphedema may cause symptoms such as decreased muscle strength and range of motion of the upper extremity, pain and fatigue, resulting in activity limitations and decreased functional level of the upper extremity. Kinesiophobia (fear-avoidance reaction to activity), which may develop in patients in relation to the affected extremity, is another factor in decreased capacity of the upper extremity. Patients may restrict the use of their extremities to prevent aggravation of lymphedema. Decreased functional capacity is common after breast cancer treatment. The '6 Minute Pegboard and Ring Test-6PBRT' is a valid and reliable, useful, practical and easy-to-administer test that evaluates unsupported arm endurance in breast cancer patients, patients with COPD, patients with asthma and healthy individuals. For the test, patients are asked to carry as many rings as possible within 6 minutes and the number of rings carried for 6 minutes is recorded as a score. In a study conducted in patients with mild to very severe COPD, it was shown that there was a positive correlation between the 6PBRT score and activity counts assessed by accelerometry. In addition, the 6PBRT score showed a clear relationship with upper extremity ROM and it was concluded that the 6PBRT test can be used as a suitable test for predicting and demonstrating improvement of ROM in pulmonary rehabilitation programs. Therefore, the aim of this study was to test both arm endurance and arm exercise capacity of patients with breast cancer using the 6PBRT test and to compare them with healthy individuals to understand how much they are affected compared to healthy individuals.

As a secondary aim of the study, it is planned to investigate the relationship between lymph edema severity and anthropometric measurements and upper extremity activities and arm exercise capacity in the group with breast cancer.