Timing of Surgery After Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Advanced Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is among the top five primary causes of cancer-related mortality in women. Most ovarian malignant tumours originate from epithelial cells The majority of patients typically have advanced-stage tumours at diagnosis. When complete surgery with no macroscopic visible disease is not feasible due to both the spread of the disease and the patient's general condition, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) of 3 cycles followed by interval cytoreductive surgery (ICS) or final cytoreductive surgery (FCS) after 6 cycles of NACT followed or not by adjuvant chemotherapy can be offered, with similar overall survival. In our centre, due to logistics, disease, or patient factors, many patients may receive more than 3 cycles of NACT before ICS. Therefore, this randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the survival benefit of different timings of ICS after 3 or 6 cycles of NACT in patients not eligible for upfront cytoreductive surgery (UCS).
Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
PROCEDURE: Delayed interval cytoreductive surgery (DICS)|PROCEDURE: Early interval cytoreductive surgery (EICS)
Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time to recurrence/progression, or the date of death. Disease recurrence/ progression is defined as an increase in cancer antigen 125 (CA 125) levels or evidence of recurrence by imaging and/or histology., up to 5years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time until the patient's death from any cause. The time to event occurrence will be calculated from the time of randomization until the event of interest., up to 5 years
Operative peritoneal cancer index (PCI) assessment, pre- and post-operative PCI, 3-6 months|Complete resection rate, proportion of patients without macroscopically visible disease according to residual (R), patients will have R0 if no macroscopic residual, R1 if the residual is ≤10 mm, and R2 if the residual is \> 10 mm., 3-6 months|Surgical complexity scoring (low, intermediate, or high), assessment of complexity score of during surgery, 3-6 months|Post-operative morbidity, Post-operative morbidity according to the Clavien-Dindo classification (CDC), i.e., proportion of severe complications (CDC grade 3-5) within 30 days of surgery., within 30 days of surgery|Pathological complete chemotherapy response score (CRS 3), Pathological complete chemotherapy response score (CRS 3) in the pathology specimen, 3-6 months|The total number of chemotherapy cycles administered, The total number of chemotherapy cycles administered (NACT + adjuvant cycles)., 8 months|Tumour recurrence and death, Proportion of patients who had recurrence or died in each group., Up to 5 years
Ovarian cancer is among the top five primary causes of cancer-related mortality in women. Most ovarian malignant tumours originate from epithelial cells The majority of patients typically have advanced-stage tumours at diagnosis. When complete surgery with no macroscopic visible disease is not feasible due to both the spread of the disease and the patient's general condition, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) of 3 cycles followed by interval cytoreductive surgery (ICS) or final cytoreductive surgery (FCS) after 6 cycles of NACT followed or not by adjuvant chemotherapy can be offered, with similar overall survival. In our centre, due to logistics, disease, or patient factors, many patients may receive more than 3 cycles of NACT before ICS. Therefore, this randomized controlled trial aims to evaluate the survival benefit of different timings of ICS after 3 or 6 cycles of NACT in patients not eligible for upfront cytoreductive surgery (UCS).