CT Antigen TCR-Engineered T Cells for Myeloma
This study will enroll patients with multiple myeloma who have received prior therapy for their disease but their disease has progressed or relapsed.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Treatment with NY-ESO-1c259-modified T cells
Adverse Events Related to Study Treatment, Number of Participants with NCI CTCAE Version 4.0 Adverse Events related to study treatment greater than or equal to Grade 3, Up to 12 months
Evaluate the Direct Anti-tumor Activity of NY-ESO-1ᶜ²⁵⁹T, Number of participants with response post-infusion as assessed by international uniform response criteria, 180 days|Peak Persistence of Modified T-cells in the Peripheral Blood, Measurement of NY-ESO-1ᶜ²⁵⁹T cells in blood (copies of WPRE per µg of genomic PBMC DNA), Days 1, 3, 5, 8, 15, 22, 29, 43, 101, 130 181, every 3 months thereafter
The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of autologous genetically modified T cells transduced to express the high affinity NY-ESO-1c259 TCR in HLA-A201 patients. Eligibility screening will be performed in two steps. First, patients will undergo prescreening to determine if they have the correct HLA type in order to respond to the engineered T cell therapy, and to test for presence of the target antigen, NY-ESO-1 and LAGE-1, in their tumor cells. Patients, who are HLA-A201 positive and test positive for expression of NY-ESO-1 and/or LAGE-1 in their myeloma tumor will move on to complete all screening procedures to determine eligibility for the study.

Patients will initially undergo a steady-state mononuclear cell apheresis for T cell collection. About 3-4 weeks later (to allow expansion/engineering/releasing the engineered T cells), patients will receive a short course of cytoreductive chemotherapy prior to receiving the engineered T cell infusion, comprised of 1.5 gm/m2 of cyclophosphamide, mesna will be given if in accordance with institutional standards.

At day 0, patients will receive a dose of ≥0.1-1 x 1010 anti-CD3/anti-CD28-costimulated autologous T cells which have been genetically modified to express affinity-enhanced NY-ESO-1 T cell receptors (TCRs). A minimum dose of 0.1≤x\<1 x 109 will be permitted. Patients receiving this low dose level will be evaluated separately for safety and efficacy.

Patients will undergo myeloma restaging approximately 1 week prior to the T cell infusion, and post infusion at days +28, +42 (week 6), +100 and 6 months post infusion and then every 3 months until relapse/progression or until 1 year, whenever comes first. At this point, patients will be followed semi-annually for up to 5 years and then annually for long term follow-up for monitoring for delayed adverse events until 15 years after receiving the genetically modified T cells, in accordance with FDA Guidelines.