A Study of Rovalpituzumab Tesirine as Maintenance Therapy Following First- Line Platinum-Based Chemotherapy in Participants With Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (MERU)
This is a Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational, and multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy of rovalpituzumab tesirine as maintenance therapy following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Placebo for dexamethasone|DRUG: Placebo for rovalpituzumab tesirine|DRUG: Rovalpituzumab tesirine|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Overall Survival (OS) in Participants With Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer With Delta-Like Protein 3 High Expression in Tumor (DLL3high), OS is defined as the number of months from randomization to death of any cause. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier methodology., Survival follow-up continued until the endpoint of death, participant was lost to follow-up or withdrew consent, or termination of the study by AbbVie, whichever occurred first. Median time on study overall was 11.9 months.
OS in All Randomized Participants, OS is defined as the number of months from randomization to death of any cause. Calculated using the Kaplan-Meier methodology., Survival follow-up continued until the endpoint of death, the subject was lost to follow-up or withdrew consent, or termination of the study by AbbVie, whichever occurred first. Median time on study overall was 11.9 months.|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning Domain Over Time, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is composed of global health status/QoL scale; five functional domains (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social); three symptom domains (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, and pain); and six single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties).

The Physical Functioning domain includes 5 questions in which participants were asked to rate their overall health and overall quality of life as it relates to physical functioning during the past week on a scale from 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent). The 5 scores were averaged and transformed to a scale from 0 to 100, where a high score represents a high QoL. A positive change from baseline indicates better quality of life., Baseline, Weeks 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 42, 48, 54, 60, 66, 72, 78, Final Visit (up to Week 78)
This is a Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multinational, and multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy of rovalpituzumab tesirine as maintenance therapy following first-line platinum-based chemotherapy.