A New Membrane Obturator Prothesis Concept for Soft Palate Defects
When soft palate defects lead to palatal insufficiency, the patient's quality of life is affected by difficulties swallowing, hypernasality, and poor intelligibility of speech. If immediate surgical reconstruction is not an option, the patient may benefit from the placement of a rigid obturator prosthesis. Unfortunately, the residual muscle stumps are often unable to adequately move this stiff and inert obturator to properly restore the velopharyngeal valve function. The objective of this case report was to describe the use of a membrane obturator prosthesis that incorporates a dental dam to compensate for the soft palate defect.
Mouth Neoplasms|Velopharyngeal Insufficiency|Speech Disorders|Deglutition Disorders
DEVICE: Suersen and membraneous obturators evaluation
Voice Handicap Index (VHI) overall score, Min : 0 = Non handicap to Max : 120 = voice handicap maximum, Visit M2 : one month after first obturator supply i.e. two months after inclusion|Voice Handicap Index (VHI) overall score, Min : 0 = Non handicap to Max : 120 = voice handicap maximum, Visit M3 : one month after second obturator supply i.e. three months after inclusion
Deglutition Handicap Index (DHI) overall score, Min : 0 = Non handicap to Max : 120 = deglutition handicap maximum, Visit M1 : one month after inclusion|Deglutition Handicap Index (DHI) overall score, Min : 0 = Non handicap to Max : 120 = deglutition handicap maximum, Visit M2 : two months after inclusion|Deglutition Handicap Index (DHI) overall score, Min : 0 = Non handicap to Max : 120 = deglutition handicap maximum, Visit M3 : three months after inclusion|Health-related quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M1 : one month after inclusion|Health-related quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M2 : two months after inclusion|Health-related quality of life EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M3 : three months after inclusion|Head and Neck quality of life EORTC QLQ-H&N35 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M1 : one month after inclusion|Head and Neck quality of life EORTC QLQ-H&N35 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M2 : two months after inclusion|Head and Neck quality of life EORTC QLQ-H&N35 questionnaire score, Min : 0 = lower level of quality of life to Max : 100 = better level of quality of life, Visit M3 : three months after inclusion
The velopharyngeal sphincter seals the oropharynx from the nasopharynx during swallowing and speech. This three-dimensional muscular valve closes through the synergistic behavior of the soft palate and the lateral and posterior walls of the pharynx. A soft palate defect surgically acquired in the context of oral cancer may impede complete closure and lead to a palatopharyngeal insufficiency. The resultant airflow escape results in hypernasality, poor speech intelligibility, and swallowing problems (such as leakage of foods and fluids into the nasal airways). The best way to rehabilitate and restore chewing and swallowing is one of the top ten research priorities in head and neck cancer. When the velopharyngeal function cannot be immediately restored with surgical reconstruction, patients can benefit from an obturator prosthesis. This obturator is a rigid extension of acrylic resin positioned at the level of the hard palate that provides surface contact for the remaining musculature. Often, the residual muscle stumps cannot move adequately around this stiff and inert obturator to properly restore the velopharyngeal valve function. The resulting blockage, or free space between the tissues and obturator, is a main cause of prosthetic failure. Subsequently, in many cases, oral functions remain impaired, with a negative impact on the patient's quality of life.

The compensating treatment consists of a provisional removable partial denture (RPD) with a membrane obturator. The membrane consisted of a thick dental dam shaped with scissors to create a 10-mm overlap with the pharyngeal walls that was then perforated with four holes using punch pliers.

The follow-up ends after the last visit. However, our team can provide cares of any patient seeking for dental care, prosthetic treatments and routine follow-up.