Neoadjuvant Treatment of Breast Cancer
Observational investigation of participants who are given neoadjuvant treatment for invasive breast cancer. The scope of the study is to collect information on standardized treatment results, to explore the causes of dose modification and its effect on efficacy, to explore potential prognostic factors, and to explore the long-term side effects of different treatment modalities.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Goserelin|DRUG: Letrozole 2.5Mg Tab|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: trastuzumab|DRUG: pertuzumab|DRUG: Capecitabine
pathological complete remission rate, no invasive tumor in breast and axilla, 3 year, maximum
invasive disease-free survival, from the beginning of neoadjuvant therapy to the first appearance of invasive tumor or death, 10 years|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), Global health status, functional and symptom scales survey using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire before cycle 1, before cycle 4, after the last neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and before surgery, 1 year after chemotherapy, 4 years|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Breast Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ BR45), Breast cancer-specific functional scales and symptom scales survey using the EORTC QLQ BR45 questionnaire before cycle 1, before cycle 4, after the last neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and before surgery, 1 year after chemotherapy, 4 years|evaluation of side effects, to collect information all potential complaints and adverse event during and after treatment, 10 years
dose density assessment, actual dose / planned dose, 3 year, maximum|investigate the potential prognostic effect of neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio, study of the role of neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR) at baseline, before the 3. cycle, and before surgery. NLR is measured from the qualitative blood count as the absolute neutrophil count divided by the absolute lymphocyte count, 10 years|investigate the potential prognostic effect of monocyte/lymphocyte ratio, monocyte/lymphocyte ratio (MLR) at baseline, before the 3. cycle, and before surgery. MLR is measured from the qualitative blood count as the absolute monocyte count divided by the absolute lymphocyte count, 10 years|investigate potential prognostic factors, CRP, C-reactive protein serum level befor start of chemotherapy, 10 years|investigate potential prognostic factors, circulating free-DNA at baseline, before 3. cycle, before surgery, 10 years
The purpose of the study is based on the uniform application of international guidelines in Hungarian conditions. The standardized circumstances may lead to optimization of neoadjuvant therapy, it may facilitate subsequent data analysis, provide a basis for prospective clinical questions, and demonstrate improvement in pathologic complete remission (pCR) and overall survival (OS) compared to historical control. It may make possible to collect real-life data on each therapeutic option: efficacy, side effects, dose reduction, dose intensity, long-term consequences. The main scope is to collect prospective data to explore prognostic and predictive factors. The auxiliary aim is the assessment and comparison of quality of life during specific treatments and their side effects.