Assessment of Fitness After Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy in Rectal Cancer Patients
Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NACRT) prior to surgery for lower gastrointestinal (colon and rectal) cancer is associated with improved survival, but also adversely affects physical fitness, potentially rendering patients unfit for major surgery or increasing the risk of adverse outcome (death and serious complications) after major surgery. The investigators aim to obtain pilot data showing that neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (NACRT)reduces objectively measured exercise capacity (fitness).
Cancer
Measurement of Cardio Pulmonary exercise test related parameters (VO2 at AT) pre and post neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in rectal cancer patients., Exercise capacity (fitness) before and after NACRT will be assessed using CPET.We have pilot data on an upper gastrointestinal cancer cohort that shows that neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone results in lower levels of fitness (mean fall VO2@LT of 2.19ml/kg/min), which relates to survival before stomach and oesophageal surgery in a group of patients in Liverpool. These data also suggest that the insult of chemotherapy and surgery increases mortality, 2 years
Purpose: To evaluate the effects of chemoradiotherapy on pre-operative fitness of patients prior to major colorectal cancer surgery.

Design: Patients will act as their own case-control.

Patients will be consented at the earliest available opportunity following the decision that they have surgically treatable disease and they consent to pre-operative NACRT. Consent for the study will be gained as an outpatient. At "visit 1" patients will undergo CPET, as is our current standard practice, prior to commencing neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. As part of the assessment, they will have pulmonary function testing (static lung volumes, lung diffusing capacity). They will then undergo 6 weeks of long course NACRT, as is standard current practice at our institution. At "visit 2", approximately four to six weeks following chemoradiotherapy another CPET test will be repeated. This is also current standard practice at our institution. Data from visit 1 and visit 2 will be compared in a paired manner. A statistician will be consulted to assess the degree of normality of the data, the statistical tests to use, and for power calculations. At no point will any treatments be postponed or changed solely for the purposes of collecting data for the research.