Evaluation of Efficacy and Safety of Neoadjuvant Treatment With Pamrevlumab in Combination With Chemotherapy (Either Gemcitabine Plus Nab-paclitaxel or FOLFIRINOX) in Participants With Locally Advanced, Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
This is a Phase 3, randomized, double-blind trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant treatment with pamrevlumab or placebo in combination with either gemcitabine plus nab-paclitaxel (G/NP) or FOLFIRINOX in the treatment of participants with locally advanced, unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer Non-resectable
DRUG: Pamrevlumab + Gemcitabine + Nab-paclitaxel or Pamrevlumab + FOLFIRINOX|DRUG: Placebo + Gemcitabine + Nab-paclitaxel or Placebo + FOLFIRINOX
Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause. Overall survival was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 5 years
Event-free Survival (EFS), The EFS endpoint was a composite time-to-event endpoint. The event being analyzed ('treatment failure') was defined as the earliest occurrence of: a) failure to achieve disease-free status locally after completion of neoadjuvant treatment and/or after surgery (that is, resection failure or progression that precludes surgery); b) local or distant recurrence, or c) death. The EFS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 5 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, The PFS was defined as time from date of randomization until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters (mm). Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and the appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., Up to approximately 5 years|Number of Participants With Best Overall Objective Response as Assessed Using RECIST v1.1, Best overall objective response was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR was defined as disappearance of all target or non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level (for non-target lesions), any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduced in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Up to approximately 5 years
Participants will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the two study treatment arms; pamrevlumab with either G/NP or FOLFIRINOX, placebo with G/NP or FOLFIRINOX.

Each participant may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment (each treatment cycle is 28 days). Tumor tissue will be collected during resection to determine surgical outcome and for biomarker analysis. Tumor response will be evaluated by changes in CT scan, FDG-PET, CA 19-9, and NCCN® guidelines.

All participants randomized will have a safety follow-up visit approximately 28 days after the last dose of study treatment and a final safety follow-up phone call at approximately 60 days after the last dose.

Participants who complete study treatment will be evaluated for surgical exploration for possible R0 or R1 resection. Surgery will occur at least 4 weeks after the last dose (allowing for a wash-out period from treatment) and only after receipt of the recommendation from the central review board with regards to surgical eligibility. Surgery will occur no longer than 8 weeks after the last dose. Participants who undergo surgery will be evaluated for surgical complications for at least an additional 90 days following discharge from surgery.

Participants who are ineligible for surgical exploration (i.e. participants who did not complete study treatment or do not meet any of the protocol defined criteria or had a contraindication to surgery) will continue in the Follow-up period and receive treatment as per standard of care (SOC) for each institution.

All participants will be followed for disease progression (if not previously detected) or recurrence following resection (local progression or metastatic disease). Participants will also be followed for any additional anti-cancer therapy received for their pancreatic cancer. All participants will be followed for survival (until death) or until the last participant to complete treatment reaches 18 months post-treatment.