Phase II Study of Irinotecan HCI for Recurrent Anaplastic Astrocytomas, Mixed Malignant Gliomas, and Oligodendrogliomas
Phase 2 trial to explore the efficacy and safety of irinotecan (CPT-11). Also administered at each cycle was zofran/Kytril/Anzemet, decadron, and IV atropine.

At each cycle, patient exams and interviews as well as lab results were to help the research team to determine the symptomatic side effects of the treatment. Recorded past toxicities were to be compared with current side effects.
Astrocytoma|Glioma|Oligodendroglioma
DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride (HCI) Treatment|DRUG: Continued Irinotecan Hydrochloride (HCI) Treatment
Number of Participants With Objective Response After 3 Cycles of Treatment, The intent was to have 63 evaluable participants to determine the Objective Response Rate utilizing Criteria for Response, Progression and Relapse according to the McDonald Criteria. A measurement is made of the maximal enhancing tumor diameter on a single axial gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted section, and then the largest perpendicular diameter is measured on the same image. The product of the 2 diameters is calculated, and the measurements are repeated with each scan. Measurements from multiple lesions are summed., 3 cycles (21 day cycles)
Overall Survival at 6 Months, Patients surviving 6 months after treatment end, 6 months post treatment end|Progression Free Survival, Patients surviving at one year post treatment end, 1 year post treatment end|Frequency and Severity of Toxicity, Toxicities assessed through 3 months, 3 months|Overall Survival at 12 Months, Patients surviving 12 months after last dose of drug, 12 months post treatment end
Phase 2 trial to explore the efficacy and safety of irinotecan (CPT-11) in patients with recurrent anaplastic astrocytomas (AA), mixed malignant glioma, and oligodendrogliomas (OA). Patients were to be stratified by tumor histology and treated with CPT-11 every 21 days (treatment cycle).

Baseline data (collected \<14 days) was to consist of a neurological/oncological history, neurological examination, height, weight, performance status, Quality Of Life FACT-L questionnaire, laboratory studies to include complete blood count (CBC), differential, platelets, prothrombin time (PT), complete metabolic panel (CMP), Lactose dehydrogenase (LDH), and a pregnancy test, as well as a cranial Computerized Tomography/Magnetic Resonance Imaging (CT/MRI) with and without contrast (to measure or evaluate the size and location of the tumor before treatment).

Administered every 21 days was a dose of irinotecan (CPT-11), zofran/Kytril/Anzemet, decadron, and intravenous (IV) atropine. At each cycle, patient exams and interviews as well as lab results were to help the research team to determine the symptomatic side effects of the treatment. Recorded past toxicities were to be compared with current side effects.

Between days 15-21 (within 7 days of next scheduled CPT-11 treatment) the following tests were to be repeated - a neurological/oncological history and neurological examination, weight, blood drawn (CMP, LDH), performance status, and Quality Of Life FACT-L questionnaire. Also, a MRI (Cranial CT/MRI with and without contrast) was to be performed for tumor assessments at week 9, 18, 27, 36, and after every nine weeks thereafter until progression. Response was to be measured by a reduction in tumor size.

These supportive therapies were provided as necessary:

* Antiemetic Therapy
* Anticholinergics
* Loperamide (Imodium®)
* Growth Factors
* Other Concomitant Medications