Fosaprepitant Dimeglumine in Preventing Nausea and Vomiting in Patients With Gastrointestinal Cancer Receiving Combination Chemotherapy
This clinical trial studies fosaprepitant dimeglumine in preventing nausea and vomiting in patients with gastrointestinal cancer receiving combination chemotherapy. Antiemetic drugs, such as fosaprepitant dimeglumine, may help lessen or prevent nausea and vomiting in patients treated with chemotherapy.
Gastrointestinal Cancer|Nausea Post Chemotherapy
DRUG: fosaprepitant dimeglumine
Percentage of Participants With Control of Vomiting and Rescue Medication Control, Achieved if a patient has no episodes of vomiting and requires no rescue medication during the first 120 hours after fosaprepitant dimeglumine administration., From 0-120 hours after first course of chemotherapy
Percentage of Participants With Control of Both Acute and Delayed Vomiting, Achieved if a patient has no episodes of vomiting at both 24 and 120 hours after fosaprepitant dimeglumine administration., in approximately 28 months|Percentage of Participants With Control of Both Acute and Delayed Nausea, Achieved if a patient has no episodes of nausea at both 24 and 120 hours after fosaprepitant dimeglumine administration., in approximately 28 months|Overall Survival, Time of initiation of treatment until death or censor assessed up to 26 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate efficacy of the addition of fosaprepitant (fosaprepitant dimeglumine) in controlling acute and delayed vomiting with the standard prophylactic anti-emetic combination of 5-HT3 receptor antagonist and dexamethasone for gastrointestinal cancer patients receiving FOLFIRINOX (5-FU \[fluorouracil\], oxaliplatin and irinotecan \[irinotecan hydrochloride\]) chemotherapy.

II. To determine the rate of complete response (no emetic episode and no rescue medication) in the combined acute and delayed phase from 0-120 hours after chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the incidence of nausea and vomiting in both acute (\< 24 hours) and delayed (24- 120 hours) setting in patients receiving FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Follow overall survival in patients receiving FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive fosaprepitant dimeglumine intravenously (IV) 30 minutes prior to FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 months.