The Addition of Temozolomide to Conditioning for Autologous Transplantation in Relapsed & Refractory CNS Lymphoma
The primary purpose of the study will be testing the dosing of temozolomide to find the target dose that a person can tolerate. The other part of the study will be determining how helpful it can be to CNS lymphoma patients by adding temozolomide to the "conditioning regimen" prior to stem cell transplantation.

This research study is designed to test the investigational use of temozolomide as part of a conditioning regimen prior to stem cell transplantation. This drug has not yet been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to be used in the setting of stem cell transplantation in lymphomas of the brain (central nervous system or CNS) but it has been studied and used before in transplantation with reasonable results.
B-Cell Lymphoma Originating in the CNS
DRUG: Temozolomide
One-year Progression-free Survival and Overall Survival, Efficacy of the DRBEAT Regimen will be assessed by analysis of

1. one-year progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time interval from maximal response from therapy to tumor regrowth, progression\*, or death, (\*Progression is defined as meeting the response criteria listed in Table 4: Response Criteria for Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma according to Abrey LE, Batchelor TT, Ferreri AJM et al.)

   and
2. Overall survival, defined as the time interval between the date of transplant and the date of death from any cause., (1) One Year (2) Until date of death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Safest Dose of Temozolomide for the DRBEAT Regimen, Safety will be assessed using a dose escalation design for temozolomide's use to determine the target dose and also to evaluate any and all acute treatment related toxicities. During the course of patient follow up and therapy, toxicities will be evaluated, particularly as the investigators will be determining the target dose of temozolomide. One of the major criteria for dose limiting toxicity for the study will be any Grade 3 or 4 nonhematologic toxicity from a list of commonly expected toxicities associated with autologous transplantation and temozolomide., One Year
Currently there is no standard of care for relapsed or refractory primary central nervous system (CNS) lymphoma. After high-dose methotrexate or radiation therapy, the best approach to relapsed disease is undefined. Common practice is the regimen RBEAM as a conditioning regimen in this patient population prior to transplantation. The RBEAM regimen includes R (rituximab), B (BCNU), E (etoposide), A (Ara-C (cytarabine)) and M (melphalan). In addition, dexamethasone is included in the regimen although not noted in the RBEAM mnemonic. However, the melphalan used in this combination is not thought to have much CNS penetration. Therefore, temozolomide, an alkylating agent known to penetrate the CNS and approved by the FDA for brain tumors will be used and evaluated in this study instead of melphalan.

The aim of this study is to determine an effective and safe dose of temozolomide orally administered to patients with relapsed primary CNS lymphoma over the 5 days preceding autologous stem-cell transplantation. The hope is that the conditioning regimen DRBEAT \[D (dexamethasone) (R (rituximab), B (BCNU), E (etoposide), A (Ara-C (cytarabine)) and T (temozolomide)\] will significantly improve the survival of patients with relapsed CNS lymphoma.