Positive Youth Development in the Metaverse
This pilot study aims to leverage VR's capacity to easily replicate content and allow for multiple users to share the same space and engage in activities as if they're meeting in person. Integrating VR into afterschool programs will allow youth to receive more consistent programming content, even when they are unable to travel to the physical location for the in-person meetings.
Healthy|Healthy Lifestyle|Childhood ALL|Behavior, Child
BEHAVIORAL: Virtual reality curriculum|BEHAVIORAL: No Virtual reality curriculum
Self-regulation, Early Adolescent Temperament Questionnaire-Revised ( 1-Almost always untrue, 2-Usually untrue, 3-Sometimes true, sometimes untrue, 4-Usually true, 5-Almost always true), One-time assessment post-treatment (at 8 weeks)|Mental well-being, Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire (Not true = 0, Somewhat true = 1, Certainly true = 2), One-time assessment post-treatment (at 8 weeks)
Engagement, Number of hours of programming delivered for both in-person and VR, 8 weeks
This pilot study aims to leverage VR's capacity to easily replicate content and allow for multiple users to share the same space and engage in activities as if they're meeting in person. Integrating VR into afterschool programs will allow youth to receive more consistent programming content, even when they are unable to travel to the physical location for the in-person meetings. It will also empower youth to engage with the afterschool program at their own pace by providing a safe space to learn and practice their socioemotional skills. Implemented at scale, these benefits of a VR-integrated afterschool program will be able to address the issues of health inequity head on by expanding access to high quality afterschool content without incurring high operating costs. The results from this pilot study will provide a critical foundation to apply for an extramurally funded clinical trial to demonstrate the efficacy of a VR-integrated afterschool program on youth mental wellbeing.

Aim 1: Determine feasibility of a VR-integrated afterschool program where youth can access the VR content on their own at home.

Aim 2: Test the hypothesis that complementing the in-person afterschool program with VR will increase a) engagement and b) socioemotional competencies in youth.

Aim 3: Test the hypothesis that youth will demonstrate better mental wellbeing when the in-person afterschool program is complemented with VR.