Testing the Role of FDG-PET/CT to Predict Response to Therapy Prior to Surgery for HER2-positive Breast Cancer, The DIRECT Trial
This phase II trial tests how well an imaging procedure called fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) works in predicting response to standard of care chemotherapy prior to surgery in patients with HER2-positive stage IIa-IIIc breast cancer. FDG is a radioactive tracer that is given in a vein before PET/CT imaging and helps to identify areas of active cancer. PET and CT are imaging techniques that make detailed, computerized pictures of areas inside the body. The use of FDG-PET/CT may help doctors better decide if a patient needs more or less treatment before surgery in order to get the best response. This study evaluates whether FDG-PET/CT is useful in predicting a patient's response to standard of care chemotherapy.
Anatomic Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|HER2-Positive Breast Carcinoma|Invasive Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Chemotherapy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure
Negative predictive value of neoadjuvant interim (ni) fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) for pathologic complete response (pCR), The analysis set for this objective will comprise all patients who enrolled in the study and had a FDG-PET/CT scan at T0 and T1 timepoint. The negative predictive value is defined as the probability that pCR will not be achieved by study participants who experience a using delta maximum standardized uptake value corrected for lean body mass day 15 (deltaSULmaxD15) below 40% and will be estimated via an exact, two-sided 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years
Sensitivity of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, The analysis set for this objective will be the same as for the primary objective. The estimation approach will also be similar., Up to 5 years|Specificity of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, The analysis set for this objective will be the same as for the primary objective. The estimation approach will also be similar., Up to 5 years|Positive predictive value of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, The analysis set for this objective will be the same as for the primary objective. The estimation approach will also be similar., Up to 5 years|Performance of niFDG-PET/CT as predictor of 3-year event-free survival, Using deltaSULmaxD15 of the primary breast cancer at a threshold of 40%. The analysis set for this objective will be the same as for the primary objective. The analysis will compare estimates of 3-year event-free survival between participants with deltaSULmaxD15 above and below the 40% threshold using a log-rank test., Up to 5 years
Negative predictive value of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, The analytic approach for this objective will parallel the approach for the primary aim for each of selected thresholds in the range from 30% to 60%., Up to 5 years|Compare deltaSULmaxD15 using automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT by AutoPERCIST (trademark) to standard PET analysis software, The analytic approach for this aim will include an assessment of agreement between measures of deltaSULmaxD15 obtained from two methods and an assessment of the negative and positive predictive value of the deltaSULmaxD15 measurement by AutoPERCIST (trademark)., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the negative predictive value (NPV) of neoadjuvant interim (ni)FDG-PET/CT for pathologic complete response (pCR), using delta maximum standardized uptake value corrected for lean body mass day 15 (deltaSULmaxD15), completed through central review, of the primary breast cancer at a threshold of 40%, in patients treated with neoadjuvant HER2-directed therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value (PPV) of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, using deltaSULmaxD15 of the primary breast cancer at a threshold of 40%, in patients treated with neoadjuvant HER2-directed therapy.

II. To evaluate the performance of niFDG-PET/CT, using deltaSULmaxD15 of the primary breast cancer at a threshold of 40%, as a predictor of 3-year event-free survival (EFS) from time of study registration.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the NPV of niFDG-PET/CT for pCR, using deltaSULmaxD15 of the primary breast cancer at a grid of alternative thresholds ranging from 30% to 60%, in patients treated with neoadjuvant HER2-directed therapy.

II. To compare deltaSULmaxD15 using automated image analysis of FDG-PET/CT by AutoPERCIST (trademark) to standard PET analysis software.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive FDG intravenously (IV), undergo PET/CT, receive standard of care chemotherapy, and undergo standard of care surgery on study.