Identification of Liver Tumours Using BIP - Biopsy System
This clinical device investigation is conducted by performing liver biopsies using the BIP - Biopsy Tool. The aim is to assess the feasibility of bioimpedance spectroscopy based biopsy tool guidance method and test how well BIP biopsy system is able to distinguish liver tumours from surrounding tissue. In addition, user feedback is obtained to improve the usability of the investigational device. The study does not affect the traditional treatment procedure and only the patients in clinical need for diagnosis by liver biopsy are included on voluntary basis. The invasive products used in actual biopsy operation are designed so that their performance is essentially equal to the currently used biopsy devices, the only difference is the measurement capability of biopsy needle and connection to measurement device.
Liver Biopsy
DEVICE: BIP Biopsy System
Difference in mean between measured bioimpedance spectra from tumorous and nontumorous tissue, Liver biopsy is performed in traditional way but with biopsy needle that enables bioimpedance measurement from multiple frequencies (spectrum). Tumorous and nontumorous tissue is measured during ultrasound guided biopsy procedure and the tumorous tissue type is verified by histological biopsy sample analysis. The bioimpedance spectra (impedance and phase angle) are compared with each other and differences in means of the spectra calculated. The data analysis is performed offline., During liver biopsy (couple of minutes/patient)
This clinical device investigation is conducted by performing liver biopsies using the BIP - Biopsy Tool. The aim is to assess the feasibility of bioimpedance spectroscopy based biopsy tool guidance method and test how well BIP biopsy system is able to distinguish liver tumours from surrounding tissue. In addition, user feedback is obtained to improve the usability of the investigational device. The study does not affect the traditional treatment procedure and only the patients in clinical need for diagnosis by liver biopsy are included on voluntary basis. The invasive products used in actual biopsy operation are designed so that their performance is essentially equal to the currently used biopsy devices, the only difference is the measurement capability of biopsy needle and connection to measurement device.