Drug Nephrotoxicity Amelioration by N-acetylcysteine
When treating individuals with febrile neutropenia, amphotericin B (AmB-d) is one of the most effective treatments against often fatal systemic fungal infections.Nephrotoxicity from amphotericin B can develop with an incidence of up to 80.This emphasizes the value of nephroprotectant agent use.Because of N-acetylcysteine's antioxidant, antiapoptotic, vasodilator properties and its therapeutic effects on contrast nephropathy. Acetylcysteine's impact on amphotericin B-induced nephrotoxicity in cancer patients is assessed.
Drug-Induced Nephropathy
DRUG: N Acetylcysteine
incidence of nephrotoxicity, minimum of 0.3 mg/dL increase in serum creatinine within 48 hours from amphotericin B initiation., During the intervention
electrolyte imbalances, Hypokalemia and hypomagnesemia were defined as serum potassium levels less than 3 mEq/L and serum magnesium levels less than 1.2 mEq /L, respectively., During the intervention
cost effectiveness analysis, incremental cost effectiveness ratio, From start of amphotericin b to discharge or death ,whichever came first or up to 120 days|length of hospital stay(days), duration a patient spends in a hospital, From start of amphotericin b to discharge or death ,whichever came first or up to 120 days
Severe fungal infections continue to be a significant source of morbidity and mortality in haematology units despite recent therapeutic advancements. The first anti-fungal medication that was successful against systemic mycoses was characterised as the traditional amphotericin B in the middle of the 1950s.AMB remains the treatment of choice for many serious fungal infections in vulnerable hosts owing to its excellent spectrum of activity and its low resistance rates. To date, it continues to be the agent with the widest spectrum of action and the lowest resistance potential of any known antifungal agent.In spite of clinical effectiveness, AmB treatment is associated with a range of acute and chronic adverse reactions . Nephrotoxicity and consequent electrolytes imbalances have been demonstrated as the most clinically significant adverse reaction of AmB that can restrict its clinical utility. Up to 80 % of AmB recipients during the first two weeks of treatment may develop some degree of reversible kidney injury . In addition, nearly 15 % of these patients may require dialysis which can lead to prolongation of hospital stay, increased total treatment costs, and mortality .

N-acetylcysteine, a drug with vasodilating, antiapoptotic, and anti-oxidant features, has been found to diminish the nephrotoxicity of cisplatin , cyclosporine and gentamicin . The results of two experimental studies in rats have suggested that N-acetylcysteine can mitigate GFR reduction as well as renal tubular apoptosis caused by AmB .