Using Breath, Cell Free DNA and Image Analysis to PRedIct Normal TissUe and Tumour Response During Prostate Cancer SBRT
Personalisation of radiotherapy dose based on real-time assessments of normal tissue and tumour response would maximise cure and minimise treatment related toxicity. During a 5 fraction course of prostate Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) this pilot study will assess whether a number of different biomarker approaches can predict for normal tissue and tumour response. Firstly the investigators will analyse volatile organic compounds released within the breath with each fraction of treatment. Secondly the investigators will analyse cell free normal tissue and tumour DNA released during treatment. Thirdly the investigators will develop imaging processing algorithms to look for imaging biomarkers predicting rectal wall toxicity using pre and post treatment cone beam CT verification images. Each of these approaches will be assessed against prostate specific antigen (PSA), Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0) criteria and Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-26) patient reported outcomes with a maximum of 24 months of follow up.
Prostate Cancer|Radiotherapy Side Effects|Volatile Organic Compounds|DNA Damage
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy
Measurement of the relative change in Gas Chromatography Ion Mobility Spectra (GC-IMS) of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC's) from breath samples of men with prostate cancer treated with prostate stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), Measurement of the change in the 3D chromatogram of volatile organic compound GC-IMS Spectra detected from baseline pre-treatment, to completion of SBRT at each time point, for each patient. Each 3D chromatogram GC-IMS printout is generated from the readings of each axis. The y axis is associated with GC separation of VOC's, the x axis measures the movement of the generated ions (IMS drift time) and the z axis ion detector response equating to concentration. These 3 values separate, identify and quantify the VOC compounds detected., pre treatment before each fraction of SBRT day 1 to day 5, then at 1 and 3 hours post treatment day 1 to day 5|Measurement of the relative change in normal tissue and tumour cell free DNA (cfDNA) released into the blood of men with prostate cancer treated with prostate stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), Change in the density of 90-150 base pair fragment size cfDNA from baseline pre-treatment to completion of SBRT for each time point, for each patient, pre treatment before each fraction of SBRT day 1 to day 5, then at 1 and 3 hours post treatment day 1 to day 5|Measurement of the true rectal wall delivered radiation dose compared to planned dose during the prostate SBRT for each patient, Dose calculation in cGy between expected and observed actual dose to the rectal wall using pre and post each fraction radiotherapy linear accelerator treatment verification cone beam CT scans, Immediately pre each fraction of SBRT day 1 to 5 and immediately post each fraction of SBRT day 1 to 5
Measurement of SBRT treatment related acute and late normal tissue toxicity, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE v 4.0 scores for urinary and bowel treatment related toxicity. Scale runs form Grade 1 mild requiring no intervention to grade 5 death, Baseline, completion of SBRT, week 6, then 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months post treatment|Measurement of SBRT treatment related quality of life, Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite EPIC-26 patient reported outcomes questionnaire. A clinical tool to assess urinary, bowel, sexual and vitality health. The score from each of the 5 domains runs from 0 (none) to 12 (severe) impact on quality of life. Each domain score when added together gives an overall score of zero (unaffected) to 60 (severely affected), Baseline, completion of SBRT, week 6, then 3 months, 6 months, 12 months, 18 months and 24 months post treatment
Radiotherapy scheduling and prescription dose does not take into account individual patient heterogeneity in normal tissue response or tumour response. Personalisation of radiotherapy dose based on real-time assessments of normal tissue and tumour response would maximise cure and minimise treatment related toxicity. During a 5 fraction course of prostate Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) this pilot study will assess whether a number of different biomarker approaches can predict for normal tissue and tumour response. Firstly the investigators will analyse volatile organic compounds released within the breath with each fraction of treatment using Gas Chromatography Ion Mobility Spectroscopy (GC-IMS). The investigators have extensive experience in this area within the TOXI-Triage research program (www.toxi-triage.eu/) including deep learning and machine learning techniques to interrogate the metabolomics data generated. Secondly the investigators will analyse cell free normal tissue and tumour DNA released during treatment to assess both tumour and normal tissue response. Radiotherapy releases large amounts in to the blood stream allowing easier quantitative analysis. Thirdly the investigators will look for imaging biomarkers of rectal wall toxicity using imaging analysis algorithms of on-treatment cone beam verification CT images taken before and after each radiotherapy treatment. The RayPilot® system made by Micropos Medical Ltd tracks prostate motion throughout the SBRT delivery to ensure that the treatment dose is delivered with great precision. The potential of each biomarker approach for predicting normal tissue and tumour response will be assessed against PSA and CTCAE v 4.0 toxicity criteria and EPIC-26 patient reported outcome measures after 24 months of patient follow up.