Sutent Adjunctive Treatment of Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
This study is comparing a drug called Sutent with standard of care treatment for people with advanced thyroid cancer. Because advanced thyroid cancer is becoming increasingly common and effective treatment options are limited, new therapies are desperately needed.

This study is designed to see if Sutent following therapy with radioactive iodine will target cancer cells and delay disease progression better than standard therapy alone. Newly diagnosed patients, who are scheduled to receive radioactive iodine as part of their standard care are possible candidates. By entering into this study, participants agree to take oral Sutent for approximately two years after completing standard therapy. During this time, study participants will be followed closely by their doctor.
Papillary Thyroid Cancer|Follicular Thyroid Cancer|Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: SU011248, Sutent
Progression Free Survival, Progressive disease (PD) is defined as unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Disease progression is accessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., 12 months after last patient completes treatment
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment to the time to death from any cause or final data collection, whatever happens first., 12 months after last patient completes treatment
This is a two-stage, phase II, single center, targeted therapy trial enrolling patients with stage 2 (for patients younger than 45 years of age), 3 or 4 differentiated thyroid cancer. The primary objective is to assess progression free survival in this population. Sutent will be given orally at 37.5mg daily for two (2) year, or 26 cycles. Each treatment cycle will consist of 28 days. Upon treatment discontinuation, patients will be followed for survival. The frequency and type of survival follow-up assessments performed will be at the discretion of the treating physician.