Intraperitoneal Bortezomib and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of intraperitoneal bortezomib when given together with intraperitoneal carboplatin in treating patients with ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer that is persistent or has come back. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Bortezomib may help carboplatin work better by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug. Infusing bortezomib and carboplatin directly into the abdomen (intraperitoneal) may kill more tumor cells.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Carboplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Dose-limiting toxicities defined by drug-related adverse events which occur in association with the first course of treatment as evaluated by the NCI CTCAE version 4 unless clearly unrelated to study drugs (e.g., disease progression), 21 days|Frequency and severity of toxicities as assessed by NCI CTCAE version 4, Up to 1 year
Objective tumor response (complete and partial response), Objective tumor response will be tabulated by regimen., Up to 1 year|Progression free survival, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier plots., Time from study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Pharmacokinetic parameters, Descriptive analysis will be given for the pharmacokinetic parameters of bortezomib and carboplatin., 10 minutes prior to infusion; immediately following infusion; 15, 30 and 60 minutes after infusion; immediately following carboplatin; 90 minutes after infusion; and 2, 4, and 6 hours after infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) of intraperitoneal (IP) bortezomib (BTZ) when administered with intraperitoneal carboplatin in women with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer that is persistent or recurrent and who have failed primary therapy and at least one second-line therapy.

II. To examine the safety of administering BTZ in combination with carboplatin by the IP route.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate objective tumor response rate as determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria.

II. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of BTZ and carboplatin when administered intraperitoneally once every 21 days.

III. To characterize the frequency of carboplatin hypersensitivity reactions (HSR) when administered as an intraperitoneal infusion in the context of recurrent ovarian cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of bortezomib.

Patients receive bortezomib intraperitoneally (IP) and carboplatin IP on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.