Treat of Functional Ovarian Cysts by Compare Between Cocs and Progesterone Only Pills
comparison between cocs and progesterone only containing pills in treatment of fuctional ovarian cyst
Ovarian Neoplasms
DRUG: Combined Oral Contraceptive|DRUG: Progestin
treatment of functional ovarian cysts, rate of treatment of combined oral contraceptive pills in functional ovarian cyst compared with cases who will receive progesterone only pills, one year
Ovarian cyst is a blister-like sac, which is formed on the surface of ovary during or after ovulation . Most of them are made in reproductive age and are harmless ; these cysts do not cause any symptom and are resolved without treatment , but sometimes they cause health problems that require special attention, and even may lead to infertility. Normal function of ovary is the periodic release of ovums and the production of the steroid hormones of estradiol and progesterone . Both activities are integrated in the continuous repetitive process of follicle maturation, ovulation, and corpus luteum formation and regression. Mature follicle is ruptured and releases ovum during ovulation and corpus luteum is produced from empty follicle if pregnancy does not occur corpus luteum is regressed, due to the absence of hCG (human chorionic gonadotropin). Sometimes this procedure does not happen normally, which results in the formation of ovarian cysts Therefore, functional ovarian cysts are different from ovarian growths induced by other pathological problems most of them regress spontaneously in two or three cycles , but if a cyst gets large, it can twist, be ruptured, or bleed and become very painful .

A functional type of ovarian cyst forms because of slight changes in the way of making or releasing an ovum by the ovary . There are two types of such cysts:

1. The follicular cyst, which occurs when the sac on ovary does not release an egg and the sac swells up with fluid
2. The luteal cyst, which is formed when the sac releases an egg and then reseals and fills with fluid

Most functional ovarian cysts are asymptomatic , the larger the cyst, the more likely the symptom. The symptoms are pain or aching in lower abdomen, menstrual irregularity, vaginal bleeding, dyspareunia, etc.; sometimes the cyst is ruptured and causes peritoneal irritation with presentations such as nausea and vomiting or sudden onset of pain, hemorrhagic cyst, intra-abdominal bleeding, and emergency conditions . Some other manifestations such as nausea and vomiting may be felt before the occurrence of such events . Regular pelvic examination is recommended for some patients with the history of such cysts; they also may need regular sonography . Oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) are prescribed by some physician to shrink the cyst, if it is persistent and makes discomfort . Although it seems that they are not effective enough compared with close observation, and even some researchers reported no benefits for OCPs, some others prescribed them before any surgical practices ; therefore, the current study aimed at evaluating this issue. For this purpose, some patients who referred to a private clinic were selected in order to compare the effect of OCPs with close observation in the clinical management of functional ovarian cysts. dyspareunia, or the cysts may be found accidentally on voluntary sonography without any symptoms.