Ultra Hypo-fractionated Adjuvant Whole Breast Radiation Therapy With Simultaneous Integrated Boost for Early-Stage Breast Cancer (H-ASSIST)
This study evaluates the rates of radiation-specific toxicity, quality of life, and oncologic outcomes for early-stage breast cancer and ductal carcinoma in situ treated with 5-fraction whole breast irradiation (WBI) with a simultaneous integrated tumor bed boost (SIB). SIB refers to the technique tumor bed boost given at the same time as standard radiation therapy.

The FAST-Forward trial previously showed that a 1-week course of radiotherapy had similar effects to the traditional 3-week course for early-stage breast cancer after surgery. Given these favorable results, a 5-fraction WBI regimen is appealing for many patients who wish to minimize the number of treatment visits while still reducing their risk of recurrence. Generally, tumor bed boosts further decrease the risk of recurrence, but in the setting of 5-fraction WBI, a more traditional sequential boost technique is utilized.
Breast Cancer|Early-stage Breast Cancer|Ductal Carcinoma in Situ|DCIS
RADIATION: Breast Radiotherapy
Rate of any moderate-marked adverse effects, The rate of moderate to marked adverse effects in the breast or chest wall at 1 year will be measured using a questionnaire called the Clinician Assessment of Radiation-Specific Toxicity by clinican. This will be compared against historical controls. The questionnaire includes 10 items: 4 Likert-type questions and 6 yes/no questions. Items are rated from 0 to 4, with higher scores indicating more adverse effects. A "yes" response indicates the occurrence of an adverse event., 1 year
In-breast tumor recurrence, In-breast tumor recurrence at 2 years is defined according to the standard definition as the time from enrollment to any of the following events: invasive ipsilateral recurrence and/or ipsilateral DCIS recurrence.

Recurrence will be measured via medical record abstraction and clinical evaluation., 2 years|Quality of life at measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer ( EORTC QLQ-C30), Quality of life at 12 months will be measured as defined by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer ( EORTC QLQ-C30). The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer-specific instrument with 30 questions that incorporates 9 multi-item scales: 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social); 9 symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea and financial difficulties); and a global health and quality-of-life scale. Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'); 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'). The scores of these scales were averaged from the scores of the component items, transformed and analyzed on a 0 - 100 scale. A higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., 12 months
Multiple recent studies demonstrate the noninferiority of a simultaneous integrated boost (SIB) approach. This study will include women aged 50 years and older who are recommended to receive whole breast irradiation with a standard dose boost and without regional nodal irradiation.

Radiation therapy will consist of 5 fractions delivered every other day (excluding weekends), with a total dose of 26 Gy to the whole breast and a simultaneous integrated boost to a total dose of 30 Gy to the lumpectomy cavity.

The primary outcome of this study is to investigate the rate of moderate to marked adverse effects in the breast and chest wall of patients receiving five-fraction whole-breast radiation therapy with a concurrent boost. Radiation-specific toxicity outcomes will be assessed by clinicians and patients at 12 months, along with evaluations of quality of life and oncologic control at 24 months following treatment.

It is hypothesized that 5-fraction whole breast irradiation with a simultaneous integrated boost will result in clinically acceptable rates of moderate to marked toxicity relative to historical controls, while providing good quality of life and high rates of disease control.