Sirolimus in Combination With Metronomic Chemotherapy in Children With Recurrent and/or Refractory Solid and CNS Tumors
This study aims to determine the efficacy of daily sirolimus and celecoxib, with low dose etoposide alternating with cyclophosphamide for pediatric participants with relapsed or refractory tumors.
Cancer
DRUG: Sirolimus|DRUG: Celecoxib|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide
Radiographic response to treatment for solid tumors, Radiographic response to treatment will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) for participants with solid tumors via CT or MRI scan. A complete response (CR) is a disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the disease measurement compared to the baseline measurement. Stable disease (SD) is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response (PR) nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD) taking as reference the smallest disease measurement since baseline. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the disease measurement compared to baseline, or the appearance of one or more new lesions, or evidence of laboratory or clinical progression., Baseline, End of Treatment (Up to 2 years)|Radiographic response to treatment for central nervous system (CNS) tumors, Radiographic response to treatment will be assessed for participants with CNS tumors via CT or MRI scan. Response criteria are assessed based on the lesion of the longest diameter and its longest perpendicular diameter. Development of new disease or progression in any established lesions is considered progressive disease, regardless of response in other lesions. Complete response (CR) is the the disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) is greater than or equal to 50% decrease decrease in the sum of the products of the two perpendicular diameters of all target lesions, taking into reference the baseline measurement. Stable disease (SD) is neither a sufficient decrease in the sum of the products of the two perpendicular diameters of all target lesions to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase in a single target lesion to qualify for progressive disease (PD)., Baseline, End of Treatment (Up to 2 years)
Number of adverse events, The adverse events associated with sirolimus in combination with metronomic chemotherapy administered on this schedule will be defined and evaluated throughout the treatment period., Baseline, End of Treatment (Up to 2 years)
This study aims to learn if the combination of oral sirolimus once daily with celecoxib, and with oral etoposide alternating every 21 days with oral cyclophosphamide (metronomic chemotherapy) is effective in shrinking relapsed or refractory tumors in pediatric participants. In addition, this study seeks to learn the length of time this combination can keep the tumor from growing, learn more about the side effects of sirolimus when used in this combination, and to learn if the sirolimus is working by evaluating blood and tumor tissue.