Serious Illness Communication Project
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the impact of implementing a "Serious Illness Conversation Guide" to guide patient/family-clinician discussions and planning about end-of-life care decisions. The goal of the intervention is to improve achievement of patient care priorities and peacefulness at the end of life for patients with serious and life-threatening illness and their families. We hypothesize that patients whose physician is trained to use and adheres to the elements of the Serious Illness Conversation Guide will demonstrate enhanced consistency between documented key priorities and care received, and will experience greater peace in the final month of life; similarly, their families will experience higher satisfaction with care.
End of Life Care|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Training
Enhanced goal-consistent care, Patients whose physician is trained to use and adheres to the SICG will receive care that is more consistent with their key life priorities during the last week and the last 3 months of life than patients whose physician is not trained to use the SICG. Goal consistent care will be measured by comparing goals identified by the patient during the final 3 months and final week of life, to care received by the patient, which will be measured by chart review and family report. For each priority/goal listed by the patient as important, we will give a score from 0 to 3 to quantify the extent to which that goal was achieved by the patient. Higher overall score will show more goal-consistent care., up to 2 years|PEACE, Patients whose physician is trained to use and adheres to the SICG will be more likely to report being at peace in the final 3 months of life than patients whose physician is not trained to use the SICG. Being at peace will be measured by the PEACE scale, a 13-item validated questionnaire in cancer patients., up to 2 years
The purpose of the study is to evaluate the impact of implementing a "Serious Illness Conversation Guide" to guide patient/family-clinician discussions and planning about end-of-life care decisions. The goal of the intervention is to improve achievement of patient care priorities and peacefulness at the end of life for patients with serious and life-threatening illness and their families. We hypothesize that patients whose physician is trained to use and adheres to the elements of the Serious Illness Conversation Guide will demonstrate enhanced consistency between documented key priorities and care received, and will experience greater peace in the final month of life; similarly, their families will experience higher satisfaction with care.