Spatial Location of Breast Cancer Local Recurrence After Mastectomy
Rationale:To improve the definition of the target volume for radiotherapy of the chestwall after different types of mastectomy, the exact localization of regions at risk for a local recurrence should be known. However, there are currently insufficient data in literature showing where local recurrences occur after different types of mastectomy.

Objective: The primary objective of the proposed study is to determine whether the spatial, location of a breast cancer recurrence after mastectomy, differs for different types of mastectomy.

Study design: Retrospective study evaluating spatial location and site of recurrences after mastectomy.

Study population: The investigators aim to include all breast cancer patients treated with mastectomy in the Netherlands between 2003- 2008, and known to have experienced a local recurrence as the first site of failure.

Primary endpoint: Spatial location of local recurrence (e.g., primary tumour bed, scar, skin, subcutaneous, nipple, areola, pectoral muscles).
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Mastectomy
Spatial localisation of local recurrences, The primary objective of the proposed study is to determine whether the spatial, location of a breast cancer recurrence after mastectomy, differs for different types of mastectomy., Up to 15 years after mastectomy
Influence of tumour characteristics on the site of recurrence and spatial location., Anaysis to assess whether tumour characteristics (e.g., molecular subtypes, lymphangio/lymphovascular invasion) influence the site of recurrence and spatial location., Up to 15 years after mastectomy|Influence of treatment-related factors on the site of recurrence and spatial location., Anaysis to assess whether treatment-related factors (e.g., PMRT with or without bolus, radiation volumes, doses) influence the site of recurrence and spatial location., Up to 15 years after mastectomy
Rationale:To improve the definition of the target volume for radiotherapy of the chestwall after different types of mastectomy, the exact localization of regions at risk for a local recurrence should be known. However, there are currently insufficient data in literature showing where local recurrences occur after different types of mastectomy.

Objective: The primary objective of the proposed study is to determine whether the spatial, location of a breast cancer recurrence after mastectomy, differs for different types of mastectomy. Secondary objectives are to assess whether tumour characteristics (e.g., molecular subtypes, lymphangio/lymphovascular invasion) and treatment-related factors (e.g., PMRTwith or without bolus, radiation volumes, doses) influence the site of recurrence and spatial location.

Study design: Retrospective study evaluating spatial location and site of recurrences after mastectomy.

Study population: The investigators aim to include all breast cancer patients treated with mastectomy in the Netherlands between 2003- 2008, and known to have experienced a local recurrence as the first site of failure.

Primary endpoint: Primary endpoint: Spatial location of local recurrence (e.g., primary tumour bed, scar, skin, subcutaneous, nipple, areola, pectoral muscles).

Other study parameters: First descriptive statistics will be performed to investigate whether there is a relation between the localization of the recurrence and the type of mastectomy: modified radical mastectomy (MRM), skin-sparing mastectomy (SSM), nipple sparing mastectomy (NSM).