Chalazion Conservative Treatment Trial
An eyelid stye, or chalazion, is the most common eyelid ailment, and is caused by the blockage of one of the oil secreting glands of the eyelid (meibomian glands). This leads to a typically painful, swollen, and red eyelid bump that lasts from days to weeks and months. The chalazion may cause tearing, pressure on the cornea, and irritation, all of which contribute to its morbidity. There are many anecdotal first line treatments for this condition, including warm compresses to the eyelid, topical antibiotics, topical steroids, topical combination antibiotic/steroid, and oral antibiotics. There have been no clinical trials to compare the efficacy of any of these conservative treatments. We wish to determine the most effective conservative medical treatment for chalazia.
Chalazion Unspecified Eye, Unspecified Eyelid|Chalazion Left Eye, Unspecified Eyelid|Chalazion Right Eye, Unspecified Eyelid|Chalazion Both Eyes
DRUG: Hot Compress plus Tobramycin Drops and Ointment|DRUG: Hot compress plus Tobramycin/Dexamethasone Drops and Ointment|OTHER: Hot Compresses
Number of Participants With Complete Resolution, Defined as number of patients with chalazion size regression of 100%, 4-6 weeks
Chalazion Size Difference Post-Treatment, Change of size of eyelid chalazion in millimeters from baseline to 4-6 weeks post-treatment, baseline and 4-6 weeks
An eyelid stye, or chalazion, is the most common eyelid ailment, and is caused by the blockage of one of the oil secreting glands of the eyelid (meibomian glands). This leads to a typically painful, swollen, and red eyelid bump that lasts from days to weeks and months. The chalazion may cause tearing, pressure on the cornea, and irritation, all of which contribute to its morbidity. There are many anecdotal first line treatments for this condition, including warm compresses to the eyelid, topical antibiotics, topical steroids, topical combination antibiotic/steroid, and oral antibiotics. There have been no clinical trials to compare the efficacy of any of these conservative treatments. We wish to determine the most effective conservative medical treatment for chalazia.