Anti-TGF Monoclonal Antibody (GC1008) in Relapsed Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
This study is being conducted to evaluate the overall safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug, GC1008, in patients with mesothelioma. An investigational drug is one that has not been approved by the FDA. Approximately 40 people will be enrolled on this study at the University of Pennsylvania (Main Institution/Coordinating Site) and the University of Chicago (Participating Institution). We expect about 20 subjects to be enrolled at each institution.
Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma
DRUG: GC1008
3-month Progression Free Survival Rate, The fraction of subjects surviving 3 months without disease progression., 3 months
Toxicity and Safety of Systemic Infusion of Anti-TGF Antibody, The toxicity and safety of systemic infusion of anti-TGF antibody at three-week dosing intervals. Number subjects with Grade 2 and Grade 3/4 treatment related toxicities., 18 months
Time to Progression and Overall Survival, Assessment of time to disease progression and overall survival, 18 months|Response Rate Using Modified RECIST Criteria for Mesothelioma, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1). Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in RECIST. The response assessment is based on the presence, absence, or unequivocal progression of the lesions., 18 months|Number of Participants With a Change of Serum Biomarkers After Therapy, Evaluation of changes after treatment therapy to a number of potential blood biomarkers of TGF-β effect (serum osteopontin, serum hyaluronan, serum MMP-1, serum MMP-7, serum IL-6, plasma CCL18, plasma VEGF, and plasma PAI-1). Animal models predict acute changes in TGF-β levels in blood associated with changes in serum biomarkers., 18 months|Number of Participants With Systemic Humoral Anti-tumor Immune Response After Repeated Anti-TGFβ Antibody Instillation, Comparing antibody bands in pre-treatment versus post-treatment serum, 18 months|Assessment of Systemic TGFβ After Repeated Anti-TGFβ Antibody Installation, The number of participants with significant change in percentage of circulating CD4+ T regulatory cells, marked by expression of FOXP3 after treatment. TGFβ has been implicated in the formation of T regulatory cells, and the blockade of TGFβ in animal models can inhibit the formation of T regulatory cells., 18 months|Biologic Response Measurements of TGFβ Blockade, Number of participants who demonstrated upregulation of NK cell receptors 3 weeks after treatment. There are data that show anti-TGFβ antibodies can upregulate NK cell receptors in patients with chronic viral infections. TGFβ blockade was measured in samples of serum tests and from pleural fluid or biopsy if available., 3 weeks
Primary: - To assess progression-free survival rate at three months.

Secondary: - To determine the toxicity and safety of systemic infusion of anti-TGF beta antibody at three-week dosing intervals. - To assess time to progression and overall survival - to assess response rate using Modified RECIST Criteria for Mesothelioma Additional Objectives: - To assess efficacy using serial measurements of serum \[and intrapleural, if indwelling catheter in place\] biomarkers, including serum-mesothelin related peptide (SMRP/Mesomark®) and osteopontin. - To assess systemic \[and intrapleural if indwelling catheter in place\] humoral anti-tumor immune responses after repeated anti-TGF beta antibody instillation. - To assess systemic \[and intrapleural, if indwelling catheter in place\] TGF beta, and other cytokine levels after repeated anti-TGF beta antibody instillation. - To assess biologic response measurements of TGF beta blockade from serum tests and from pleural fluid or biopsy tissue if this is available.