Ixazomib Citrate, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With POEMS Syndrome
This phase II trial studies how well ixazomib citrate, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone work in treating patients with polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome. Ixazomib citrate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as dexamethasone lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Giving ixazomib citrate, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with POEMS syndrome.
Plasmacytoma|POEMS Syndrome
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Rate of normalization of VEGF defined as VEGF value decreasing to below upper limit of normal (86 pg/mL), In each group, the rate of normalization of VEGF by 3 months (post-3 cycles) will be examined along with the prognostic factors for patients accrued to this study. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent binomial confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 3 months
Hematologic response rate, Hematologic response rate after 3 cycles of therapy (or 3 months after registration) will be estimated by the number of hematologic responses (partial response, very good partial response, or complete response) observed within 3 months of registration divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true hematologic response rate after 3 cycles of therapy (or 3 months after registration) will be calculated., Up to 3 months|Hematologic response rate, Hematologic response rate after 13 cycles of therapy (or 12 months) will be evaluated. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true rates at 12 months will be calculated., Up to 12 months|Normalization of VEGF, Normalization of VEGF after 13 cycles of therapy (or 12 months after registration) will be evaluated. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true rates at 12 months will be calculated., Up to 12 months|Survival time, The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 3 years
Change in peripheral neuropathy evaluated by Modified Neurological Impairment Score +7 polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes, Improvement of peripheral neuropathy (Modified Neurological Impairment Score +7 polyneuropathy, organomegaly, endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes) will be defined as decrease of \>= 2 points. Other neurologic tests including Overall Neuropathy Limitations Scale, polyneuropathy disability score, and EQ-5D-5L health questionnaire will be analyzed descriptively., Baseline up to 36 months|Change in positron emission tomography-scan, Improvements will be assessed by evaluating changes from baseline and will be described descriptively., 3 months up to 36 months|Change in presence or absence of ascites/effusions/edema, Improvements will be assessed by evaluating changes from baseline and will be described descriptively., 3 months up to 36 months|Change in right ventricular systolic pressure evaluated by echocardiogram, Improvements will be assessed by evaluating changes from baseline and will be described descriptively., 3 months up to 36 months|Change in diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide, Improvements will be assessed by evaluating changes from baseline and will be described descriptively., 3 months up to 36 months|Change in presence or absence of papilledema, Improvements will be assessed by evaluating changes from baseline and will be described descriptively., 3 months up to 36 months|Time to VEGF response, Median and range will be calculated for time to response in responding patients., Time from registration to the time of response, assessed up to 3 years|Time to hematologic response, Median and range will be calculated for time to response in responding patients., Time from registration to the time of response, assessed up to 3 years|Time to clinical response, Median and range will be calculated for time to response in responding patients., Time from registration to the time of response, assessed up to 3 years|Time to VEGF progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the time of progression, assessed up to 3 years|Time to hematologic progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the time of progression, assessed up to 3 years|Time to clinical progression, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the time of progression, assessed up to 3 years|Drug tolerance, Doses delivered will be tabulated to establish tolerance of drugs. Reasons for dose adjustments will be evaluated. Dose levels by cycle and total dose will be evaluated and summarized using descriptive statistics (median, range)., Up to 3 years|Change in bone biomarkers procollagen type I N propeptide and collagen type 1 C-telopeptide, Will be assessed., Baseline to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Normalization of VEGF after 3 cycles of therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Toxicity and safety of the combination of ixazomib citrate (ixazomib), lenalidomide, and dexamethasone.

II. Hematologic response after 3 cycles of therapy. III. Hematologic response rates and/or VEGF response at 12 months. IV. Overall survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Improvement of peripheral neuropathy (Overall Neuropathy Limitations Scale \[ONLS\], Modified Neurological Impairment Score for POEMS \[mNIS+7POEMS\], and performance score), ascites/effusions, diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) after 3 cycles of therapy.

II. Improvement of peripheral neuropathy (ONLS, mNIS+7POEMS, and performance score), ascites/effusions, DLCO, and positron emission tomography (PET)-scan (if abnormal at baseline) at 12 months (both groups) and at 24 and 36 months (group 2 only).

III. Time to VEGF response, hematologic response, and clinical response. IV. Time to VEGF progression, hematologic progression, and clinical progression.

V. Doses delivered will be tabulated to establish tolerance of study drugs.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe changes in bone biomarkers with treatment of ixazomib, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15, lenalidomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo standard of care autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) after completing 3 cycles of treatment.

GROUP II: Patients receive ixazomib citrate PO, lenalidomide PO QD, and dexamethasone PO as in Group I. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for up to 36 months.