A Phase I Trial of IMA970A Plus Montanide in Combination with Durvalumab (anti-PD-L1)
The trial is designed as a single-arm, open-label, phase I study investigating an off-the-shelf, multi-peptide-base HCC vaccine plus Montanide, combined with Durvalumab in patients with very early, early and intermediate stage of HCC. The investigational agents will be applied without concomitant anti-tumour therapy with the intention to reduce risk of recurrence/progression in patients who have received all indicated standard treatments.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Peptide-based hepatocellular carcinoma vaccine IMA970A|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Durvalumab|OTHER: Montanide (Adjuvant)
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Safety assessments will consist of continuous monitoring and reporting of adverse events (AEs) including serious adverse events (SAEs), regular monitoring of vital signs, ECOG performance status and regular conduct of physical examinations and laboratory assessments (haematology, clinical \[bio\]chemistry including C reactive protein (CRP) and glomerular filtration rate (GFR), coagulation test, assessment of viral infection, thyroid function test (TFT), urinalysis), electrocardiogram (ECG) and pregnancy tests (if applicable). Possible cross-reactivity with live attenuated vaccination or flu vaccine will be assessed., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)
Additional immunological parameters in blood (e.g. regulatory T-cells, myeloid derived suppressor cells), The number of events and the frequency of several MDSC and Treg populations will be presented., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|Infiltrating T-lymphocytes, immune cells and potential other (bio)markers in tumour tissue (depending on availability of tissue), The number of events and the frequency of infiltrating T-lymphocytes (TILs), other immune cells and potential other (bio)markers will be presented., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|DFS, Disease-free survival, 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|PFS, progression-free survival, 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|OS, Overall survival, Patients will be followed for overall survival every 2 months for up to 2 years after having completed the interventional part of the study at EOS.
Immunogenicity, The assessment of T-cell response in peripheral blood will be performed for all patients using standardized immune-monitoring assays. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients will be analysed for the occurrence of T-cell responses to peptides contained in IMA970A vaccine before application of standard therapy, such as before and after vaccination. The induction of immune responses by IMA970A vaccine will be subsequently analysed., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|Additional immunological parameters, e.g. regulatory T-cells, myeloid-derived suppressor cells, 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|Infiltrating T-lymphocytes in tissue, Infiltrating T-lymphocytes in tissue (depending on availability of tissue), 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|Serum/plasma biomarkers, Analysis of other immune cell populations that may influence T-cell responses such as regulatory T cells (Tregs) and myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC) (cellular biomarkers) will be performed using PBMCs from pre- and post-vaccination time points., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)|Assessment of the potential impact of the standard therapy on the natural immune response to peptides contained in IMA970A, The assessment of the natural immune response to peptides contained in IMA970A will be performed before start of standard anti-tumor therapy and thereafter (S 2) to assess whether the selected standard therapy has an influence on a potentially pre-existing (natural) immune response. Thus, available blood samples are used to reach this study endpoint and can therefore be justified, even if some patients turn out not to be eligible for study participation during S 2 procedures. Standardized sample collection, PBMC isolation and storage and standardized immunomonitoring assays will be used for this analysis., 55 months (approximately 4.5 years)
The proposed phase I HepaVac-201 will investigate safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of the same investigational IMA-970A agent, formulated in Montanide combined with an anti-PD-L1 (i.e.Durvalumab). Compared to the previous HepaVac-101 clinical trial, two major differences are introduced. The adjuvant Montanide (oil and water mix) will replace the CV8102 (TLR agonist) which was used in the HepaVac-101 trial. The anti-PD-L1 Durvalumab is introduced in the protocol. Indeed, several reports have shown that, inhibitory receptors are induced after vaccination. Blocking these inhibitory pathways lead to amplification of the T cell-mediated immune response. In particular, IFNγ production by antitumour-specific T cells could also upregulate PD-L1 on tumour cells, as a resistance mechanism to adaptive immunity, thereby promoting PD-L1-PD-1 blockade after vaccination. Several early phases clinical trials have been performed to validate this hypothesis. The aim is to verify whether these two changes in the HepaVac-201 protocol will improve the immunogenicity of the vaccine keeping the same safety profile as in the HepaVac-101 protocol. The phase I clinical trial HepaVac-201 will be conducted at the Istituto Nazionale Tumori, IRCCS Fondazione G. Pascale, Naples, Italy. Dr. Luigi Buonaguro will be the coordinator of the trial. Dr. Francesco Izzo and Dr. Paolo A. Ascierto are the lead Investigators. The trial is designed as a single-arm, open-label, phase I study investigating an off-the-shelf, multi-peptide-base HCC vaccine plus Montanide, combined with Durvalumab in patients with very early, early and intermediate stage of HCC. The investigational agents will be applied without concomitant anti-tumour therapy with the intention to reduce risk of recurrence/progression in patients who have received all indicated standard treatment.