A Dose Finding Study of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE in Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma in Combination With Standard of Care and in Recurrent Glioblastoma as a Single Agent.
A Dose Finding Study of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE in Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma in Combination with Standard of Care and in Recurrent Glioblastoma as a Single Agent
Glioblastoma
DRUG: [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE|DRUG: [68Ga]Ga-DOTA-TATE|OTHER: Temozolomide|OTHER: Radiotherapy
Group 1: Frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as an AE or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that meets any of the criteria defining dose-limiting toxicities and with an onset during the DLT observation period specified for the group.

• Group 1: DLT observation period of 49 to 52 days starting from the first administration of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE (Day 1) and ending with the completion of concomitant RT and TMZ. The 49 to 52 days observation period is depending on the start day of concomitant RT and TMZ (i.e. 7-10 days post first \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE dose). If the concomitant RT and TMZ is delayed for any reason, the DLT observation period will last until the completion of the concomitant treatment. If RT or TMZ is delayed, the DLT observation period will last until the last administered dose, whichever occurs later., 49 to 52 days starting from first administration of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE|Group 3: Frequency of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as an AE or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications that meets any of the criteria defining dose-limiting toxicities and with an onset during the DLT observation period specified for the group.

• Group 3: DLT observation period of 42 days starting from the first administration of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE (Day 1) i.e. accounting for 2 cycles of Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE., 42 days starting from first administration of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE
Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), serious AEs (SAEs) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, The distribution of adverse events of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE will be done via the analysis of frequencies for treatment emergent Adverse Event (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Event (TESAEs) and Deaths due to AEs, through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters.

During the follow up period, all AEs and lab abnormalities will be collected within 8 weeks after the last dose of study treatment. For participants with study drug related AEs, they will be followed until resolution or until the End of Study, whichever occurs first. Apart from that, only survival information, SAEs, that are considered related to study drug by the Investigator, and AEs of secondary hematological malignancies will be collected until the end of follow up period every 8 weeks., Up to approximately 2 years (estimated final OS analysis) from date of first study treatment|Incidence and severity of Adverse Events (AEs) and serious Adverse Events (SAEs) within 48 hours after [68Ga]Ga-DOTA-TATE infusion, The distribution of adverse events of \[68Ga\]Ga-DOTA-TATE will be done via the analysis of frequencies for treatment emergent Adverse Event (TEAEs), Serious Adverse Event (TESAEs) and Deaths due to AEs, through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters., up to 48 hours following the start of [68Ga]Ga-DOTA-TATE administration|Overall Objective Status as per modified Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (mRANO) criteria, According to modified RANO, the objective overall status combines the radiographic response on target lesions, new disease, neurological status and use of steroids and the result is reported as confirmed or preliminary CR, confirmed or preliminary PR, stable disease, confirmed or preliminary disease progression. The best objective overall status achieved during the study will be summarized using frequency and percentage. The rate of confirmed complete or partial response will be summarized using point estimate and 2-sided exact binomial 95% confidence interval (Clopper-Pearson) and presented by dose level within each group., Up to approximately 2 years (estimated final OS analysis) from date of first study treatment|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of confirmed progression according to modified RANO or death due to any cause. If no PFS event is observed, PFS will be censored at the date of the last adequate tumor assessment prior to data cut-off date and start of new anti neoplastic therapy, whichever comes first. PFS will be analyzed in the FAS population and results will be presented for each dose level within each group. The PFS distribution will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of randomization until date of progression or date of death from any cause, whichever come first, assessed for up to 2 years (estimated final OS analysis)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from date of first dose to date of death due to any cause. If a participant is not known to have died, then OS will be censored at the latest date the participant was known to be alive (on or before the cut-off date). OS will be analyzed in the FAS population and results will be presented for each dose level within each group. The OS distribution will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to approximately 2 years (estimated final OS analysis) from date of first study treatment|Group 1: Time activity curves (TACs), Time activity curves (TACs), describing percentage (%) of the activity injected vs time in blood, organs and tumor lesions, Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Absorbed radiation doses of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Absorbed radiation doses of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE in organs and tumor lesions will be summarized with descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Concentration of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Blood samples for radioactivity measurement will be collected before the start of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion, at the end of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion, then at 2 h, 6 h, 24 h, 48 h and 168 h after the end of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion for participants undergoing dosimetry. Blood samples will be drawn in heparinized tubes. Radioactivity measurements on blood will be performed locally on site, using a gamma-counter., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Observed maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Cmax will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Groups 1: Time of maximum observed drug concentration occurrence (Tmax) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Tmax will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Area under the serum concentration-time curve from time zero to the time of last quantifiable concentration (AUClast) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity-based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. AUClast will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero (pre-dose) extrapolated to infinite time (AUCinf) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. AUCinf will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Total systemic clearance for intravenous administration (CL) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. CL will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Volume of distribution during the terminal phase following intravenous elimination (Vz) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Vz will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Terminal elimination half-life (T^1/2) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. The half-life will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 1: Terminal-Phase Disposition Rate Constant (λz) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Terminal-Phase Disposition Rate Constant will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 5 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 5 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Time activity curves (TACs), Time activity curves (TACs), describing percentage (%) of the activity injected vs time in blood, organs and tumor lesions, Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Absorbed radiation doses of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Absorbed radiation doses of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE in organs and tumor lesions will be summarized with descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Concentration of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Blood samples for radioactivity measurement will be collected before the start of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion, at the end of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion, then at 2 h, 6 h, 24 h, 48 h and 168 h after the end of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion for participants undergoing dosimetry. Blood samples will be drawn in heparinized tubes. Radioactivity measurements on blood will be performed locally on site, using a gamma-counter., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Observed maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Cmax will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Time of maximum observed drug concentration occurrence (Tmax) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Tmax will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Area under the serum concentration-time curve from time zero to the time of last quantifiable concentration (AUClast) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity-based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. AUClast will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero (pre-dose) extrapolated to infinite time (AUCinf) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. AUCinf will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Total systemic clearance for intravenous administration (CL) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. CL will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Volume of distribution during the terminal phase following intravenous elimination (Vz) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Vz will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Terminal elimination half-life (T^1/2) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. The half-life will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Group 3: Terminal-Phase Disposition Rate Constant (λz) of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE, Venous whole blood samples will be collected and analysed for radioactivity. Radioactivity based concentration units will be converted to mass-based concentration units using the specific activity of the dose at the time of manufacture (MBq/µg). Pharmacokinetics characterization will be performed on mass-based concentrations. Terminal-Phase Disposition Rate Constant will be listed and summarized using descriptive statistics., Week 4 Day 1 (pre-dose, before the end of infusion, 2 hours post-dose, 6 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 2 (24 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 3 (48 hours post-dose), Week 4 Day 8 (168 hours post-dose)|Quantification of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE excreted from the body in urine, All excreted urine from the start of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion until the first whole body planar imaging will be collected, its volume measured and the radioactivity concentration kilobecquerel per milliliter (kBq/mL) determined in order to calculate the total radioactivity excreted from the body from the start of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion to the time of the first scan. If no urine is excreted from the start of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion until the first whole body planar imaging, no urine dosimetry is necessary., From the start of [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion until the first whole body planar imaging
The study for each participant consists of a Screening period, a Treatment period and a 12-month Follow-up period.

During the screening period of up to 6 weeks before starting GBM treatment, each participant will be assessed for somatostatin receptor (SSTR) expression by \[68Ga\]Ga-DOTA-TATE imaging PET/scan.

Eligible participants with newly diagnosed glioblastoma will be assigned to Group 1 :

• Participants in Group 1 (concomitant radiotherapy + temozolomide and temozolomide maintenance) will receive treatment with \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE every 4 weeks +/- 2 days, up to 6 administrations. Radiotherapy and temozolomide will be administered 7 to 10 days after the first administration of \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE. Temozolomide will be administered orally at a dose of 75 mg/m2/day during the concomitant period, concurrently with radiotherapy. Radiotherapy will be delivered at a dose of 2 Gray (Gy)/day, 5 days per week followed by 2 days of rest, for 6 consecutive weeks with a total dose of 60 Gy (without interruption). During the maintenance period, there is an intra-patient dose escalation in temozolomide treatment. The dosage of temozolomide is 150 mg/m2 in Cycle 1 of maintenance period, and then to 200 mg/m2 in Cycle 2 and beyond in the maintenance period, if 150 mg/m2 temozolomide treatment is well tolerated in Cycle 1.

Eligible participants with recurrent glioblastoma will be assigned to Group 3 and will receive \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE as single agent treatment every 3 weeks +/- 2 days.

An infusion of sterile 2.5% Lysine - Arginine amino acid (AA) solution will be co-administered with each \[177Lu\]Lu-DOTA-TATE dose for renal protection.