Large Segmentation Radiotherapy ± Deep Inspiration Breath Hold(DIBH) for Left Breast Cancer
The study is a single-center, prospective, non-randomized controlled study. The primary objective is to examine the clinical outcomes of utilizing Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH) in conjunction with hypo-fractionated radiotherapy for patients diagnosed with left-sided breast cancer with a particular focus on its potential to reduce the incidence of cardiac-related clinical and subclinical events.Participants will revieve large segmentation sadiotherapy ± DIBH for left breast cancer and be followed up to gather their clinical cardiac imformation.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Large Segmentation Radiotherapy|DEVICE: DIBH|DEVICE: Surface guided radiation therapy|DEVICE: laser alignment|BEHAVIORAL: free breathing
Incidence of subclinical and clinical cardiac events, 1. Clinical events: newly emerged cardiac diseases after radiotherapy include acute and delayed pericarditis, pericardial effusion and constrictive pericarditis, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, cardiac valve disease and arrhythmia.
2. Subclinical events: new electrocardiogram (ECG) abnormalities, echocardiographic abnormalities, and abnormal elevations of cardiac enzymes after radiotherapy., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Survival, Localized regional control rate ,overall survival and disease-related survival., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Cosmetic results, cosmetic evaluation(breast-conserving surgery). Excellent: The treated mammary gland is indistinguishable or only slightly different in size, shape, and texture from the contralateral mammary gland. There may be mild thickening of the breast or skin, or scar tissue, but not enough to change the appearance of the colored gland.

Good: The treated breast is not mildly asymmetric in size or shape compared to the contralateral breast. Thickening or scar tissue in the breast causes only Fair: The treated breast is significantly different in size and shape from the contralateral breast. Such changes involving 1/4 or less of the treated breast are significantly different in appearance from the contralateral breast. The change involves more than 1/4 of the breast tissue.

Poor: The treated breast is significantly different in appearance from the contralateral breast. The change involves more than 1/4 of the breast tissue or the treated breast has severe sequelae., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Life quality, Assessment of patient quality of life by EORTC QLQ-BR23 , a higher score means worse life quality., through study completion, an average of 1 year
The study is a single-center, prospective, non-randomized controlled study. The primary objective is to examine the clinical outcomes of utilizing Deep Inspiration Breath Hold (DIBH) in conjunction with hypo-fractionated radiotherapy for patients diagnosed with left-sided breast cancer with a particular focus on its potential to reduce the incidence of cardiac-related clinical and subclinical events.Participants will revieve large segmentation sadiotherapy ± DIBH for left breast cancer and be followed up to gather their clinical cardiac imformation.