Nivolumab After Combined Modality Therapy in Treating Patients With High Risk Stage II-IIIB Anal Cancer
This phase III trial investigates how well nivolumab after combined modality therapy works in treating patients with high risk stage II-IIIB anal cancer. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Anal Basaloid Carcinoma|Anal Canal Cloacogenic Carcinoma|Anal Margin Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage IIB Anal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Anal Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Digital Rectal Examination|PROCEDURE: High Resolution Anoscopy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|OTHER: Patient Observation|PROCEDURE: Proctoscopy|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Disease free survival, Will be defined as the occurrence of progression of local disease, distant metastases, second primary or death from the date of randomization., Up to 5 years
Objective response rate, Will be defined by complete and partial response., Up to 5 years|Severe toxicity interval, The following late side effects are considered as severe: any anal/rectal damage (ulcer, fistula, or perforation), rectal stenosis that required colostomy, skin ulceration, and severe fibrosis. This parameter estimates the probability of being free of late side effects for patients under loco-regional control., The time between randomization and the occurrence of late severe side effects (up to 5 years)|Colostomy-free survival, Up to 5 years|Overall survival, Up to 5 years|Incidence of toxicities, Will be assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether therapy with nivolumab following combined modality therapy (CMT) improves disease-free survival (DFS) compared with observation in patients with high risk anal carcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare nivolumab following combined modality therapy (CMT) with observation in patients with high risk anal carcinoma with regard to:

Ia. Objective response rate (complete \[CR\] and partial \[PR\]), stable disease and progression.

Ib. Severe toxicity interval. Ic. Colostomy-free survival. Id. Overall survival. Ie. Toxicity.

OUTLINE: Patients who received standard CMT are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) while on study.

ARM B: Patients undergo observation while on study

Patients undergo sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy or anoscopy, proctoscopy or digital rectal exam, x-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), biopsy and blood sample collection throughout the study.