Feasibility Study of Chemoradiation, TRAstuzumab and Pertuzumab in Resectable HER2+ Esophageal Carcinoma
Despite neoadjuvant chemoradiation regimens esophageal cancer remains a disease with poor outcome. The clinical benefit of HER2 targeting with trastuzumab has been shown in the setting of advanced disease and disease and safety of combining trastuzumab with chemoradiation in the curative setting has been established. In breast cancer, the added value of pertuzumab to standard treatment with trastuzumab has been shown both in the neoadjuvant and the metastastic setting. Taken together, there is a sound rationale to explore the combination of radiotherapy plus chemotherapy with trastuzumab and pertuzumab in HER2+resectable esophageal cancer. However, since the number of HER2+ patients in this setting is limited, and no data are available on the safety of this combination prior to major surgery, we propose to first conduct a feasibility study with this treatment stratgy. When the results of this study show that this treatment strategy is feasible, we will subsequently design a prospective study with efficacy as primary endpoint.
Esophageal Carcinoma
DRUG: Pertuzumab, trastuzumab
% of patients completing trastuzumab and pertuzumab treatment., See title, up to 14 weeks after start of treatment
Toxicity of pertuzumab and trastuzumab alone and in combination with chemoradiation, See title, up to 14 weeks after start of treatment|Number of post-operative complications, See title, up to 3 months after surgery|Pathological response, See title, up to 2 weeks after surgery|R0 resection rate, See title, up to 2 weeks after surgery|Pharmacokinetics of pertuzumab and trastuzumab, See title, up to 14 weeks after start of treatment
Relation between exposure and effect (safety and efficacy)., See title, up to 3 months after surgery|Biomarker analyses, See title, up to 3 months after surgery|SUV of pre-treatment trastuzumab-PET, See title, up to two weeks after surgery
Objective of the study:

Assess the feasibility of preoperative treatment with pertuzumab and trastuzumab combined with preoperative chemoradiation (carboplatin, paclitaxel and radiation) in terms of withdrawal rate from surgery.

Study design:

This is a non-randomized feasibility study with Paclitaxel (T), Carboplatin (C), Pertuzumab (P). Trastuzumab (H), and radiation (RT) followed by surgical resection of the oesophagus.

Study population:

Patients (male/female) with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the intrathoracic esophagus or gastro esophageal junction, age \>18 and \<75 years.

Intervention (if applicable):

Paclitaxel 50 mg/m2 and Carboplatin AUC = 2 will be given by intravenous infusion on days 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29.

Trastuzumab will be administered at a dose of 4 mg/kg on day 1, followed by 2 mg/kg at wk 2-6. From wk 7 onwards trastuzumab is administered at a dose of 6 mg/kg every 3 weeks. Pertuzumab will be given 840 mg intravenously at each administration.

Thus, trastuzumab and pertuzumab will be continued during eight weeks after the end of chemoradiation. Surgery will be planned in or around week 14, approximately eight weeks after the end of chemoradiation.