The Effect of Myofascial Chain Release Techniques on Shoulder Joint Range of Motion in Breast Cancer Survivors
In breast cancer patients, limitation of shoulder joint movement occurs following mastectomy surgery. Studies have reported that damage to the fascia on the pectoralis major muscle during mastectomy surgery contributes to the development of the limitation. The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of release techniques applied to the fascia on the pectoralis major muscle and the fascial chain on the incerasing of shoulder joint range of motion.
Breast Cancer Survivors
OTHER: conventional physiotherapy|OTHER: Manual lymphatic drainage|OTHER: Myofascial relasing
measurement of tissue stiffness (N/m), Stiffness values will be measured with myotonPro on centers of coordination located along the myofascial chain ., changes from baseline stiffness values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of passive muscle tone (Hz), muscle tones will be measured with myotonPro on centers of coordination located along the myofascial chain, changes from baseline tone values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of creep of tissue, creep of tissue will be measured with myotonPro on centers of coordination located along the myofascial chain, changes from baseline creep values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of the range of shoulder joint motion, The range of shoulder flexion, abduction, extension and external-internal rotation movements will be measured with a universal goniometer., changes from baseline range of the shoulder joint motion values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|assessment of activity of daily living, upper extremity daily living functional capacity of participation will be assessed with the Quick-DASH (Shortened Disabilities Arm, Shoulder and Hand Questionnaire). The scale consists of 11 items. In the scale, a 5-point Likert scale is evaluated and scored 1-5. The scores that can be obtained from the scale are between 0-100. Lower scores indicate better daily activity participation., changes from baseline Quick-DASH Questionnaire scores will be assessment at 6 week and 10 week|assessment of depression and anxiety, quality of life will be assessed using the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD). The scale consists of 14 items (7 items depression and 7 items anxiety). The scale is evaluated on a 4-point Likert scale and is scored 0-3. Depression and anxiety scores are calculated separately. While the score range that can be taken in the lower scales is 0-21, low scores are considered positive., changes from baseline HAD scale scores will be assessment at 6 week and 10 week
measurement of skin temperature, measurements will be taken from the area covering 3 cm of the surgical incision with a P45 thermographic camera with high thermal sensitivity (Flir Sistem, ThermaCAM, Sweden)., changes from baseline skin temperature values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of pain, Pain will be evaluated by visual analog scale (VAS). In the scale, the patient is asked to mark the most appropriate pain intensity on a scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (tolerable pain). The higher the score, the greater the pain intensity., changes from baseline pain values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of pain pressure threshold, Pain pressure threshold will be evaluated by a digital algometer (Algometer Commander, Jtech Medical, MM036_K, 2016)., changes from baseline pain pressure threshold values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week|measurement of grip strength, The grip strength of both hand will be evaluated by "hand-held" dynamometer., changes from baseline grip strength values will be measured at 6 week and 10 week
After mastectomy, complications such as decreased range of motion and muscle strength in the shoulder joint, development of pain and tenderness, and formation of lymphedema are frequently observed. In addition to causing a significant decrease in the patient's daily life quality, shoulder limitation also negatively affects the treatment process by preventing the joint position required for radiotherapy. For this reason, it is a priority to prevent the development of shoulder joint limitations that may occur following surgery and to open the developing limitation immediately. This study was born from the idea that the relaxation techniques to be applied to regain the mobility of the fascial structure, which has been damaged and whose mobility has decreased due to breast surgery, should be performed by covering the entire myofascial chain. In addition, the investigators aim to prevent adhesions that will limit the mobility of soft tissue by minimizing scar tissue formation with early drainage of postoperative edema. The aim of this study is to investigate the effectiveness of myofascial chain relaxation techniques and manual lymphatic drainage applied to improve soft tissue mobility in the prevention and elimination of shoulder limitations after breast cancer surgery.

A total of 48 patients who agreed to participate in the study will be enrolled in the treatment program twice a week for 6 weeks. During the study, the same assessments will be applied to all patients and the cases will be evaluated 3 times (pre-treatment, post treatment, and one month post treatment). During the assessments, the physical evaluations of the patients on the shoulder region will be examined in detail using objective and subjective methods.