Abiraterone, Enzalutamide, or Apalutamide in Castrate-sensitive Prostate Cancer.
The investigators have used national VHA data to demonstrate real-world efficacy of abiraterone and enzalutamide in Veterans with mCRPC. In the real-world that is the VHA, the investigators have successfully estimated g values that accurately predict OS and the use of this metric in other settings should now be explored. In the egalitarian system that is the VHA the treatment of prostate cancer is excellent, uniform across the US and indifferent to race. The choices made are clearly personalized, given not all men received all therapies and that younger Veterans were treated more aggressively.

But with survivals that rival those in registration trials that enroll optimally fit individuals usually not encumbered by the co-morbidities that afflict many Veterans, the outcomes are testimony to the fact that for this common malady of older Veterans with whom VA physicians have broad experience the care administered is unsurpassed. Importantly this care at least as regards Veterans with mCRPC demonstrates that given equal access to health care, African Americans with prostate cancer fared as well if not better than Caucasians and importantly had better outcomes with abiraterone, an observation needing further exploration as these therapies move up front.
Metastatic Cancer|Neoplasm, Prostate
DRUG: Abiraterone acetate|DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Enzalutamide
PSA Progression, Primary Objectives

1. In Veterans with castrate-sensitive prostate cancer demonstrate that administration of YONSA® (abiraterone acetate) first is not inferior to the administration of physician's choice enzalutamide or apalutamide first with efficacy measured by the rate (g) of tumor growth based on PSA measurement.
2. In Veterans with castrate-sensitive prostate cancer demonstrate that the efficacy of abiraterone acetate is superior in African American compared to Caucasian Veterans with efficacy measured by the rate (g) of tumor growth based on PSA determination., 2 years
PSA Response, PSA response based Prostate Cancer Working Group 2 guidelines., 2 years
The investigators have used national VHA data to demonstrate real-world efficacy of abiraterone and enzalutamide in Veterans with mCRPC. In the real-world that is the VHA, the investigators have successfully estimated g values that accurately predict OS and the use of this metric in other settings should now be explored. In the egalitarian system that is the VHA the treatment of prostate cancer is excellent, uniform across the US and indifferent to race. The choices made are clearly personalized, given not all men received all therapies and that younger Veterans were treated more aggressively.

But with survivals that rival those in registration trials that enroll optimally fit individuals usually not encumbered by the co-morbidities that afflict many Veterans, the outcomes are testimony to the fact that for this common malady of older Veterans with whom VA physicians have broad experience the care administered is unsurpassed. Importantly this care at least as regards Veterans with mCRPC demonstrates that given equal access to health care, African Americans with prostate cancer fared as well if not better than Caucasians and importantly had better outcomes with abiraterone, an observation needing further exploration as these therapies move up front.