68Ga-pentixather and 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT in Multiple Myeloma
Chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR4) is overexpressed in multiple myeloma (MM) cells. 68Ga-pentixafor is a radio-labled tracer for CXCR4 . 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT has shown good diagnostic performance in MM. But an exchange of Ga3+ by Lu3+ or Y3+ will lead to a significant loss of CXCR4 affinity. Investigators conduct this prospective study to evaluate the diagnostic performance of 68Ga-pentixather compared with 68Ga-pentixafor, in order to parallel 68Ga-pentixather and 177Lu/90Y-pentixather in theranostics of MM.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: 68Ga-Pentixather|DRUG: 68Ga-Pentixafor
Metabolic parameter, Comparison of metabolic parameter (SUVmax) between 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT., through study completion, an average of 2 years|PET-positive diffuse bone marrow involvement, Comparison of the number of diffuse bone marrow involvement between 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT., through study completion, an average of 2 years|PET-positive focal bone marrow lesions, Comparison of the number of focal bone marrow lesions between 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT., through study completion, an average of 2 years|PET-positive extramedullary lesions, Comparison of the number of extramedullary lesions between 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT., through study completion, an average of 2 years
Adverse effects, Types of adverse events., through study completion, an average of 2 years|Tumor burden assessment, The correlation between metabolic parameter (SUVmax) in 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and clinical staging, through study completion, an average of 2 years|Follow-up assessment, The correlation between metabolic parameter (SUVmax) in 68Ga-pentixather PET/CT and follow-up parameter (PFS)., through study completion, an average of 2 years|CXCR4 expression in biopsies and metabolic parameters in PET, The correlation between CXCR4 expression in biopsies and metabolic parameter (SUVmax) in PET., through study completion, an average of 2 years
Multiple myeloma (MM) is a malignant plasma cell disorder which is characterized by clonal proliferation of plasma cell in bone marrow microenvironment. Chemokine receptor-4 (CXCR4) is overexpressed in MM cells, and has been identified as a potential therapy target. 68Ga-pentixafor is a radiolabeled ligand with high affinity for CXCR4. 68Ga-pentixafor PET/CT has been reported with better diagnostic performance than 18F-FDG PET/CT. However, considering both diagnostic and therapeutic applications, an exchange of Ga3+ by other M3+ ions (Lu or Y) will lead to a significant loss of CXCR4 affinity. Thus, pentixather was developed as the precursor of 177Lu-pentixather or 90Y-pentixather, which can be used in CXCR4-targeted peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT). Investigators conduct this prospective study to evaluate the diagnostic performance of 68Ga-pentixather compared with 68Ga-pentixafor, in order to parallel 68Ga-pentixather and 177Lu/90Y-pentixather in theranostics of MM.