A Community Health Education Intervention for Increasing Community-driven Actions to Reduce the Cancer Burden in Western New York
This clinical trial evaluates a community health education intervention (I CAN) for increasing community-driven actions to reduce the cancer burden in Western New York. Engaging community members is a critical component of designing impactful programs to reduce the cancer burden. Leaders at the national, state, and local levels have all called for more community partnerships and engagement in design of health intervention and policies. The I CAN intervention is a workshop that includes a presentation outlining key concepts related to social network processes and the cancer burden in Western New York, a structured skill-building activity, and then empowering and motivating activities meant to cultivate momentum and excitement for action. This community health education intervention may be able to provide a formalized process for empowering and facilitating community members to take steps to reduce the community cancer burden.
Healthy
PROCEDURE: Community Health Education|OTHER: Survey Administration
Demand, Feasibility will be assessed through demand, which will be evaluated as the number of people enrolled and the demographics of participants. Descriptive analyses will be used., Up to 2 years|Practicality, Practicality will be assessed through the percentage of participants who complete different aspects of the intervention. Descriptive analyses will be used., Up to 2 years|Acceptability, Acceptability will be examined through post-intervention measures, including the Acceptability of Intervention Measure, Intervention Appropriateness Measure, and Feasibility of Intervention Measure. Descriptive analyses will be used., UP to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine the feasibility of the I CAN intervention. II. Examine the acceptability of the I CAN intervention. III. Examine topic areas selected for action within participants' I CAN plans for action.

OUTLINE:

Participants attend an I CAN intervention workshop over 2 hours.