Phase I/II Study of CAR.70- Engineered IL15-transduced Cord Blood-derived NK Cells in Conjunction With Lymphodepleting Chemotherapy for the Management of Relapse/Refractory Hematological Malignances
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn about the safety of giving immune cells called natural killer (NK) cells with chemotherapy to patients with leukemia, lymphoma, or multiple myeloma.

Immune system cells (such as NK cells) are made by the body to attack foreign or cancerous cells. Researchers think that NK cells you receive from a donor may react against cancer cells in your body, which may help to control the disease.
B-Cell Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS)|Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)|Multiple Myeloma|Plasma Cell Leukemia|Hodgkin Lymphoma|T-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma/ T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukmeia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome / Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Blastic Transformation of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia|Germ Cell Tumors
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: CAR.70/IL15-transduced CB-NK cells|DRUG: Fludarabine phosphate
Number of Participants With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE Version 5.0., CTCAE Version 5.0 - General grading:

Grade 1: Mild: discomfort present with no disruption of daily activity, no treatment required beyond prophylaxis.

Grade 2: Moderate: discomfort present with some disruption of daily activity, require treatment.

Grade 3: Severe: discomfort that interrupts normal daily activity, not responding to first line treatment.

Grade 4: Life Threatening: discomfort that represents immediate risk of death, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of Participants with Complete or Partial Response, Up to 30 days after the last treatment|Number of Participants who are Alive and in Remission, Number of Participants who are Alive and in Remission after 6 months., Up to 180 days
Primary Objective:

To determine the safety, efficacy and optimal cell dose of CAR.70/IL15-transduced CB-NK cells in patients with relapsed/refractory hematological malignances. The efficacy and optimal dose will be identified for individual diseases.

Secondary Objectives:

* To quantify persistence of infused allogeneic donor CAR-transduced CB-derived NK cells in the recipient.
* To conduct comprehensive immune reconstitution studies.