Venetoclax, MLN9708 (Ixazomib Citrate) and Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Light Chain Amyloidosis
This phase I/Ia trial finds the best dose and side effects of venetoclax given in combination with ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone in treating patients with light chain amyloidosis that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory) and who have an abnormal genetic change \[translocation t(11;14)\]. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Ixazomib citrate is in a class of medications called proteasome inhibitors. It works by helping to kill cancer cells. Anti-inflammatory drugs such as dexamethasone reduce inflammation by lowering the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Combination therapy with venetoclax, ixazomib citrate and dexamethasone may be effective in treatment of relapsed or refractory light chain amyloidosis.
AL Amyloidosis
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration and Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Transabdominal Ultrasound|DRUG: Venetoclax|PROCEDURE: X-Ray Imaging
Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity will be evaluated according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days|Maximum tolerated dose, Defined as the dose for which the isotonic estimate of the toxicity rate is closest to the target toxicity rate., Up to the end of cycle 1|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), Will be based on the assessment of toxicities during cycle 1 that meet criteria for dose-limiting toxicities (DLT)., Up to the end of cycle 1
Overall response rate (complete hematologic response), Will be estimated based on the patients enrolled in the dose-escalation as well as the dose-expansion stage, using Clopper-Pearson confidence interval. Hematologic complete response rate will be evaluated according to the consensus guidelines in treatment response., After cycles 3, 6, 9, and 12, and every 6 months thereafter up to 2.5 years
Expression of BCL-2, BCL-XL, BAX, BAK, BIM, NOXA, and MCL-1, Will be assessed by immunohistochemistry., Baseline|Immune profile in the peripheral blood, Will be determined by mass cytometry., Before and during treatment|Hematologic response rates, Estimated using mass spectrometry to detect persistence of a monoclonal protein in the serum and urine., Up to 2.5 years|Characterization of CD138+ plasma cell with t(11;14), Up to 2.5 years|Presence of minimal residual disease, Will be determined by Next Generation Sequencing in patients achieving a hematologic complete response., Up to 2.5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and dexamethasone when used in combination.

II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and dexamethasone when used in combination.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the anti-light chain amyloidosis (AL) activity as assessed by incidence of complete hematologic response (CR) and overall hematologic response (partial response \[PR\], very good partial response \[VGPR\], and CR).

III. To estimate the organ-specific response rates, among patients with measurable organ disease, using standard criteria.

IV. To estimate progression free survival.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate expression of BCL-2, BCL-XL, and MCL-1 on the surface of plasma cells of patients with AL.

II. To describe the immune profile in the peripheral blood of patients with AL before and during treatment with venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and dexamethasone at multiple time points.

III. To estimate hematologic response rates using mass spectrometry to detect persistence of a monoclonal protein in the serum and urine.

IV. To characterize the genotype of the CD138+ plasma cell in patients with AL and t(11;14) and compare findings to those of patients with multiple myeloma and t(11;14) as reported in prior studies.

V. To determine presence of minimal residual disease by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) in patients achieving a hematologic CR.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of venetoclax and ixazomib citrate.

Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, ixazomib citrate PO on days 1, 8 and 15, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15 and 22 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may undergo x-ray imaging and abdominal ultrasound during screening. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) during screening and bone marrow biopsy and/or aspiration as well as blood sample collection throughout the study. Patients may undergo computed tomography (CT) scans, and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and/or positron emission tomography (PET) scans and may optionally undergo urine sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 1-3 months until disease progression or death.