ADAM-Afatinib Diarrhea Assessment and Management
This is a non-randomized, open label, two-cohort, multi-institutional study to evaluate the use of diarrheal management tools intended to facilitate timely intervention and treatment modifications due to afatinib treatment-related diarrhea in patients with EGFR mutations-positive adenocarcinoma of the lung. Patients in Cohort 1 will follow diarrhea management. Patients in Cohort 2 will receive prophylactic loperamide starting the fist day of afatinib treatment.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: afatinib|DRUG: loperamide
Occurence of CTCAE Grade >= 2 Diarrhea, Overall incidence of patients who experienced diarrhea during the first three courses of afatinib treatment., From first drug administration until 28 days after the end of third treatment course, up to 84 days.
Time to Initial Onset of Diarrhea Grade 2 or Higher, Time to initial onset of diarrhea grade 2 or higher, From first drug administration until end of third treatment course, up to 84 days.|Duration of First Episode of Diarrhea Grade 2 or Higher, Duration of first episode of diarrhea grade 2 or higher.

Please note that the nine patients experienced diarrhea episodes that were not managed according to the protocol specified afatinib treatment interruptions and dose reductions. No patients were excluded from the primary analysis., From first drug administration until end of third treatment course, up to 84 days.|Changes in Intensity of Diarrhea Over Time, Percentage of participants with grade 2 or higher diarrhea each week for the first 3 cycles of afatinib treatment, Up to 12 weeks (equivalent to 3 courses)|PFS, Progression-free survival (PFS). PFS was defined as the time from the start of treatment to an event occurred. In the analyses for the PFS endpoint, an event was defined as disease progression or death, whichever occurred earlier. Data for patients who did not die or progress during the trial were censored at the time of afatinib discontinuation or transition to commercially available afatinib. Median PFS is estimated using Kaplan-Meier method.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST 1.1)., Every 08 weeks during the first 6 months of treatment, and every 12 weeks thereafter until the end of treatment.
This is a non-randomized, open label, two-cohort, multi-institutional study to evaluate the use of diarrheal management tools intended to facilitate timely intervention and treatment modifications due to afatinib treatment-related diarrhea in patients with EGFR mutations-positive adenocarcinoma of the lung. Patients in Cohort 1 will follow diarrhea management. Patients in Cohort 2 will receive prophylactic loperamide starting the fist day of afatinib treatment.