Evaluation of a Symptom and Needs Assessment for Patients With Cancer
This is a quality improvement study that aims to improve on the timely identification and management of symptoms and supportive care needs in patients with cancer. The study will be evaluating the relative success of an existing on-line patient-reported symptom and needs assessment, and then the implementation and use of an updated version of the symptom and needs assessment with Northwestern Medicine (NM) cancer patients. It also aims to evaluate the impact of the symptom and needs assessment system on healthcare delivery and quality of care. Participants who complete the symptom and needs assessment as part of their usual care are invited to participate in the study by agreeing to complete an on-line survey (at 3 different time points) that asks about quality of life, adverse symptoms related to cancer and cancer treatment, patient experiences with their cancer care team, and the healthcare services they have received. Patients may also be invited to participate in a one-time interview or focus group about patient experiences with the symptom and needs assessment.
Cancer
OTHER: Symptom Monitoring Intervention
Effects of the symptom monitoring system on patient-reported quality of life related to cancer and cancer treatment, Quality of life will be assessed using a brief, validated 7-item patient-reported questionnaire (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General 7-item or FACT-G7) that asks about symptoms of fatigue, pain, and nausea, sleep quality and contentment with life., Change from baseline quality of life at 12-months|Effects of the symptom monitoring system on severity of patient-reported symptoms related to cancer and cancer treatment, Symptom severity will be assessed via a Patient-Reported Outcome Measurement Information System (PROMIS) computer adaptive test (CAT) that will ask about depression, anxiety, pain, fatigue, and physical functioning. CAT items are dynamically selected for administration from an item bank based upon the respondent's previous answers. Patient usually completes 4-12 items with a high level of measurement., Change from baseline symptom severity at 12-months|Effects of the symptom monitoring system on patient-reported adverse events related to cancer and cancer treatment, Adverse events will be assessed using the Patient-Reported Outcomes- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE™) assessment. The PRO-CTCAE questionnaire will ask questions about nausea, constipation, insomnia, vomiting, and diarrhea., Change from baseline adverse events at 12-months|Impact of the symptom monitoring system on health care services used by patients, Utilization of services related to physical and mental health will be measured using a patient-reported questionnaire to assess healthcare services used by participants, such as number of emergency room visits, oncology urgent care visits, general urgent care visits, doctor visits, referrals for services within and outside the health system, and overnight stays in the hospital., Change from baseline use of healthcare services at 12 months
Impact of the symptom monitoring system on patient experiences with their cancer care team, Patient experiences with their cancer care team will be measured using components of a standardized measure (Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems or CAHPS) designed to assess patient experiences with their healthcare provider and system., Change from baseline patient experiences with their cancer care team at 12 months|Patient experiences (barriers and facilitators) using the symptom and needs assessment, Patient experiences with the symptom and needs assessment will be evaluated using qualitative methods (semi-structured interview or focus group), Patient experiences will be assessed at one time point between baseline and 12 months
Cancer patients' under-identified symptoms and concerns can result in treatment interference, poor care satisfaction, compromised health-related quality of life, and taxed healthcare systems. Cancer care organizations have emphasized the need for symptom assessment and management within quality cancer care delivery. We have leveraged health information technology to pilot and implement the Lurie Screening Initiative in the Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center (RHLCCC) within the Central region of Northwestern Medicine (NM). Following two pilot implementation projects, the screening initiative program is live in RHLCCC clinics. It allows patients to complete Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System computer adaptive tests (PROMIS CATs) assessing depression, anxiety, fatigue, pain, and physical function, along with checklists of supportive care needs, within the electronic health record (EHR). Patients can do so at home via MyChart (a patient portal of their EHR) or in clinic via an EHR hyperlink. Assessment results immediately populate the EHR; severe symptoms and endorsed supportive care needs trigger notifications to clinicians (social workers, dieticians, oncologists \& oncology nurses) who can then make referrals and care decisions in real time.

This study will expand and evaluate implementation of the screening initiative via these aims:

Aim 1. Evaluate the impact of system-wide implementation of the program on patient and system outcomes over 12 months via (a) a quality improvement study (estimated n=4,000 cases) to compare the impact of the program (versus usual care) on EHR-documented health care usage and patient satisfaction using a stepped wedge design in which clusters of study sites will gradually be assigned to cross from serving as a control to implementing the program and (b) a human subjects substudy (n=1,000) with patients who will complete the symptom monitoring and other patient-reported outcomes (PRO) measures of health care usage and satisfaction at baseline, 6 \& 12 months. We will examine differences in PROs between participants whose screening responses trigger clinical alerts and those who do not. We will also explore longitudinal trajectories of PRO scores

Aim 3. Identify implementation facilitators and barriers to system-wide expansion of the program. We will conduct qualitative research to gather feedback from patients participating in the program expansion (n=50). This will include multiple assessments throughout implementation.