Magnetic Seed Localisation for Nonpalpable Breast Lesions
Screening programs and advances in imaging have led to more breast lesions being diagnosed at an impalpable stage. Multiple localisation techniques for nonpalpable breast lesions have been developed during the past decades. Specifically, several alternatives to the golden standard hooked-wire technique have become available, of which magnetic seed localisation is one of the newest approaches. Since September 2018, Magseed速 localisation is the standard of care for localising impalpable breast lesions in UZ Leuven. In this study, the oncological safety, the clinical safety and surgeon satisfaction of Magseed速 localisation will be assessed and retrospectively compared to hooked-wire localisation.
Oncology|Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Preoperative localisation technique
Number of participant with device-related adverse events, Up to three weeks after surgical treatment|Total breast volume resected during breast conserving surgery, Up to three weeks after surgical treatment|Number of participants with positive surgical margins as assessed by pathological examination of the specimen, Up to three weeks after surgical treatment|Re-operation rate due to positive surgical margins, Up to three weeks after surgical treatment|Surgeon satisfaction based on a questionnaire, After surgery, the surgeon will be asked to describe the magnetic seed procedure, choosing between 'easier than hooked-wire' or 'more challenging than hooked-wire'. Moreover, the surgeon wil have the chance to add additional remarks or experiences with this new technique., After surgery
Screening programs and advances in imaging have led to more breast lesions being diagnosed at an impalpable stage. Multiple localisation techniques for nonpalpable breast lesions have been developed during the past decades. Specifically, several alternatives to the golden standard hooked-wire technique have become available, of which magnetic seed localisation is one of the newest approaches. Since September 2018, Magseed速 localisation is the standard of care for localising impalpable breast lesions in UZ Leuven. In this study, the oncological safety, the clinical safety and surgeon satisfaction of Magseed速 localisation will be assessed and retrospectively compared to hooked-wire localisation.