The Sexual Health of Rectal Cancer Patients
We know that treatment for rectal, colorectal or anal cancer can impact sexual function. This study aims to learn:

* How the treatment affects emotional and social well-being.
* How a new sexual health educational program affects you.

Cancer patients seek education for lots of reasons. It often helps them cope because they can express their feelings with a trained professional. This study is open to individuals who have been treated for rectal, colorectal or anal cancer. It involves a new type of sexual health counseling program. It will teach participants skills that they can use to improve their sex lives. These skills may also improve physical and emotional well-being. We will compare the new type of sexual health program with the standard care patients receive after treatment for rectal, colorectal or anal cancer.
Rectal Cancer|Rectum
BEHAVIORAL: questionnaires|BEHAVIORAL: CSI-SH- Cancer Survivorship Intervention
To investigate the feasibility, tolerability, acceptability (including adherence) and efficacy of CSI-SH, a psycho-educational intervention, on the primary outcome of sexual functioning among RC survivors., conclusion of study
To investigate the impact of CSI-SH on secondary outcomes: sexual self-schema, cancer specific distress, general distress symptoms, and Quality of Life for all participants, as well as sexual bother for men only., conclusion of study|To explore baseline variables that may influence the effectiveness of CSI-SH (i.e., moderators such as socio-demographic and medical variables)., conclusion of study
This is a two year randomized clinical trial examining the feasibility, tolerability, acceptability (including adherence) and efficacy of an intervention designed to improve sexual functioning of survivors of rectal cancer.

We have completed enrollment of female patients and are currently collecting follow up data. Recruitment for male patients is ongoing. Male participants will now be randomized in a 3:1 ratio to either the intervention condition (n = 40) or the control condition (n = 40).