Dactinomycin or Methotrexate in Treating Patients With Low-Risk Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
This randomized phase III trial studies how well methotrexate works compared to dactinomycin in treating patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methotrexate and dactinomycin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether methotrexate is more effective than dactinomycin in treating gestational trophoblastic disease.
Choriocarcinoma|FIGO Stage I Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|FIGO Stage II Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|FIGO Stage III Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor|Hydatidiform Mole
BIOLOGICAL: Dactinomycin|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Methotrexate|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response, Complete Response is defined as 3 consecutive bi-weekly values of hCG\<5 over a minimum of 4 weeks of normal hCG values with no values greater than 5 mIU/ml, hCG testing is performed prior to each cycle to treatment until treatment is completed, up to 10 months. For patients who have responded to treatment hCG must be obtained every 4 weeks for 1 year after completing treatment.
Number of Participants With CTCAE v4 Graded Adverse Events With Low-risk Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia by Arm, Maximum grade of physician assessed adverse events reported during treatment, Assessed throughout the treatment period and within 2-4 weeks after discontinuation of treatment|The Number of Participants With Post Protocol Surgical Treatment for Each Arm., Anytime during post treatment follow-up for up to 2 years from study entry.|The Number of Participants With Post Protocol Multi-agent Chemotherapy Treatment for Each Arm., Anytime during post treatment follow-up for up to 2 years from study entry.|Patient-reported Quality of Life (QOL) at Baseline, Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Generic (FACT-G). The FACT-G is a scale for assessing general QOL of cancer patients. It consists of four subscales: Physical Well Being, Functional Well Being, Social/Family Well-Being, and Emotional Well-Being. Each item in the FACT-G was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For the negative statements, reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, a subscale score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the subscale. The FACT-G score is calculated as the sum of the subscale scores. The FACT-G score ranges 0-108. A larger score suggests better QOL., Prior to cycle 1|Patient-reported Quality of Life (QOL) After Baseline Visit., Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Generic (FACT-G). The FACT-G is a scale for assessing general QOL of cancer patients. It consists of four subscales: Physical Well Being, Functional Well Being, Social/Family Well-Being, and Emotional Well-Being. Each item in the FACT-G was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). For the negative statements, reversal was performed prior to score calculation. According to the FACIT measurement system, a subscale score was the summation of the individual item scores if more than 50% of subscale items were answered. When unanswered items existed, a subscale score was prorated by multiplying the mean of the answered item scores by the number of items in the subscale. The FACT-G score is calculated as the sum of the subscale scores. The FACT-G score ranges 0-108. A larger score suggests better QOL., Prior to cycle 3 (4 weeks after cycle 1 if off study treatment prior to cycle 3). Prior to cycle 5, Prior to cycle 7, 26 weeks after starting study treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that treatment with multi-day methotrexate is inferior to treatment with pulse actinomycin-D (dactinomycin) in patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic disease with respect to complete response.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the frequency of post protocol surgical treatment for each arm. II. To describe the frequency of post protocol multi-agent chemotherapy treatment for each arm.

III. To compare multi-day methotrexate to actinomycin-D with respect to frequency and severity of adverse events in patients with low-risk gestational trophoblastic neoplasia.

IV. To investigate the impact of treatment on overall quality-of-life (QOL) and explore the influence of treatment on issues such as body image, sexual functioning, and patient-reported side effects and disruption.

V. To assess whether uterine artery pulsatility index (UAPI) can provide independent prognostic information predictive of single-drug resistance.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive dactinomycin intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive methotrexate intramuscularly (IM) on days 1, 3, 5, and 7 and leucovorin calcium orally (PO) on days 2, 4, 6, and 8 OR single agent methotrexate IV on days 1-5.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 20 courses\* in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year and then every 3 months for 1 year.

NOTE: \* Patients will be treated for three courses after human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) \< 5 mIU/mL or until evidence of treatment failure (biologic progression), disease progression, or unacceptable toxicity despite dose modifications. Upon normalization of hCG (\< 5 mIU/mL), patients will be treated with three additional courses.