Sonrotoclax, Rituximab, and Zanubrutinib in Treating Participants With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, and Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies the side effects of an escalated ramp-up of sonrotoclax following initial debulking with zanubrutinib or rituximab in treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) that is newly diagnosed, has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to a protein called CD20, which is found on B-cells, and may kill tumor cells. Zanubrutinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking a protein called Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK), which is needed for tumor cell growth. Sonrotoclax works by blocking a protein called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2). This protein helps certain types of blood tumor cells to survive and grow. When sonrotoclax blocks Bcl-2 it slows down or stops the growth of tumor cells and helps them die. Giving an increased dose of sonrotoclax over a shorter period of time in combination with zanubrutinib or rituximab may be safe and tolerable in treating patients with newly diagnosed, relapsed or refractory CLL, SLL, and MCL.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Gastrointestinal Endoscopy|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Sonrotoclax|DRUG: Zanubrutinib
Incidence of adverse events (AEs) during an escalated inpatient ramp-up of sonrotoclax, Will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 measuring the frequency of AEs, including episodes of laboratory and clinical tumor lysis syndrome. Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., At day 12|Percentage of patients who reach an 80mg dose of sonrotoclax, Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., Baseline to day 4|Percentage of patients who reach a 320mg dose of sonrotoclax, Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., Baseline to day 12
Overall response rate, Defined by International Workshop on CLL (iwCLL) criteria. Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., From the time of receiving first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Complete response (CR), Defined by iwCLL criteria. The time to CR will also be reported for the group that achieves this response. Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., From the time of receiving first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Partial response rate, Defined by iwCLL criteria. Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals., From the time of receiving first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals. Analysis will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Continuous measures will be summarized using means/medians, standard deviations, and ranges., From the time of receiving first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, Analysis will be descriptive and incorporate the appropriate analysis set. Binary outcomes will be estimated as simple proportions with corresponding exact confidence intervals. Analysis will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Continuous measures will be summarized using means/medians, standard deviations, and ranges., From the time of receiving first treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of sonrotoclax in combination with zanubrutinib or rituximab. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients not refractory to a Bruton's tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTKi) undergo debulking and receive zanubrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on day 1 of cycles 1-15. Beginning on day 1 of cycle 4, patients receive a ramp up of sonrotoclax PO QD until target dose is reached. Then patients will continue sonrotoclax PO QD and zanubrutinib PO QD through Cycle 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 15 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) during screening and on study and blood sample collection throughout the study. Additionally, patients may undergo bone marrow biopsy and endoscopy on study.

ARM II: Patients who are refractory to a BTKi undergo debulking and receive rituximab PO QD on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of 1 cycle. Beginning on day 1 of cycle 2, patients receive a ramp up of sonrotoclax PO QD until target dose is reached. Patients will continue sonrotoclax PO QD through cycle 13. Patients also continue to receive ritiximab PO QD on day 1 of cycles 3-6. Cycles repeat every 28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT during screening and on study and blood sample collection throughout the study. Additionally, patients may undergo bone marrow biopsy and endoscopy on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 14 days and up to 5 years.