Chemotherapy With Cetuximab as Conversion Therapy in RAS/BRAF WT Unresectable Liver Metastasis Right-sided Colon Cancer
This study was designed as multi-center, ambispective observational trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of addition of cetuximab to doublet or triplet chemotherapy as conversion therapy in right-sided BRAF/RAS wild-type CRLM with curative intent. The primary endpoint was radical resection rate (R0). The secondary endpoint was response rate, rate of NED, depth of remission, early tumor shrinkage, progression free survival and safety.
Colon Cancer
DRUG: Doublet or triplet chemotherapy combined with cetuximab
R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate upon conversion treatment with chemotherapy plus cetuximab, 1 year
Objective response rate, CR + PR rate according to RECIST, 1 year|Reported adverse events, Number of patients with adverse events and severity according to NCI CTC 4.0, 1 year|Progression free survival, Time from date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first., 2 year|no evidence of disease, the percentage of patients who had a curative liver treatment following protocol treatment, 1 year|depth of response, DOR means that the period from the day when either CR or PR is first confirmed until the day of documented PD or the day of death due to all causes, whichever occurs earlier., 1 year|Early Tumor Shrinkage, Early tumor shrinkage assessed by Response rate at week 8, 1 year
Patients with colorectal liver-limited metastases (CLM) represent an exceptional subgroup with regards to the possible benefits of potentially curative multidisciplinary strategies, in which the upfront most active combination regimens are preferred to improve the rate of radical resection (R0) and NED (no evidence of disease). Unfortunately, Data are limited that specifically address the tumor location's impact on conversion therapy. As far as right-sided CRLM are concerned, much lower R0 after conversion therapy could be achieved when compared with left-sided CRLM. Furthermore, great controversies remain about the optimal conversion regimens in right-sided CRLM and the potential roles of anti-EGFR with regards to the different recommendations from NCCN, ESMO and CSCO guidelines. Chemotherapy plus cetuximab have the advantages in terms of response rate, early tumor shrinkage and depth of response, thus it is still of great value to explore the roles of cetuximab plus chemotherapy as conversion strategy in the right-sided RAS/BRAF wild type and MSS CRLM in the real world scenario.

This study was designed as multi-center, ambispective observational trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of addition of cetuximab to doublet or triplet chemotherapy as conversion therapy in right-sided BRAF/RAS wild-type CRLM with curative intent. The primary endpoint was radical resection rate (R0). The secondary endpoint was response rate, rate of NED, depth of remission, early tumor shrinkage, progression free survival and safety.