PRINCE (PSMA-lutetium Radionuclide Therapy and ImmuNotherapy in Prostate CancEr)
This investigator driven study will examine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of the combination of 177Lutetium-PSMA (177Lu-PSMA) and pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC). 177Lu-PSMA is a compound that binds to the extra-cellular domain of the prostate-specific membrane antigen. Pembrolizumab is an antibody targeted against anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1).This is a single arm study where all patients will be treated with 177Lu-PSMA for upto 6 doses and pembrolizumab for upto 35 cycles.
Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: 177Lu-PSMA
Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) response, PSA response will be defined as a 50% or greater decrease in PSA from baseline to the lowest post-baseline PSA result. A second consecutive value obtained 3 or more weeks later is required to confirm the PSA response., Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment.|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety], Safety will be measured by serious adverse events (SAEs) and AEs assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5.0., Through treatment completion, maximum of 24 months|Tolerability, Tolerability is defined as the time from treatment commencement until treatment discontinuation due to toxicity. Participants who ceased treatment due to reasons other than toxicity will be censored at the time of ceasing protocol treatment and participants who died while on treatment from reasons unrelated to the treatment will be censored at the date of death., Through treatment completion, maximum of 24 months
Radiographic progression free survival, Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment.|PSA-progression free survival, Time from treatment initiation to the date of PSA progression per PCWG3 or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. The date of PSA progression is the date that an increase of 25% or more and an absolute increase of 2ng/mL or more from the nadir is documented., Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment.|Overall survival, Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment|Overall Response Rate by modified RECIST1.1, Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment|Duration of objective tumour response as assessed by modified RECIST 1.1 for soft tissue and PCWG3 for bone lesions, Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment|Time to treatment (TTR) response, TTR-PCWG3 is defined as the time from treatment initiation to the date of the first documented CR or PR per modified RECIST1.1 for soft tissue and PCWG3 for bone lesions., Through study completion, up until 24 months after the last patient commences treatment|Change in pain, The Brief Pain Inventory - Short Form (BPI-SF) is 15-item domain-specific instrument designed to assess the severity of pain and the impact/interference of pain on daily functions through the use of a numerical rating scale (NRS). Participants rate the severity of their pain as its "worse", "least' and "average" in the last 24 hours using an 11-point NRS with anchors "no pain'' and ''pain as bad as you can imagine.'' This instrument consists of 2 domains: pain severity and pain interference. The BPI-SF also asks the participants to mark the location of the pain on a body drawing and includes additional questions regarding pain treatment and the extent of pain relief. The BPI-SF will be scored according to the user guide. Higher pain scores is worse outcome., Through treatment completion, maximum of 24 months|Change in Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate cancer (FACT-P) provides information about general and disease-specific symptoms. The FACT-P module is a disease-specific 39-item questionnaire that has been validated for the purpose of assessing health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in prostate cancer patients. The FACT-P consists of 5 subscales: Physical Well-Being (7 items), Functional Well-Being (7 items), Emotional Well-Being (6 items), Social Well- Being (7 items), and additional concerns or Prostate Cancer Subscale (PCS) specific to prostate cancer (12 items). FACT-P questions are scored on a 5-point Likert scale from 0 to 4 (0 being not at all and 4 being very much).Scoring of the FACT-P will be based on the user manual. Higher scores means higher quality of life., Through treatment completion, maximum of 24 months
This investigator driven study will examine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of the combination of 177Lutetium-PSMA (177Lu-PSMA) and pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (mCRPC). 177Lu-PSMA is a compound that binds to the extra-cellular domain of the prostate-specific membrane antigen. Pembrolizumab is an antibody targeted against anti-programmed cell death 1 (PD-1).This is a single arm study where all patients will be treated with 177Lu-PSMA for upto 6 doses and pembrolizumab for upto 35 cycles.