Soy Protein and Breast Cancer Risk Reduction
Soy consumption has been associated with reduced risk for developing breast cancer. Ovarian hormones and breast density are considered breast cancer risk markers. We propose to test the hypothesis that consumption of soy protein reduces ovarian steroid hormones and results in a corresponding reduction in breast density comparing to casein protein.
Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: soy milk|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cow's milk
Mammographic Density (Baseline), Breast images were acquired by digital mammography. Fibroglandular tissue were segmented from fatty breast tissue. The total breast area is the sum of the fibroglandular tissue area and fatty breast tissue area. Mammographic density (breast density) is the percentage of fibroglandular tissue in the total breast., Baseline|Mammographic Density (1 Year), Breast images were acquired by digital mammography. Fibroglandular tissue were segmented from fatty breast tissue. The total breast area is the sum of the fibroglandular tissue area and fatty breast tissue area. Mammographic density (breast density) is the percentage of fibroglandular tissue in the total breast., 1 Year|Mammographic Density (2 Years), Breast images were acquired by digital mammography. Fibroglandular tissue were segmented from fatty breast tissue. The total breast area is the sum of the fibroglandular tissue area and fatty breast tissue area. Mammographic density (breast density) is the percentage of fibroglandular tissue in the total breast., 2 years|Breast Tissue Composition Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., Baseline|Breast Tissue Composition Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., 1 Year|Breast Tissue Composition Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., 2 years|Percentage of Grandular Tissue in Total Breast Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., Baseline|Percentage of Grandular Tissue in Total Breast Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., 1 Year|Percentage of Grandular Tissue in Total Breast Measured by MRI, Breast images acquired by breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The amount of fatty breast tissue,(cc), glandular breast tissue(cc ), total breast (cc), and percentage of glandular tissue in total breast (%) were estimated., 2 years
Blood Will be Measured for Standard Clinical Chemistries, Serum will be measured for for blood chemistries , 4 times at baseline, and thereafter at 3-monthly interval for up to 2 years of protein drink supplementation, 4 measurements at baseline and once every three months after protein drink supplements for up to 2 years.|Progesterone (ng/ml), Serum will be measured for progesterone (ng/ml), 4 times at baseline, and thereafter at 3-monthly interval for up to 2 years of protein drink supplementation, 4 measurements at baseline and once every three months after protein drink supplements for up to 2 years.
The aims will be tested by conducting a randomized, double-blind study, with two arms and 100 women in each arm. Premenopausal women will be recruited and randomly allocated to take one of two different dietary supplements daily for 2 years. The two test diets soy protein drink and caseinate protein drink. Multiple blood, urine, and breast fluid samples will be obtained before and during the dietary intervention period and analyzed for ovarian hormones. At baseline and after the intervention period, breast density, and bone density will be assessed by radiological techniques at baseline and 1 yr and 2 yr after protein drink supplementation. The efficacy of the dietary intervention will be determined by comparing mean changes of ovarian steroids, and density of the breast and bone tissues over the 2 year dietary intervention period in the two diet groups with adjustment for baseline values and individual patient characteristics of interest. We predict that 2 years of soya dietary supplements will reduce breast density, which will be explained by individual hormonal changes.