A Phase II Multi-center Pilot Study of Concurrent Temozolomide and Whole Brain Irradiation in Lung Cancer and Breast Cancer Patients With Brain Metastases
Brain metastasis (BM) is among the most feared complications in cancer because even small tumors may cause incapacitating neurologic symptoms. It is observed in more than 50% of patients with lung cancer and 15% to 25% of patients with breast cancer. Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral alkylating agent that crosses blood-brain barrier (BBB). This pilot study aims to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) plus concomitant TMZ in lung cancer and breast cancer patients with BM.
Lung Cancer and Breast Cancer Patients With Brain Metastases
DRUG: temozolomide 100mg
objective response rate (ORR), To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of WBRT plus concomitant TMZ treatment in lung cancer and breast cancer patients with BM., assessments will be conducted between 10 to 14 weeks after the end of treatment, all subjects will be followed every 3 months since Month 6 until completion of study (12 months after the last patient is enrolled) or death, whichever comes first.
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS), Overall survival (OS), Change from baseline in MMSE scores, Change from baseline in SF-36, assessments will be conducted between 10 to 14 weeks after the end of treatment, all subjects will be followed every 3 months since Month 6 until completion of study (12 months after the last patient is enrolled) or death, whichever comes first.
Safety, 1. Change in lab data
2. Adverse event(s) (AE)
3. Serious adverse event(s) (SAE), safety of study treatments will be assessed by physician at each return. The safety for individual subject will be followed till 2 weeks after EOT.
Brain metastasis (BM) is among the most feared complications in cancer because even small tumors may cause incapacitating neurologic symptoms. It is observed in more than 50% of patients with lung cancer and 15% to 25% of patients with breast cancer. Temozolomide (TMZ) is an oral alkylating agent that crosses blood-brain barrier (BBB). This pilot study aims to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT) plus concomitant TMZ in lung cancer and breast cancer patients with BM.