Set-back Suture Versus Traditional Vertical Mattress Suture
The investigators hope to compare two different methods of closing skin wounds using sutures. One of these methods (the set-back technique) was recently described in 2010 and has been reported to be technically easier and reduces the chance of spitting sutures (deep sutures that are pushed to the surface of the skin as the wound heals). The other method (the vertical mattress technique) has been used for many years with good results. However, no controlled studies have been performed to clearly demonstrate a difference between the two methods. We hope to find differences in the height of the wound edges immediately after surgery(5 minutes following the procedure) as well as the appearance of the scar and symptoms associated with the scar 3 months after surgery.
Basal Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Set-back suture|PROCEDURE: Vertical mattress suture
Mean of sum of 2 blinded reviewers Physician Observer Assessment scores, Compare the functional and cosmetic outcomes of the two sutured halves of each scar at 3 months follow-up as follows:

a. Use a previously validated scar assessment scale called the Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale, specifically the averaged sum of the total score of 2 blinded observers., 3 months|Scar width, Width of scar in millimeters for each side of scar measured 1 cm from the midline., 3 months
Height of scar immediately following wound closure, Height of each side of the wound will be measured 1 cm from the midpoint of the wound in millimeters, 5 minutes
The investigators hope to compare two different methods of closing skin wounds using sutures. One of these methods (the set-back technique) was recently described in 2010 and has been reported to be technically easier and reduces the chance of spitting sutures (deep sutures that are pushed to the surface of the skin as the wound heals). The other method (the vertical mattress technique) has been used for many years with good results. However, no controlled studies have been performed to clearly demonstrate a difference between the two methods. We hope to find differences in the height of the wound edges immediately after surgery(5 minutes following the procedure) as well as the appearance of the scar and symptoms associated with the scar 3 months after surgery.