Study of Cemiplimab - TP Induction Chemotherapy in Patients with Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
The purpose of this research study is to determine the safety and tolerability of two dosing schedules of cemiplimab given in combination with cisplatin and docetaxel induction chemotherapy (TPI) in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA SCCHN). Cemiplimab is FDA approved for treatment of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin as well as non-small cell lung cancer but not for squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck.
Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cemiplimab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be the basis for safety and toxicity of Cemiplimab -TP that will be measured and reported only during the first cycle of Cemiplimab -TP for the first 6 study objects in each cohort A and B since the majority of the DLT occurs after the first treatment cycle in multiple phase I oncology clinical trials. DLTs must be related to a study drug, cemiplimab. Known and expected chemotherapy (TP, standard of care) adverse events not related to cemiplimab will not be defined as DLTs., During first cycle of cemiplimab (day 14)|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be the basis for safety and toxicity of Cemiplimab -TP that will be measured and reported only during the first cycle of Cemiplimab -TP for the first 6 study objects in each cohort A and B since the majority of the DLT occurs after the first treatment cycle in multiple phase I oncology clinical trials. DLTs must be related to a study drug, cemiplimab. Known and expected chemotherapy (TP, standard of care) adverse events not related to cemiplimab will not be defined as DLTs., After 3 weeks of cemiplimab
Adverse events during induction therapy, Number of adverse events according to NCI CTCAE v4.0, At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Blood Pressure, At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Heart Rate, At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Temperature, At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Complete White Count (CBC), At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Sodium, A sodium blood test measures the amount of sodium in the blood. Sodium is a type of electrolyte. Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals that help maintain fluid levels and the balance of chemicals in the body called acids and bases. Sodium also helps the nerves and muscles work properly., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Potassium, A potassium blood test measures the amount of potassium in the blood. Potassium is a type of electrolyte. Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals in the body that help control muscle and nerve activity, maintain fluid levels, and perform other important functions. The body needs potassium to help the heart and muscles work properly., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Magnesium, A magnesium blood test measures the amount of magnesium in the blood. Magnesium is a type of electrolyte. Electrolytes are electrically charged minerals that are responsible for many important functions and processes in the body., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Bicarbonate (CO2), test to measures the amount of carbon dioxide in the liquid part of your blood, called the serum. The CO2 test is most often done as part of an electrolyte or basic metabolic panel. Changes in the CO2 level may suggest that the body is losing or retaining fluid., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Phosphate, A phosphate in blood test measures the amount of phosphate in the blood. Phosphate is an electrically charged particle that contains the mineral phosphorus. Phosphorus works together with the mineral calcium to build strong bones and teeth., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Calcium, The calcium blood test measures the level of calcium in the blood., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN), Urea nitrogen is what forms when protein breaks down. This test measures the amount of urea nitrogen in the blood., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Uric Acid, Uric acid is a chemical created when the body breaks down substances called purines. Most uric acid dissolves in blood and travels to the kidneys. From there, it passes out in urine. This test checks to see how much uric acid is in the blood., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Glucose, Measures the glucose levels in your blood., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH), This test measures the level of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), also known as lactic acid dehydrogenase, in the blood or sometimes in other body fluids. If the LDH blood or fluid levels are high, it may mean certain tissues in the body have been damaged by disease or injury., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|SGOT (AST), Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) blood test measures the level of the enzyme AST in the blood., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|SGPT (ALT), The alanine transaminase (ALT) blood test measures the level of the enzyme ALT in the blood. ALT is an enzyme found in a high level in the liver. An enzyme is a protein that causes a specific chemical change in the body., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Alkaline phosphatase (ALP), Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is a protein found in all body tissues. Tissues with higher amounts of ALP include the liver, bile ducts, and bone.

A blood test can be done to measure the level of ALP., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Direct bilirubin, The bilirubin blood test measures the level of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid made by the liver., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)|Total bilirubin, The bilirubin blood test measures the level of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellowish pigment found in bile, a fluid made by the liver., At the end of Cycle 3 (each cycle is 21 days)
The purpose of this research study is to determine the safety and tolerability of two dosing schedules of cemiplimab given in combination with cisplatin and docetaxel induction chemotherapy (TPI) in patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA SCCHN). Cemiplimab is FDA approved for treatment of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin as well as non-small cell lung cancer but not for squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck.