The Effect of Home-Based Walking Program on Peripheral Neuropathy, Fatigue and Quality of Life
The study aims to evaluate the effect of home-based walking program on peripheral neuropathy, fatigue and quality of life in patients receiving taxane and platinum-based chemotherapy.
Chemotherapeutic Toxicity
OTHER: Home Based Walking Program
International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ- Short Form), It is used to evaluate physical activity. The form includes walking, moderate and vigorous activity, sitting categories. The total score includes the sum of time (minutes) and frequency (days)., Baseline and 8th week|National Cancer Institute (NCI) -CTCAE v5.0 Toxicity Criteria, This scale was developed to evaluate the grading of chemotherapy-related peripheral neurotoxicity. It evaluates sensory and motor neuropathy between grades 1-5., Baseline and 8th week|Cancer Fatigue Scale, This scale was developed to evaluate the fatigue of cancer patients. It includes 15 questions and three sub-dimensions: Physical, Affective and Cognitive. The Likert type form is evaluated by giving points. Increasing scores received from the scale demonstrate a high level of fatigue., Baseline and 8th week|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (EORTC QLQ-CIPN 20), This scale was developed to evaluate the effect of peripheral neuropathy on quality of life of cancer patients. It includes 20 questions and three sub-dimensions: Sensory, Motor and Autonomic. The Likert type form is evaluated by giving points. Increasing scores received from the scale demonstrate a high level of symptoms and problems related to peripheral neuropathy., Baseline and 8th week|European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), This Scale was developed to measure the quality of life of patients with cancer. It includes 30 questions and three sub-dimensions: Global health status, Functional, Symptom. High scores in the functional subscale indicate good/healthy functional status, high scores in the symptom subscale indicate high levels of symptoms and/or problems, and high scores in the global health status/quality of life subscale indicate good quality of life., Baseline and 8th week
The study was designed as a randomized controlled trial. This study will be carried out with a total of 88 cancer patients receiving taxane and platinum-based chemotherapy, 44 of whom were in the intervention group and 44 in the control group, whose treatment was started in Akdeniz University Hospital."Home Based Walking Program" will be applied to the patients in the intervention group for 8 weeks.Within the scope of the Home-Based Walking Program, face-to-face patient education, patient education booklet, sending text messages, face-to-face and telephone counseling were planned.

Patient Identification Form, International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ- Short Form), National Cancer Institute (NCI) -CTCAE v5.0 Toxicity Criteria, Cancer Fatigue Scale, EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 (Quality of Life Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy) and EORTC QLQ-C30 (Quality of Life Scale), Interview Form will be used to collect data.