BrUOG 278: FOLFOX-A For Pancreatic Cancer A Brown University Oncology Research Group Study
The purpose of this study is to test the safety, activity and best doses of FOLFOX-A which consists of the standard chemotherapy drugs fluorouracil, leucovorin, oxaliplatin and abraxane. Each of these drugs are currently used in pancreatic cancer.

The experimental part of the study is combining these drugs together in FOLFOX-A.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Dose level 1|DRUG: Dose level 2/MTD|DRUG: Dose level 3
Assessment of Toxicities to Define MTD of FOLFOX-Abraxane (A) for Newly Diagnosed, Advanced Pancreatic Cancer., MTD (Abraxane 150 mg/m2 day 1, Oxaliplatin 85 mg/m2 day 1, leuocovorin 400 mg/m2 day 1, F-FU infusion 1200 mg/m2 day x 2 days IV infusion) was defined by protocol documented and predefined DLT's in 3 dose levels., For up to 30 days post completing drug, an expected average of 6 months
Response Rate (if Patient's Tumor(s)Are Progressing or Being Controlled) Following Treatment With FOLFOX-A for Patients With Newly Diagnosed, Advanced Pancreatic Cancer., Data below summarizes number of patients who experienced partial response. Partial response evaluated in this study using the international criteria proposed in the Revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Guideline version 1.1 Response Criteria Partial Response (PR) At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, pre-drug until disease progression, whichever comes first, for an expected average of 6 months
More active treatments are desperately needed in pancreatic cancer. The regimen of FOLFIRINOX increases survival as compared to gemcitabine but at a cost of increased toxicity. Irinotecan is responsible for much of the toxicity of FOLFIROX but may not contribute significantly to the regimen's activity. Abraxane is a new agent in pancreatic cancer. This albumin-bound nanoparticle form of paclitaxel increases tumor accumulation of paclitaxel though binding of albumin to SPARC in pancreatic cancer stroma. The investigators therefore propose a pilot study of FOLFOX (fluorouracil, leucovorin and oxaliplatin) combined with abraxane to establish the safety and preliminary activity of FOLFOX-A. Patients with inoperable (metastatic and locally advanced) pancreatic cancer will be eligible since the primary outcome is to establish the safety of FOLFOX-A.