Phase II Study of TAK228 in Relapsed Lymphoma
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn if TAK-228 can help to control relapsed lymphoma. The safety of this drug will also be studied.
Lymphoma
DRUG: TAK228|OTHER: Blood Sugar Testing
Response Assessment (RA), RA was defined by Lugano Criteria \& based on CT scans obtained at screening \& after completion of every 2 cycles of therapy. Complete Radiographic Response Target Nodes must regress to \<=1.5cm in longest dimension,No extralymphatic sites of disease. PR \>=50% decrease in sum of the product of diameters of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites. When a lesion is too small to measure on CT, 5 mmx5mm is assigned. When not visible on CT, assign 0x0 mm. For a node 5mmx5mm use actual measurement. SD\< 50% decrease in sum of the product of diameters of up to 6 target measurable nodes \& extranodal sites, no criteria for disease progression are met. Progressive disease requires one of the following:An individual node must be abnormal with: LDi 1.5cm \& Increase by 50% from PPD nadir \& an increase in LDi or SDi from nadir 0.5cm for lesions 2cm,1cm for lesions 2cm. In case of splenomegaly, the splenic length must increase by \>=50% of the extent of its prior increase beyond baseline., Time frame for response assessment was from Baseline to end of treatment or progression of disease up to 1 year.
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Progression free survival, duration of response and overall survival analysis could not be properly evaluated due to patients being taken off study early due to progression of disease but safety and tolerability were reported through safety event reports, please see AEs-serious and non-serious section for this., Baseline to end of treatment or progression of disease
Exploratory Objective to Define Change of mTOR Pathway Protein Phosphorylation and the Incidence of Activating Mutations in MTOR and Related Genes., Assessed with reverse phase protein arrays after exposure to TAK228,, Baseline to end of treatment or progression of disease
Study Drug Administration:

If you are found to be eligible for this study, you will begin taking capsules of TAK-228 in 28-day cycles. You will take the drug 1 time every day at about the same time. You should take the drug with about a cup (8 ounces) of water after eating a light meal. You should fast for 2 hours before and 1 hour after each dose.

If you vomit or have other digestive side effects that prevent you from taking a dose, that dose should be skipped. If you vomit up a dose, that dose should not be retaken. In both cases, wait until the next day to take another dose. In no case should you double or repeat a dose. You should record any vomiting in the dose diary the study staff provides you with.

Study Visits:

Within 3 days before you start taking TAK-228, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing. Biomarkers are found in the blood/tissue and may be related to your reaction to the study drug.

On Day 1 of each cycle:

* You will have a physical exam.
* Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You must fast for 4 hours before this blood draw. Some of these draws will be used for a diabetes test. If you can become pregnant, part of this sample will be used for a pregnancy test.
* Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing (Cycles 1 and 2 only).
* You will have an EKG (within 3 days of each cycle after Cycle 1).

On Days 8 and 22 of Cycle 1, you will have a physical exam.

On Day 15 of Cycle 1:

* You will have a physical exam
* Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

Within 5 days before Day 1 of Cycle 3, then every even-numbered cycle after that (Cycles 4, 6, 8, and so on), you will have CT scans, chest x-rays, and a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration to check the status of the disease.

If the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest, you will have PET/CT scans every 2 cycles to check the status of the disease.

Blood Sugar Testing:

You will be given a glucometer to check your pre-dose blood sugar levels at home every day. The study staff will teach you how to use the glucometer and what an abnormal reading looks like. You must tell the study staff right away if you have any abnormal readings. The frequency of in-home fasting glucose testing may be reduced to once weekly if the doctor thinks it is needed.

Length of Study:

You may continue to receive the study drug for up to 12 cycles. You will no longer be able to take the drug if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

Your participation in this study will be over after the follow-up phone calls have finished.

End-of-Treatment Visits:

About 1 week after you stop taking the study drug:

* You will have a physical exam
* Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests and to test for diabetes. This will include a pregnancy test if you are able to become pregnant.
* You will have an EKG.

About 2 weeks after you stop taking the study drug, you will have CT scans and chest x-rays to check the status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will also have a bone marrow biopsy/aspiration to check the status of the disease.

Within 2 weeks after you stop taking the study drug, blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for biomarker testing.

This is an investigational study. TAK-228 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It is currently being used for research purposes only. The study doctor can describe how the study drug is designed to work.

Up to 75 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.