Glucarpidase After High-Dose Methotrexate in Patients with Osteosarcoma
This early phase I trial studies how well glucarpidase works in reducing toxicity in patients with osteosarcoma receiving high dose methotrexate treatment. Glucarpidase may reduce the levels of methotrexate in patients' blood and lead to shorter hospitalizations and a reduction in toxicities.
Osteosarcoma
DRUG: Glucarpidase|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Proportion of subjects completing 4 planned doses of high dose methotrexate (HDMTX), Will be estimated with an exact 95% confidence interval (CI)., Time from first dose of HDMTX to time of last dose of HDMTX (week 10)
Length of hospital stay (LOS) for methotrexate (MTX) clearance, Time of start of MTX administration to time of MTX =< 0.1uM sample collection for each planned MTX infusion (up to 15 days)|LOS for all causes (excluding MTX-related AEs), Date of admission for each planned MTX infusion to date of discharge for each planned MTX infusion (up to 15 days)|Length of hospital stay (LOS) for methotrexate (MTX)-related adverse events (AEs), Date of admission for each planned MTX infusion to date of discharge for each planned MTX infusion (up to 15 days)|Percent treatment effect at resection, Defined as an admixture of degenerating wispy osteoid matrix with empty lacunae, necrotic ghost cells, and edematous stroma with loose fibrous tissue. Dense fibrosis or hyalinization or sheets of sclerotic acellular osteoid may also be present. These features are quantified by estimating the percentage of each parameter in each tumor slide and calculating the mean based on the total number of tumor slides examined. The percentage of tumor necrosis or treatment effect will be recorded from each participant's surgical pathology report., From start of surgery until end of surgery|Incidence of glucarpidase hypersensitivity, Will be assessed according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. Will be determined for participants that received at least 1 dose of glucarpidase following an HDMTX infusion. The 95% CI will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., From first dose of glucarpidase until 30 days after last dose of glucarpidase|Incidence of glucarpidase neutralizing antibodies, Will be determined for participants that received at least 1 dose of glucarpidase following an HDMTX infusion. The 95% CI will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., From first dose of glucarpidase to 30 days after last dose of glucarpidase|Incidence and severity of MTX-related toxicities, Will be assessed according to CTCAE v 5.0. Will be determined for participants that received at least 1 dose of glucarpidase following an HDMTX infusion. The 95% CI will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., From start of first planned MTX infusion to 30 days after last dose of MTX|Incidence and severity of glucarpidase toxicities, Will be assessed according to CTCAE v 5.0. Will be determined for participants that received at least 1 dose of glucarpidase following an HDMTX infusion. The 95% CI will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., From first dose of glucarpidase to 30 days after last dose of glucarpidase|MTX and DAMPA serum concentration (umol/L) at 4, 24, 24.5, 36, 48 and every 24 hours after the start of MTX infusion, From start of each planned MTX infusion to time when MTX =< 0.1 uM (for each planned MTX infusion) (up to 15 days)|Proportion of glucarpidase doses (flat dose) that result in MTX serum concentration reduction of >= 97% from hour 24 to hour 24.5, Will be presented along with 95% confidence intervals. Summary statistics will be reported on the efficacy analysis set with sub-analyses stratified by glucarpidase dose., From first dose of glucarpidase to end of study treatment (week 10)|Proportion of glucarpidase doses (flat dose) that result in 48 hour serum MTX level < 1 uM, Will be presented along with 95% confidence intervals. Summary statistics will be reported on the efficacy analysis set with sub-analyses stratified by glucarpidase dose., From first dose of glucarpidase to end of study treatment (week 10)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the rate of completion of 4 planned high dose methotrexate (HDMTX) doses when glucarpidase is administered after each dose.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the length of hospital stay (LOS) associated with methotrexate (MTX) clearance following administration of glucarpidase 24 hours after HDMTX.

II. To assess the LOS associated with all causes following administration of glucarpidase 24 hours after HDMTX.

III. To assess the impact of glucarpidase administration on HDMTX efficacy. IV. To assess the safety and tolerability of 4 doses of HDMTX administered with glucarpidase in an adult osteosarcoma population.

V. To assess the efficacy of glucarpidase flat dose of 1,000 units.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive standard of care HDMTX intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on day 1 of weeks 4, 5, 9, and 10. After 24 and 48 hours after the start of each HDMTX infusion, patients also receive glucarpidase IV over 5 minutes in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 32 weeks.