Adjuvant ctDNA-Adapted Personalized Treatment in Early Stage NSCLC (ADAPT-E)
In this study circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) blood testing is used to detect the residual blood cancer. If residual cancer using this blood test is detected there may be at higher risk of having the cancer return. The study is going to test whether or not the number of circulating cancer cells detected in the blood can be reduced by administration durvalumab after the standard treatment if you are tested positive for the residual cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage I|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage II|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage III
DEVICE: AVENIO ctDNA Surveillance Kit|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Durvalumab (Imfinzi) alone or in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy
Decrease in ctDNA Level, Change in minimal residual disease (MRD) will be assessed on the basis of reduction of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in the blood of participants in Cohort 1 MRD+ only. ctDNA is an indicator of MRD. The outcome will be reported as the number of participants who have a ≥ 3-fold drop in ctDNA levels after 2 cycles of durvalumab treatment, a number without dispersion., 8 weeks
Presence or absence of detectable ctDNA, Circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) in the blood is an indicator of minimal residual disease (MRD), a risk factor for future relapse or progression. The outcome will be reported as the number of Cohort 1 MRD+ participants for whom, following 2 cycles of durvalumab, ctDNA was detected, not detected, or unable to be determined, each a number without dispersion. Available data for Cohort 2 MRD- participants will also be reported for the 8-week timepoint., 8 weeks|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) defined as the duration from study registration until death due to any cause. The outcome will be reported as the number of participants in each cohort known to be alive at 12 months after study registration, a number without dispersion., 12 months|Disease-free survival (DFS), Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as the number of participants remaining alive without disease progression (DP), symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. DP is assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria, as follows.

* Complete Response (CR) = Disappearance of all target lesions
* Partial Response (PR) = ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions
* Progressive disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (must be \> 5 mm), unequivocal progression of non-target lesions, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s)
* Stable disease (SD) = Small changes that do not meet any of the above criteria The outcome will be reported as the number of participants who meet the criteria for DFS, a number without dispersion., 8 weeks|Related Adverse Events, Related adverse events (AEs) are deleterious events determined to be possibly, probably, or definitely-related to durvalumab treatment. The outcome will be reported as the number of related AEs experienced by the participants in Cohort 1 MRD+ only (ie, durvalumab treatment cohort), a number without dispersion., 12 months
Primary Objective:

The primary objective of this study is to measure the change in ctDNA from trial enrollment to after 2 cycles of adjuvant durvalumab in subjects with stage I to III NSCLC who had positive ctDNA following definitive treatment with surgery or radiation and completion of adjuvant standard of care chemotherapy. Secondary Objectives

1. To compare disease free survival (DFS)
2. To compare overall survival (OS)
3. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity
4. To evaluate the severity of toxicity