EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT) Compared to EndoMAXX
This is a prospective, single blinded, randomized study of EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT) Fully Covered Esophageal Stent with Valve for the treatment of malignant strictures of the lower esophagus. The purpose of this study is to evaluate improvement of dysphagia due to esophageal stricture with EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT) Fully Covered Esophageal Stent with Valve (investigational device) compared to the EndoMAXX Fully Covered Esophageal Stent (reference device).
Malignant Esophageal Strictures
DEVICE: EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT)|DEVICE: EndoMAXX
Mellow and Pinkas Dysphagia Score at Baseline and 2 Weeks Following the Treatment, The primary endpoint is to evaluate improvement of dysphagia due to esophageal strictures at 2 weeks following treatment.

Scale:

0 = able to eat normal diet / no dysphagia.

1. = able to swallow some solid foods
2. = able to swallow only semi solid foods
3. = able to swallow liquids only
4. = unable to swallow anything / total dysphagia, 2 Weeks Following Treatment
GERD-HRQL, Evaluate symptoms of gastric reflux as assessed by Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease-Health Related Quality of Life (GERD-HRQL) instrument at 4 weeks following treatment.

Scale:

0 = No symptom

1. = Symptoms noticeable but not bothersome
2. = Symptoms noticeable and bothersome but not every day
3. = Symptoms bothersome every day
4. = Symptoms affect daily activity
5. = Symptoms are incapacitating to do daily activities, 4 Weeks Following Treament
This is a prospective, single blinded, randomized study of EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT) Fully Covered Esophageal Stent with Valve for the treatment of malignant strictures of the lower esophagus. The purpose of this study is to evaluate improvement of dysphagia due to esophageal stricture with EndoMAXX Endoluminal Valve Technology (EVT) Fully Covered Esophageal Stent with Valve (investigational device) compared to the EndoMAXX Fully Covered Esophageal Stent (reference device).