A Trial to Evaluate Multiple Regimens in Newly Diagnosed and Recurrent Glioblastoma
Glioblastoma (GBM) adaptive, global, innovative learning environment (GBM AGILE) is an international, seamless Phase II/III response adaptive randomization platform trial designed to evaluate multiple therapies in newly diagnosed (ND) and recurrent GBM.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Lomustine|DRUG: Regorafenib|RADIATION: Radiation|DRUG: Paxalisib|DRUG: VAL-083|DRUG: VT1021|DRUG: Troriluzole|BIOLOGICAL: ADI-PEG 20
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined from the time of randomization to death from any cause. Patients still alive at the time of an analysis will be considered censored at their date of last contact., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, or until 12 months following last patient randomization (approximately 2 years), whichever comes first.
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to clinically determined progression or death from any cause. All participants will be included in the analysis of PFS., From date of randomization to date of clinically determined progression or date of death from any cause, or until 12 months following last patient randomization (approximately 2 years), whichever comes first.|Tumor Response, Tumor response is categorized by Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), and Progressive Disease (PD). Response captured from initiation of study treatment until disease progression., From initiation of study treatment to date of disease progression, or until 12 months following last patient randomization (approximately 2 years), whichever comes first.|Duration of Response (CR + PR), Duration of response (CR+PR) is defined as time from date of response to date of clinically determined disease progression or death from any cause., From date of response to date of clinically determined disease progression or date of death from any cause, or until 12 months following last patient randomization (approximately 2 years), whichever comes first.
Glioblastoma (GBM) adaptive, global, innovative learning environment (GBM AGILE) is an international, seamless Phase II/III response adaptive randomization platform trial designed to evaluate multiple therapies in newly diagnosed (ND) and recurrent GBM. Its goals are to identify effective therapies for glioblastoma and match effective therapies with patient subtypes. Bayesian response adaptive randomization is used within subtypes of the disease to assign participants to Arms based on their performance. The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS).

GBM AGILE is designed to efficiently evaluate therapies. The trial will be conducted under a single Master Investigational New Drug Application/Clinical Trial Application and Master Protocol, allowing multiple drugs and drug combinations from different pharmaceutical companies to be evaluated simultaneously. The plan is to add experimental therapies as new information about promising new drugs are identified and remove therapies as they complete their evaluation.