Crisaborole Ointment for Skin Toxicity Induced by Cetuximab
This is a prospective, single-arm, phase II clinical trial that will enroll metastatic colorectal cancer patients with Cetuximab-Related Skin Toxicity, who will receive crisaborole ointment twice daily.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|Cetuximab|Skin Toxicity
DRUG: Crisaborole Ointment|DRUG: Cetuximab
Remission rate of EGFR inhibitor-related acneiform eruption, Grading of acneiform eruption would be assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0. Remission was defined as a reduction in acneiform eruption from grade 2 to grade 1 or grade 3 to grade 2 sustained for at least 2 weeks., From date of randomization until the date of remission，assessed up to 8 weeks.
Remission time of EGFR inhibitor-related acneiform eruption, Grading of acneiform eruption would be assessed according to NCI-CTCAE 5.0. Remission was defined as a reduction in acneiform eruption from grade 2 to grade 1 or grade 3 to grade 2 sustained for at least 2 weeks, From date of randomization until the date of remission，assessed up to 8 weeks.|Cetuximab treatment discontinuation rate, Rate of Cetuximab treatment discontinuation due to skin toxicity, 8 weeks from randomization.|Cetuximab dose reduction rate, Rate of Cetuximab dose reduction due to skin toxicity, 8 weeks from randomization.|Level of paronychia, xeroderma and pruritus, Grading of paronychia, xeroderma and pruritus would be assessed according to NCI-CTCAE 5.0., 8 weeks from randomization.|Quality of life (FACT-EGFRI-18), Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy （FACT）questionnaire to assess dermatologic symptoms associated with epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors （FACT-EGFRI-18）, The 0,2,4,6,8,10,12 weeks from randomization.|Quality of life（EORTC QLQ-C30), Questionnaire of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30), The 0,2,4,6,8,10,12 weeks from randomization.
The efficacy of cetuximab has been demonstrated in treating metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). Skin toxicities, especially acneiform eruption, are the major side effects associated with cetuximab, which affect patients' quality of life and can lead to treatment discontinuation and cetuximab dose reduction.

This prospective, single-arm, phase II clinical trial aims to explore the efficacy and safety of crisaborole ointment in Cetuximab-Related Skin Toxicity. A total of 33 mCRC patients with acneiform eruption will be enrolled. All of the participants will receive crisaborole ointment twice daily. The total follow-up time is 12 weeks.