Outcomes Mandate National Integration With Cannabis as Medicine
This will be a multistate, multicenter clinical study to determine the efficacy and safety of medical cannabis for a wide variety of chronic medical conditions.
Chronic Pain|Chronic Pain Syndrome|Chronic Pain Due to Injury|Chronic Pain Due to Trauma|Fibromyalgia|Seizures|Hepatitis C|Cancer|Crohn Disease|HIV/AIDS|Multiple Sclerosis|Traumatic Brain Injury|Sickle Cell Disease|Post Traumatic Stress Disorder|Tourette Syndrome|Ulcerative Colitis|Glaucoma|Epilepsy|Inflammatory Bowel Diseases|Parkinson Disease|Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis|Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy|Anxiety|Depression|Insomnia|Autism|Opioid-use Disorder|Bipolar Disorder|Covid19|SARS-CoV Infection|COVID-19|Corona Virus Infection|Coronavirus
DRUG: Cannabis, Medical|DEVICE: RYAH-Medtech Inhaler
Prevention of COVID-19, Covid-19 infection rates in cannabis users will be compared to rates in the general population. Our online questionnaire responses will compare infection rates of cannabis users in this study against the Johns Hopkins University Coronavirus Research Center data (https://coronavirus.jhu.edu)., Five years|Treatment of COVID-19, Severity of persistent symptoms in cannabis users testing positive for active infection and/or antibodies will also be compared to the general population. Patients will answer the widely used FLU-PRO questionnaire, which asks about flu symptoms and severity, to capture diagnoses, symptoms, and medical interventions related to COVID-19. The data from cannabis user patients will be compared with national and international data surveys, such as the Covid Symptom Study (https://covid.joinzoe.com/us-2)., Five years|Treatment of Symptoms, The primary objective is to assess the efficacy and safety of medical cannabis as medicine for treatment of chronic pain and other chronic debilitating diseases. Pain will be measured by Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) numeric scale. Change from baseline in BPI will be assessed at 3-month intervals. For prospective associations between cannabis use and outcomes, use of a lagged mixed-effects models will examine temporal associations between cannabis use and pain severity, opioid sparing, and patient satisfaction. Data will be analyzed from baseline and the annual follow-up waves., Five years
Cannabis Impact on Quality of Life, Secondary objectives include evaluating increases or decreases in quality of life, and increases or decreases in concomitant opioid use. Satisfaction with treatment will be measured by a Visual Analog Score (VAS). Change From baseline in Satisfaction with treatment measured by (VAS) be assessed at 3-month intervals., Five years|Cannabis Route and Dosing, Tertiary objectives will examine preferences for routes of administration, and preferences for THC / CBD ratios. Categorical factors will be summarized using frequencies and percentages, while continuous measure distributions will be described using means, standard deviations, and quartiles of interest., Five years|Monitoring Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-Related Adverse Events will be measured by Physician Global Assessment (PGA) numeric scale. Number of participants with Treatment-Related Adverse Events will be assessed by CTCAE v4.0., Five years
Medical cannabis has been legal in parts of the USA since 1996, with the stated intention of reducing pain (both acute and chronic) as well as for treatment of multiple other conditions. The original implementation of medical cannabis in the USA was implemented in California as a compassionate measure to treat the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Additional studies have shown promising outcome for patients with multiple sclerosis, seizures, cancer, and other chronic conditions. However, there have been few comprehensive studies that have actually measured whether cannabis is an effective treatment for pain reduction. There is an absence of multistate, multicenter clinical studies with cannabis as medicine, not only in the USA but globally. With the expansion of medical cannabis into more than 38 states in the US, this type of clinical study is now feasible.

On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization formally characterized coronavirus, COVID-19, as a global pandemic and health systems globally are continuing their efforts to manage the outbreak. Coronavirus disease COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by a newly discovered coronavirus. With the rapidly growing pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the new and challenging to treat zoonotic SARS-CoV2 coronavirus, there is an urgent need for new therapies and prevention strategies that can help curtail disease spread and reduce mortality. Inhibition of viral entry and thereby spread constitute plausible therapeutic avenues.

This study will utilize an anonymous novel online questionnaire to determine study participants' qualifying condition(s) for medical cannabis use, cannabis ingestion method, frequency of use, prescription drug use, and demographic information. Secondary factors will include evaluation of pain control, quality of life metrics, any adverse side effects from cannabis use, as well as changes in adjunctive treatments. Patients will be given medical cannabis recommendations and certifications commensurate with the state law in which the encounter occurs. The variations in mechanisms between the states for recommending, registering, certifying, and developing mandated treatment plans or doses will be adhered to; however, variations in state law and cannabis programs should not cause variation in the study design because the end-result is still the same with patients being treated with medical cannabis.