Avelumab in Participants With Merkel Cell Carcinoma (JAVELIN Merkel 200)
This is a multicenter, international, single-arm, open-label, Phase 2 trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of avelumab in participants with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC).
Carcinoma, Merkel Cell
DRUG: Avelumab
Part A: Number of Participants With Confirmed Best Overall Response (BOR) as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, Confirmed BOR was determined according to RECIST 1.1and as adjudicated by an Independent Endpoint Review Committee(IERC) and defined as best response of any of complete response (CR), partial response(PR), stable disease(SD) and progressive disease(PD) recorded from date of randomization until disease progression/recurrence(taking smallest measurement recorded since start of treatment as reference). CR:Disappearance of all evidence of target/non-target lesions. PR:At least 30%reduction from baseline in sum of longest diameter(SLD) of all lesions. SD:Neither sufficient increase to qualify for PD nor sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR. PD:at least a20% increase in SLD, taking as reference smallest SLD recorded from baseline/appearance of 1or more new lesions and unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. CR or PR must be confirmed by a subsequent tumor assessment preferably at next scheduled 6-weekly assessment, but no sooner than 5 weeks after initial documentation of CR or PR., Up to 113 weeks|Part B: Durable Response Rate (DRR), Durable response is defined as an objective response (confirmed complete response \[CR\] or confirmed Partial response \[PR\]) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version (RECIST) 1.1, determined by the Independent Endpoint Review Committee (IERC), with a duration of at least 6 months. The DRR was determined as the percentage of participants with an objective response in terms of CR or PR according to RECIST 1.1, as determined by the IERC, with a duration of at least 6 months. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions., Up to 161 weeks
Part A: Duration of Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, The duration of response as determined from IERC tumor assessment was calculated for each participant with a confirmed response (CR or PR) as the time from first observation of response until first observation of documented disease progression or death when death occurs within 12 weeks of the last tumor assessment, whichever occurs first. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Results were calculated based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Time According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, The PFS time (based on IERC tumor assessments), according to the RECIST 1.1, was defined as the time from first administration of study treatment until first observation of PD or death when death occurred within 12 weeks of the last tumor assessment or first administration of study treatment (whichever was later). PFS time (in months) was defined as: (date of PD or death - date of the first dose of study treatment + 1)/30.4375 (months). PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Number of Participants With Treatment-Related (TR) Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Treatment-Related Serious TEAEs and Treatment-Related TEAEs Leading to Death, Related Adverse events (AE) were defined according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE) as adverse events with relationship to study treatment reported by the investigator. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state up to 30 days after last administration. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Related TEAEs are defined as events with a relationship of missing, unknown, or yes., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Laboratory Values Reported as Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The laboratory measurements included hematology, liver function and blood chemistry. Number of participants with clinically significant abnormalities with Grade greater than or equals to (\>=) 3 in laboratory values reported as TEAEs were reported. Clinically Significance was decided by investigator., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Vital Signs Reported as Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Vital signs including body temperature, body weight, respiratory rate, heart rate (after 5-minute rest), and arterial blood pressure (after 5-minute rest) were evaluated. Number of participants with clinically significant abnormalities in Vital Signs reported as TEAEs. Clinically Significance was decided by investigator., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Abnormalities in Electrocardiogram (ECG), A 12-lead ECG was recorded after the participant has been in a supine position breathing quietly for 5 minutes. The ECG results was used to evaluate the heart rate, atrial ventricular conduction, PR interval, QRS, QTcF and QTcB. Number of participants with clinical significant abnormalities in ECG parameter reported here. Clinically Significance was decided by investigator., Up to 325 weeks|Part A: Interim Analysis: Overall Survival (OS) Time, The OS time was defined as the time from first administration of trial treatment until death. The OS time was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 87 weeks (Data reported are per pre-specified interim analysis with a data cut-off date of 3 Mar 2016)|Part A: Final Analysis: Overall Survival (OS) Time, The OS time was defined as the time from first administration of trial treatment until death. The OS time was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from first administration of trial treatment until death (Up to 325 weeks)|Part A: Participant's Response Status According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1 at 6 and 12 Months, The response status at 6 and 12 months after start of trial treatment according to RECIST 1.1 (as determined by the IERC) was determined. A participant was considered to be in response at the given timepoint (6 or 12 months after the start of the participant's treatment) if the participant had a documented response (PR or CR) prior to that timepoint, and neither died nor experienced disease progression according to the RECIST 1.1 nor was lost to follow-up up to the given timepoint. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Percentage of participants in response and not in response according to RECIST1.1 at 6 and 12 months were reported., At Month 6 and 12|Part A: Number of Participants With Positive Treatment Emergent Anti-Avelumab Antibodies, Serum samples were analyzed by a validated electrochemiluminesce immunoassay to detect the presence of anti-avelumab antibodies. Samples that screened positive were subsequently tested in a confirmatory assay. Those confirmed positive were titered for a quasi-quantitative result. Number of participants with positive treatment emergent anti-Avelumab antibodies were reported. Participants not positive prior to treatment with avelumab and with at least one positive result in the human-Antihuman Antibodies assay were characterized as treatment-emergent., Up to 80 weeks|Part A: Serum Concentration at End of Infusion (CEOI) of Avelumab, Serum concentration at end of infusion (CEOI) of Avelumab is reported., Day 1, 43, 85, 169, 253, 337 and 421|Part A: Minimum Serum Post-dose (Ctrough) Concentration of Aveluamb, Minimum serum post-dose (Ctrough) concentration of avelumab was reported., Day 15, 29, 43, 57, 71, 85, 99, 169, 211, 253, 337 and 421|Part B: Interim Analysis: Overall Survival (OS) Time, The OS time was defined as the time from first administration of study treatment until the date of death. OS was calculated using following formula = (date of death - date of the first dose of study treatment + 1)/30.4375 (months)., Up to 161 weeks (Data reported are per pre-specified interim analysis with a data cut-off date of 2 May 2019)|Part B: Final Analysis: Overall Survival (OS) Time, The OS time was defined as the time from first administration of study treatment until the date of death. OS was calculated using following formula = (date of death - date of the first dose of study treatment + 1)/30.4375 (months)., Time from first administration of trial treatment until death (Up to 396 weeks)|Part B: Number of Participants With Confirmed Best Overall Response (BOR) as Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, Confirmed BOR was determined according to RECIST 1.1and as adjudicated by an Independent Endpoint Review Committee(IERC) and defined as best response of any of complete response (CR), partial response(PR), stable disease(SD) and progressive disease(PD) recorded from date of randomization until disease progression/recurrence(taking smallest measurement recorded since start of treatment as reference). CR:Disappearance of all evidence of target/non-target lesions. PR:At least 30%reduction from baseline in sum of longest diameter(SLD) of all lesions. SD:Neither sufficient increase to qualify for PD nor sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR. PD:at least a20% increase in SLD, taking as reference smallest SLD recorded from baseline/appearance of 1or more new lesions and unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. CR or PR must be confirmed by a subsequent tumor assessment preferably at next scheduled 6-weekly assessment, but no sooner than 5 weeks after initial documentation of CR or PR., Up to 396 weeks|Part B: Duration of Response According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, The duration of response as determined from IERC tumor assessment was calculated for each participant with a confirmed response (CR or PR) as the time from first observation of response until first observation of documented disease progression or death when death occurs within 12 weeks of the last tumor assessment, whichever occurs first. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions., Up to 396 weeks|Part B: Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Time According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version (RECIST) 1.1, The PFS time (based on IERC tumor assessments), according to the RECIST 1.1, was defined as the time from first administration of study treatment until first observation of PD or death when death occurred within 12 weeks of the last tumor assessment or first administration of study treatment (whichever was later). PFS time (in months) was defined as: (date of PD or death - date of the first dose of study treatment + 1)/30.4375 (months). PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions and unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Up to 396 weeks|Part B: Number of Participants With Treatment-Related (TR) Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Treatment-Related Serious TEAEs and Treatment-Related TEAEs Leading to Death, Related Adverse events (AE) were defined according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE) as adverse events with relationship to study treatment reported by the investigator. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect or was otherwise considered medically important. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state up to 30 days after last administration. TEAEs included both Serious TEAEs and non-serious TEAEs. Related TEAEs are defined as events with a relationship of missing, unknown, or yes., Up to 396 weeks|Part B: Participant's Response Status According to RECIST 1.1 at 6 and 12 Months, The response status at 6 and 12 months after start of trial treatment according to RECIST 1.1 (as determined by the IERC) was determined. A participant was considered to be in response at the given timepoint (6 or 12 months after the start of the participant's treatment) if the participant had a documented response (PR or CR) prior to that timepoint, and neither died nor experienced disease progression according to the RECIST 1.1 nor was lost to follow-up up to the given timepoint. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of all lesions. Percentage of participants in response and not in response according to RECIST1.1 at 6 and 12 months were reported., At Month 6 and 12|Part B: Number of Participants With Positive Treatment Emergent Anti-Avelumab Antibodies, Serum samples were analyzed by a validated electrochemiluminescence immunoassay to detect the presence of antidrug antibodies (ADA). Samples that screened positive were subsequently tested in a confirmatory assay. Those that confirmed positive were titered for a quasi-quantitative result. Number of participants with positive treatment emergent anti-Avelumab antibodies were reported. Participants not positive prior to treatment with avelumab and with at least one positive result in the human-Antihuman Antibodies assay were characterized as treatment-emergent., Up to 161 weeks|Part B: Serum Concentration at End of Infusion (CEOI) of Avelumab, Serum concentration at end of infusion (CEOI) of Avelumab is reported., At Day 1, 43 and 169|Part B: Minimum Serum Post-dose (Ctrough) Concentration of Aveluamb, Minimum serum post-dose (Ctrough) concentration of avelumab was reported., Day 15, Day 29, Day 43, Day 85, Day 127, Day 169, Day 253, Day 337, Day 421, Day 505, Day 589, Day 673
This is a multicenter, international, single-arm, open-label, Phase 2 trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of avelumab in participants with metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC).