Heated Mitomycin and Cisplatin During Surgery in Treating Patients With Stomach or Gastroesophageal Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well heated mitomycin and cisplatin during surgery work in treating patients with stomach or gastroesophageal cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as mitomycin and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Heating a chemotherapy solution and infusing it directly into the abdomen may kill more tumor cells.
Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Peritoneal Carcinomatosis
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy|DRUG: Mitomycin
Overall Survival, Overall survival from the date of diagnosis in subjects with stage IV gastric cancer, Date of diagnosis to date of death or last follow-up
Clavien-Dindo Surgical Complications, 90-day surgical complications graded according to an accepted classification scale (Clavien-Dindo) Classification of Surgical Complications Grade I: Any deviation from the normal postoperative course without the need for pharmacological treatment or surgical, endoscopic and radiological interventions. Grade II: Requiring pharmacological treatment with drugs other than such allowed for grade I complications.

Grade III: Requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention Grade IV: Life-threatening complication (including CNS complications)‡ requiring IC/ICU-management Grade V: Death of a patient, 90-days from surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival from the date of diagnosis in subjects with stage IV gastric or gastroesophageal cancer and positive cytology or carcinomatosis after cytoreduction, gastrectomy, and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy administration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety of cytoreduction, gastrectomy, and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy administration for subjects with gastric or gastroesophageal cancer and positive cytology or carcinomatosis.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) comprised of mitomycin and cisplatin given intraperitoneally over 60 minutes during standard of care cytoreduction and gastrectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 4 weeks, and then every 6 months for 5 years.