Massage for Prostate Cancer-Related Fatigue, mPROSTATE Study
This phase II trial investigates the effect of massage in decreasing prostate cancer-related fatigue. Massage therapy has well known health benefits. This trial aims to find out if massage and touch therapies reduce fatigue due to cancer, and to learn if these therapies are better than traditional medicine or psychology for cancer related fatigue.
Prostate Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Massage Therapy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Sham Intervention
Change in cancer-related fatigue, Will be assessed by Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI)-20., Baseline to 6 weeks
Change in plasma concentrations of pre-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta, IL 1Ra, IL-6, sIL-6R, TNF-alpha, sTNFR2, IFN-gamma), high sensitivity (hs)CRP, and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10, evaluate whether the hypothesized decrease in cancer-related fatigue with SMT is associated with modulation of specific immune system factors underlying chronic inflammation, Baseline up to 6 weeks|Correlation between change in plasma concentrations of pre-inflammatory cytokines with cancer-related fatigue, evaluate whether the hypothesized decrease in cancer-related fatigue with SMT is associated with modulation of specific immune system factors underlying chronic inflammation, Up to 6 weeks|Correlation between change in plasma concentrations of high sensitivity (hs)-CRP with cancer-related fatigue, evaluate whether the hypothesized decrease in cancer-related fatigue with SMT is associated with modulation of specific immune system factors underlying chronic inflammation, up to 6 weeks|Correlation between change in plasma concentrations of anti-inflammatory cytokines with cancer-related fatigue, evaluate whether the hypothesized decrease in cancer-related fatigue with SMT is associated with modulation of specific immune system factors underlying chronic inflammation, up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To conduct a preliminary study to evaluate whether a 6-week Swedish Massage Therapy (SMT) intervention decreases cancer-related fatigue (CRF) significantly more than Light Touch (LT) or Wait List Control (WLC) among prostate cancer (PCa) survivors who have received both radiation and androgen deprivation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether the hypothesized decrease in cancer-related fatigue with SMT is associated with modulation of specific immune system factors underlying chronic inflammation.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether SMT improves self-reported fatigue, quality of life, depression, and anxiety significantly more than LT or WLC.

II. To gather preliminary data about the sustained actions of 6 weeks of SMT versus LT on CRF, at 6 and 12 weeks after the intervention.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

Arm I: Patients receive SMT over 45 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks.

Arm II: Patients receive LT over 45 minutes once weekly for 6 weeks.

Arm III: Patients receive no intervention for 6 weeks.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 12 and 18 weeks.