Fiber-rich Foods to Treat Obesity and Prevent Colon Cancer
This study tests whether a high-fiber diet based on legumes, such as dry beans, can lead to sustained reductions in obesity and colon cancer risk in persons at highest risk, namely overweight or obese, post-polypectomy patients.
Colon Cancer|Obesity
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: High Fiber Diet Featuring Legumes (HLD)|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Healthy American Diet
Change in Body Weight, Participants will have their body weight measured (in pounds) on a regularly calibrated digital scale while wearing light clothing without shoes., Baseline, Month 6 (end of intense intervention)|Change in Ki-67+ Level, Colonic mucosal proliferative biomarker Ki-67+ will be measured., Baseline, Month 6 (end of intense intervention)
Body Weight, Participants will have their body weight measured (in pounds) on a regularly calibrated digital scale while wearing light clothing without shoes., Month 12|Ki-67+ level, Colonic mucosal proliferative biomarker Ki-67+ will be measured, Month 12|Change in Gut Transit Time, Gut transit time is assessed using an indigestible single-use SmartPill capsule, a receiver, and display software. The SmartPill capsules were discontinued and no longer available after 2023 so participants beginning after January 19, 2024 will not complete this assessment., Baseline, Month 6 (end of intense intervention)|Change in Fasting Plasma Insulin Level, Fasting plasma insulin, a biomarker of insulin resistance is measured by blood test., Baseline, Month 6, Month 12|Change in Fasting Plasma Glucose Level, Fasting plasma glucose, a biomarker of insulin resistance, is measured by blood test., Baseline, Month 6, Month 12|Change in Serum C-reactive Protein, Serum C-reactive protein, an indicator of systemic inflammation, is measured by blood test., Baseline, Month 6, Month 12|Change in CD3+ Intraepithelial Lymphocytes Count, CD3+ intraepithelial lymphocytes, a colonic mucosal inflammatory biomarker of colon cancer risk, will be measured by mucosal biopsy., Baseline, Month 6, Month 12|Change in CD68+ Lamina Propia Macrophages Count, CD68+ lamina propia macrophages, a colonic mucosal inflammatory biomarker of colon cancer risk, will be measured by mucosal biopsy., Baseline, Month 6, Month 12
An important knowledge gap concerns the role of fiber in sustaining reduced energy intake to simultaneously manage weight and influence human colorectal cancer risk. Epidemiologic studies have shown an association between a high fiber diet featuring legumes (HLD) and reduced obesity and lower risk for adenoma recurrence or colorectal cancer. There are many plausible mechanisms to explain why high-fiber diets, and especially a HLD, may reduce colorectal cancer risk. First, fiber is fermented by the colonic microbiota to produce short chain fatty acids (SCFA). The SCFA, butyrate, has a remarkable array of colonic mucosal health promoting, anti-inflammatory, and anti-neoplastic properties. Secondly, microbiota break down plant cell walls releasing phytochemicals, which also have powerful anti-inflammatory and anti-carcinogenic effects. Thirdly, colonic transit is accelerated, reducing contact time with luminal carcinogens, such as heterocyclic amines formed from cooked red meat, and secondary bile acids, induced by a high fat diet and synthesized by the colonic microbiota.

Dr. Stephen O'Keefe's lab performed a human randomized controlled crossover feeding study (participants receive both diets) comparing high and low- fiber diets. The study measured mucosal biomarkers of cancer risk (proliferation - % epithelial cells staining positive for Ki67, inflammation - cluster of differentiation 3 (CD3)+ intraepithelial lymphocytes, cluster of differentiation 68 (CD68)+ lamina propria macrophages) made by fecal sampling and colonoscopy. Results suggested that within weeks these markers responded favorably to the high-fiber diet with proliferative rates and inflammatory biomarkers decreasing and microbiota composition adapting to increase butyrogenesis.

The researchers of this study have previously found that fiber may also reduce cancer risk indirectly by promoting weight loss, improving insulin sensitivity and decreasing inflammation. On average, individuals consume a similar weight of food daily; thus, replacing energy dense foods (higher kcal/g, e.g., high fat) with lower energy density foods (lower kcal/g), like legumes, should potentiate weight control. Viscous fiber intake is associated with longer gastric emptying times which over time might contribute to postponing the next eating occasion. Diet may also induce changes in gut microbiome composition leading to negative energy balance. Emerging human evidence links the gut microbiome with insulin resistance, inflammation, and obesity and with adenomatous polyps and colon cancer. In this current study, characterizing gut motility, microbiome, and metabolome composition profiles that may influence weight loss and have a role in the prevention or recurrence of adenomas and colorectal cancer, will provide novel and potentially therapeutic information.

The goal of the research is to conduct a clinical trial featuring study-provided pre-portioned entrées and strategic nutritional instruction to guide participants to integrate legumes into a healthy high-fiber diet pattern. Participants will be provided two entrées per day during months 1 through 3, and one entrée per day during months 4 through 6. Participants will continue their diets during months 7 through 12 but will be responsible for food preparation. The research will target a population at high risk for colorectal cancer, overweight and obese participants with a history of a colon polyp in the past 3 years, to test whether a high-legume, high-fiber diet will simultaneously increase weight loss and suppress intestinal biomarkers of cancer risk compared to a control diet (healthy American). In addition, it will explore potential mechanisms through which the high-legume intervention diet facilitates weight loss and intestinal health.