Efficacy and Safety of Treatment of Actinic Keratoses With Photodynamic Therapy Between MAL Cream and ALA Gel
Photodynamic therapy technique (PDT) is a conventional technique which is performed applying the product under occlusion lesions, let it incubate for 3 hours and then exposed skin to a light source, usually red.

The conclusions of efficacy, tolerance and satisfaction that today are known about PDT with MAL, but not with ALA, which is a new photosensitizer indicated for Actinic Keratoses. The pharmaceutical form of ALA is a gel, which gives a hypothetical better penetration and consequently it is more effectively.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: METHYLAMINOLEVULINATE HYDROCHLORIDE|DRUG: AMINOLEVULINIC ACID HYDROCHLORIDE
Comparison of MAL with the new BF -200 ALA photosensitizer in actinic keratosis. The Immediate and Delayed Local Reaction and Tolerance will be measured to compare MAL and ALA., The main objective of this study is to compare the MAL with the new BF -200 ALA photosensitizer in terms of local reaction and tolerance for the treatment of actinic keratosis .

First of all, the immediate local reaction to the lighting may include a greater or less erythema, inflammation and edema. It is scored on a scale of 0-10 where 0 is normal skin without local reaction and 10 is a maximum local reaction.

The delayed local reaction is defined by the presence in different degrees of erythema, swelling, edema, pustules and scabs. They are also marked from 0 to 10 where 0 is normal skin without reaction and 10 for local maximum reaction.

On the other hand, tolerance will be measured by the number, frequency and grade of reported adverse events in patients., 1 month
Comparison of the clinical response measured by the efficacy and characteristics of fluorescence emission between the two photosensitizers. Partial and total response will be defined with ≥75% (partial response) and 100% (complete response.), To compare the efficacy and characteristics of fluorescence emission between the two photosensitizers.

The efficacy will be assessed by the initial photography and the template transparent. Both of them are measured at the beginning of the study and at the end of the study.

Partial response will be defined if ≥75% of initial response of Actinic Keratosis is solved and complete response (CR) lf 100% of Actinic Keratosis is solved., 1 month
Intraindividual comparative study, to evaluate efficacy and safety of the treatment of actinic keratosis with photodynamic therapy between methyl aminolevulinate cream (MAL) and aminolevulinic acid nanosoma gel (ALA).

MAL cream: is an antineoplastic agent used as a photosensitizer for photodynamic therapy (PDT). The mode of action of methyl aminolevulinate in PDT was shown in the pharmacodynamic (PD) studies. In the target cells,methyl aminolevulinate was converted to photoactive porphyrins, including protoporphyrinIX (PpIX), which are the active photosensitizers. Upon light activation, the photosensitizers give rise to the production of cytotoxic singlet oxygen species which destroy the target cells.

ALA gel: Following topical application of 5-aminolaevulinic acid, the substance is metabolized to protoporphyrin IX, a photoactive compound which accumulates intracellularly in the treated actinic keratosis lesions. Protoporphyrin IX is activated by illumination with red light of a suitable wavelength and energy. In the presence of oxygen, reactive oxygen species are formed. The latter causes damage of cellular components and eventually destroys the target cells.

Photodynamic therapy technique (PDT) is a conventional technique which is performed applying the product under occlusion lesions, let it incubate for 3 hours and then exposed skin to a light source, usually red.

The conclusions of efficacy, tolerance and satisfaction that today are known about PDT with MAL, but not with ALA, which is a new photosensitizer indicated for QA. The pharmaceutical form of ALA is a gel, which gives a hypothetical better penetration and consequently it is more effectively.