A Study Using Regorafenib as Second or Third Line Therapy in Metastatic Medullary Thyroid Cancer
This research study is studying a targeted therapy as a possible treatment for thyroid cancer. A targeted therapy is a type of treatment that uses drugs or other substances to identify and attack specific types of cancer cells with less harm to normal cells.

- The name of the study intervention involved in this study is regorafenib.
Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib
10-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rate [MTC Cohort], 10-month PFS Rate is the proportion of participants ramaing alive and progression free at 10 months. Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Disease was evaluated through imaging scan on baseline, Cycle 1 Day 1, end of treatment and during follow-up. Relevant to this endpoint is 10 Months|Response Rate [Differentiated Thyroid Cancer (DTC)] DATA NOT MATURE YET, The response rate is the proportion of participants achieving XX based on RECIST 1.1 criteria defined per protocol section 11.1.4 for target lesions., 2 Years
Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate [MTC Cohort], All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 3-5 AE of any type during the time of observation., AEs were evaluated on treatment cycle 1 day 1 of week 1, 2 and 3, and cycle 2 day 1 of week 1 and 3, and cycle 3 and beyond day 1 of week 1. For this study cohort, participants were evaluated for AEs for the maximum treatment duration up to 24 months.|Quality of Life (QOL) DATA NOT MATURE YET, QOL will be assessed via self-report questionnaires, Reported cycle 1 and 2 on day 1 of week 1 and 3, cycle 3 and beyond on day 1 of week 1, EOT, and follow-up.
This is a phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved regorafenib as a treatment for metastatic colorectal cancer and locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumor. Regorafenib has not been approved for treatment against thyroid cancer.

Regorafenib is an oral anti-tumor agent that blocks activity of a specific kind of protein involved in normal cellular functions and in pathologic processes such as tumor formation and maintenance.