Testing a Standardized Approach to Surgery and Chemotherapy for Type I Pleuropulmonary Blastoma or the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, Topotecan, to the Usual Treatment for Types II and III Pleuropulmonary Blastoma
This phase III trial tests how well surgery plus chemotherapy compared to surgery alone works in treating patients with type I pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB), and tests how well surgery plus standard chemotherapy with the addition of topotecan works compared to surgery plus standard chemotherapy alone in treating patients with type II and III PPB.

Historically, most children with type I PPB had surgery and approximately 40% of children with type I PPB received chemotherapy following their surgery, usually for 22-42 weeks. There has not been a consistent standard for which children with type I PPB receive chemotherapy after surgery. For patients whose tumor has been removed completely with surgery, observation without chemotherapy may work as well as giving chemotherapy after surgery in preventing a return of the PPB tumor.

The standard chemotherapy for patients with types II or III PPB in the United States is four cycles of IVADo (ifosfamide, vincristine, dactinomycin, and doxorubicin) followed by 8 cycles of IVA (ifosfamide, vincristine and dactinomycin). Ifosfamide is in a class of medications called alkylating agents. It works by slowing or stopping the growth of tumor cells in the body. Vincristine is in a class of medications called vinca alkaloids. It works by stopping tumor cells from growing and dividing and may kill them. Dactinomycin is a type of antibiotic that is only used in cancer chemotherapy (antineoplastic antibiotic). It works by damaging the cell's deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and may kill tumor cells. Doxorubicin is in a class of medications called anthracyclines. Doxorubicin damages the cell's DNA and may kill tumor cells. It also blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and DNA repair. Topotecan is in a class of medications called topoisomerase I inhibitors. It works by interfering with tumor cell DNA which kills them. Giving topotecan in addition to standard IVADo and IVA chemotherapy regimens may shrink the cancer as well as or better than the standard therapy or could decrease the chance the tumor spreads while causing fewer side effects.
Pleuropulmonary Blastoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Dactinomycin|DRUG: Dexrazoxane|DRUG: Doxorubicin|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|DRUG: Ifosfamide|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|OTHER: Patient Observation|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|DRUG: Topotecan|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound Imaging|DRUG: Vincristine
Objective response, Response rates at the end of Cycle 2 will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders, and confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score interval method. Any eligible type II/III patients who do not undergo complete resection, have measurable disease at baseline (per central review) and start protocol therapy will be included in the primary analysis., Up to 2 cycles (cycles = 21 days) of window therapy with vincristine, topotecan and cyclophosphamide
Progression-free survival (PFS) in children with Types II and III pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB), 3-year PFS, along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. These results will be presented for Type II and III patients combined regardless of the timing of surgery., From date of enrollment to the earliest occurrence of relapse, disease progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) in children with Types II and III PPB, 3-year OS, along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. These results will be presented for Type II and III patients combined regardless of the timing of surgery., From date of enrollment to date of death due to any reason, assessed up to 3 years|PFS in children with Types I PPB, 3-year PFS, along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of enrollment to the earliest occurrence of relapse, disease progression, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|OS in children with Types I PPB, 3-year OS, along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of enrollment to date of death due to any reason, assessed up to 3 years
Resection rates for Type I PPB, Will be reported based on central radiology reviews., Prior to protocol therapy|Resection rates for Type II and III PPB, Will be reported based on central radiology reviews., Prior to protocol therapy|Resection rates for Type II and III PPB, Will be reported based on central radiology reviews., Prior to cycle 5 (cycles = 21 days)|Incidence of surgery-related adverse events, Percentage of patients with surgery related adverse event. Results will be summarized separately for those undergoing primary resection versus those undergoing biopsy followed by neoadjuvant chemotherapy., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Percentage of patients with Grade 3 or higher toxicities on protocol therapy., Up to 36 weeks|PFS, Will use Kaplan-Meier survival curves and log-rank tests to analyze PFS based on DICER1 germline status, hotspot mutations, and p53 status. Additionally, Cox proportional hazards regression will be used to evaluate the influence of these genetic factors on PFS controlling for confounding variables as necessary., Up to 5 years|Primary outcome treatment effects by sex, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) by sex will be provided., Up to 5 years|Primary outcome treatment effects by race, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% CIs by race will be provided., Up to 5 years|Primary outcome treatment effects by ethnicity, Estimates of the primary outcome treatment effect and the corresponding 95% CIs by ethnicity will be provided., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the overall response rate (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) to 2 cycles of window therapy with vincristine, topotecan and cyclophosphamide in children with Types II and III pleuropulmonary blastoma (PPB) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in children with Types II and III PPB.

II. To estimate 3-year PFS and OS in children with Type I PPB treated with surgery or surgery and chemotherapy using standardized guidelines.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess primary resection rate in children with Types I, II and III PPB using central radiology review and standardized surgical guidelines.

II. To assess surgical complications among those undergoing primary resection versus (vs.) biopsy followed by neoadjuvant chemotherapy for Types II and III PPB.

III. To establish a new cohort of prospectively treated children with newly diagnosed PPB which will serve as a comparison group for future novel agent trials.

IV. To evaluate toxicities in children treated for PPB including late cardiopulmonary toxicity.

V. To evaluate the molecular genetics/epigenetics of PPB and correlate with outcomes.

VI. To collect tumor tissue and serial blood samples for tumor profiling, liquid biopsies, and future correlative biology studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups. For both groups, tumor tissue is centrally reviewed by a study pathologist. Blood samples are collected at specific clinical timepoints.

GROUP I (TYPE I/Ir PPB): Patients \< 5 years old with Type I PPB whose tumor was not able to be completely removed by surgery are assigned to Arm 1. All other patients are assigned to Arm 2.

ARM 1 (VAC1200/VA REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycles 1-3 and 5-7, dactinomycin IV over 1-5 or 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection, computed tomography (CT) and ultrasound throughout the study.

ARM 2: Patients undergo observation on study. This includes blood sample collection, chest CT, and ultrasound throughout the study.

GROUP II: (TYPE II/III PPB):

CYCLES 1-2 (VTC400 REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle, topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 of each cycle, and cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo multi-gated acquisition (MUGA) or echocardiography (ECHO), positron emission tomography (PET) or bone scan, CT, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and blood sample collection throughout the study.

Patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease after cycle 2 are assigned to Arm 3. Patients with disease progression after cycle 2 are assigned to Arm 4. Patients also undergo surgery and radiation therapy as clinically indicated.

ARM 3:

CYCLES 3-6 (IVADo REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on day 1 of each cycle, dactinomycin IV over 1-5 or 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days 1-2 of each cycle, dexrazoxane IV over 5-15 minutes on days 1-2 of each cycle, and doxorubicin IV over 3-15 minutes on days 1-2 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 7, 9, 11 (VTC250 REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle, topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 of each cycle, and cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-5 of each cycle. Treatment continues for 21 days every odd cycle for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 8, 10, 12 (VAC1200 REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on day 1 of each cycle, dactinomycin IV over 1-5 or 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment continues for 21 days every even cycle for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM 4:

CYCLES 3-6 (IVADo REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on day 1 of each cycle, dactinomycin IV over 1-5 or 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on days 1-2 of each cycle, dexrazoxane IV over 5-15 minutes on days 1-2 of each cycle, and doxorubicin IV over 3-15 minutes on days 1-2 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CYCLES 7-12 (IVA REGIMEN): Patients receive vincristine IV on day 1 of each cycle, dactinomycin IV over 1-5 or 10-15 minutes on day 1 of each cycle, and ifosfamide IV over 3 hours on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 24 months, then every 6 months until 5 years.