Vosaroxin and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of vosaroxin when given together with azacitidine in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vosaroxin and azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: vosaroxin|DRUG: Azacitidine
MTD of vosaroxin in combination with azacitidine, Defined as the highest dose of vosaroxin that results in a DLT in =\< 1 of 6 patients graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0, 28 days
Best response (including hematologic improvement), According to the modified IWG criteria. Summarized as proportion with 95% confidence intervals., At 3 cycles|Best overall response, According to the modified IWG criteria. Summarized as proportion with 95% confidence intervals, Up to 7 months|Incidence of adverse events, Graded according to NCI CTCAE v. 4.0. summarized by grade, type and patient., Up to 7 months|Time to response, According to the modified IWG criteria. Described using Kaplan-Meier models to plot these endpoints and estimate median times with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 7 months|Event-free survival, From the date of first dose of study drug to date of treatment failure, recurrence, or death due to any cause. Described using Kaplan-Meier models to plot these endpoints and estimate median times with a 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), From the date of first dose of study drug to disease progression or death from MDS. Described using Kaplan-Meier models to plot these endpoints and estimate median times with a 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), From the date of first documentation of a complete remission (CR) to date of relapse. Described using Kaplan-Meier models to plot these endpoints and estimate median times with a 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), Date of first dose of study drug to the date of death from any cause. Described using Kaplan-Meier models to plot these endpoints and estimate median times with a 95% confidence interval., up to 5 years|Biomarkers of response to vosaroxin and azacitidine therapy, Serial estimate of biomarker expression will be plotted and summarized over time using means and standard deviations, possibly on a log scale, Up to 5 years
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of vosaroxin when given together with azacitidine in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vosaroxin and azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.