Prostate Metabolism, Cancer Risk and Gut Microbiota
This is a prospective, single center translational multiple cohort study to investigate the association of gut microbiota and prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Hyperplasia
OTHER: MRI scan and laboratory visit|PROCEDURE: Prostate biopsies|PROCEDURE: Radical prostatectomy and blood, urine and tissue sampling|PROCEDURE: TURP and blood, urine and tissue sampling|PROCEDURE: Radical cystoprostatectomy and blood, urine and tissue sampling
Gut microbiota signature, Gut microbiota signature in men with clinically significant prostate cancer, clinically non-significant prostate cancer, and benign prostate histology, immediately before prostate biopsy
Gut metabolomics, Metabolic characteristics in the gut in men with different gut microbiota signatures, immediately before prostate biopsy
Systemic circulation metabolomics, Metabolic characteristics in the systemic circulation in men with different gut microbiota signatures, immediately before prostate biopsy|Prostate tissue metabolomics, Metabolic characteristics in the prostate tissue in men with different gut microbiota signatures, immediately before prostate biopsy
Prostate cancer (PCa) is a significant health care system challenge. PCa is the most common male cancer in Finland and most western countries. Interestingly, although the incidence of indolent (latent) PCa is very similar throughout the globe, there is a remarkable global age-adjusted incidence variation (up to 40-fold difference between highest and lowest incidences).

Epidemiological data suggest that aging in men is associated with neoplastic processes in the prostate but only a subset of men will develop a true malignancy potentially affecting their life-span or quality of life. Genetic factors have a significant effect on PCa risk, but very likely life-style (e.g. diet and physical activity) affect PCa risk as well, but the mechanisms mediating protective or harmful effects of life-style remain unclear.

Gut microbiota, i.e. the collection of microbes colonizing the gastrointestinal tract, has been acknowledged to play significant role in many metabolic pathways and pathogenetic processes in the human body. Although there is some evidence suggesting that gut microbiota affects therapy responses (especially androgen deprivation) in PCa, it´s potential role in prostate carcinogenesis is not well documented. Our previous studies suggest that gut microbiota composition is different in men with and without PCa potentially contributing to the Pca risk, and that changes in steroid hormone synthesis may be one mechanism how gut microbiota affects PCa risk.

PROMIC is a prospective, single center translational multiple cohort study to investigate the association of gut microbiota and PCa. The main aim is to validate our preliminary findings of association between gut microbiota and PCa. We also study metabolic characteristics in the gut, systemic circulation, and prostate tissue in men with different gut microbiota signatures. The study is carried out in Turku University Hospital and University of Turku.