Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Advanced Uveal Melanoma
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab works in treating patients with uveal melanoma that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may block tumor growth in different ways by targeting certain cells.
Stage IIIA Uveal Melanoma|Stage IIIB Uveal Melanoma|Stage IIIC Uveal Melanoma|Stage IV Uveal Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the Percentage of Patients Achieving a Confirmed Complete or Partial Response, as Defined by Immune-related Response Criteria (irRC), Of note, response rates by RECIST 1.1 criteria will also be assessed although irRC will be used for the primary endpoint. The percentage of complete or partial response is calculated and 95% confidence interval is estimated using Wilson method., Up to 3 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Defined as Time From Treatment to Progression Defined by RECIST1.1 Criteria or Death., PFS will be summarized using the method of Kaplan and Meier. Median PFS time with 95% confidence intervals will be reported. Using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), progression will be defined as ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions compared with the smallest-sum longest diameter recorded or the appearance of one or more new lesions, and/or appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions., Time from the first dose of pembrolizumab to progression, assessed up to 3 years.|Overall Survival (OS) Defined as Number of Patients Surviving up to 3 Years., The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the overall survival. Median survival and its 95% confidence interval will be estimated and reported., Interval between the first dose of pembrolizumab and death for any reason, assessed up to 3 years|Response Duration, If sample size permits, response duration will be summarized descriptively using Kaplan-Meier medians and quartiles. Only the subset of patients who show a complete response or partial response will be included in this analysis., Up to 3 years|Number of Patients With Each Worst-Grade Toxicity. Incidence of Adverse Events, Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Count of patients according to the worst-grade toxicity experienced by each, where worst-grade toxicity is per NCI common toxicity criteria: grade 1, mild; grade 2, moderate; grade 3, severe; grade 4, life-threatening; grade 5, death. This endpoint will be reported descriptively without formal statistical analysis., Up to 30 days after the last dose of trial treatment
Changes in GNAQ/GNA11 Mutation Status on Each Patient Per Institutional Protocol, Differences in PFS and OS between subgroups will be assessed by the stratified logrank test. Differences in ORR between subgroups will be assessed by the Pearson chi-square test. No adjustments will be made for multiple comparisons., Baseline up to 2 years|Change in PD-L1 Expression Status on Archival or Fresh Tissue From All Patients and Correlate With ORR, Differences in PFS and OS between subgroups will be assessed by the stratified logrank test. Differences in ORR between subgroups will be assessed by the Pearson chi-square test. No adjustments will be made for multiple comparisons., Baseline up to 2 years|Changes in Molecular Characteristics of Uveal Melanoma When Treated With Pembrolizumab, Each relevant clinical characteristic will be recorded by the use of tables and/or graphs. The number and percentage of patients treated, and the primary reason for discontinuation will be displayed. Demographic variables (such as age) and baseline characteristics will be summarized by descriptive statistics. Compliance with pembrolizumab administration will be measured by patients: 1) receiving unscheduled study agent infusions/injections; 2) missing an infusion/injection. Numbers and percentages of patients and infusion/injection visits with any deviation in these measures will be reported., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR) in patients with advanced uveal melanoma receiving pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced uveal melanoma receiving pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate safety, tolerability and adverse experience profile of pembrolizumab in uveal melanoma.

III. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced uveal melanoma receiving pembrolizumab.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in patients with advanced uveal melanoma receiving pembrolizumab as stratified by programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression and guanine nucleotide-binding protein (GNA)Q/GNA11 mutation status.

II. To evaluate ORR in patients previously treated with ipilimumab or with mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.