Ph I Ipilimumab Vemurafenib Combo in Patients With v-Raf Murine Sarcoma Viral Oncogene Homolog B1 (BRAF)
Treatment of subjects who have metastatic melanoma that expresses an activated mutant form of the BRAF oncogene (V600E) with a combination of the specific BRAF inhibitor, Vemurafenib, and the Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor mAb Ipilimumab will be safe and feasible and will show preliminary evidence of anti-tumor efficacy and survival in comparison to historical results following treatment with either agent alone.
Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab (BMS-734016)|DRUG: Vemurafenib
During the Lead In Period: Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), AEs Leading to Drug Discontinuation, Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), and Deaths in Participants Treated With Vemurafenib Alone, AEs graded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0. AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death. Related=relationship to study drug reported as certain, probable, possible, or missing. Immune-related AEs (irAEs) characterized by potential association with inflammation and considered by investigator as drug related. Lead In Period: between the first vemurafenib dose and the day prior to the first ipilimumab dose., From first vemurafenib dose to day prior to first ipilimumab dose (28 days); Patients who never progressed from Lead-in to combination treatment (720 mg Alone): first dose to last dose + 90 days (approximately 2 years)|During the Combination Treatment Period: Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), AEs Leading to Drug Discontinuation, Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), and Deaths in Participants Treated With Concurrent Ipilimumab and Vemurafenib, AEs graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0. AE=any new unfavorable symptom, sign, or disease or worsening of a preexisting condition that may not have a causal relationship with treatment. SAE=a medical event that at any dose results in death, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or drug dependency/abuse; is life-threatening, an important medical event, or a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or requires or prolongs hospitalization. Grade (Gr) 1=Mild, Gr 2=Moderate, Gr 3=Severe, Gr 4= Potentially Life-threatening or disabling, Gr 5=Death. Related=relationship to study drug reported as certain, probable, possible, or missing. AEs: onset on or after ipilimumab start and within 90 days of last dose. Immune-related AEs (irAEs) characterized by potential association with inflammation and considered by investigator as drug related. Day 1=first dose of ipilimumab., Combination drugs: Day 1 to last dose of drug + 90 days (approximately 2 years)|Number of Participants With Hepatic Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) in Participants Treated With Concurrent Ipilimumab and Vemurafenib, DLT defined as a \>= Grade 3 drug-related AE during induction with ipilimumab in combination with vemurafenib excluding: Grade 3 AE of tumor flare (defined as local pain, irritation, or rash localized at sites of known or suspected tumor); Grade 3 cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma; Grade 3 photosensitivity that resolved to a Grade 1 or baseline within 15 days; Grade 3 immune-mediated events of the skin (rash, pruritis) or endocrine systems (hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, hypopituitarism, adrenal insufficiency, hypogonadism and cushingoid) that resolved to a Grade 1 or baseline within 28 days; a transient (resolving within 6 hours of onset) Grade 3 infusion-related AE. Hepatic=elevated aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase. Maximum tolerable dose (MTD) was defined as the maximum dose of combination treatment that could be given to 6 subjects such that no more than 2 subjects experience DLT. Day 1=first day of concurrent therapy with ipilimumab and vemurafenib., Day 1 to last dose of drug + 90 (approximately 2 years)
Treatment of subjects who have metastatic melanoma that expresses an activated mutant form of the BRAF oncogene (V600E) with a combination of the specific BRAF inhibitor, Vemurafenib, and the Cytotoxic T Lymphocyte Antigen 4 (CTLA-4) inhibitor mAb Ipilimumab will be safe and feasible and will show preliminary evidence of anti-tumor efficacy and survival in comparison to historical results following treatment with either agent alone.