Gemcitabine, Carboplatin, and Bortezomib in Advanced or Recurrent Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combining bortezomib with gemcitabine and carboplatin in treating patients who have advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer that has not been previously treated with chemotherapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth. Bortezomib may also help gemcitabine and carboplatin kill more tumor cells by making the cells more sensitive to the drugs
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: bortezomib
Overall survival, Up to 3 years
Response rate (confirmed plus unconfirmed, complete plus partial), Up to 12 weeks|Progression-free survival, Up to 3 years|Toxicities, based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC) v3.0, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival in chemo-naϊve patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with combination of gemcitabine, carboplatin and PS-341.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess response rate (confirmed plus unconfirmed, complete plus partial), in the subset of patients with measurable disease, progression-free survival and quantitative toxicities in this group of patients treated with this regimen.

II. To investigate in an exploratory manner, the association of levels of hypoxia-induced secreted proteins and tumor DNA in plasma levels of apoptosis-associated proteins in tumor tissue, and the changes in the levels of PS-341 modulated proteins in peripheral white blood cells with patient response and survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1, and bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or responding disease may continue to receive bortezomib alone on the above schedule for up to 1 year at the discretion of the treating physician.

Patients are followed every 6 months for up to 3 years after registration.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 99 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 months.