Study of VB4-845 Injection for Treating Patients With Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
Because of the high risk for development of muscle invasive disease, cystectomy is recommended for CIS, high-grade Ta and T1 patients who experience disease recurrence following intravesical therapy. VB4-845 injection is an experimental agent that may provide an alternative to cystectomy
Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
DRUG: VB4-845 Injection
Complete response rate, Complete response rate in patients with CIS with or without resected papillary disease following initiation of VB4-845 injection therapy, up to 6 months
Recurrence-free rate, Recurrence-free (RF) rate in patients with high-grade Ta or any grade T1 papillary disease (without CIS), up to 6 months|Complete response rate, Complete response rate in patients with CIS with or without resected papillary disease following initiation of VB4-845 injection therapy, up to 3 months|Recurrence-free rate, Recurrence-free (RF) rate in patients with high-grade Ta or any grade T1 papillary disease (without CIS), up to 3 months|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Frequency and severity of adverse events. Including adverse events (AEs), change in physical examination findings, change in vital signs, clinical laboratory testing for systemic safety,including liver function, renal function, compelete blood count, and clinical chemistries., Every 4 weeks up to 104 weeks
Bladder cancer is the 6th most common cancer in the United States, affecting more men than women. The usual first treatment for NMIBC (Ta, T1,and CIS) is transurethral resection of the bladder tumors followed by intravesical immunotherapy, most commonly with bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG).

Because of the high risk for development of muscle invasive disease, cystectomy is recommended for CIS and high-grade Ta and T1 patients who experience disease recurrence following intravesical therapy. For patients unable or unwilling to undergo cystectomy, treatment options are limited.

VB4-845 injection is a recombinant fusion protein produced in Escherichia coli (E. coli) that expresses a humanized single-chain antibody fragment specific for the epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EpCAM) antigen linked to exotoxin A (ETA\[252-608\]). Once bound to the EpCAM antigen on the surface of carcinoma cells, Vicinium is internalized through an endocytic pathway. The ETA(252-608) is cleaved off and induces cell death by irreversibly blocking protein synthesis.

This is an open-label, non-randomized, multicenter bridging study in Chinese patients with NMIBC, specifically CIS (with or without papillary disease), high-grade Ta or any grade T1 papillary disease, who have previously failed BCG treatment (i.e., not those who are intolerant) with or without interferon. The study consists of a Screening period, a 12-week Induction Phase, and a Maintenance Phase of up to 21 monthly cycles for a total treatment period of up to104 weeks.