A Study of Gemcitabine and Carboplatin (Plus Herceptin in Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Positive [HER2+] Patients) With Metastatic Breast Cancer
The purposes of this study are to determine the safety of gemcitabine and paraplatin either with or without trastuzumab Any side effects that might be associated with these compounds. Whether the two or three drugs listed above when given in combination can help patients with metastatic breast cancer. How long the treatment will stop the growth of the cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Herceptin
Overall Tumor Response, Response using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria. Complete Response=disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive Disease=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria., baseline to disease progression/recurrence (up to 3.5 years)
Duration of Response, Among tumor responders, the duration of tumor response is measured from the date of response (complete response \[CR\] or partial response \[PR\]) until the first date of documented progression or death from any cause. Duration of tumor response will be censored at the date of the last follow-up visit for tumor responders who are still alive and who have not progressed., date of response (CR or PR) until the first date of documented progression or death from any cause (up to 3.5 years)|Number of Patients Who Experienced Alopecia, Baseline to 3.5 years|Time to Disease Progression (TTP), If a patient is lost to follow-up, the patient will be censored as of the last date of contact. Patients who start a new treatment before they progress will be censored as of the date of start of the new treatment. If a patient died due to reason other than study disease, and patient has not progressed or received any new treatment, TTP is censored at the date of death., randomization date to the earliest date of the first documented disease progression date or the date of death if the patient dies due to study disease (up to 3.5 years)|Percentage of Patients With Overall Survival at 1 Year and 2 Years, Kaplan-Meier estimates of overall survival (percentage of patients surviving) at 1 year and 2 years., 1 Year, 2 Years
The purposes of this study are to determine the safety of gemcitabine and paraplatin either with or without trastuzumab Any side effects that might be associated with these compounds. Whether the two or three drugs listed above when given in combination can help patients with metastatic breast cancer. How long the treatment will stop the growth of the cancer.