Tools for Improving Colorectal Cancer Screening Rates: Multimedia Versus Print
The objective of this study is to compare the effectiveness of multimedia and print tools designed to provide patients at safety-net clinics with comprehensible information about colorectal cancer screening and motivate them to complete screening.The print and multimedia interventions were constructed with parallel content to allow valid comparison of format-related effects on knowledge and screening rates.These easy to use tools will provide under served patients at community health centers with clear and consistent messages about colorectal Cancer(CRC) and CRC screening, delivered immediately before the patients see a doctor.

Specific Aims

1. To determine if multimedia and print interventions that provide patients with information and motivational messages about CRC screening increase screening rates above usual care.
2. Determine whether showing patients a multimedia program achieves higher CRC screening rates than does a print booklet with equivalent messages.

   1. Examine if the effects of these multimedia and print interventions on CRC screening rates differ with literacy level.
   2. Examine if the effects of these multimedia and print interventions on CRC screening differ with race/ethnicity
   3. Examine if these multimedia and print interventions have differential effects on knowledge relevant to CRC screening.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Multimedia Education|BEHAVIORAL: Print Media|BEHAVIORAL: Usual and customary waiting room process
Comparison of the acceptance of colorectal cancer screening by patients who view print or multimedia educational tools, 3 months post visit
Role of race/ethnicity and literacy levels on the comparative effects if the intervention, At scheduled appointment|Comparative knowledge of colorectal cancer screening by patients who view the print or multi-media educational tools., At the scheduled patient visit
Despite the clear benefits of screening for early detection and prevention of colorectal cancer, as many as half of eligible adults remain unscreened. Poor and under served populations, particularly African American and Latino/Hispanic adults, are at greatest risk for noncompliance with recommended tests. Health education strategies developed to date have led to relatively minimal gains, resulting in little translation to routine clinical practice. This is especially true in more difficult, resource-strained practice settings, such as community health centers.

The interventions in the proposed study draw on communication science to optimize message design, use communication technology to optimize message delivery and include parallel content in both print and multimedia versions to allow comparison of format-related effects on both knowledge and screening rates.The multimedia and print tools are based on patient education programs that we developed with extensive attention to theory as well as community member input.