Extension Study to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of Pasireotide in Participants With Cushing's Disease
Cushing's disease is a rare serious condition that is caused by an adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secreting pituitary adenoma. This study assessed the long-term safety and efficacy of pasireotide in participants with Cushing's disease.
Cushing Disease
DRUG: Pasireotide
Percentage of Responders With Mean Urinary Free Cortisol (UFC) Within Normal Limits, A participant was considered a responder if the mean UFC from the two 24-hour urine samples collected at Month 6 was within normal limits. The normal range for UFC is 55 to 276 nmol/day., Month 6|Change From Baseline in Mean Urinary Free Cortisol (UFC), 24-hour urine samples were collected to obtain mean UFC measurements. A negative mean change from baseline indicates improvement., Core Baseline, Days 14/15 (Core study), Months 6, 12, 24 and 102
Number of Participants Who Had At Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any undesirable sign, symptom or medical condition occurring after starting study drug even if the event is not considered to be related to study drug. AEs were assessed according to incident dose group: Pasireotide 1200 μg sc total daily dose (TDD), Pasireotide 1800 μg SC TDD and Pasireotide SC Any Dose. The incident dose for an AE was the last total daily dose administered on or prior to the AE onset date., Up to approximately 106 months|Change From Baseline in Serum Cortisol Levels, Blood samples were withdrawn to obtain the serum cortisol levels. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Core Baseline, Day 15 (Core study), Months 6, 12, 24, and Month 105 (end of the study)|Plasma Trough Concentrations (Ctrough) of Pasireotide in UFC Responders, Participants with Cushing's disease were considered responders if mean UFC levels from the 24-hour urine collections at Day 15 (Core study) and at extension Month 6, were within normal limits. Ctrough levels of pasireotide were measured at Day 15 of Core study and Month 6., Day 15 (Core study) and Month 6|Change From Baseline in Plasma Adrenocorticotropic Hormone (ACTH) Levels, Blood samples were withdrawn to obtain the ACTH levels. A negative change from baseline indicates improvement., Core Baseline, Day 15 (Core study), Months 6, 12, 24 and Month 105 (end of the study)|Change From Baseline in Gene-expression and Protein in Blood and Urine for Biomarker Development, Baseline to end of the study
Cushing's disease is a rare serious condition that is caused by an adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) secreting pituitary adenoma. This study assessed the long-term safety and efficacy of pasireotide in participants with Cushing's disease.