Lenvatinib (E7080/MK-7902) in Combination With Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) vs. Standard Chemotherapy and Lenvatinib Monotherapy in Participants With Recurrent/Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma That Progressed After Platinum Therapy and Immunotherapy (MK-7902-009/E7080-G000-228/LEAP-009)
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with head and neck cancer whose cancer has come back after treatment (recurrent) or whose cancer has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Some people with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer are treated with chemotherapy and immunotherapy, but the cancer gets worse.

The goal of this study is to learn if more people who receive lenvatinib and pembrolizumab have a better overall survival rate than people who receive standard chemotherapy treatment.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
DRUG: Lenvatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 45 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Responses were according to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR). RECIST 1.1 was modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ. Per RECIST 1.1, PD was defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered PD., Up to approximately 45 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a confirmed complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions) until progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Responses were according to modified RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. RECIST 1.1 was modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 45 months|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the first documented evidence of complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the diameters of target lesions) until progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Responses were according to modified RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR., Up to approximately 45 months|Number of Participants Who Experienced One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experience an AE was presented., Up to approximately 5 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Intervention Due to an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE was presented., Up to approximately 5 years
With Amendment 7, participants will discontinue lenvatinib and pembrolizumab and lenvatinib monotherapy, unless discussed with the Sponsor.

A protocol-specified periodic safety review was completed with a data cut-off of 31-May-2024 (Primary Completion Date) and served as the final analysis of the primary outcome measure. Per protocol, 34 participants enrolled after the primary completion date and will be analyzed in the End of Trial analysis.