Cisplatin and Etoposide With or Without Veliparib in Treating Patients With Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of veliparib when given together with or without cisplatin and etoposide and to see how well they work in treating patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer or large cell neuroendocrine non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving cisplatin and etoposide with or without veliparib may work better in treating patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer or metastatic large cell neuroendocrine non-small cell lung cancer.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Large Cell Lung Carcinoma|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Veliparib|DRUG: Placebo
Recommended Phase II Dose (Phase I), dose of veliparib which was deemed to be the recommended phase II dose to be administered in the combination with CE for the phase II clinical trial, assessed for a maximum of cycle 1|Progression Free Survival (Phase II), Profession free survival (PFS) is defined as time from randomization to date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Patients who had not experienced an event of interest by the time of analysis were censored at the date they were last known to be alive and progression-free. Tumor response was evaluated via Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria, and progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, or appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Median PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed every 3 months for patients < 2 years from registration and every 6 months if patient is 2- 3 years from registration until the date of first documented progression or death. No specific requirements if patient is > 3 years from registration
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as time from randomization to death from any cause. Median OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Assessed every 3 months for patients < 2 years from registration and every 6 months if patient is 2- 3 years from registration until the date of death. No specific requirements if patient is > 3 years from registration|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response was evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Complete response (CR) was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Partial response (PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Overall response rate= (CR+PR)/all eligible and treated patients, assessed every 6 weeks while on study, then every 3 months for patients < 2 years from registration and every 6 months if patient is 2- 3 years from registration.
Neurotoxicity Total Score Change Between Baseline and 3 Months After Treatment Start, Neurotoxicity total score was measured by the 11 items in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx) questionnaire. Each item was scored from 0-4. The severity of neurotoxicity was measured by the total score of the 11 items, ranged from 0 to 44. Lower values of the FACT/GOG-Ntx neurotoxicity total score indicate higher neurotoxicity., assessed at baseline and 3 months after treatment initiation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of veliparib to use in combination with cisplatin and etoposide (CE). (Phase I) II. To determine whether the addition of ABT-888 (veliparib) to cisplatin etoposide (CE) results in improved progression free survival (PFS) over CE with placebo in the frontline therapy of newly diagnosed extensive stage small cell lung cancer. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall survival (OS) associated with the combination of CE plus ABT-888. (Phase II) II. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) as well as complete response rate (CRR) associated with the combination of CE plus ABT-888. (Phase II) III. To determine the toxicity profile of the combination of ABT-888 and CE chemotherapy in this patient population. (Phase II)

OTHER PRE-SPECIFIED OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct exploratory correlative analysis of the impact of the select biomarkers. (Phase II) II. To compare the overall toxicity profile and specifically the incidence and severity of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy with the addition of ABT-888 to CE. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a phase II study.

Phase I: Patients receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7, etoposide intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM D: Patients receive veliparib PO BID on days 1-7, etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM E: Patients receive placebo PO BID on days 1-7, etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-3, and cisplatin IV over 60-120 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.