Education for Prevention of Melanoma in Hispanic Populations
This clinical trial is to develop an educational platform to educate and prevent melanoma in Hispanic populations. Melanoma is cancer arising in the skin. Educational platforms to increase the knowledge and practice of sun smart behaviors (sunscreen use, sun protective clothing use, self-skin examination) may help reduce risk of and incidence of melanoma and improve cancer survival.
Melanoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Knowledge score after completing the educational module, For quantitative variables, descriptive statistics including number of observations, mean, median, standard deviation, and range will be given for the values. Qualitative variables will be summarized using counts and percentages. Associations between quantitative variables will be conducted using the Pearson linear correlation coefficient, and the Chi-squared or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables.The melanoma knowledge score will be a percent correct, between 0% and 100% (100% is the best score), on a participant questionnaire. The primary outcome is the change in participant melanoma knowledge score before and immediately after completing the melanoma education (the intervention in this study)., Up to 3 months
Knowledge score three months after completing the educational module, For quantitative variables, descriptive statistics including number of observations, mean, median, standard deviation, and range will be given for the values. Qualitative variables will be summarized using counts and percentages. Associations between quantitative variables will be conducted using the Pearson linear correlation coefficient, and the Chi-squared or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables.The secondary outcome is their melanoma knowledge score at the three-month follow-up., 3 months after completing education module
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Develop online education platform to educate the Hispanic community. II. Demonstrate improvement in knowledge and practice of sun smart behaviors. III. Determine if the education platform leads to increase visits to their medical provider and increase diagnosis of skin cancers, particularly melanoma, in our population.

OUTLINE:

Participants complete an educational training module and complete questionnaire at baseline (before educational training module) and 3 months after completing educational training.