A Study of CD45RA+ Depleted Haploidentical Stem Cell Transplantation in Children With Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors and Lymphomas
This is a phase I study designed to determine the feasibility of transplantation using a novel transplant approach that employs a two-stage haploidentical cell infusion following myeloablative conditioning. This strategy, which includes selective depletion of naïve T cells, may speed immune reconstitution thereby potentially reducing the limitations of traditional haploidentical hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and increasing its potential therapeutic application. Additionally, the investigators intend to explore overall survival, event-free survival, hematopoietic cell recovery and engraftment as well as infection rates and complications in these patients.
Ewing Sarcoma|Gastrointestinal Tumor|Germ Cell Tumor|Hepatic Tumor|Lymphoma|Wilms Tumor|Rhabdoid Tumor|Clear Cell Carcinoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Melanoma|Neuroblastoma|Rhabdomyosarcoma|Non-rhabdomyosarcoma
DRUG: alemtuzumab|DRUG: fludarabine|DRUG: sirolimus|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: melphalan|BIOLOGICAL: stem cells|DEVICE: CliniMACS
Feasibility of haploidentical HSCT, Feasibility is defined as engraftment (ANC≥ 500/mm3 for 3 consecutive tests performed on different days) evaluated before day +30., 30 days post transplantation
hematopoietic cell recovery and engraftment rates, They will be reported and presented descriptively. Specifically, the hematopoietic cell recovery and engraftment rates will be reported with a Blyth-Still-Casella 95% confidence interval., 30 days post transplantation|infection rates and complications, The proportion of patients who develop infections and complications will be estimated and a Blyth-Still-Casella 95% confidence interval will be provided., up to 5 years|overall survival (OS), Defined based on any death. The Kaplan-Meier Estimate will be provided., up to 1 year after transplantation|event-free survival, The Kaplan-Meier Estimate will be provided., up to 1 year after transplantation
Twelve participants and 12 donors will be enrolled on this study. Donors will undergo seven days of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization followed by two apheresis collections. Each apheresis collection will be processed by the CliniMACS system.

DONORS: A mobilization regimen of granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) will be used to obtain a peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) product from the donor. Apheresis will be performed for a minimum of two consecutive days, including one day for each cell product delivered.

STUDY PARTICIPANTS: Participants will undergo a two-stage haploidentical cell infusion following myeloablative conditioning. The first cell infusion will be a CD3-depleted product and the second infusion will be a CD45RA-depleted product.

Primary Objective:

* To determine the feasibility of haploidentical HSCT using two infusions engineered by negative selection on the Miltenyi CliniMACS system- the first by selective depletion of CD3+ cells, followed by a second depleted of CD45RA+ cells, in children with relapsed or refractory solid tumors or lymphomas.

Secondary Objectives:

* To estimate hematopoietic cell recovery and engraftment rates for the patients.
* To estimate infection rates and complications.
* To estimate the one-year overall survival (OS) and event-free survival (EFS) for the study patients.