A Phase II Study of Efficacy and Safety in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma
This study assessed the efficacy and safety of oral treatment with two dose levels of LDE225 in patients with locally advanced or metastatic BCC.
Basal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: LDE225
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Central Review According to mRECIST (for Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma (laBCC)) and RECIST 1.1 (for Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (mBCC)) Per Primary Efficacy Analysis Set (pEAS), ORR is the percentage of patient's objective response (ORR) by 6 months after starting LDE225 treatment. A responder was defined as a subject with confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) 6 months after starting LDE225 treatment.Treatment with sonidegib was considered sufficiently efficacious if the observed ORR on any treatment arm at the end of the study was 30% or higher. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Central Review According to mRECIST (for Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma (laBCC)) and RECIST 1.1 (Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (mBCC)) Per Full Analysis Set (FAS), ORR is the percentage of patient's objective response (ORR) by 6 months after starting LDE225 treatment. A responder was defined as a subject with confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) 6 months after starting LDE225 treatment.Treatment with sonidegib was to be considered sufficiently efficacious if the observed ORR on any treatment arm at the end of the study was 30% or higher. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 6 months
Duration of Response (DoR) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Duration of response is the time from the first observed confirmed response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death due to any reason.

Duration of response was for participants with ORR. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm2., 42 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (FAS), Duration of response is the time from the first observed confirmed response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death due to any reason.

Median DoR for patients with laBCC was non-estimable for both treatment arms. Duration of response was for participants with ORR. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Complete Response Rate (CRR) Per Central Review (pEAS), Rate of complete response is the percentage of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) after starting LDE225 treatment. The rate of CR was determined according to mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC. Patients with best overall response of 'Unknown" were treated as non responders. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Complete Response Rate (CRR) Per Central Review (FAS), Rate of complete response is the proportion of patients with best overall response of complete response (CR) after starting LDE225 treatment. The rate of CR will be determined according to mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC. Patients with best overall response of 'Unknown" will be treated as non responders, 6 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not had an event, progression-free survival is censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., 42 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (FAS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not had an event, PFS is censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., 42 months|Time to Tumor Response (TTR) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Time to tumor response (TTR) is defined as the time from date of enrollment to the date of first documented tumor response (CR or PR). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Time to Tumor Response (TTR) Per Central Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (FAS), Time to tumor response (TTR) is defined as the time from date of enrollment to the date of first documented tumor response (CR or PR). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Site Investigator Review According to mRECIST (for Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma (laBCC)) and RECIST 1.1 (for Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (mBCC)) Per Primary Efficacy Analysis Set (pEAS), ORR is the percentage of patient's objective response (ORR) by 42 months after starting LDE225 treatment. A responder was defined as a subject with confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) 42 months after starting LDE225 treatment. Treatment with sonidegib was considered sufficiently efficacious if the observed ORR on any treatment arm at the end of the study was 30% or higher. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Based on Site Investigator Review According to mRECIST (for Locally Advanced Basal Cell Carcinoma (laBCC)) and RECIST 1.1 (Metastatic Basal Cell Carcinoma (mBCC)) Per Full Analysis Set (FAS), ORR is the percentage of patient's objective response (ORR) by 6 months after starting LDE225 treatment. A responder was defined as a subject with confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) 42 months after starting LDE225 treatment.Treatment with sonidegib was to be considered sufficiently efficacious if the observed ORR on any treatment arm at the end of the study was 30% or higher. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Per Site Investigator Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Duration of response is the time from the first observed confirmed response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death due to any reason.

Duration of response was for participants with ORR. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.

Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameter of all measured target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm2., 42 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Per Site Investigator Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (FAS), Duration of response is the time from the first observed confirmed response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death due to any reason. Duration of response was for participants with ORR. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Site Investigator Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. If a patient has not had an event, progression-free survival is censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment., 42 months|Time to Tumor Response (TTR) Per Site Investigator Review Using mRECIST for laBCC and RECIST 1.1 for mBCC (pEAS), Time to tumor response (TTR) is defined as the time from date of enrollment to the date of first documented tumor response (CR or PR). PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm., 42 months|Plasma Concentration of Sonidegib (LDE225), Blood PK samples were collected either by direct venipuncture or an indwelling cannula inserted in a forearm vein for the determination of trough (Cmin) plasma concentrations of sonidegib and its main circulating metabolite, LGE899, from all patients who enrolled in the study. Blood was collected in Weeks 1, 3, 5, 9 (pre-dose), and subsequently pre-dose every 4 weeks up to Week 21, and every 12 weeks thereafter up to week 69., Weeks 1, 3, 5, 9, 13, 17, 21, 33, 45, 57, 69|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death due to any cause or the last date that a patient was known to be alive (censored observation) as of the data cut-off., 42 months
This study assessed the efficacy and safety of oral treatment with two dose levels of LDE225 in patients with locally advanced or metastatic BCC.