Sunitinib Malate in Treating Patients With Recurrent Transitional Cell Bladder Cancer
RATIONALE: Sunitinib malate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth or by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well sunitinib malate works in treating patients with recurrent transitional cell bladder cancer.
Recurrent Bladder Cancer|Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Bladder
DRUG: sunitinib malate|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: TdT-mediated dUTP nick end labeling assay|OTHER: light microscopy|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Complete Response Rate, Number of patients with complete response defined as negative cystoscopy with negative biopsy and no evidence of cancer on urine cytology 12 months after treatment with sunitinib., At 12 months after completion of treatment
Recurrence-free Survival, Time from registration (up to 28 days prior to treatment) to the first documentation of recurrence assessed up to 12 months after completion of treatment (up to 12 weeks). Time period can be up to 16 months from time of registration., at 12 months after completion of treatment|Progression-free Survival, Number of patients last known to be alive and not to have progressed are censored at the last day of contact. Progression is defined as: Biopsy proven muscle invasive disease ≥ Stage T2 or death due to any cause., at 12 months after completion of treatment|Overall Survival, Number of patients still alive from date of registration to date of death due to any cause., at 12 months after completion of treatment|Toxicity Assessed, Graded, and Tabulated Using CTCAE Version 3.0, Number of participants that experienced adverse events., at 12 months after completion of treatment
Immune Response, The secondary outcome measure of response for the correlative studies will be the degree of apoptosis and the overexpression or not of known angiogenic markers (i.e. VEGF-R2, PDGF-R) an comparison by IHC analysis within bladder tumor tissue from the TURBT biopsy specimens with the post sunitinib (Sutent®) treatment TURBT specimens., at 12 months after completion of treatment|Angiogenesis, The secondary outcome measure of response for the correlative studies will be the degree of apoptosis and the overexpression or not of known angiogenic markers (i.e. VEGF-R2, PDGF-R) an comparison by IHC analysis within bladder tumor tissue from the TURBT biopsy specimens with the post sunitinib (Sutent®) treatment TURBT specimens., at 12 months after completion of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the clinical efficacy of oral sunitinib (Sutent) given continuously for a maximum of 12 weeks, with respect to complete response rates at 12 months after completion of treatment in patients with high-risk superficial bladder cancer who have failed previous intravesical BCG.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the impact of sunitinib treatment in recurrence-free survival, progression-free survival, and overall survival in patients with high-risk superficial TCC of the bladder who have failed previous intravesical BCG.

II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of sunitinib (Sutent) administered in patients with high-risk superficial TCC of the bladder who have failed previous intravesical BCG.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess pre-treatment tissue baseline angiogenic markers and to evaluate the magnitude of the difference among these variables with post-treatment tumor tissue after treatment with sunitinib (Sutent).

II. To evaluate the effects of Sunitinib (Sutent) on immunosuppressive regulatory T cells (Tregs).

III. To determine the presence of circulating tumor cells in superficial BCG-refractory TCC patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.