A Feasibility and Safety Study of Dual Specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T Cell Immunotherapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
CAR-T cell therapy has shown promising results for the treatment of relapsed or refractory Multiple Myeloma,however, a subset of patients relapse due to the loss of target in tumor cells.Dual Specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells can recognize and kill the malignant cells through recognition of CD38 or BCMA. This is a phase 1/2 study designed to determine the safety of dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells and the feasibility of making enough to treat patients with relapsed or refractory Multiple Myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Dual Specificity CD38 and bcma CAR-T Cells
Number of Participants with Severe/Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, 24weeks|MTD of dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells, The highest dose of dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells that is estimated to result in defined Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) with the exception of allowable 'expected' AEs associated with the intravenous infusion of dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells, 4 weeks|Copies numbers of CAR in peripheral blood(PB), bone marrow(BM)and lymph nodes, 24 weeks
Six-month Objective response rate of complete remission and partial remission, 24 weeks|Six-month Overall survival, 24 weeks|Six-month Progression free survival, 24 weeks
1. PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

   1. To evaluate the feasibility and safety of dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells in patients with relapsed or refractory Multiple Myeloma.
   2. To evaluate the duration of in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred T cells, and the phenotype of persisting T cells.Real Time polymerase chain receptor (RT-PCR) and Flow cytometry(FCM) analysis of PB,BM and lymph node will be used to detect and quantify survival of universal dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cells over time.
2. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1.For patients with detectable disease, measure anti-tumor response due to dual specificity CD38 and BCMA CAR-T cell infusions.

2.The CAR-T cells will be administered by i.v. injection over 20-30 minutes as a using Day 0: 1-5x10e6/kg total dose on day 0.