Remote Electronic Patient Monitoring in Oncology Patients
The goal of this research is to study an intervention, which the investigators call "Remote Electronic Patient Monitoring," that entails vital sign data (enabled with smart algorithms for notification) and patient-reported outcomes (PROs), (such as physical and psychological symptoms) intended to address and manage any concerning issues and or diagnoses identified.

Specifically, the plan is a study of oncology patients who will use the Gaido system for up to 21 days or per physician order.
Cancer
OTHER: Gaido
Feasibility of Gaido intervention for use by cancer patients, Feasibility will be measured through utilization of the intervention to track statistics such as wear time, completion of patient reported outcomes patients who are meet the criteria and are enrolled in the study. o Analysis of patient wear time for Gaido, using reporting tools as part of the Gaido solution.

* Proportion of time that patients wear the Gaido solution
* Proportion of participants completing self-reported symptom monitoring through the device
* Proportion of participants completing vital sign data entry (blood pressure and oral temperature) through the device, Evaluation last for 3 days after each patient use
Acceptability of Gaido intervention for use by cancer patients, The research team will conduct semi-structured interviews with patients, to obtain feedback on usability and utility of the Gaido solution., Evaluation last for 3 days after each patient use|Potential impact of Gaido intervention on cancer patient outcomes, To describe health care utilization, potential conditions detected on patients receiving Remote Electronic Patient Monitoring.corresponding interventions on patients receiving Remote Electronic Patient Monitoring.The Electronic Health Record (EHR) will be used to validate the potential Gaido conditions/findings. The following information will be gathered from the EHR: clinical factors (e.g. activities of daily living, tumor staging, diagnosis dates, cancer treatment, prior cancer history, medical comorbidities, and current medications), health care utilization (e.g. inpatient admissions and emergency department visits), and end-of-life care (e.g. death date, hospice enrollment, location of death)., Evaluation last for 3 days after each patient use
Gaido Health's Remote Patient Monitoring Solution v1.0 is a wireless remote monitoring system intended for use by healthcare professionals for the collection of physiological data in home and healthcare settings. Patient information is displayed on a computer located at the medical institution. Every 15 minutes, a measurement is plotted on the User Interface of heart rate / respiration rate (by a Biovotion device). A non-invasive blood pressure (by an Omron device) along with an oral digital thermometer reading are taken per clinician orders and displayed on the Gaido dashboard. Wearable data are transmitted wirelessly from the Biovotion sensor (heart rate and respiratory rate) to the patient's smart phone that relays data to a cloud-based server for storage and analysis. Oral temperature and blood pressure are entered by the patient or care-giver into the patient's smart phone that relays data to a cloud-based server for storage.

The Remote Patient Monitoring system uses algorithms that indicate when patient vitals and patient reported outcomes have changed. Automatic patient surveys are sent to the patient with results displayed both on the computer located in the medical institution and the patient's smart phone. The patient surveys gather patient reported symptoms which are intended to be used in combination with vital signs to support decision-making. The system is intended for use with patients 18 years of age and older who are cared for by healthcare professionals.