Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This clinical trial studies the side effects of gemtuzumab ozogamicin and how well it works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Monoclonal antibodies, such as gemtuzumab ozogamicin, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia (M3)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: gemtuzumab ozogamicin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Rate of serious adverse events, 95% confidence interval will be calculated. Graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Approximately 1 year
Overall response, defined as complete remission (CR) and CR with incomplete platelet recovery (CRp), At 28 days|Safety analysis of gemtuzumab ozogamicin as induction therapy for patients with relapsed AML, Adverse event frequency and severity, Approximately 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Approximately 1 year|Event-free survival (EFS), Approximately 1 year|Disease free survival (DFS), Approximately 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To study safety and efficacy single agent Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin (Mylotarg®) as induction therapy for patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) who have relapsed after standard treatments or who are not candidates for standard consolidation treatment after Daunorubicin and cytosine arabinoside.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate morbidity and mortality with the use of gemtuzumab (gemtuzumab ozogamicin) to specific subtypes of leukemia.

II. To correlate gemtuzumab response to degree of cluster of differentiation (CD) 33 positivity.

III. To correlate FMS-Related Tyrosine Kinase 3 (FLT 3)/nucleophosmin (NPM) status and CD 33 positivity to gemtuzumab response.

IV. To document incidence of sinusoidal obstruction syndrome with the use of gemtuzumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 1 and 15. Treatment continues for 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 1 year.