Pembrolizumab, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma Eligible for Stem Cell Transplant
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone work in treating patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma that are eligible for stem cell transplant. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving pembrolizumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone may work better in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Proportion of Complete Response Plus Very Good Partial Response (VGPR), The International Myeloma Working Group response criteria was used to assess response to therapy. The proportion of VGPR response at any time during treatment with pembrolizumab added to lenalidomide and dexamethasone will be estimated by the number of patients achieving a VGPR, CR, or sCR at any time divided by the total number of evaluable patients. A very good partial response (VGPR) is defined as as a demonstration of:

* Serum and urine M-component detectable by immunofixation but not on electrophoresis c or
* greater than 90% reduction in serum m-component and urine m-component \<100 mg/24 h
* If the only measurable disease is FLC, a ≥90% reduction in the difference between involved and involved FLC levels

The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of patients demonstrating a VGPR or better divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner., Up to 112 days
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause. Patients who receive subsequent treatment for myeloma before disease progression will be censored on the date of their last disease assessment prior to initiation of the subsequent treatment. Transplant will not be considered subsequent treatment. The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Partial Response (PR), The PR response after 4 cycles of induction treatment with pembrolizumab added to lenalidomide and dexamethasone will be estimated by the number of patients who achieve a PR, VGPR, CR, or sCR after 4 cycles divided by the total number of evaluable patients. A PR is defined by the following criteria:\>

* If present at baseline, ≥50% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24-hour urinary M-protein or to \<200 mg/24hrs\>
* If the only measurable disease is FLC, a ≥50% reduction in the difference between involved and involved FLC levels\>
* If the only measurable disease is BM, a ≥50% reduction in BM PC's (provided the baseline PC's was ≥30%)\>
* If present at baseline, ≥50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas\>

Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success rate will be calculated., Up to 112 days|Proportion of Successful Stem Cell Collection, The proportion of successful stem cell collection following initial therapy with the combination of pembrolizumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed MM will be estimated by the number of patients with a successful stem cell collection divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true successful proportion will be calculated., Up to 112 days|Survival Time, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From time of registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the very good partial response (VGPR) or better response rate (\>= VGPR) after 4 cycles of pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone, when used as initial therapy in patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma (MM) in patients, who are considered eligible for stem cell transplantation.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the \>= partial response (PR) rate after 4 cycles of treatment with pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

II. To determine the \>= VGPR response rate at any time during treatment with pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

III. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM following treatment with the combination of pembrolizumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

IV. To determine the toxicities associated with pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM.

V. To determine the success rate of stem cell collection following initial therapy with the combination of pembrolizumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed MM.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. PDL-1 expression on myeloma cells and non-tumor cell compartments from the bone marrow will be assessed at baseline.

II. Measures of T-cell activation / exhaustion will be assessed at baseline and after cycle 1, cycle 2, cycle 3, and cycle 4.

III. Natural killer (NK) cell function and numbers will be evaluated at baseline and after cycle 1, cycle 2, cycle 3, and cycle 4.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO daily on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 22 of course 1, day 15 of course 2, and day 8 of course 3. Courses 1-3 repeat beyond 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may undergo stem cell transplantation after 4 courses of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months or 6 months for up to 3 years.