Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma Who Have Undergone an Autologous Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving bortezomib after an autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant may stop the growth of any cancer cells that remain after transplant.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of bortezomib in treating patients with multiple myeloma who have undergone an autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplant.
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: bortezomib
Maximum tolerated dose, At course 8|Safety and tolerability, At course 8
Overall response rate by Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) criteria, At day 30 following stem cell transplant and following course 4, course 8, and 1 year of study treatment|Complete response rate by SWOG criteria, At day 30 following stem cell transplant and following course 4, course 8, and 1 year of study treatment|Response duration by SWOG criteria, At day 30 following stem cell transplant and following course 4, course 8, and 1 year of study treatment
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib during maintenance phase after high-dose melphalan and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma.
* Determine the safety and tolerability of bortezomib in these patients.

Secondary

* Determine the overall response rate, complete response rate, and response duration in patients treated with bortezomib at the MTD.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, dose-finding study.

Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 21 or 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive de-escalating doses of bortezomib (at varying dosing schedules) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.