L-TIL Plus Tislelizumab for PD1 Antibody Resistant aNSCLC
The goal of this observational study is to test in advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients with negative driver gene. For these patients, PD1 antibody therapy combined with chemotherapy was the preferred regimen. However, there is no standard regimen for the patients who refractory from the first-line PD1 inhibitor based therapy.

The main questions they aim to answer are: 1.The efficacy of Liquid Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (L-TIL) plus Tislelizumab and Docetaxel for patients failure from first line chemotherapy and PD1 inhibitor therapy. 2. The safety of L-TIL plus Tislelizumab and Docetaxel as second line therapy.

All participants will receive four cycles of Docetaxel chemotherapy, six cycles of L-TIL cells infusion and one year of Tislelizumab treatment except for disease progression, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal informed consent, death and so on.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: L-TIL, Tislelizumab, Docetaxel
ORR, overall response rate (including complete response and partial response), 3 months
PFS, duration of disease stable or better, 6 months and 12 months|DCR, disease control rate (including patients who achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease), 3 months|DOR, duration of response, 6 months and 12 months
This study is one arm, single center, phase II clinical trial. The participants were diagnosed with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer but without actionable biomarkers (eg: EGFR, ALK, MET, ROS1). PD1 inhibitor and chemotherapy as first line therapy was not respond, or develop tumor progression after a response. Four cycles of Docetaxel chemotherapy, six cycles of L-TIL cells infusion and one year of Tislelizumab regimen Q3W were used. Docetacxel was dosed 75mg/m2 and Tislelizumab was dosed 200mg on day 1, L-TIL cells were dosed (3-10)x10\*9/m2 on day 14. Eligible patients were no less than 18 and no more than 75 years old, with adequate organ function but without active infection and autoimmune disease.