Lymph Node Mapping in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Endometrial Cancer Undergoing Surgery
This clinical trial studies lymph node mapping in patients with newly diagnosed endometrial cancer undergoing surgery. Lymph node mapping may help in planning surgery to remove endometrial cancer and affected lymph nodes.
Stage I Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage II Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage III Endometrial Carcinoma|Stage IV Endometrial Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: lymph node mapping|PROCEDURE: sentinel lymph node biopsy|DRUG: isosulfan blue|DRUG: indocyanine green solution|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery|PROCEDURE: lymphadenectomy
Sensitivity of Sentential Lymph Node (SLN) Biopsy, Sensitivity estimated as the proportion of true positives among participants with lymph node metastases. Sensitivity Calculation= the number of patients with a positive SLN over those patients with a positive SLN plus those patients with a false negative lymph node., Up to 4 weeks|Number of Participants in Whom a SLN is Detected, Detection Rate as defined by number of participants in whom a SLN is detected, Up to 4 weeks|Percent of Hemipelvises Identified With SLN, Detection rate, as defined by percent of hemipelvises identified with SLN, Up to 4 weeks|Number of Participants With Sentinel Nodes Per Side of Pelvis, Detection rate, as defined as number of participants with a sentinel node found per side of pelvis, Up to 4 weeks|False Negative Rate as Defined as Proportion of Participants With False Negative Detection, False negative rate = 1-sensitivity or the number of patients with a false negative SLN over the number of patients with a positive SLN plus those with a false negative lymph node, Up to 4 weeks|Percent of True Positive SLN Identified With Surgical Modalities (Open Procedures, Minimally Invasive Procedures, and Single-site Technology), The percent of true positive SLN identified with surgical modalities using pairwise comparisons for each surgical modality. Comparisons will be performed using two sample tests of proportions based on a normal approximation., Up to 4 weeks
Percent of True Positive SLNs Using Isosulfan Blue and Indocyanine Green Solution, Percent of true positive SLN identified will be compared between injectants utilized using a two sample test of proportions based on a normal approximation. Comparisons will be performed using two sample tests of proportions based on a normal approximation., Up to 4 weeks|Total Operating Room Time in Minutes, Total operating room time will be estimated as a mean with 95% confidence interval if the data have an approximately normal distribution. Otherwise, the median and a bootstrapped 95% confidence interval for the median will be reported. Similar summaries will be provided for the console time (robotic)/ operating time., From the time the patient enters the room to the time the patient leaves the room, assessed up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the detection rate, sensitivity, and negative predictive value of sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy in endometrial cancer patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare different surgical modalities (open procedures, minimally invasive procedures, and single-site technology) and different injectants (isosulfan blue and indocyanine green) for SLN biopsy.

II. To determine total operating room time (from the time the patient enters the room to the time the patient leaves the room) as well as console time (robotic)/operating time for minimally invasive procedures.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo SLN mapping using isosulfan blue and/or indocyanine green solution injected directly into the cervix. Following SLN identification and biopsy, patients undergo hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, and/or complete pelvic lymphadenectomy. Patients expressing SLN positive for metastasis undergo para-aortic lymphadenectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2-4 weeks.