Patients' Quality of Life After Pilonidal Cyst Operations.
Biomedical research consists of two main parts. In the first part, the pilonidal cyst-specific quality of life questionnaire is compiled, adapted, validated, tested for suitability in assessing patients after pilonidal cyst operations.

The second part will compare two pilonidal cyst operations. A prospective, comparative, randomized clinical study will be conducted.
Pilonidal Cyst|Pain Postoperative|Quality of Life
PROCEDURE: Minimally invasive pit-picking surgery|PROCEDURE: Radical surgical excision without suturing
Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain at rest on a specified 100 mm scale at the specified time., One week after surgery
Rate of disease recurrence, Disease recurrence will be assessed by clinical examination., Recurrence will be assessed 6 months and 2 years after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, One day after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, Two days after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, Two weeks after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, One month after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, Two months after surgery|Pain after surgery, Postoperative pain will be assessed on a VAS 100 mm scale. Patients will mark their pain, Six months after surgery
Postoperative complications, Patients will report past complications., 1 months after surgery|Quality of life according to the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36)., Patients fill out the the 36-Item Short Form Survey (SF-36). All questions are scored on a scale from 0 to 100, with 100 representing the highest level of functioning possible. Aggregate scores are compiled as a percentage of the total points possible, using the RAND scoring table. The scores from those questions that address each specific area of functional health status are then averaged together, for a final score within each of the 8 dimensions measured (physical functioning, role limitations due to physical health, role limitations due to emotional problems, energy/ fatigue, emotional well being, social functioning, pain, general health). All 8 categories are scored in the same way., Before surgery, 1 and 2 days after surgery, 1 and 2 weeks after surgery, 1, 2 and 6 months after surgery. Change from baseline in quality of life scores over a 6-month period will be assessed.|Duration of disability, Patients will note the duration of incapacity for work., 1 month after surgery|Wound healing time, Patients will note the time when the wound healed., Six months after surgery|Quality of life total scores according to a specific life questionnaire developed by the researcher., Patients fill out a specific life questionnaire. This questionnaire consists of 20 questions, the value of each question is from 1 to 5 points. The minimum score value is 20, the maximum score value is 100. A lower score value indicates a better quality of life., Before surgery, 1 and 2 days after surgery, 1 and 2 weeks after surgery, 1, 2 and 6 months after surgery. Change from baseline in quality of life scores over a 6-month period will be assessed.
The first part includes the creation, adaptation, validity and suitability of the pilonidal cyst-specific quality of life questionnaire in assessing patients after pilonidal cyst operations, verification and evaluation of the quality of life and its dynamics after these operations. A survey of patients operated on for acute and chronic pilonidal cysts will be conducted. The main evaluation criteria of the first part will be the internal consistency of the questionnaire, the stability of the measurements, the construct validity and the frequency of patients with moderate and severe symptoms according to the specific quality of life questionnaire after pilonidal cyst surgery and the SF36v2 quality of life questionnaire.

The second part will compare two pilonidal cyst operations. A prospective, comparative, randomized clinical study will be conducted. This part of the study will study patients scheduled for surgery for chronic pilonidal cyst. Patients will be randomized into two groups, a group that will undergo radical excision of the pilonidal cyst without suturing the wound and a group that will undergo minimally invasive "pit picking" surgery. Patients will be interviewed before surgery, as well as on the first and second day after surgery. Discharged patients will complete quality-of-life questionnaires at 1, 2 weeks, and 2 months. Patients will be invited for a visit after 1 and 6 months, wound healing, disease recurrence and quality of life will be evaluated. The main evaluation criteria of the second part will be objective data - postoperative complications, wound healing time, duration of incapacity for work, frequency of disease recurrence and subjective data - changes in pain (VAS 10 cm scale) and quality of life total points according to SF36v2 and the specific life questionnaire created after radical pilonidal cyst excision and "pit picking" operations.