Phase I Pilot Study to Evaluate the Anti-glioblastoma Effect of S-Gboxin in Standard Treatment of Glioblastoma/Diffuse Midline Glioma and Response to Treatment (Regardless of Mutation Status)
The objective of this pilot study is to evaluate the efficacy of adding S-Gboxin to standard RT/TMZ treatment protocols in patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) or midline glioma (DMG), regardless of their mutation status
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3 K27M-Mutant|Gliosarcoma|Giant Cell Glioblastoma|GBM
BIOLOGICAL: S-Gboxin
Brain tumor metabolism as measured by PET and MRI, The standardized uptake value (SUV) of HGG will be measured. SUV is a standard PET measurement. MRI with contrast will evaluate the change in tumor size before and after therapy S-Gboxin, Up to 6 month
Overall survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier survival estimates for OS will be presented with using Greenwood's formula at 12 months., Up to 12 month|Incidence of adverse events graded according to the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03, The data will be organized by major organ system and MedDRA severity after completion of the Clinical Study., Up to 1 month after last dose of S-Gboxin
This is a pilot study to evaluate the efficacy of adding the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation inhibitor S-Gboxin (OXPHOS) to standard treatment for glioblastoma multiforme or glioma.

Subjects will start oral S-gboxin orally twice daily and will evaluate the patients and vital status if they tolerate this dose at 3, 7and 15 days after initiation.

Patients will undergo MRI scans before treatment and then at multiple time points during their participation in this Clinical Trial to monitor early tumor response to treatment ( MRI dates will be scheduled by the clinical trial coordinator)

Peripheral blood samples will be collected at baseline, days 1-7-15-28-36-72 to compare biological indicators of treatment response. In some cases, circulating tumor cells (CTCs) will be monitored by real-time qRT-PCR to correlate with clinical data.

Patients will also be assessed for the side effects they experience. Disease-free and overall survival outcomes will be recorded.

Patients will also have their depressive symptoms, quality of life, and neurocognitive function assessed at multiple time points during and after treatment.

After completion of the study, patients will be followed up at 3 months.