Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab, and Veliparib in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage II-IV Ovarian Epithelial, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of veliparib when given together with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab in treating patients with newly diagnosed stage II-IV ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Veliparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cells to repair themselves from damage and survive. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Bevacizumab, a type of drug called a monoclonal antibody, blocks tumor growth by targeting certain cells and preventing the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. Giving veliparib together with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab may kill more tumor cells.
Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Carcinosarcoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Neoplasm|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Carcinoma|Ovarian Carcinosarcoma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Tumor|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Ovarian Cancer AJCC V6 and v7|Stage IIB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIC Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Veliparib
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) occurring in the first or second course of treatment (dose-escalation phase), Up to day 42|Incidence of DLTs occurring in the first 4 courses of treatment (feasibility phase), Up to day 84
Objective tumor response (complete and partial response) as assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Tabulated by regimen and BRCA mutation status., Up to 11 years|Progression-free survival, Summarized using Kaplan-Meier plots by BRCA mutation status., Time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, assessed up to 11 years|Incidence of toxicity, graded according to National Cancer Institute CTCAE version 4.0, Tabulated by regimen and by BRCA mutation status., Up to 30 days after last dose of treatment
Change in PARP inhibition in PBMCs, PARP inhibition in PBMCs in each course (courses 1 and 2) and the change from course1 to course 2 will be summarized by dose level and regimen using descriptive statistics (e.g., mean, standard deviation, median, quartiles) and using graphs. In addition, linear models may be used to assess the association between PARP inhibition and dose level with transformations of the PARP inhibition as appropriate., Day 1 to day 22 (day 1 of course 1 to day 1 of course 2)|Genomic BRCA mutation status, Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities of ABT-888 (veliparib) when administered using continuous versus intermittent dosing schedules with intravenous carboplatin, paclitaxel and bevacizumab using two different treatment regimens; or with intraperitoneal cisplatin and intravenous and intraperitoneal paclitaxel and bevacizumab in women with newly diagnosed, previously untreated, epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

II. To determine the feasibility of these treatment regimens over four cycles in a 2-stage group sequential design once the MTD is established.

III. To assess the toxicity of these regimens using Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the response rate (in measurable disease patients) and progression-free survival in patients treated with these treatment regimens.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the extent of poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibition in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) on day 1 of cycles 1 and 2.

II. To assess genomic breast cancer, early onset (BRCA) mutation status in all patients in regimens I and II with continuous ABT-888 dosing and descriptively correlate with toxicity and efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of veliparib followed by a feasibility study. Patients are sequentially assigned to 1 of 3 treatment regimens.

REGIMEN I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours, carboplatin IV over 30 minutes, and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes (beginning in course 2) on day 1. Patients also receive veliparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

REGIMEN II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive carboplatin, bevacizumab, and veliparib as in Regimen I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment with bevacizumab repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

REGIMEN III: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1 and intraperitoneally (IP) on day 8, and cisplatin IP on day 1 or 2. Patients also receive bevacizumab and veliparib as in Regimen I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 courses. Patients then receive bevacizumab alone on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 16 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.