Impact of Bariatric Surgery on the Gut Environment
The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of bariatric surgery on the gut health. Patients operated with Roux-en-Y gastric bypass or sleeve gastrectomy and obese patients who want too loose weight with a traditional weight-loss program, will be followed up for 1 year. In these patients, the investigators will measure toxicity parameters to understand better the health status of their colon after surgery. In a next phase, the measured toxicity will be linked with certain players that might cause this toxicity. Protein metabolites, formed from undigested protein by microbiota in the colon, are expected to be toxic agents for the colon. Therefore, the investigators will investigate the fate of ingested protein once the surgery patients are metabolically stabilized.
Bariatric Surgery Candidate
Change from baseline in toxicity of faecal water up to 1 year after bariatric surgery, Faecal water toxicity : measured with a cell viability test. Toxicity : expressed as the dilution of faecal water at which 50 percent of the cells survive., Baseline and 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year after surgery|Degree of protein assimilation 6-24 months after bariatric surgery, Protein digestion, malabsorption and fermentation : assessed with stable isotope technology. Digestion and malabsorption : expressed as percent of the administered isotope dose. Fermentation : expressed as percent of maximal dose of the fermentation product that can be formed., 6-24 months after surgery
Degree of fat malabsorption 6-24 months after bariatric surgery, Malabsorption of fat : calculated as ((fat intake- fat excretion)/fat intake)\*100%, expressed as coefficient of fat absorption. Excretion : measured with the Van de Kamer method., 6-24 months after surgery
To quantify protein assimilation after bariatric surgery, the investigators will perform in bariatric surgery patients (Roux-en- Y gastric bypass and Sleeve Gastrectomy) and in a control group a cross-sectional study with a single test day. On the test day, the study participants will consume a test meal that contains intrinsically labelled egg proteins and will take a capsule with 14C-glycocholic acid and a capsule with 3H-labelled polyethylene glycol. Participants will record a food diary 72h before and after the test day and during the test collect breath samples for 6h. Urine and stool will be collected respectively up to 24h and 72h after consumption of the test meal.

For the 1-year follow up study, the 3 patient groups (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, Sleeve gastrectomy and control group with traditional weight loss therapy) will have 5 visits, a baseline visit and 4 visits after surgery or after starting traditional therapy. The time points after baseline include 2 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 12 months. Each visit, a blood and stool sample will be collected, a 7-day food and stool diary will be registered and also weight loss will be recorded.