Optimising Renal Outcome in Myeloma Renal Failure
The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of bortezomib versus thalidomide in reducing free light chains in the blood of myeloma patients. In addition participants will receive bendamustine (chemotherapy) and dexamethasone (steroids), which increase the effectiveness of both bortezomib and thalidomide. The trial will also study whether an earlier reduction of free light chains increases the chances of the kidneys recovering.
Multiple Myeloma|Chronic Kidney Disease
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Thalidomide|DRUG: Bendamustine|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Number of Participants With >50% Reduction From Baseline in Serum Free Light Chain, End of week 6 (after receiving two cycles of therapy)|Number of Participants With Different Renal Responses to Treatment, End of week 12 (after receiving 4 cycles of therapy)
Haematological and Non-haematological Toxicity in Both Treatment Arms, End of weeks 3, 6, 9, 12 (after receiving 4 cycles of therapy), 30 days after final treatment and 12 months after randomisation|Overall Survival, 1 month post end of treatment and 1 year post randomisation|Renal Response After Two Cycles of Trial Treatment, End of 2nd treatment cycle, week 6|Quality of Life Measured by the EQ-5D-3L Questionnaire at Baseline and 1 Month Follow up, The EQ-5D-3L descriptive system comprises the following five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension is scored on a scale of 1 to 3: 1 (no problems), 2 (some problems), and 3 (extreme problems). Higher score equates to a worse outcome.

As stated in the official EQ-5D user guide, patient responses to the 5 questions were converted into a single index value as per Dolan P (1997). Modeling valuations for EuroQol health states. Med Care 35(11):1095-108. These index values, with country specific value sets, facilitate the calculation of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) that are used to inform economic evaluations of health care interventions. In the UK, the values range from -0.594 to +1., Baseline and 1 month follow up
Renal impairment is a life threatening condition of myeloma. 20-25% of patients will present at diagnosis with renal dysfunction. Outcome is poor due to high early mortality, with 28% of newly diagnosed myeloma patients in myeloma trials with renal failure not surviving beyond 100 days, compared with 10% overall.

This study aims to establish:

1. Whether proteosomal inhibition (bortezomib) or immunomodulatory (thalidomide) based therapy achieves threshold reduction of serum free light chains (sFLCs) in a significant majority of patients.
2. Whether sFLC response to the first 2 cycles (early responder) predicts haematological and renal response to the next 2 cycles of therapy.
3. An early time point for assessment of sFLC reduction as a biomarker for response.

Participants will be stratified by age and chronic kidney disease (CKD) stage to receive either bortezomib, bendamustine and dexamethasone (BBD) or thalidomide, bendamustine and dexamethasone (BTD).