AZD2171 in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well AZD2171 works in treating patients with recurrent ovarian, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer. AZD2171 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage I Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage II Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
DRUG: cediranib maleate
Clinical Response Benefit (Modified Gynecologic Cancer InterGroup [GCIG] Cancer Antigen [CA]-125 Response or Stable Disease) Based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RESIST)

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started, Up to 12 months
Progression-free Survival, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of AZD2171 in platinum sensitive and platinum insensitive disease, based on either RECIST criteria (for patients with measurable cancer radiographically) or clinical response benefit (modified Gynecologic Cancer Intergroup \[GCIG\] CA-125 response or stable disease for at least 16 weeks).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression-free survival. II. To assess modified GCIG CA-125 response rate. III. To assess duration of modified GCIG CA-125 response. IV. To assess the safety of the recommended phase 2 dose of AZD2171 in this asymptomatic patient population.

V. To explore the pharmacodynamic effects of AZD2171 by correlating clinical outcomes with an angiogenic profile derived from serial assessments of soluble VEGFR2, circulating endothelial cell levels, and VEGFR phosphorylation in circulating endothelial cells.

VI. To explore pharmacogenetic differences in kdr/flk-1, HIF1alpha, p53, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in PBMCs from subjects who consent separately for pharmacogenetic studies.

VII. To determine whether oncogenic mutations predict response to AZD2171.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to disease sensitivity (platinum-sensitive disease vs platinum-insensitive disease).

Patients receive oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 71 patients will be accrued for this study.