Stereotactic Ablative Radiation Therapy for Prostate Cancer
This single arm trial will investigate a novel way to plan and deliver SABR for prostate cancer. Prostate-directed SABR will be high-dose SABR (40 Gy in 5 fractions) with central sparing of the urethra and peripheral sparing of the rectum and pudendal arteries (SUPR-SABR). This study tests the hypothesis that genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity rates following SUPR-SABR are comparable to (or possibly lower than) historical GU and GI toxicity rates following standard SABR (stSABR) with 36.25 Gy in the treatment of low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: SUPR-SABR treatment
12 month Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) genitourinary score, EPIC score at 12 months post intervention will be compared with pre-intervention scores. Score scale is 0 to 100 with lower scores indicating more severe symptoms., 12 months|12 month Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) gastrointestinal score, EPIC score at 12 months post intervention will be compared with pre-intervention scores. Score is 0 to 100 with lower scores indicating more severe symptoms., 12 months
24 month Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) genitourinary score, EPIC score at 24 months post intervention will be compared with pre-intervention scores. Score is 0 to 100 with lower scores indicating more severe symptoms., 24 months|24 month Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) gastrointestinal score, EPIC score at 24 months post intervention will be compared with pre-intervention scores. Score is 0 to 100 with lower scores indicating more severe symptoms., 24 months|Incidence of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5 grade 3 or higher adverse events from radiation therapy, CTCAE adverse events are on a scale of 0 to 5 with 5 indicating the most severe events., 24 months|1 month genitourinary toxicity as assessed by the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS), The IPSS is made up of 7 questions related to voiding symptoms. A score of 0 to 7 indicates mild symptoms, 8 to 19 indicates moderate symptoms and 20 to 35 indicates severe symptoms. IPSS scores at 1 month will be compared with baseline pretreatment IPSS scores., 1 month|12 and 24 month erectile function as assessed by the Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) score., SHIM score is on a scale of 5-25 with lower scores indicating more severe symptoms of erectile dysfunction., 24 months|Biochemical failure rate at 24 months., Biochemical failure will be reported as a percentage. biochemical failure is defined as prostate specific antigen nadir post treatment + 2 ng/mL., 24 months|To correlate changes in Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) score at 12 and 24 months with radiation dose to the pudendal artery (Gy), SHIM score is 5 to 25 with lower scores indicating worse erectile function, 24 months
It is estimated that there will be 268,000 prostate cancer diagnoses and nearly 35,000 deaths due to prostate cancer in the United States in 2022 \[1\]. Most men diagnosed with prostate cancer present with localized or organ confined disease which is most commonly managed with active surveillance, prostatectomy, brachytherapy, and external beam radiotherapy (EBRT). Conventionally fractionated (1.8-2.0 Gy per fraction for nine weeks) EBRT is of historical and clinical importance in localized prostate cancer, however, moderately hypofractionated (≥2.5 Gy per fraction for four to six weeks) EBRT and SABR have also emerged as standards of care in appropriately selected patients.

The increased precision associated with image guided stereotactic techniques now permits safe delivery of large doses per fraction, also known as hypofractionation. SABR is a specific type of hypofractionated RT. Hallmarks of the SABR technique, also commonly known as stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), include doses of at least 5 Gy per fraction, five or fewer fractions, motion management, noncoplanar beam or arc therapy, body immobilization, and ablative prescription doses.

There is growing interest in the use of SABR in men with low- and intermediate- risk prostate cancer due to their lower risk of extra prostatic disease including pelvic lymph node micrometastases and the low alpha/beta ratio of prostate cancer. Several series with follow up times exceeding five years have demonstrated excellent biochemical control for SABR approaching 95% for low risk and 80-90% for intermediate risk disease with low rates of clinically significant late GU and GI toxicity. Most published clinical experiences of SABR for prostate cancer have employed 35 to 36.25 Gy in 7- to 7.25 Gy fractions (i.e., standard SABR or stSABR). Importantly, it has never been established whether this represents the optimal dose level for SABR and, nationally, there is not only a single standard of care for SABR prescription dose and fractionation. What is more, contemporary literature with prostate SABR suggests a benefit with dose escalation, however, there is interest in avoiding a parallel increase in GU, GI, and sexual side effects of treatment.

The proposed trial concept would offer men with low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer a dose-escalated SABR regimen (SUPR-SABR) of 40 Gy in 5 fractions with a safety profile already supported by medical literature and which is expectedly more efficacious than stSABR. This dose and fractionation is already being used in some radiation oncology practices. However, to further improve the therapeutic index of curative RT, the protocol will employ all available methods to spare the urethra, pudendal artery, and rectum (SUPR-SABR): foley catheter placement during planning, rectal spacer gel placement, endorectal balloon during planning and treatment, prostatic immobilization, strict contouring and dose constraints, and the most highly conformal photon planning available. This protocol will offer men a clinical study with highly important endpoints and lower anticipated treatment related morbidity. If the primary analysis demonstrates favorable healthcare related quality of life (HRQOL) with SUPR-SABR when compared to prospectively collected historic controls of stSABR, then this would serve as the basis for a randomized trial between SUPR-SABR and stSABR.