A Pilot Study of Trans Arterial Chemoembolization (TACE), Followed by Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (SBRT) for Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This investigational study will evaluate if using a combination of TACE along with high dose SBRT would show improvement in local control in patients with Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)
Safety of a Combination Therapy, Evaluate the safety of a combination of TACE and high dose SBRT. Patients were evaluated for toxicity during their follow-up exams every 3 months for 2 years while participating in this study. Patients were also instructed to notify the PI between visits if any related toxicity issues occurred., Baseline to 45 day after completing combination treatment.|Median Progression Free Survival (PFS) Treated With a Combination of TACE & SBRT., Patient will be asked to visit their study doctor for follow-up exams and imaging (CT or MRI) every 3 months until complete response or progression. This will be measured by tumor progression and/or death on follow-up imaging from completion of treatment., Baseline to up to 2 years after treatment completed|Local Recurrence Rate, Evaluate the number of patients with local recurrence. Patient will be asked to visit their study doctor for follow-up exams every 3 months for 2 years while participating in this study.Patient will be asked to visit their study doctor for follow-up exams and imaging (CT or MRI) every 3 months. This will be measured by number of patients with recurrence on their follow-up imaging., Baseline to up to 2 years after treatment completed
Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival, Assess overall survival (OS) of patients treated with TACE \& SBRT. This is assessed by the length of time from either the date of diagnosis or the start of treatment that patients diagnosed with the disease are still alive., up to 2 years after treatment completed|Percentage of Participants With Local Failure Patterns, Assess local failure patterns of patients treated with TACE \& SBRT. This is assessed by the percentage of patients where recurrence occurred, Baseline up to 2 years after treatment completed
Primary objectives of this research

1. Evaluate the safety of a combination of TACE and high dose SBRT
2. Measure time to progression (TTP) and local recurrence rate of HCC treated with a combination of TACE \& SBRT.

Secondary objectives of this research

1. Assess failure patterns and survival of patients treated with TACE \& SBRT.
2. Analyze dose volume characteristics that influence Radiation Induced Liver Disease (RILD) among patients treated with a combination of TACE and SBRT.