Dinaciclib, Bortezomib, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of dinaciclib and bortezomib when given together with dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned after a period of improvement. Dinaciclib and bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving dinaciclib and bortezomib together with dexamethasone may kill more cancer cells.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Dinaciclib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
MTD of dinaciclib and bortezomib when given together with dexamethasone, based on the incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, MTD is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces DLT in at least one-third of patients., Up to 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, graded according to NCT CTCAE version 4.0, The number and severity of all adverse events (overall, by dose-level, and by tumor group) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. Toxicity is defined as adverse events that are classified as possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 3 months|Overall response rate, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group)., Up to 3 months|Time to progression, Summarized descriptively., Up to 3 months|Time to treatment failure, Summarized descriptively., From registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by the patients, assessed up to 3 months|Time until hematologic nadirs (absolute neutrophil count, platelets, hemoglobin), Summarized descriptively., Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximally tolerated doses of dinaciclib and bortezomib, when used in combination, in two different schedules, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the toxicities associated with dinaciclib and bortezomib, when used in combination, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

II. To determine the overall response rate associated with dinaciclib and bortezomib, when used in combination, for treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

III. To explore the differences in toxicity associated with two different schedules of dinaciclib and bortezomib used in combination.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine if expression levels of target cyclin dependent kinase (CDK): CDK 2,5,7 and 9 levels in cluster of differentiation (CD)138-purified tumor cells, will be correlated with response (clinical and molecular) to determine if high or low level target CDK expression, if present, influences dinaciclib efficacy.

II. To examine if immunoglobulin (Ig)H translocation status, P53 status and presence of v-myc myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (avian) (Myc) amplification or rearrangement, determined on patient bone marrow before treatment, using a pre validated fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) panel to identify common myeloma translocations, will be correlated with molecular and/or clinical markers of drug activity, and to assess if specific genetic subgroups of myeloma tumors are responsive or resistant.

III. To determine the gene expression profiles of myeloma cells before and after treatment to understand the role of tumor gene dysregulation and/or dinaciclib induced effects on transcription.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of dinaciclib and bortezomib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment schedules.

SCHEDULE I: Patients receive dinaciclib intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) or IV (if patients do not tolerate SC injection) on days 1, 8, and 15 and dexamethasone orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

SCHEDULE II: Patients receive dinaciclib IV over 2 hours on day 1; bortezomib SC on days 1 and 8; and dexamethasone PO QD on days 1, 2, 8, and 9. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and 3 months.