Study of Atezolizumab in Combination With Cabozantinib Versus Docetaxel in Patients With Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Previously Treated With an Anti-PD-L1/PD-1 Antibody and Platinum-Containing Chemotherapy
This is a Phase III, multicenter, randomized, open-label study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of atezolizumab given in combination with cabozantinib compared with docetaxel monotherapy in patients with metastatic NSCLC, with no sensitizing EGFR mutation or ALK translocation, who have progressed following treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy and anti-PD-L1/PD-1 antibody, administered concurrently or sequentially.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Cabozantinib|DRUG: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause. Participants alive at the time of the analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive as documented by the investigator. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the median. 95% CI for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., Up to approximately 24 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Determined by Investigator, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of disease progression, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause (whichever occurred first). Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameters of the target lesions recorded since the treatment started, including screening, or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Participants who were alive and did not experience disease progression at the time of analysis, were censored on the date of last tumor assessment. Participants with no post-baseline tumor assessment were censored at the date of randomization., Up to approximately 24 months|Confirmed Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Determined by Investigator, Confirmed ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on two consecutive occasions \>=4 weeks apart, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of all target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR) as Determined by Investigator, DOR for participants with confirmed ORR was defined as time from first occurrence of documented objective response to disease progression (PD), as determined by investigator according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause (whichever occurred first). PD was defined as at least 20% increase in sum of longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of longest diameters of target lesions recorded since treatment started, including screening, or appearance of one or more new lesions. Confirmed ORR was defined as percentage of participants with a CR or PR on two consecutive occasions \>=4 weeks apart, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. Participants who had not progressed and who did not die at the time of analysis were censored at the time of last tumor assessment date. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate median. 95% CI for median was computed using method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., Up to approximately 24 months|Time to Confirmed Deterioration in Patient-Reported Physical Functioning (PF), Time to confirmed deterioration (TTCD) analyses was performed for patient-reported physical functioning (PF) (items 1 to 5) of European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life-Core 30 Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). The PF is measured on 4-point scale (1='Not at all' to 4='Very much'). TTCD for PF is defined as time from date of randomization to first confirmed clinically meaningful decrease from baseline in PF score held for at least 2 consecutive assessments or initial clinically meaningful decrease from baseline followed by death from any cause within 21 days or until next tumor assessment, whichever occurs first. A score change of \>=of 10-point on EORTC QLQ-C30 PF scale was determined as being clinically meaningful. Scores were averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; where higher score represented high/healthy level of functioning. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the median. 95% CI for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley, Up to approximately 24 months|Time to Confirmed Deterioration in Patient-Reported Global Health Status (GHS), Time to confirmed deterioration (TTCD) analyses was performed for global health status (GHS) and quality of life (QoL) (items 29 and 30) of EORTC QLQ-C30. GHS/ QoL items are scored on a 7-point scale that ranges from "very poor" to "excellent." TTCD for GHS/QoL is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the first confirmed clinically meaningful decrease from baseline in GHS/QoLscore held for at least two consecutive assessments or an initial clinically meaningful decrease from baseline followed by death from any cause within 21 days or until the next tumor assessment, whichever occurs first. A score change of \>=10-point on the EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS/QoL scale was determined as being clinically meaningful. Scores were averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; where higher score for GHS/QoL=better health-related QoL. Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate the median. 95% CI for median was computed using the method of Brookmeyer and Crowley., Up to approximately 24 months|PFS Rates Assessed by Investigator, PFS rates were defined as the percentage of participants alive and without progression as assessed by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameters of the target lesions recorded since the treatment started, including screening, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 6 months and 1 year|OS Rates, Overall Survival (OS) rate is defined as the percentage of participants who were alive at 1 year and 2 years. Participants alive at the time of the analysis were censored at the date when they were last known to be alive as documented by the investigator., 1 and 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation patient administered a pharmaceutical product, regardless of causal attribution. AEs were assessed using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0 (NCI CTCAE, v5.0), From signing the informed consent form up to the study completion date: 28 February 2024 (i.e., approximately 41 months)|Minimum Serum Concentration (Cmin) of Atezolizumab, Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8, 12 and 16 (each cycle is 21 days)|Maximum Serum Concentration (Cmax) of Atezolizumab, Postdose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 21 days)|Minimum Plasma Concentration (Cmin) of Cabozantinib, Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 (each cycle is 21 days)|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Cabozantinib, Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 (each cycle is 21 days)|Number of Participants With Anti-Drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Atezolizumab, Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1,2,3,4,8,12 and 16 (each cycle is 21 days) and at post-treatment follow-up visit (≤ 30 days after final dose)
This is a Phase III, multicenter, randomized, open-label study designed to evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of atezolizumab given in combination with cabozantinib compared with docetaxel monotherapy in patients with metastatic NSCLC, with no sensitizing EGFR mutation or ALK translocation, who have progressed following treatment with platinum-containing chemotherapy and anti-PD-L1/PD-1 antibody, administered concurrently or sequentially.