GD2/CD56 Bi-specific CAR-T Cell Therapy
The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of anti-GD2/CD56 bi-specific CAR-T cell therapy in patients with GD2 and/or CD56 positive cancer. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the function of the anti-GD2/CD56 bi-specific CAR-T cells and their persistency in patients.
Malignant Disease
BIOLOGICAL: bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 T cells
Number of patients with adverse events., Determine the toxicity profile the bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 cells with Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects version 4.0, 6 months
Anti-tumor effects, Objective complete response (CR) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year|Anti-tumor effects, Objective partial response (PR) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year|The expansion of bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 T cells, Scale of CAR copies, 1 year|The persistence of bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 T cells, Scale of tumor burden (for efficacy), 1 year|Survival time of the patients, The progression free survival (PFS) time of the patients treated with the bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 T cells will be evaluated, 3 years|Survival time of the patients, The overall survival (OS) time of the patients treated with the bi-4SCAR GD2/CD56 T cells will be evaluated, 3 years
Patients with refractory and/or recurrent malignancies have poor prognosis despite complex multimodal therapy; therefore, novel curative approaches are needed. The investigators attempt to use T cells genetically modified to express a 4th generation lentiviral GD2/CD56 bi-specific chimeric antigen receptor (bi-4SCAR-GD2/CD56). The chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) molecules enable the T cells to recognize and kill tumor cells through the recognition of a surface antigen, GD2 or CD56, which is expressed at high levels on tumor cells but not at significant levels on normal tissues.

Disialoganglioside (GD2) is a well-studied tumor associated antigen which is expressed uniformly in nervous system-related tumors but at low levels in normal tissues. Over the past few years, CAR-T therapy against GD2 in tumor has achieved encouraging but modest outcomes. Only a fraction of patients achieved measurable responses. In solid tumors, GD2 CAR-T therapy alone may not be as effective as CAR-T cell therapy in hematological malignancies.

Similar to GD2, the CD56 antigen (NCAM-1) is highly expressed on malignancies with neuronal or neuroendocrine differentiation, including small-cell lung cancer, glioblastoma and neuroblastoma, tumor types for which new therapeutic options are needed. CD56-CAR-T cell therapy has potential for treating patients with aggressive malignancies that are nonresponsive to conventional radiotherapy and chemotherapy, or are unsuitable for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

To overcome tumor escape of single target antigen and enhance in vivo CAR-T efficacy, a novel bi-specific GD2/CD56 CAR-T therapy regimen is developed to include booster and consolidation CAR-T applications to target highly-refractory cancer. The aim is to evaluate safety and long term efficacy of the bi-CAR-T therapy strategy in GD2 and/or CD56 positive cancer patients.