Physiotherapy Treatment in Women With Dyspareunia Following Gynecological Cancer: a Pilot Study
Gynecological cancers represent more than half of female cancers. It has been clearly established that cancer survivors suffer from important health issues such as pain during sexual intercourse (dyspareunia) and sexual dysfunctions which sorely impact their quality of life. Although it affects more than 63% of cancer survivors, the available treatments remain limited and poorly studied. Cancer survivors are thus confronted with these health issues as well as relationship difficulties and psychological consequences, with limited treatment avenues. Addressing pelvic floor muscle dysfunctions and loss of vaginal elasticity, pelvic floor physiotherapy was shown to be effective in reducing or even alleviating dyspareunia and improving sexual function. Until now, no study investigated this treatment in gynecological cancer survivors with dyspareunia. Therefore, there is a need to examine pelvic floor physiotherapy to determine whether or not gynecological cancer survivors with dyspareunia could benefit from this treatment. The objectives of this single-arm mixed-method study are to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of a physiotherapy treatment in gynecological cancer survivors suffering from dyspareunia and to explore treatment effects. This single-arm study using mixed methods will involve three data collections (pre- and post-treatment assessments). These assessments will be carried out by physiotherapists. Participants will receive physiotherapy treatment weekly in individual 60-minute sessions for 12 weeks. Thirty-one gynecological cancer survivors with vulvovaginal pain during sexual intercourse for at least 3 months will be recruited. The results of this study will bring new information regarding physiotherapy treatment for this population in preparation for a definitive randomized controlled trial.
Gynecological Cancer|Dyspareunia
OTHER: Physiotherapy
Adherence rates, To determine acceptability., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment|Retention rate, To determine feasibility., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment
Change from baseline in pain, To explore changes in pain during sexual intercourse (Numerical Rating Scale, ranging from 0 to 10, where 0 is no pain at all, and 10 is the worst pain ever)., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment|Change from baseline in sexual function, To explore changes in sexual function (Female Sexual Function Index)., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment|Change from baseline in pelvic floor muscle function, To explore changes in pelvic floor muscle function at rest and during contraction (dynamometry and ultrasound)., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment|Change from baseline in quality of life, To explore changes in quality of life (questionnaire)., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment|Patient's global impression of change, To determine patient self-reported improvement (Patient's Global Impression of Change)., 2-week post-treatment assessment|Adverse events, To document any adverse events., Pre- to 2-week post-treatment assessment
Gynecological cancers represent more than half of female cancers. It has been clearly established that cancer survivors suffer from important health issues such as pain during sexual intercourse (dyspareunia) and sexual dysfunctions which sorely impact their quality of life. Although it affects more than 63% of cancer survivors, the available treatments remain limited and poorly studied. Cancer survivors are thus confronted with these health issues as well as relationship difficulties and psychological consequences, with limited treatment avenues. Addressing pelvic floor muscle dysfunctions and loss of vaginal elasticity, pelvic floor physiotherapy was shown to be effective in reducing or even alleviating dyspareunia and improving sexual function. Until now, no study investigated this treatment in gynecological cancer survivors with dyspareunia. Therefore, there is a need to examine pelvic floor physiotherapy to determine whether or not gynecological cancer survivors with dyspareunia could benefit from this treatment. The objectives of this single-arm mixed-method study are to evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of a physiotherapy treatment in gynecological cancer survivors suffering from dyspareunia and to explore treatment effects. This single-arm study using mixed methods will involve three data collections (pre- and post-treatment assessments). These assessments will be carried out by physiotherapists. Participants will receive physiotherapy treatment weekly in individual 60-minute sessions for 12 weeks. Thirty-one gynecological cancer survivors with vulvovaginal pain during sexual intercourse for at least 3 months will be recruited. The results of this study will bring new information regarding physiotherapy treatment for this population in preparation for a definitive randomized controlled trial.