S1703 Serum Tumor Marker Directed Disease Monitoring in Patients With Hormone Receptor Positive Her2 Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer
This randomized research trial studies how well serum tumor marker directed disease monitoring works in monitoring patients with hormone receptor positive Her2 negative breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Using markers to prompt when scans should be ordered may be as good as the usual approach to monitoring disease.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Elevated CA15-3 or CEA or CA27-29
OTHER: Usual care disease monitoring|OTHER: Serum Tumor Marker directed disease monitoring|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Anxiety Questionnaire Administration
Assessment of whether patients monitored with STMDDM have non-inferior overall survival compared with patients monitored with usual care, The assessment of whether patients monitored with STMDDM have non-inferior overall survival compared with patients monitored with usual care will be based on multivariable Cox regression, adjusting for intervention assignment (intention-to-treat) and the stratification factor (bone only versus visceral disease). If at the time of final analysis the study shows notably fewer events than anticipated, extended follow-up will be examined for its potential to allow examination of the primary endpoint with full power., Up to 312 weeks after randomization
Cumulative direct healthcare costs (in the United States) of patients monitored with STMDDM versus usual care, The comparison of direct healthcare costs (in the US) by arm will be based on a multivariable linear regression, adjusting for patient and tumor characteristics., Up to 48 weeks after randomization|Assessment of anxiety of patients monitored with STMDDM compared to patients monitored with usual care, Patient anxiety will be measured at baseline and at 12, 24, 36, 48, and 102 after randomization using the State-Trait Anxiety inventory Scale (STAI-S). Differences in anxiety by arm will be evaluated using a mixed-effects model for repeated measures controlling for the baseline score and stratification factor as covariates. No direction of effect will be assumed, implying two-sided testing., Up to 102 weeks after randomization|Assessment of quality of life of patients monitored with STMDDM versus patients monitored with usual care, Patient quality of life (QOL) will be measured at baseline and at weeks 12, 24, 36, 48, and 102 after randomization using the PROMIS-29. Differences in QOL by arm will be evaluated using a mixed-effects model for repeated measures, controlling for the baseline score and stratification factor as covariates. No direction of effect will be assumed, implying two-sided testing., Up to 102 weeks after randomization
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess whether patients with HER-2 negative, hormone receptor positive, metastatic breast cancer who are monitored with serum tumor marker directed disease monitoring (STMDDM) have non-inferior overall survival compared to patients monitored with usual care.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare cumulative direct healthcare costs through 48 weeks among patients monitored with STMDDM versus those monitored with usual care in this patient population.

II. To assess whether the patient-reported outcomes (PROs) of anxiety and quality of life (QOL) are different among patients who are monitored with STMDDM compared with patients who are monitored with usual care in this patient population.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess modality and frequency of disease monitoring testing in the usual care cohort.

II. To assess the association of PROs and patient preferences for disease monitoring testing.

III. To evaluate predictors of physician preferences for disease monitoring testing.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo imaging studies at a minimum frequency of every 12 weeks and continue with usual care disease monitoring for up to 312 weeks in the absence of disease progression.

ARM II: Patients undergo disease specific serum tumor marker (STM) evaluation every 4-8 weeks. Patients with elevated STM, undergo imaging evaluation. Patients continue with STMDDM for up to 312 weeks in the absence of disease progression.