OPTmizing Advanced Stage HodgkIn LymphoMa patIentS Therapy
This is a prospective, multi-center, open-label, phase II clinical trial, aims to assess the effectiveness of the combination ACVD (Adriamycin, Cyclophosphamide, Vinblastine and Dacarbazine) and BV (Brentuximab Vedotin) in PET-2 positive advanced-stage HL patients, in order to improve the overall long-term disease control in the entire cohort of advanced-stage HL.
Classical Hodgkin Lymphoma|Hodgkin Lymphoma (Category)|Hodgkin Disease|Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Adriamycin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Vinblastine|DRUG: Dacarbazine|DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: ABVD
]Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is estimated from the date of diagnosis until the date of first disease progression or relapse, death for any cause.

Superior overall 3 year progression-free survival of patients with PET 2 positive after 2 cycles of ABVD with ACVD and BV compared to historical control of ABVD treated patients and PET 2 negative patients with ACVD only after 2 cycles of ABVD., 3 years
Overall Survival (OS), Superior overall survival of PET 2 positive patients treated with ACVD + BV after 2 cycles of ABVD and PET 2 negative treated with ACVD after 2 cycles of ABVD. It is estimated from the date of diagnosis up to study completion or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 5 years., 5 years
Reduction of lung toxicity, The ability of ACVD to reduce lung toxicity as compared to ABVD by performing a pulmonary function test (PFT) at baseline and end of treatment, 6 months|Overall toxicity, The feasibility of the entire program in terms of grade 3 or 4 NCICTCAE or WHO toxicity, 6 months
With the aim of reducing Blemoycin pulmonary injury (BPI) , Bleomycin was withdrawn and substituted with Cyclophosphamide (ACVD cycle) in patients with a PET-2 negative. All advanced stage HL patients will receive 2 cycles of the standard treatment ABVD and assessed with PET-2 scan.

Knowing that Cyclophosphamide toxicities include cytopenias, amenorrhea and male infertility. These toxicities are mainly dependent on the total cumulative dose. Doses less than 4 g/m2 are not associated with sterility or major toxicity, doses higher than this can lead to azoospermia which was reversible in many cases therefore the cumulative dose will be used in this study is 3200 mg. Additionally, Brentuximab Vedotin has shown significant activity in relapsed refractory HL with minor toxicities.

PET scan after 2 cycles of ABVD has proven to be an excellent tool to identify patients that will have long term PFS of 95% when it is negative and only progression-free survival (PFS) of less than 15% when it is positive.

The primary endpoint of the study will be to assess the overall 3-Y PFS of the entire cohort of patients.