Testing the Use of Combination Therapy in Adult Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma, the EQUATE Trial
This phase III trial compares the combination of four drugs (daratumumab, bortezomib, lenalidomide and dexamethasone) to the use of a three drug combination (daratumumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone). Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Daratumumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as dexamethasone lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Adding bortezomib to daratumumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone may be more effective in shrinking the cancer or preventing it from returning, compared to continuing on daratumumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone.
Plasma Cell Myeloma|RISS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|RISS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|BIOLOGICAL: Daratumumab and Hyaluronidase-fihj|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Consolidation overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier (KM) method and compared using a stratified log-rank test. Stratified cox proportional hazards regression will produce treatment hazard ratio (bortezomib, daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (daratumumab), lenalidomide and dexamethasone \[Btz-DRd\] then daratumumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone \[DRd\] then daratumumab and lenalidomide \[DR\])., Time from Step 2 randomization at the start of consolidation to death or to the date last known alive, assessed up to 15 years
Consolidation progression-free survival, Patients alive without disease progression will be censored at date of last disease evaluation. Only deaths that occur within 3 months of the last disease evaluation are considered events., Time from Step 2 randomization at the start of consolidation until the earlier of progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 15 years|Incidence of adverse events, During induction, consolidation, and maintenance; a period of up to 42 months (9 months of induction, 9 months of consolidation, and up to 2 years of maintenance).|Incidence of grade 3 or higher non-hematologic adverse events, During induction, consolidation, and maintenance; a period of up to 42 months (9 months of induction, 9 months of consolidation, and up to 2 years of maintenance).|Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events, During induction, consolidation, and maintenance; a period of up to 42 months (9 months of induction, 9 months of consolidation, and up to 2 years of maintenance).|Best response, During induction, consolidation, and maintenance; a period of up to 42 months (9 months of induction, 9 months of consolidation, and up to 2 years of maintenance).|FACT-Ntx TOI recovery rate (Patient reported outcome [PRO]), Defined as the proportion of patients with the FACT-Ntx TOI score returning to baseline level reached at consolidation randomization after experiencing a MID decrease while on up to 1 year of maintenance., From end of induction through consolidation up to 1 year of maintenance, up to 21 weeks
Change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Neurotoxicity Trial Outcome Index (FACT-Ntx TOI) score (Patient reported outcome), Calculated as the difference after completion of 9 cycles of consolidation therapy from end of induction. Scores can range from a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 44. A higher score on this assessment means a worse outcome., From end of induction to after completion of 9 cycles of consolidation, a period of approximately 36 weeks (9 months)|Levels and changes of FACT-General (G) (physical well-being [PWB] + functional well-being [FWB]) score (PRO), The FACT-G is a single outcome measure made up of the PWB and FWB components. Scores range from a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 56. For this assessment, a higher score means a better outcome., From the end of induction through 1 year of maintenance, 21 weeks|Presence, frequency, interference, amount and/or severity of select PRO- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAEs) (PRO), Presence, frequency, interference, amount and/or severity of select PRO-CTCAEs tabulated at each measurement., Up to 15 years|Comparison of selected PRO-CTCAEs with provider obtained assessment of same CTCAE items (PRO), Up to 15 years|PRO compliance rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who submit the given PRO instrument among those eligible at each time point which excludes those missing by design (due to death or disease progression, early treatment discontinuation)., Up to 15 years|PRO completion rate, Defined as the proportion of patients who complete given PRO instrument based on the instrument's scoring system among those eligible at each time point., Up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if bortezomib, daratumumab and hyaluronidase-fihj (daratumumab), lenalidomide and dexamethasone (Btz-DRd) consolidation followed by daratumumab and lenalidomide (DR) maintenance after standard induction therapy with daratumumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone (DRd) results in superior overall survival compared to DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance, in minimal residual disease (MRD) positive patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if Btz-DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance after standard induction therapy with DRd results in superior overall survival compared to DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance in MRD negative patients.

II. To determine if Btz-DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance after standard induction therapy with DRd results in superior progression-free survival compared to DRd consolidation followed by DR maintenance in both MRD positive and MRD negative patients.

III. To describe and compare the incidence of toxicities during consolidation between Btz-DRd and DRd arms.

IV. To assess the improvement in MRD negative rate with consolidation among patients who are MRD positive after induction.

V. To assess the sustained MRD negative rate among patients who are MRD negative after induction.

PATIENT REPORTED OUTCOMES (PRO) OBJECTIVES:

I. To quantify the extent to which the addition of bortezomib to DRd over consolidation treatment contributes to neuropathy and associated physical and functional impairments. (Primary PRO Objective) II. To evaluate the rate of resolution of neurotoxicity and associated physical and functional impairments following completion of consolidation therapy. (Secondary PRO Objective) III. To investigate the relationship between MRD status and patient reported health-related quality of life outcomes. (Exploratory PRO Objective) IV. To evaluate attributes of select patient reported treatment-emergent symptomatic adverse events (PRO- Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\]) longitudinally and compare responses with provider-reported adverse events. (Exploratory PRO Objective) V. To tabulate PRO compliance and completion rates. (Exploratory PRO Objective)

IMAGING OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the association between post-induction fludeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) and patient outcomes (overall survival \[OS\] and progression-free survival \[PFS\]). (Primary Imaging Objective) II. To evaluate the association between baseline 18F-FDG PET/CT and patient outcomes (PFS and OS). (Secondary Imaging Objective) III. To compare overall survival with the addition of Bortezomib to consolidation DRd therapy among 18F-FDG PET/CT-positive and 18F-FDG PET/CT-negative subgroups. (Secondary Imaging Objective) IV. To evaluate the ability of baseline 18F-FDG PET/CT to predict post-induction depth of response as measured by MRD assessment. (Secondary Imaging Objective) V. To evaluate the ability of post-induction 18F-FDG PET/CT to predict MRD conversion post-consolidation. (Secondary Imaging Objective) VI. To utilize 18F-FDG PET/CT, standard risk factors and clinical data to identify distinct subgroups with differing patient outcomes (PFS and OS). (Exploratory Imaging Objective) VII. To compare the various qualitative 18F-FDG PET/CT criteria to determine which criteria yields superior risk stratification. (Exploratory Imaging Objective)

OUTLINE:

ARM A (INDUCTION): All patients receive standard induction therapy comprising the following: daratumumab subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of cycles 1-2, days 1 and 15 of cycles 3-6, and day 1 of cycles 7-9, lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of standard induction therapy, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM B:

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive bortezomib SC on days 1, 8, and 15, daratumumab SC on day 1, lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21 and daratumumab SC on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM C:

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive daratumumab SC on day 1, lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 9 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21, and daratumumab SC on day 1. Cycles repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months if less than 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if 2-5 years from study entry, then annually for up to 15 years from study entry.