Reducing Lung Cancer-Related Anxiety (RELAX)
The purpose of this research study is to compare the effects of music and different levels of device-guided breathing on anxiety and shortness of breath in lung cancer survivors.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: Group A - Device guided breathing low dose|DEVICE: Group B - Device guided breathing high dose|DEVICE: Group C - Usual Breathing Control Group
Retention - Number of Participants Who Complete the Final Assessment, Retention will be calculated as the number of participants who complete the final assessment divided by number randomized., 12 weeks|Adherence- Amount of Time the Device is Used, Adherence will be calculated as the actual amount of time the device is used divided by the prescribed time. Successful adherence will be defined as use of the device ≥80% of the time assigned., 12 weeks|Accrual Rate- Number of Patients Accrued to the Study, The accrual rate will be calculated as the number of patients accrued to the study divided by the number of months of accrual., Time from study opening to study close ~46.42 months
Change From Baseline for Anxiety as Measured by Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), To obtain preliminary data on the variability and efficacy of two doses of a device-guided breathing intervention versus a usual breathing control group for reducing anxiety. This is a 14-item self-report measure of cognitive and behavioral symptoms of anxiety and depression; clinically significant symptoms are indicated by a score of greater than or equal to 8 with a range from 0 to 42. Higher scores indicate more anxiety., 12 weeks
Salivary Cortisol Levels, Cortisol levels will be assessed upon awakening, 30 minutes post-awakening, and at bedtime for three consecutive days at baseline and three consecutive days., 12 weeks|DNA Methylation Levels, DNA methylation levels will be measured To determine if changes in anxiety are associated with methylation, 12 weeks|Gene Expression Levels, The DNA methylation and gene expression patterns between the different groups., 12 weeks
OBJECTIVES

1. To assess feasibility (accrual, participation, adherence, retention) of a randomized study of device-guided breathing and music in 75 post-treatment lung cancer survivors with significant anxiety.
2. To obtain preliminary data on the variability and efficacy of two doses of a device-guided breathing intervention versus a music control group for reducing anxiety (primary outcome) and for improving self-reported dyspnea and respiratory functioning (secondary outcomes) in post-treatment lung cancer survivors.
3. To select the optimal dose of the device-guided breathing intervention (15 minutes once/day or twice/day) for subsequent randomized study.