Precision Therapy Based on Immune Microenvironment by Transcriptome Sequencing of Osteosarcoma, a Prospective, Multi-cohort Exploratory Clinical Study
Bagaev et al. have identified four tumor microenvironment (TME) subtypes that are conserved across diverse cancers and correlated with immunotherapy response in melanoma, bladder, and gastric cancers. They provided a visual tool revealing the TME subtypes integrated with targetable genomic alterations, which provided a planetary view of each tumor that can aid in oncology clinical decision making. We aim to use this tool to prospectively analyse the biopsy specimens of osteosarcomas to identify their TME subtypes so as to deliver appropriate treatment strategy if these osteosarcomas experience disease progression afterwards. We will compare the past sequencing date stored in PKUPH bank so as to compare the event-free survival(EFS) of these patients to check the Superiority of this method later.
Osteosarcoma|Transcriptome|Tumor Microenvironment|Precision Medicine
DRUG: Chemotherapy
Event-free Survival (EFS), From biopsy to progression/last follow-up, 2 year
Event-free Survival (EFS) for the second time, From first progression to the second progression/last follow-up, 2 year
Correlation with some DNA target expression, 1 year
Bagaev et al. have identified four tumor microenvironment (TME) subtypes that are conserved across diverse cancers and correlated with immunotherapy response in melanoma, bladder, and gastric cancers. They provided a visual tool revealing the TME subtypes integrated with targetable genomic alterations, which provided a planetary view of each tumor that can aid in oncology clinical decision making. We aim to use this tool to prospectively analyse the biopsy specimens of osteosarcomas to identify their TME subtypes so as to deliver appropriate treatment strategy if these osteosarcomas experience disease progression afterwards. We will compare the past sequencing date stored in PKUPH bank so as to compare the event-free survival(EFS) of these patients to check the Superiority of this method later.