Clinical Utility of Management of Patients With Pulmonary Nodules Using the Percepta Nasal Swab Classifier
The goal of this observational study is to learn how a physician uses the results of the Percepta® Nasal Swab test to manage people with a newly identified pulmonary nodule.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

* Does the use of the Percepta Nasal swab test reduce the number of invasive procedures in people with a low-risk result and whose nodule is benign?
* Does the use of the Percepta Nasal swab test decrease the time to treatment in people with a high-risk result and whose nodule is cancer?

Participants will be randomly assigned to either a group where the test result is provided to the physician (test arm) or to a group where the test result is not provided (control arm). Researchers will compare management of participants in the two groups.
Pulmonary Nodule, Solitary|Lung Cancer
Number of invasive diagnostic procedures, Invasive diagnostic procedures performed in the diagnostic workup of newly identified nodules that are benign., From date of randomization until the date the nodule is diagnosed as benign or demonstrates up to 24 months radiographic stability or resolution, assessed up to a total of 30 months.
Time to treatment, Time to treatment in the diagnostic workup of newly identified nodules that are primary lung cancer, From date of randomization until the date of first documented treatment for lung cancer, assessed up to a total of 30 months.
This is a prospective, multicenter, randomized study to evaluate the clinical utility of the Percepta® Nasal Swab classifier in managing patients with pulmonary nodules identified incidentally or by lung cancer screening. Patients will be randomized to either the test group, where the test result will be returned to the physician to incorporate into decision-making on how to manage the patient's nodule, or the control group which will represent the standard of care where the result will not be returned to the physician. The study will observe and evaluate how the addition of the Percepta Nasal Swab classifier result impacts current management of newly identified lung nodules.

The study will enroll approximately 2400 participants meeting eligibility criteria at up to 100 centers in the US. Enrollment is expected to take approximately 24 months and participants will be followed for 24 to 30 months or until a diagnosis of lung cancer.