Single Dose Partial Breast Radiotherapy
This study seeks to determine the maximum tolerated dose of a single-dose partial breast radiation given before lumpectomy using a radiosurgery technique. Lumpectomy will be performed within 3 weeks (+/- 1 week) of completing radiation.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Radiosurgery
Maximum Tolerated Dose, As measured by the incidence of acute toxicity and wound healing complications, 30 days
Cosmetic Outcome, Percent of patients with excellent or good cosmetic outcome at 3 years based on physician's assessment.

EXCELLENT is defined as: when compared to the untreated breast or the original appearance of the treated breast, there is minimal or no difference in the size or shape of the treated breast. The way the breast feels (its texture) is the same or slightly different. There may be thickening, scar tissue, or seroma within the breast but not enough to change the appearance.

GOOD is defined as: there is mild asymmetry between the breasts, which means that there is some acceptable difference in the size or shape of the treated breast as compared to the opposite breast or the appearance of the breast before treatment. There may be some mild reddening or darkening of the breast. The thickening or scar tissue within the breast causes a mild change in its shape or size., 3 years|Local Control, 3 years
Acquire Tissue, Pre and post-radiotherapy for exploratory analysis of radiation response, Pre and post SRS radiosurgery|Magnetic Resonance Images(MRI), Pre and post-radiotherapy for exploratory analysis of radiation response., Pre and post SRS radiosurgery
This study will assess the safety of partial breast radiosurgery as measured by the incidence of acute toxicity and wound healing complications in three dose cohorts.

Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 8 patients starting at dose level 1 (15 Gy). If 2 or more dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) are observed at dose level 1, the trial will be stopped for evaluation and consideration of revision. If at most one DLT is observed then escalation continues to the next dose level. The cohorts will escalate by 3Gy up to 21 Gy of irradiation.