Phase II Trial of Neo-Adjuvant Pemetrexed Plus Cisplatin Followed by Surgery and Radiation for Pleural Mesothelioma
This study aims to determine how successful the chemotherapy regimen of Pemetrexed plus cisplatin before surgery is at killing all the tumor so that none is left at the time of surgery. Following surgery, all eligible patients will receive radiation to the chest. How patients respond, whether the cancer returns and if so, where, will also be monitored.
Pleural Neoplasms
DRUG: pemetrexed|DRUG: cisplatin
Pathological Complete Response, Number of participants with results of pathological review that indicated a complete response. Pathological complete response should be evaluated at the time of surgery (Extrapleural Pneumonectomy \[EPP\]).

Resected tissue or pleural fluid should be sent for pathological and histological evaluation., Surgery (at least 3 weeks post last dose of chemotherapy, up to a maximum interval of 8 weeks)
The 1 and 2 Year Disease-Free Survival Rate (Percentage), Kaplan-Meier estimates of the percentage of participants still alive at 1-year and 2-years, based upon the total number of participants who had surgery., 1 year and 2 years|Overall Tumor Response, The frequency of best overall tumor response summarized by response category. The best (unconfirmed) response recorded from the start of chemotherapy treatment until disease progression/recurrence, start of any further anti-tumor therapy, or time of surgery whichever comes first., baseline to measured progressive disease|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to relapse (treatment failure) is measured in months and calculated as (Date of first surgery - Date of first relapse after surgery + 1)/(365.25/12). Time to relapse will be censored at the date of the last visit or start date of further anti-tumor therapy or intervention, whichever comes first., baseline to stopping treatment|Time to Progressive Disease, Number of months between the first dose date and the date of first disease progression or death as a result of any cause, whichever comes first., baseline to measured progressive disease|Overall Survival Time, Number of months between the first dose date and the date of death as a result of any cause. Overall survival time calculated as (Date of death - First dose date + 1)/(365.25/12)., baseline to date of death from any cause
This study aims to determine how successful the chemotherapy regimen of Pemetrexed plus cisplatin before surgery is at killing all the tumor so that none is left at the time of surgery. Following surgery, all eligible patients will receive radiation to the chest. How patients respond, whether the cancer returns and if so, where, will also be monitored.