Evaluation of an Anti-cancer Immunotherapy Combined With Standard Neoadjuvant Treatment in Patients With WT1-positive Primary Invasive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and clinical activity of a new WT1 anti-cancer immunotherapy in patients with WT1-positive Stage II or III breast cancer. The treatment will be given before surgery in combination with standard therapy.
Neoplasms, Breast
BIOLOGICAL: GSK Biologicals' recombinant WT1 Antigen-Specific Cancer Immunotherapeutic (ASCI) GSK2302024A|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Aromatase inhibitor|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Carboplatin AUC|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab
Number of Subjects With Severe Toxicities, Severe toxicity was defined as follows: - A Grade 3 or higher toxicity that is related or possibly related to the combined administration of standard treatment and GSK2302024A/placebo - A decrease in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) from baseline with ≥ 10 points and at \< 50% that is related or possibly related to the combined administration of treatment and that is confirmed by a second LVEF assessment within approximately 3 weeks. - A Grade 2 or higher cardiac ischemia/infarction that is related or possibly related to the combined administration of standard treatment and GSK2302024A /placebo. - A Grade 2 or higher allergic reaction occurring within 24 hours following the administration. - A Grade 3 or higher blood/bone marrow toxicity that was considered as related or possibly related to the combined Administration. - A decrease in renal function at the time of administration that was considered as related or possibly related., From Week 0 to Week 26/32 (period starting from GSK2302024A/placebo treatment allocation and ending with the concluding Visit i.e.: Week 26 for patients receiving 6 injections and Week 32 for patients receiving 8 injections)|Number of Patients With an Anti-Wilm's Tumor Gene (Anti-WT1) Humoral Response, For initially seronegative patients: post-administration antibody concentration ≥ 9 EU/mL For initially seropositive patients: post-administration antibody concentration ≥ 2 fold the pre-administration antibody concentration., At post-GSK2302024A/placebo Dose 4 (Week 13)|Number of Patients With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation patient, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product. For marketed medicinal products, this also includes failure to produce expected benefits (i.e., lack of efficacy), abuse or misuse., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events SAE(s), A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence that: results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, causes disability/incapacity or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect in the offspring of a study patient. In this study, an event which was part of the natural course of the disease under study (i.e., disease progression/recurrence) was captured in the study/as an efficacy measure. Therefore it was not reported as an SAE. Progression/recurrence of the tumor was recorded in the clinical assessments in the electronic case report form (eCRF). Death due to progressive disease was recorded on a specific form in the eCRF but not as an SAE., From Week 0 to Week 26/32 (period starting from GSK2302024A/placebo treatment allocation and ending with the concluding Visit i.e.: Week 26 for patients receiving 6 injections and Week 32 for patients receiving 8 injections)|Number of Subjects With Alanine Aminotransferase Increased Abnormality, by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Alkaline Phosphatase Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Anemia, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Aspartate Aminotransferase Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Blood Bilirubin Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Creatine Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hemoglobin Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hypercalcemia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hyperkalemia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hypernatremia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hypoalbuminemia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hypocalcemia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hypokalemia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Hyponatremia Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and post 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Lymphocyte Count Decreased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Lymphocyte Count Increased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Neutrophil Count Decreased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Platelet Count Decreased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With White Blood Cell Decreased Abnormality, by CTCAE Maximum Grade, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Patients With Adverse Events (AEs), by CTCAE Maximum Grade Reported, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Adverse Events (AEs) Assessed by the Investigators as Causally Related to GSK2302024A Treatment, by CTCAE Maximum Grade Reported, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), by CTCAE Maximum Grade Reported, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Assessed by the Investigators as Causally Related to GSK2302024A Treatment, by CTCAE Maximum Grade Reported, Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0 of May 28, 2009. Grades refer to the severity of the AE: mild (grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe or medically significant (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) and death (grade 5)., During the treatment period and up to 30 days post last administration|Number of Subjects With Breast Cancer Pathological Response, The pathological response in lymph nodes was evaluated by presence or absence of tumor cells by histopathological examination. Partial responses mark the disappearance of tumor cells, with only small clusters or dispersed cells remaining (more than 90% loss) while complete response indicate no identifiable malignant cells. However, ductal carcinoma in situ may be present., During the treatment period, up to Week 26/32
The study will be conducted in two consecutive segments (Phase I and Phase II), each with specific objectives. Active follow-up will be for three years.

Patients in this study will be allocated to cohorts as below. Cohort A will include postmenopausal patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer who receive aromatase inhibitor (AI) as neoadjuvant therapy concurrently with administration of 6 or 8 doses of WT1 anti-cancer immunotherapy (WT1 ASCI)/placebo starting on Day 0. AI treatment will be administered daily for duration of either 18 (if 6 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo) or 24 weeks (if 8 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo).

Cohort B will include breast cancer patients who will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy concurrently with administration of WT1 ASCI/placebo starting on Day 0. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in Cohort B will consist either 1) if 6 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 6 cycle-treatment chemotherapy regimens consist of 6, three-weekly cycles of anthracycline/taxane-based therapy, or 2) if 8 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 8 cycle-treatment regimens consisting of 4 three-weekly cycles of anthracycline-based therapy followed by 4 three-weekly or 12-weekly taxane administrations without trastuzumab.

Cohort C will include patients with Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-overexpressing breast cancer who will receive neoadjuvant trastuzumab (Herceptin) therapy combined with chemotherapy concurrently with administration of WT1 ASCI/placebo starting on Day 0. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in Cohort C will consist either 1) if 6 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 6 cycle-treatment chemotherapy regimens consist of 6, three-weekly cycles of anthracycline/taxane-based therapy, or 2) if 8 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 8 cycle-treatment regimens consisting of 4 three-weekly cycles of anthracycline-based therapy followed by 4 three-weekly or 12-weekly taxane administrations with trastuzumab.

Cohorts D and E will include patients with hormone receptor-positive and HER2 non-overexpressing breast cancer who will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy. For patients in these Cohorts D and E, WT1 ASCI/placebo (placebo applicable only for Cohort E patients) will be administered on Day 14 of each three-weekly cycle of chemotherapy. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in Cohorts D and E will consist either 1) if 6 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 6 cycle-treatment chemotherapy regimens consist of 6, three-weekly cycles of anthracycline/taxane-based therapy, or 2) if 8 doses of WT1 ASCI/placebo: 8 cycle-treatment regimens consisting of 4 three-weekly cycles of anthracycline-based therapy followed by 4 three-weekly taxane administrations without trastuzumab. Enrolment in Cohort E will be conditional on the absence of a safety signal and on the adequate induction of an immune response by the WT1 ASCI in Cohort D (defined as \>= 40% response rate based on post-Dose 4 anti-WT1 antibody responses in at least six patients). If this criterion is met, 60 patients (40 receiving WT1 ASCI and 20 placebo) with identical eligibility criteria will be enrolled into Cohort E. In case no adequate safety and/or immunogenicity will be obtained in Cohort D, recruitment in Cohort E will not be initiated.

The protocol has been updated following Protocol Amendment 4, April 2013, leading to the update of the study design.