A Study of Rindopepimut/GM-CSF in Patients With Relapsed EGFRvIII-Positive Glioblastoma
The purpose of this research study is to find out whether adding an experimental vaccine called rindopepimut (also known as CDX-110) to the commonly used drug bevacizumab can improve progression free survival (slowing the growth of tumors) of patients with relapsed EGFRvIII positive glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma|Small Cell Glioblastoma|Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma|Glioblastoma With Oligodendroglial Component|Recurrent Glioblastoma|Relapsed Glioblastoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Rindopepimut (CDX-110) with GM-CSF|DRUG: KLH
Groups 1 and 2: Progression-free survival rate, Evaluate the antitumor activity of rindopepimut in adult patients with relapsed glioblastoma, as measured by the progression-free survival rate at 6 months post-Day 1 (PFS 6)., 6 months post-Day 1|Group 2C: Objective Response Rate, Evaluate the anti-tumor activity of rindopepimut in adult patients with relapsed glioblastoma, as measured by the objective response rate (ORR) for patients with measurable disease at study entry., Every 8 weeks from Day 1 through progression or initiation of other anti-cancer therapy
Safety and Tolerability, Safety and tolerability will be evaluated by comparing the treatment regimens in regards to vital sign measurements, physical and neurological examinations, adverse events reporting, and Karnofsky performance status, Until 28 days or initiation of other anti-cancer treatment, whichever is first|Anti-tumor activity, Evaluated by comparing the treatment regimens for anti-tumor activity, including objective response rate, overall progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) for Groups 1 and 2; and PFS6, overall PFS, and OS for Group 2C., During treatment and every 8 weeks through follow up|EGFRvIII-specific immune response, Characterize the EGFRvIII specific immune response to rindopepimut., Several times during the first month of treatment and then approximately every 8 weeks until treatment is stopped.
This Phase II study will enroll patients into three groups. Group 1 are patients who have never been treated with bevacizumab. These patients will be randomly assigned to receive either rindopepimut/GM-CSF or KLH, each along with bevacizumab. Treatment assignment for Group 1 will be blinded. Group 2 and Group 2C patients are those who are refractory to bevacizumab (experienced recurrence or progression of glioblastoma while on bevacizumab or within 2 months of discontinuing bevacizumab). These patients will all receive rindopepimut/GM-CSF along with bevacizumab. Patients will be treated until disease progression or intolerance and all patients will be followed for survival. Patients may be treated with other therapies that are not part of the study after discontinuing treatment with the study vaccine.