Video-Assisted Intervention in Improving Recovery in Patients With Cancer Undergoing Lung Surgery and Caregivers
This pilot clinical trial studies a video-assisted intervention in improving recovery of patients undergoing surgery to remove lung cancer or cancer that has spread to the lung and their caregivers. The intervention uses educational videos to prepare patients and families for surgery and teach them how to manage the symptoms after surgery. Teaching patients and their families what to expect before and after surgery may help improve patient and caregiver quality of life, help patients recover better from surgery, and support families in their role as caregivers after surgery.
Malignant Lung Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Standard Follow-Up Care|OTHER: Caregiver-Related Intervention or Procedure|OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Patient-reported outcomes to video-assisted intervention among the lung surgery population at City of Hope (COH), Patient-reported outcomes assessed using the State Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), For all patient-reported outcomes, data will be summarized using descriptive statistics of mean and standard deviation., Up to 2 months|Informal caregiver-reported outcomes to video-assisted intervention among the lung surgery population at COH, Informal caregiver-reported outcomes assessed using the STAI. For all informal caregiver-reported outcomes, data will be summarized using descriptive statistics of mean and standard deviation., Up to 2 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To pilot test a video-assisted intervention designed to enhance post-operative recovery by preparing patients and informal caregivers for lung surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe preliminary effect of the video-assisted intervention on patient-reported outcomes (PROs), informal caregiver-reported outcomes, and clinical/system outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients and their caregivers are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients and caregivers receive standard care during routine clinic visits.

ARM II: Patients view Parts 1 and 2 of the video program, which focus on what to expect before surgery and after surgery in the hospital, on a tablet over approximately 8 minutes at a scheduled pre-operative visit. Patients then receive an educational handbook and discuss the video with a nurse. After surgery and before hospital discharge, patients view Part 3 of the video over approximately 6 minutes, which focuses on what to expect after going home.

After completion of study, patients and caregivers are followed up at approximately 2-4 weeks and 2 months.