Study Evaluating Temsirolimus (CCI-779) In Mantle Cell Lymphoma (MCL)
This is an open-label, randomized trial in relapsed refractory subjects with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).
Lymphoma
DRUG: Temsirolimus (CCI-779)|DRUG: Temsirolimus (CCI-779)|DRUG: Investigator's choice
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The period from randomization until disease progression, death or date of last contact., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Assessment of complete or partial response (CR, PR) or uncomplete response (CRu) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. CR: 1) No disease evident. 2) Lymph node, nodal mass regressed to normal size. 3) Previously enlarged organ ↓ size. 4) Bone marrow clear on repeat aspirate, biopsy. CRu: CR 1 and 3, at least 1 of following: Lymph node regressed \>75%. Bone marrow ↑ number or aggregate size, no cytologic/architectural atypia. PR: ≥50% ↓ index lesion, no size ↑ in other nodes, liver, spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodule regressed ≥50%. No new disease., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is the duration from randomization to death. For participants who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact., Baseline up to 5 years|Time to Response, Time between the date of randomization and the first date of objective response for participants with a confirmed objective response., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)|Duration of Response, Time from the first documentation of objective tumor response to first date that recurrence or progressive disease (PD) was objectively documented; censored at last valid tumor assessment., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)|Time to Failure (TTF), TTF is defined as the time from randomization to the date of the first documentation of Progressive Disease (PD), the date of treatment discontinuation except completion of treatment, or date of death (any cause)., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)|Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), TTP: time from randomization to first documentation of objective tumor progression (including recurrence); censored at last valid tumor assessment., Baseline, every 8 weeks up to Year 1, then every 12 weeks up to Year 2, and then every 6 months until tumor progression or death (up to Year 5)
This is an open-label, randomized trial in relapsed refractory subjects with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL).