A Retrospective Analysis of the Diagnostic Performance of 11C-choline PET/CT in Primary Hyperparathyroidism
The leading cause of primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is a solitary adenoma (89%). The treatment of pHPT is generally surgical removal of the overactive parathyroid gland(s). Since a solitary adenoma is the predominant cause, parathyroid surgery is preferably performed through a minimally invasive parathyroidectomy (MIP) in which only the suspected adenoma causing the pHPT is resected in a focused manner. To facilitate the performance of a MIP, accurate preoperative imaging is pivotal. This study aimed to analyze the diagnostic performance of 11C-choline PET/CT after prior negative or discordant first-line imaging in patients with pHPT undergoing parathyroid surgery with an optimized imaging protocol.
Primary Hyperparathyroidism|Primary Hyperparathyroidism Due to Adenoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: 11C-choline PET/CT
Sensitivity of 11C-choline PET/CT, Per-lesion sensitivity of 11C-choline PET/CT for the detection of overactive parathyroid glands, Until 6 months after parathyroid surgery|Positive predictive value of 11C-choline PET/CT, Per-lesion positive predictive value of 11C-choline PET/CT for the detection of overactive parathyroid glands, Until 6 months after parathyroid surgery|Accuracy of 11C-choline PET/CT, Per-lesion accuracy of 11C-choline PET/CT for the detection of overactive parathyroid glands, Until 6 months after parathyroid surgery
The leading cause of primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is a solitary adenoma (89%). The treatment of pHPT is generally surgical removal of the overactive parathyroid gland(s). Since a solitary adenoma is the predominant cause, parathyroid surgery is preferably performed through a minimally invasive parathyroidectomy (MIP) in which only the suspected adenoma causing the pHPT is resected in a focused manner. To facilitate the performance of a MIP, accurate preoperative imaging is pivotal. This study aimed to analyze the diagnostic performance of 11C-choline PET/CT after prior negative or discordant first-line imaging in patients with pHPT undergoing parathyroid surgery with an optimized imaging protocol.