Fish Oil and EPO in Breast Cancer
Recent literature data suggest beneficial effects of dietary fats in patients with cancers, in particular polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). Fish oil and evening primrose oil provide a high amount of PUFAs and a desirable n-6/n-3 PUFAs ratio.
Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Fish oil + EPO
Change in disease status, Remission, stable disease or progression, Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Change in quality of life, Assessed by standardized questionnaires, scale 1-4 (1-not at all, 2- a little, 3 - quite a bit, 4- very much), higher value represents worse outcome., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year
Changes in nutritional status, Changes in body weight measured by bio-impedance analyzer, from baseline to endpoint, Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in lipid profiles, Changes in lipid profiles (cholesterol, HDL, LDL and triglycerides) from baseline to endpoint, Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in plasma fatty acids profiles, Changes in plasma fatty acids profiles from baseline to endpoint, Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in interleukins, Changes in interleukins (IL)-6, 8,10 and TNF alpha from baseline to endpoint, Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in activity of superoxide dismutase., Measures of activity of superoxide dismutase., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in activity of catalase., Measures of activity of catalase., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in activity of glutathion peroxidase., Measures of activity of glutathion peroxidase., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year|Changes in activity of glutathion reductase., Measures of activity of glutathion reductase., Baseline, 3 months, 1 year
Breast cancer (BC) is leading cancer in women. As most of the cancers, it is characterized by inflammation and alternations in lipid and fatty acid metabolism. Patients with BC have impaired fatty acid profiles, low level of PUFAs, and high n-6/n-3 PUFAs ratio. Moreover, these changes are related to clinical outcome.

Fish oil is the richest source of anti-inflammatory n-3 PUFAs. Evening primrose oil (EPO) is rich in 18:3 n-6, the only n-6 fatty acid with an anti-inflammatory effect. Dietary intake of fish oil or EPO has been shown to decrease inflammation and improve PUFAs status in patients with cancers. However, it is not known what is the effect of combined EPO and fish oil in BC patients.

The study design is double-blind, controlled, randomized nutritional intervention. The participants are randomly assigned into intervention and control group before starting chemotherapy. All patients receive nutritional counseling to achieve a daily energy and protein intake according to recommended dietary allowances, with (intervention) or without (control) of milled seed mix.