Biomarker Platform (Virtual Nodule Clinic) for the Management of Indeterminate Pulmonary Nodules
This clinical trial studies whether a biomarker platform, the Virtual Nodule Clinic, can be used for the management of lung (pulmonary) nodules that are not clearly non-cancerous (benign) or clearly cancerous (malignant) (indeterminate pulmonary nodules \[IPNs\]). The management of IPNs is based on estimating the likelihood that the observed nodule is malignant. Many things, such as age, smoking history, and current symptoms, are considered when making a prediction of the likelihood of malignancy. Radiographic imaging characteristics are also considered. Lung nodule management for IPNs can result in unnecessary invasive procedures for nodules that are ultimately determined to be benign, or potential delays in treatment when results of tests cannot be determined or are falsely negative. The Virtual Nodule Clinic is an artificial intelligence (AI) based imaging software within the electronic health record which makes certain that identified pulmonary nodules are screened by clinicians with expertise in nodule management. The Virtual Nodule Clinic also features an AI based radiomic prediction score which designates the likelihood that a pulmonary nodule is malignant. This may improve the ability to manage IPNs and lower unnecessary invasive procedures or treatment delays. Using the Virtual Nodule Clinic may work better for the management of IPNs.
Lung Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DEVICE: Diagnostic Procedure|OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review
Appropriate nodule management, Will be defined as referral for imaging surveillance for ultimately benign nodules, and biopsy, positron emission tomography scan, surgery or empiric stereotactic body radiation therapy for malignant nodules. Standard consort diagram will be created. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and median and interquartile ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percentages and frequencies for categorical parameters will be presented. Will compare the proportion with appropriate management across the two arms using a two-sided Z-test of proportions with pooled variances., Up to 1 Year
Change in management, Change in management Will be based on intervention probability curve (IPC) assessment. Standard consort diagram will be created. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and median and interquartile ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percentages and frequencies for categorical parameters will be presented. Will fit an intervention probability curve to both arms independently, using the method described by Kammer et al., by using the bootstrap-resample-with-dither approach. Then, will test the hypothesis that the slope of the IPC in the intervention arm is different from the slope of the IPC in the control arm by using the analysis of covariance, with a significance level of 0.05., Up to 2 years|Unnecessary invasive procedures, Unnecessary invasive procedures Will be defined as: 1) invasive procedure with definite benign findings on biopsy or 2) non-diagnostic findings on biopsy but stable follow up imaging, evaluated over two years of follow-up. Standard consort diagram will be created. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and median and interquartile ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percentages and frequencies for categorical parameters will be presented. Any invasive procedures will be compared across arms using a two-sided Z-test with pooled variances., Up to 2 years|Time to diagnosis in patients with malignant nodules, Standard consort diagram will be created. Descriptive statistics including means, standard deviations, and median and interquartile ranges for continuous parameters, as well as percentages and frequencies for categorical parameters will be presented. Will be compared across arms using a logrank test, From the time of expert provider evaluation to the time of final diagnosis in days, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To test the hypothesis that usual care plus a radiomic prediction score impacts patient management compared to usual care alone.

II. To conduct a multicenter pragmatic randomized controlled platform trial using a validated biomarker, the radiomic prediction score.

III. To conduct a biomarker study that will evaluate the first necessary (but not sufficient) step to show clinical utility.

IV. To assess the magnitude of change in patient management with use of the radiomic prediction score.

V. To develop a platform that can be used as framework for future larger biomarker studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care (SOC) computed tomography (CT) evaluation and receive a Virtual Nodule Clinic radiomic prediction score on study. Patients then receive SOC lung nodule management on study.

ARM II: Patients undergo SOC CT evaluation on study. Patients then receive SOC lung nodule management on study.