Neoadjuvant Therapy in Advanced Ovarian Cancer With Avastin
Recently results have shown that Bevacizumab is active both in monotherapy and in combination therapy in patients with ovarian cancer. One of our objectives is to evaluate whether the addition of neoadjuvant bevacizumab improves the response and whether this affects the evolution of patients.
Cancer, Ovarian
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin
Complete response rate, Complete response rate (microscopic residual tumor included) assessed by the surgeon at laparotomy after neoadjuvant therapy., average 24 months
Safety: toxicities and surgical complications, Safety and tolerability of the treatment will be assessed by adverse event description: incidence, severity, time of onset, causes, and abnormal laboratory values ., average 24 months|Surgical feasibility, rate of patients in which surgery is feasible, comparing both arms., average 24 months|Optimal surgery rate, rate of patients in which surgery is optimal (residual disease\<1cm), comparing both arms, average 24 months|RECIST 1.1 responses and correlation with serological responses (GCIG criteria), It will be assesed using descriptive statistics techniques such as frequency tables and contingency tables, average 24 months|Progression-free survival according RECIST 1.1 criteria, tables of survival will be constructed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Mean and median, both with confidence intervals of 95%. Comparisons between groups will be made by log-rank test., average 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), tables of survival will be constructed by the Kaplan-Meier method. Mean and median, both with confidence intervals of 95%. Comparisons between groups will be made by log-rank test., average 24 months|Association between clinical response and the expression of protein biomarkers, in pre-and post-surgical plasma., It will be assesed using descriptive statistics techniques such as frequency tables and contingency tables, average 24 months|Biomarkers: Epithelial-mesenchymal transition performed at C.S. Parc Taulí, It will be assesed using descriptive statistics techniques such as frequency tables and contingency tables, average 24 months
Histological response: comparison between the obtained response only with chemotherapy or chemotherapy and bevacizumab., information correlating the clinical laboratory with the response to treatment., average 24 months|Association of clinical response with other potential biomarkers, including but not limited to, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) and specific tumor markers., It will be assesed using descriptive statistics techniques such as frequency tables and contingency tables, Average 24 months
Epithelial ovarian cancer (OC) is the fourth leading cause of cancer death in women, after lung, breast and colon cancer, and it represents the most common cause of death from gynaecological malignancies. The high mortality associated with OC is due to the lack of screening tests that enable an early diagnosis, thus the majority of patients are diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease when the chances of a cure are very limited. In fact, the 5-year overall survival (OS) rate for stage III-IV OC does not exceed 20-30% in many series. The standard treatment for advanced OC is maximal cytoreductive surgery (or debulking) followed by the administration of 6 cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel.

In recent years, a number of studies have been carried out with antiangiogenic drugs. Specifically, bevacizumab, an anti-VEGF monoclonal antibody, has been shown to be active both in monotherapy and combination therapy in patients with OC that have received multiple previous lines of chemotherapy.

One of the objectives is to evaluate whether the addition of neoadjuvant bevacizumab improves the response and whether this affects the evolution of patients.