Neoantigen Vaccines in Pancreatic Cancer in the Window Prior to Surgery
This is a randomized phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety of an optimized neoantigen synthetic long peptide (SLP) vaccines in pancreatic cancer patients following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The neoantigen SLP vaccines will incorporate prioritized neoantigens and will be co-administered with poly-ICLC. Patients will be randomized to one of two arms: Arm 1 (neoantigen vaccine following neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery) or Arm 2 (neoantigen vaccine following neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the window prior to surgery).

Those who are ineligible for vaccine administration including those whose disease progresses or recurs during neoadjuvant chemo or who are otherwise unable to complete surgical resection but who had a personalized neoantigen vaccine manufactured, or significant progress has been made as determined by treating physician, are permitted to receive vaccine injections on study.
Pancreas Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Cancer of the Pancreas
BIOLOGICAL: Optimized neoantigen synthetic long peptide vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Poly-ICLC
Safety of neoantigen SLP vaccine as measured by number of subjects experiencing each type of adverse event, -Adverse events will be characterized according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE)., Through 4 weeks after completion of last vaccination (estimated to be 108 days)
Immunogenicity of neoantigen peptide vaccine as measured by the the number of neoantigen-specific T cells (only Arm 1 and Arm 2), * Immune monitoring will occur at baseline, at time of surgery, day 1, day 15, day 22, and day 78 for Arm 1. Optional monitoring at 1 and 2 years after last vaccine administration
* Immune monitoring will occur at baseline, day 1, day 15, day 22, at the time of surgery, and day 78 for Arm 2. Optional monitoring at 1 and 2 years after last vaccine administration., Through approximately 2 years and 78 days|Immunogenicity of neoantigen peptide vaccine as measured by the phenotype of neoantigen-specific T cells (only Arm 1 and Arm 2), * Immune monitoring will occur at baseline, at time of surgery, day 1, day 15, day 22, and day 78 for Arm 1. Optional monitoring at 1 and 2 years after last vaccine administration
* Immune monitoring will occur at baseline, day 1, day 15, day 22, at the time of surgery, and day 78 for Arm 2. Optional monitoring at 1 and 2 years after last vaccine administration., Through approximately 2 years and 78 days
This is a randomized phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety of an optimized neoantigen synthetic long peptide (SLP) vaccines in pancreatic cancer patients following neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The neoantigen SLP vaccines will incorporate prioritized neoantigens and will be co-administered with poly-ICLC. Patients will be randomized to one of two arms: Arm 1 (neoantigen vaccine following neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery) or Arm 2 (neoantigen vaccine following neoadjuvant chemotherapy in the window prior to surgery).

Those who are ineligible for vaccine administration including those whose disease progresses or recurs during neoadjuvant chemo or who are otherwise unable to complete surgical resection but who had a personalized neoantigen vaccine manufactured, or significant progress has been made as determined by treating physician, are permitted to receive vaccine injections on study.