Safety and Efficacy of Loco-regional B7H3 IL-7Ra CAR T Cell in DIPG
A Phase 1 clinical trial to evaluate the safety and early efficacy of CAR T-cell with IL-7Ra signal targeting B7H3 in children with diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPG) patients after complete standard treatments.
DIPG Brain Tumor|Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: B7H3 specific CAR T cell with IL-7Ra signaling domain
Safety of B7H3-IL7Ra CAR T cells infusion in diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPE) patients., The incidence of adverse events assessed by the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE), Version 5.0, Up to 28 days after B7H3-IL7Ra CAR-T cell infusion
The overall response rate of diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma (DIPE), The overall response rate will be assessed using radiologic response criteria that use the standard sum of the two longest 2D perpendicular diameters to distinguish stable disease, progressive disease (\>25% increase), partial response (\>50% decrease), and complete response (no evaluable or measurable disease)., 3, 6, and 12 months after B7H3-IL7Ra CAR-T cell infusion
The persistence and distribution of B7H3-IL7Ra CAR T cells in the CSF and peripheral blood, The persistence and distribution of B7H3-IL7Ra CAR T cells in the CSF and peripheral blood of diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma patients will be measured by flow cytometry., 14 days, 28 days, 42 days 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after B7H3-IL7Ra CAR-T cell infusion|Serum cytokine level measurement, Serum cytokine level measurement before and after B7-H3-IL7Ra CAR T-cell infusion., 1 day, 14 days, 28 days and 42 days after B7H3-IL7Ra CAR-T cell infusion.
The brain tumor known as Diffuse Intrinsic Pontine Glioma is commonly found in children aged between 5 to 10 years. This type of tumor is aggressive and infiltrates the structures of the brain stem. Treatment options are limited due to the location of the tumor, making it impossible to surgically remove the mass like other brain cancers. The standard treatment for this type of tumor is radiation therapy, as this type of cancer does not respond to chemotherapy or currently available targeted drugs. However, radiation therapy has been found to be ineffective and does not improve survival rates.

Currently, there is development in cancer treatment using immunotherapy, where the patient's immune cells are genetically modified to target the cancer, also known as CAR T cells, for the treatment of recurrent or refractory cancers in solid tumors and brain cancers. The research project aims to study the efficacy and safety of treating patients with pontine glioma using T cells that are antigen-specific and have signals from the interleukin-7 receptor alpha and are specific to the B7H3 antigen on the tumor surface. This research is the first of its kind in Thai patients. The research project expects that this treatment will be highly safe and effective in controlling diffuse pontine glioma.