Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy for Breast Cancer
This study delivers radiation therapy to any residual breast tissue and the chest wall plus lymph node areas around the breast. These lymph node areas are under the arm, around the collar bone, and under the sternum (breastbone).
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: IMRT
Evaluate the feasibility of adjuvant comprehensive radiation therapy via IMRT with daily set-up position verified using 3D verification, The study will be deemed infeasible if greater than 10% of enrolled patients have at least one of the following outcomes:

1. Patient cannot be given the treatment because her anatomy is such that a dosimetrically satisfactory treatment plan cannot be devised for her.
2. Within 1 year of protocol registration, the patient develops radiation pneumonitis toxicity of greater than or equal to grade 3 by CTCAE scales.
3. Within 1 year of protocol registration, the patient develops any local or regional breast cancer recurrence.
4. Within 1 year of protocol registration, the patient dies from causes judged to be related to her treatment., Within 1 year of protocol registration
Evaluate the rate and severity of both acute and late cutaneous toxicity, 6-8 months following completion of treatment and 12-14 months following completion of treatment|Evaluate the rate and severity of late subcutaneous fibrosis, 6-8 months following completion of treatment and 12-14 months following completion of treatment|Evaluate the rate of radiation pneumonitis, 6-8 weeks following completion of treatment, 3-4 months following completion of treatment, 6-8 months following completion of treatment, and 12-14 months following completion of treatment|Evaluate ipsilateral upper quadrant function, For patients who receive physical therapy, objective measures of the rotator cuff, bursa, and joint space will be evaluated by diagnostic ultrasound if medically indicated., Pretreatment and 3-4 months following completion of treatment|Evaluate patient quality of life, Pretreatment, 6-8 months following completion of treatment, and 12-14 months following completion of treatment|Evaluate local-regional control rates, 12-14 months following completion of radiation therapy|Evaluate patient set-up reproducibility in breast cancer patients treated with IMRT using daily 3D position verification, 12-14 months following completion of treatment
IMRT treatment uses a computer-controlled x-ray (CT) to deliver radiation beams at several different angles and strengths to deliver precise doses to the regions at risk for recurrence of breast cancer while reducing or sparing the dose to critical structures (heart, lungs) and nearby normal tissue.