A Clinical Study to Assess the Efficacy and Safety of Alpha DaRT224 for the Treatment of Patients With Recurrent Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is a multi-center clinical study enrolling up to 86 participants. The primary objectives are to determine the objective response rate (ORR) established by the confirmed best overall response (BOR) following intratumoral administration of DaRT - Diffusing Alpha-Emitters Radiation Therapy, as well as to assess the Duration of Response (DOR) 6 months from initial response. Secondary objectives are to assess the safety of DaRT, and to assess the progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), Overall Duration of Response (O-DOR), local control and quality of life (QOL) for patients treated with DaRT.
Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DEVICE: DaRT seeds
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) of DaRT as treatment for Recurrent SCC established by the confirmed Best Overall Response (BOR), with confirmation at least 4 weeks after initial assessment, From Day 14 until 52 weeks|Duration of Response, Assess the Duration of Response (DOR) of DaRT as treatment for Recurrent SCC, 6 months from from first demonstration of CR or PR after Alpha DaRT seeds insertion.
Progression Free Survival, Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS) of SCC following DaRT treatment, Up to 12 months after DaRT seed insertion|Overall Survival, Assess Overall Survival (OS) of Recurrent SCC patients treated with DaRT, Up to 12 months following DaRT insertion|Time of Local Control, Local control of SCC following DaRT treatment is measured as the time from first recorded response (Complete Response/Partial Response/Stable Disease) to local recurrence up to 12 months or last follow up, Up to 12 months following DaRT insertion|Patients Quality of Life Assessment, Assess patient reported health related quality of life (QOL) outcomes using the Skin Cancer Index (SCI) and Skindex-16 questionnaires, On 14 days,12 weeks and 52 weeks following DaRT insertion|DaRT-related Adverse Events, Assess the safety of the Alpha DaRT treatment, based on the cumulative incidence rate, severity and outcome of device related AEs. Classification of AEs will be done according to CTCAE v5, Up to 12 months following DaRT insertion|Overall Duration of Response (O-DOR), O-DOR Defined as the time from first response (CR or PR) to the date of initial objectively documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 12 months following first reported response|User experience, Assess user experience as determined by questionnaire, On Day 0 (DaRT insertion) and Day 14 (+7) (DaRT removal)
This study is a prospective multicenter, pivotal, single arm, open label clinical study to assess the efficacy and safety of intratumoral Alpha DaRT-224 for the treatment of patients with recurrent cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma.

The "Diffusing Alpha-emitter Radiation Therapy (DaRT)", based on the interstitial intratumoral placement of an encapsulated Radium-224 source (3.7 days half-life), is described in this study. These sources release short-lived alpha-emitting atoms into the tumor microenvironment by recoil. DaRT seeds will be inserted into recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma (SCC) tumors and will be removed following 14-21 days.

The Objective Response Rate (ORR) will be determined based on the confirmed Best Overall Response (BOR) following DaRT insertion. Duration of Response (DOR) will be assessed for up to 6 months from initial response is documented. Safety will be assessed based on the cumulative incidence rate, severity and outcome of device related Adverse Events (AEs). Classification of AEs will be done according to CTCAE v5.