Tipifarnib and Erlotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of tipifarnib and erlotinib hydrochloride in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body. Tipifarnib and erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Tipifarnib
Incidence of all adverse events, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common (NCI) Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0, The number and severity of all adverse events (overall, by dose-level, and by tumor group) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 30 days after last study treatment|Incidence of toxicity graded according to NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 3 months
Best response as assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Best Response is defined to be the best objective status recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group)., Start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, assessed up to 3 months|Time until any treatment related toxicity, Up to 30 days after last study treatment|Time until treatment related grade 3+ toxicity, Up to 30 days after last study treatment|Time until hematologic nadirs (white blood cells, ANC, platelets), Up to 3 months|Time to progression, Up to 3 months|Time to treatment failure, Time from registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by the patient, assessed up to 3 months
Inhibition of EGFR from tumor biopsies, Any change in these measures will be summarized descriptively within each patient and as whole group., Up to day 21 of course 1|Inhibition of FT from tumor biopsies, Any change in these measures will be summarized descriptively within each patient and as whole group., Up to day 21 of course 1|Incidence of any genetic polymorphisms, Assessed and summarized descriptively in those patients treated at the MTD., Up to day 21 of course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximal tolerated dose of R115777 (tipifarnib) in combination with OSI-774 (erlotinib hydrochloride).

II. To describe the toxicity profile of this combination. III. To evaluate the effect of OSI-774 on the disposition of R115777. IV. To evaluate in vitro markers of farnesyl transferase (FT) inhibition and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibition.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 (days 8-28 of course 1 as of 11/4/2013) and tipifarnib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Closed to accrual as of 2/2/06)

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months.