AI-based Physiotherapy for Oral Cancer Patients
This study examines the effects of AI-based physiotherapy on oral function, shoulder function, whole-body physical function, and quality of life in oral cancer patients. One hundred patients will be recruited before surgery, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy and randomly assigned to an experimental group receiving 12 weeks of AI-guided physiotherapy or a control group receiving usual care. Both groups will perform jaw, neck, and shoulder exercises, with the experimental group using a mobile app to monitor progress. Assessments at baseline, pre-intervention, and 3 months post-intervention will measure maximal in the maximum interincisal opening (MIO), joint range of motion (ROM), pain, endurance (e.g., 6-minute walk test), upper extremity function, and quality of life.
Oral Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: AI-based physiotherapy|BEHAVIORAL: Conventional physiotherapy|BEHAVIORAL: Scar management
Change from baseline in maximal mouth opening, Average maximal mouth opening measured 3 times in mm, baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention|Change from baseline in shoulder joint range of motion, Average range of motion of shoulder abduction measured 3 times in degrees, baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention
Change from baseline in function on Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand outcome questionnaire, A total scale from 1 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater disability., baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention|Change from baseline in health-related function on EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, A total scale from 1 to 100. Higher scores indicate greater function., baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention|Change from baseline in whole-body physical function on 6-minute walk test, Walking distance measured in meters., baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention|Change from baseline in shoulder pain, Visual analog scale from 0 to 10. Higher scores indicate most pain., baseline, pre-intervention, 3-months post-intervention
This study examines the effects of AI-based physiotherapy on oral function (e.g., mouth opening), shoulder function (e.g., shoulder joint range of motion and upper extremity function), whole-body physical function (e.g., 6-minute walk test), and health-related quality of life. 100 newly diagnosed oral cancer patients will be recruited before surgery, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy and randomly assigned to two groups. The experimental group will receive AI-based physiotherapy for 12 weeks, including postural correction exercises guided by AI technology, while the control group will receive usual care. Both groups will perform jaw, neck, and shoulder exercises, with the experimental group using a mobile app to monitor progress and record their exercise diaries. Assessments at baseline, pre-intervention, and 3 months post-intervention will measure the maximum interincisal opening (MIO), joint range of motion (ROM), pain, endurance, and upper extremity function using the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand (DASH) scores, and quality of life using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30).