The Effect of Training Given by Whatsapp Application on Mamography Health Beliefs and Behaviors
It is known that the healing process of breast cancer is accelerated thanks to the early diagnosis and effective treatment. Mammography screening is an important diagnostic method in the early diagnosis of breast cancer. It is thought that the education to be given according to the Health Belief Model will make important contributions to developing a positive attitude in breast cancer screenings and regular mammography.
Breast Cancer
Pre-test evaluation, The Health Belief Model Scale for Breast Cancer Screening and the Mammography Self-Efficacy Scale will be administered to all women in the experimental and control groups for pre-test purposes. There is no overall total score of the Health Belief Model Scale on Breast Cancer Screenings. Each sub-dimension's own total score is evaluated. The scale is a Likert type scale scored from 1 to 5. The scoring of the scale ranges from 1 point for "strongly disagree" to 5 points for "strongly agree". Increasing scores obtained from sub-dimensions indicate that the perception of that sub-dimension is high. Mammography Self-Efficacy Scale has ten items and five-point Likert type. The scale answers "strongly disagree" are evaluated as 1 point, "disagree" as 2 points, "undecided" as 3 points, "agree" as 4 points and "strongly agree" as 5 points. A higher score for each dimension indicates a higher probability of having a mammogram., Three month|Posttest evaluation, Training presentations will be sent to the experimental group in the first 6 weeks and training videos will be sent in the last 2 weeks. A total of 8 weeks of intervention will be implemented. Training content will be sent via WhatsApp application once a week. No intervention will be made to the control group by the researchers during this period. Those in the control group will be invited to KETEM to have a mammogram. Three months after the training is completed, the Health Belief Model Scale for Breast Cancer Screening and the Mammography Self-Efficacy Scale will be administered to both groups for posttest purposes., Six month
The research will consist of women who have previously applied to Erzurum Cancer Early Diagnosis, Screening and Education Center, had mammography taken, and whose phone records are available, whose appointment has been made since December 2022, and who meet the screening selection criteria. Women who have had a mammography appointment from KETEM and have not taken it yet, request their phone information. After the women were searched one by one to identify those who fit their characteristics and volunteers, they would leave the simple random experiment control elements. During the searches, all women will be invited to KETEM to have a mammogram again. The experimental group will send educational content through the WhatsApp application once a week, and will also answer questions and provide individual counseling. A total of 8 weeks of intervention will be implemented, the first 6 weeks of training will be provided with training presentations and the last 2 weeks of training video will be sent. Feedback will be received after the training presentations are followed through the WhatsApp application where they are read. The control group will not take any action and will be invited to KETEM for mammography. Pre-test and post-analysis phone access will be collected. At the end of the training, he will have the final examinations applied after 3 months. The number of women who participated in the study will be determined by examining the KETEM records of mammography.