Reduced-Intensity Conditioning Followed By Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects of giving reduced-intensity conditioning followed by donor peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) and how well it works in treating patients with multiple myeloma (MM). Giving low doses of chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate and melphalan, and total-body irradiation (TBI) before a donor PBSCT helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. The donated stem cells may replace the patient's immune cells and help destroy any remaining cancer cells (graft-versus-tumor effect). Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can also make an immune response against the body's normal cells. Giving mycophenolate mofetil and cyclosporine after transplant may stop this from happening.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: melphalan|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|DRUG: cyclosporine|PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
PFS, PFS will be calculated for all patients from the date of transplant until the time of progression, relapse, death, or the date the patient was last known to be in remission. Progressive disease is defined as greater than 25% increase in serum or urine M proteins compared to best response status after autologous transplant and/or appearance of new lytic bone lesions or plasmocytomas., At 1 year post-transplant|Non-relapse Mortality, Early NRM will be monitored in a sequential fashion., At day 100|Incidence of Acute GVHD (Grades III-IV), Number of patients with Grade III-IV acute GVHD post-transplant. Severe GVHD will be monitored in a sequential fashion., Up to 5 years|Incidence of Chronic (Extensive) GVHD, Number of subjects with chronic extensive GVHD post-transplant. Severe GVHD will be monitored in a sequential fashion., Up to 5 years
OS, Number of subjects surviving. OS will be estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Confidence intervals will be estimated., At 6 months and then every year thereafter, up to 5 years|Engraftment, Number of subjects who engrafted post-transplant. Engraftment will be monitored in a sequential fashion., Up to 5 years|Relapse Rate, Number of subjects who relapsed after achieving CR post-transplant. Relapse rate will be summarized using cumulative incidence estimates., Up to 5 years|Response Rate, Number of subjects who achieved CR post-transplant. Response rate will be summarized using cumulative incidence estimates., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of this approach by determining the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).

II. To evaluate day 100 non-relapse mortality.

III. To determine the incidences of grades II-IV acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and chronic extensive GVHD.

OUTLINE:

PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days -5 to -3 and intermediate-dose melphalan IV over 15-20 minutes on day -2. Patients also undergo low-dose TBI on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic PBSCT on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 80 with taper to day 180 (related donors) or on days -3 to 100 with taper to day 180 (unrelated donors). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0-27 (related donors) or thrice daily (TID) on days 0-40 with taper to day 96 (unrelated donors).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months, and then annually thereafter for 5 years.