Prevalence and Topography of Adenomas in 40-49 Year Old Patients With a Family History of Colon Cancer
Conflicting guideline recommendations for screening colonoscopy result due to scant data upon which to develop appropriate recommendations. No previous study has compared the prevalence of advanced adenomas or adenomas (any size) among 40-49 year old individuals with a first degree relative (FDR) with colorectal cancer (CRC) versus 40-49 year old average risk individuals with no family history of CRC. The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of colon adenomas in 40-49 year old individuals and identify risk factors associated with the presence of advanced adenomas. This data will provide evidence to determine appropriate colon cancer screening guidelines in 40-49 year old persons with a family history of colon polyps or colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Cancer|Colon Polyps|Adenomatous Polyp of Colon
Prevalence of advanced adenomas among 40-49 year old individuals with and without a family history of colorectal cancer, The outcome will be assessed after the completion of patient recruitment at all locations in August 2014. Advanced adenomas are defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm (1 cm). The presence of adenomas is determined be reviewing patient medical records and pathology reports., Data analysis will begin September 2014 for a duration of three months.
Absolute prevalence of advanced adenomas in 40-49 year olds with a family history of colorectal cancer, The outcome will be assessed after the completion of patient recruitment at all locations in August 2014. Advanced adenomas are defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm (1 cm). The presence of adenomas is determined be reviewing patient medical records and pathology reports., Data analysis will begin September 2014 for a duration of three months.|Absolute prevalence of advanced adenomas in 40-49 year old individuals with a family history of colorectal polyps, The outcome will be assessed after the completion of patient recruitment at all locations in August 2014. Advanced adenomas are defined as greater than or equal to 10 mm (1 cm). The presence of adenomas is determined be reviewing patient medical records and pathology reports., Data analysis will begin September 2014 for a duration of three months.
Risk factors associated with the presence of advanced adenomas, Logistic regression will be used to determine if specific risk factors are associated with the risk of adenomas in 40-49 year old individuals. Data will be collected from patient surveys and medical records., Data analysis will begin September 2014 for a duration of three months.
Conflicting guideline recommendations for screening colonoscopy result due to scant data upon which to develop appropriate recommendations. No previous study has compared the prevalence of advanced adenomas or adenomas (any size) among 40-49 year old individuals with a first degree relative (FDR) with colorectal cancer (CRC) versus 40-49 year old average risk individuals with no family history of CRC. The purpose of this study is to determine the prevalence of colon adenomas in 40-49 year old individuals and identify risk factors associated with the presence of advanced adenomas. This data will provide evidence to determine appropriate colon cancer screening guidelines in 40-49 year old persons with a family history of colon polyps or colorectal cancer.