Quality Improvement of Patient-Provider Communication For Colorectal Cancer Screening
The immediate objective of this proposal is to assess the effectiveness of a multi-faceted intervention to improve patient-provider communication about colorectal cancer screening in improving patient adherence with colorectal cancer screening recommendations. This intervention consists of: (1) guiding the communication process through patient activation to initiate a colorectal cancer screening discussion; (2) optimizing communication content through the use of a prompt sheet; and (3) cueing the provider to assess patient perception of the communication. The long-term objective of our research program is to maximize colorectal cancer screening rates throughout the VA through widespread adoption of clinically feasible approaches to enhance patient-provider communication.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Communication|BEHAVIORAL: Standard of care
Completion of Colorectal Cancer Screening Tests, A survey collected data on patient demographic characteristics, family history of colorectal cancer or polyp, and provider recommendation for colorectal cancer screening, if any. In addition, we asked patients whether colorectal cancer screening was discussed at the visit. If the response was yes, we then asked patients how satisfied they were with the PCP communication during the visit in general using a 5-point Likert scale to a number of items describing the communication. A medical record review was conducted to collect data on provider ordering and patient completion of the following colorectal cancer screening tests during the study period (i.e., 6 months from the time of the clinical encounter): fecal occult blood testing, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy., 6-12 months|Quality of Communication, Patient satisfaction with the discussion of Colorectal Cancer (CRC) screening with the primary care provider (PCP)., immediate after the patient visit|Communication Content, PCP Explains CRC screening to my satisfaction, immediately after the patient visit
In the United States, colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer mortality with over 56,000 deaths in 2004). Early detection through screening decreases the mortality associated with the disease. However, adherence with current screening recommendations is low. A survey of the general population indicates that only 53.1% of Americans, age 50 years and older for whom colorectal cancer screening is recommended, are up-to-date with this preventive service. While colorectal cancer screening rates with the VA Healthcare System (VHA) are better than in the general population (75% in Fiscal Year (FY) 2005), they are lower than performance rates for other types of cancer screening (e.g., mammography) in VHA. Further, numerous VA medical centers report colorectal cancer screening rates below the level considered satisfactory.