Evaluation of Hydroxychloroquine to Prevent CIPN
The study is being done to research if hydroxychloroquine can prevent chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy. Certain chemotherapy drugs, like paclitaxel, are known to cause neuropathy which can impact quality of life. Currently, there are no options for preventing peripheral neuropathy. In addition, there are no useful methods to assess peripheral nerve damage. This study will also explore using a study MRI of patients' feet prior to starting chemotherapy and after they have completed chemotherapy to see if there is any difference in their nerve structure.
Breast Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer|Early-stage Breast Cancer|Peripheral Neuropathy|Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
DRUG: Hydroxychloroquine
Symptomatic CIPN, The primary endpoint is symptomatic CIPN defined as increase in in FACT-GOG/Ntx-12 questionnaire score of greater than or equal to 3 points post-chemotherapy with hydroxychloroquine in combination with paclitaxel chemotherapy in patients with early-stage breast cancer or gynecologic malignancies., Throughout study completion, an average of 6 months
Predicting Symptomatic CIPN: FA and ADC values derived from DTI, Baseline fractional anisotrophy (FA) and apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values derived from DTI will be used to predict symptomatic CIPN prior to starting and end of chemotherapy., Baseline|Predicting Symptomatic CIPN: change in FA and ADC, Change in mean FA and ADC prior to starting and end of chemotherapy will be calculated. The mean of the change in FA and ADC values with 95% confidence intervals will be estimated (post- minus pre- chemotherapy). The baseline values and the change of FA and ADC will be used to predict the development of symptomatic CIPN using logistic regression., Baseline and 12 weeks|Predicting Symptomatic CIPN: baseline NF-L levels, Baseline level of neurofilament light chain (NF-L) will be used to predict symptomatic CIPN. The baseline values will be used to predict development of symptomatic CIPN using logistic regression., Baseline|Predicting Symptomatic CIPN: Changes in NF-L levels, Changes in NF-L levels with chemotherapy used to predict development of symptomatic CIPN. NF-L measures will be summarized across time and analyzed using linear mixed effects model., Baseline and 12 weeks
The study is being done to research if hydroxychloroquine can prevent chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy. Certain chemotherapy drugs, like paclitaxel, are known to cause neuropathy which can impact quality of life. Currently, there are no options for preventing peripheral neuropathy. In addition, there are no useful methods to assess peripheral nerve damage. This study will also explore using a study MRI of patients' feet prior to starting chemotherapy and after they have completed chemotherapy to see if there is any difference in their nerve structure.