Irinotecan Liposomes +5-FU/LV Versus Capecitabine in Patients of Recurrence After Resection of Resectable BTC
Irinotecan liposome combined with 5-FU/LV has shown good efficacy and has certain advantages in reducing the adverse reactions of conventional chemotherapy drugs. Adjuvant treatment of high-risk factors after surgery for biliary tract tumors can be further explored and attempted. Therefore, this study intends to conduct an exploratory study comparing oral capecitabine with irinotecan liposome +5-FU/LV for adjuvant therapy in high-risk patients after resection of resectable biliary malignancies, and evaluate the effectiveness and safety of irinotecan liposome +5-FU/LV as adjuvant therapy for high-risk patients after resection of resectable biliary malignancies. So it can provide more treatment options for patients with postoperative adjuvant therapy of biliary tract malignant tumor.

The DFS rate one year after surgery for biliary malignancy was assumed to be 51.4% with a maximum response rate of poor efficacy and 71.4% with a minimum response rate of good efficacy. A two-stage design was adopted with α=0.05 and certainty (1-β) =0.8, and Minimax was adopted. If a response occurs in 7 out of 14 patients or less, treatment options are rejected; In the second phase, if 24 or fewer responses occur in 38 patients, the protocol is rejected. A total of 38 samples were designed in two stages. The 1-year DFS rate was at least 65.8% in the total population of the test and control groups.
Biliary Tract Carcinoma
DRUG: Irinotecan Liposome|DRUG: Capecitabine
one year DFS rate, The percentage of patients free of disease when the disease-free survival is at the 1-year node, From date of randomization until the date of one year
Progression free survival, Time from initiation of treatment to first recording of PD or death, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival, The time between the start of treatment and the first recorded death, From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Disease-free survival, From randomization to the time when the first tumor recurred or metastasized, or when the subject died for any reason, From date of randomization until the date of first tumor recurred or metastasized or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|adverse events, Incidence and severity of adverse events in treatment regimens, Incidence and severity of adverse events in treatment regimens up to 24 months
According to the 2023 CSCO guidelines, differentiated surgical treatment has been performed for the site of biliary malignancies. For postoperative adjuvant therapy, BILCAP study showed that oral capecitabine as a single drug is one of the options for both efficacy and safety. For patients with postoperative risk factors, serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA19-9 are of some significance for monitoring recurrence, and often serve as precursors for clinical judgment of recurrence or progression. For people with high risk factors for recurrence and progression, adjuvant therapy intensity needs to be strengthened. Oral capecitabine can no longer meet the needs of this population, so patients need to be given intravenous chemotherapy in advance to control progression, recurrence or metastasis. In this case, metastatic first-line therapy is often used for early intervention. The NIFE study showed that compared with conventional chemotherapy regimens, the regimen of irinotecan liposome (new formulation) combined with 5-FU/LV achieved relatively better efficacy data in the median OS and ORR efficacy. It is noteworthy that this regimen has a significant therapeutic benefit in patients with advanced first-line extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, with a median PFS of 9.59 months and a median OS of 18.23 months.

To explore the efficacy and safety of irinotecan liposomes +5-FU/LV versus oral capecitabine in patients at high risk of recurrence after resection of resectable biliary malignancies.