Analysis of Surgery in Patients Presenting With Stage IV Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to study patients presenting with stage IV breast cancer. Stage IV means that the breast cancer has spread to another part of the body outside the breast. This study is important because in different parts of the country some patients are being offered surgical treatment for the breast tumor and some are not. The doctors do not know if surgery for the breast tumor is helpful in patients with stage IV breast cancer. The doctors will collect information about the patient and their treatment to learn more about how patients and doctors make treatment decisions. The doctor will also collect blood samples and tissue samples for laboratory studies to learn more about tumors that have spread to other parts of the body.
Breast Cancer
Measure response to first-line therapy, frequency of surgical referral and the proportion of patients who undergo surgery of the primary tumor in stage IV disease., 2 years
Determine the incidence of uncontrolled local disease in patients who do/do not undergo surgery., 2 years|Correlate molecular characteristics of the primary tumor with conventional prognostic factors and survival in patients presenting with stage IV breast cancer., 2 years|Perform correlative molecular studies of circulating tumor cells, primary and metastatic tumor samples in stage IV breast cancer., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to study patients presenting with stage IV breast cancer. Stage IV means that the breast cancer has spread to another part of the body outside the breast. This study is important because in different parts of the country some patients are being offered surgical treatment for the breast tumor and some are not. The doctors do not know if surgery for the breast tumor is helpful in patients with stage IV breast cancer. The doctors will collect information about the patient and their treatment to learn more about how patients and doctors make treatment decisions. The doctor will also collect blood samples and tissue samples for laboratory studies to learn more about tumors that have spread to other parts of the body.