ZN-c3 + Gemcitabine in Pancreatic Cancer
This study is being done to test the safety and effectiveness of combining ZN-c3 and Gemcitabine in participants with pancreatic cancer.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* ZN-c3 (a small molecule inhibitor of the WEE1 tyrosine kinase)
* Gemcitabine (a nucleoside metabolic inhibitor)
Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Zentalis|DRUG: Gemzar
6-month Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Rate, 6-month PFS rate is the proportion of participants remaining alive and progression free at 6 months. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., 18 months
Median Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., 18 months|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration between randomization and documented disease progression (PD) or death, or is censored at time of last disease assessment., 18 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECISTv1.1 criteria., 18 months|Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity Rate, All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv5 that are not resolved in accordance with treatment guidelines were counted. Rate is the proportion of treated participants experiencing at least one of these adverse events as defined during the time of observation., 18 months
This is an open label, single arm phase 2 trial evaluating ZN-c3 combined with gemcitabine in second-line advanced pancreatic cancer. There are lab experiments that show that pancreatic cancer cells can respond to a combination of ZN-c3, an experimental drug, with gemcitabine.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ZN-c3 as a treatment for any disease. The FDA has approved gemcitabine as a treatment option for advanced pancreatic cancer.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits, radiological scans (Computerized Tomography, Magnetic Resonance Imaging, or Positron Emission Tomography), blood tests, electrocardiogram, and tumor biopsy.

It is expected that about 34 people will take part in this research study.

The Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Research and Stand Up to Cancer are supporting this research study by providing funding to conduct the study. Zentalis is supplying the study drug, ZN-c3.