A Study of VEGF Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (Pazopanib) in Men With High-Risk Prostate Cancer Followed by Radical Prostatectomy and Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection
The area around a tumor ("pre-metastatic niche") may be an area to which cancer cells are attracted. The study doctor will take blood and tumor samples to look for certain features linked with response to treatment so that they can predict which future patients may benefit from this therapy. The purpose of this study is to see if the drug pazopanib can be used to reduce the amount of pre-metastatic niche in the patient's lymph nodes (a common site for prostate cancer to spread). Down the line, this may help to prevent prostate cancer from coming back after surgery.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate
DRUG: Pazopanib|OTHER: Placebo
Number of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor 1 (VEGFR1)-Positive Clusters, Patients with high-risk, localized prostate cancer were treated with 28 days of Pazopanib or placebo, after which they underwent radical prostatectomy. During prostatectomy, benign pelvic lymph node tissue was collected and subsequently analyzed for the average number of VEGFR1-positive clusters in 8 distinct 40x microscopic fields as an indicator of pre-metastatic niche formation., 1 month
Participants Experiencing Adverse Events, Adverse events were assessed using the Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4. Each event was assigned a grade (1-5), with lower grades indicating milder events. All adverse events were recorded, regardless of attribution to study treatment. For a full listing of Adverse Events, please see the Adverse Events section of the Results for this study., From first dose of study treatment to one month post-prostatectomy (approximately 2 months)|Biochemical Recurrence Progression Free Survival Rate, Following prostatectomy, patients' Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) lab values were collected for up to two years. Biochemical recurrence was defined as the first PSA lab value of greater than or equal to 0.2 ng/mL following prostatectomy. Biochemical recurrence progression free survival rate was defined as the percent chance of 1 year survival with no biochemical recurrence., 2 years
The area around a tumor ("pre-metastatic niche") may be an area to which cancer cells are attracted. The study doctor will take blood and tumor samples to look for certain features linked with response to treatment so that they can predict which future patients may benefit from this therapy. The purpose of this study is to see if the drug pazopanib can be used to reduce the amount of pre-metastatic niche in the patient's lymph nodes (a common site for prostate cancer to spread). Down the line, this may help to prevent prostate cancer from coming back after surgery.