Idasanutlin, Ixazomib Citrate, and Dexamethasone in Treating Patients With Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of idasanutlin and ixazomib citrate when given together with dexamethasone in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned after a period of improvement. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as idasanutlin and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Ixazomib citrate may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving idasanutlin, ixazomib citrate, and dexamethasone together may work better in treating patients with multiple myeloma.
Loss of Chromosome 17p|Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Idasanutlin|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
The Number of Participants Who Experienced Dose Limiting Toxicities. Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Ixazomib Citrate and Idasanutlin in Combination With Dexamethasone (Phase I), Defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients). DLT is graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., 28 days|Rate of Confirmed Response, Defined as a Patient Who Has Achieved a Stringent Complete Response (sCR), Complete Response (CR), Very Good Partial Response (VGPR), or Partial Response (PR) on Two Consecutive Evaluations (Phase II), Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 6 months
Incidence of Adverse Events Graded According to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03 (Phase I), Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., 30 days after the last dose of study treatment, up to 3 years|Incidence of Adverse Events Graded According to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.03 (Phase II), The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 6 months|Overall Survival (Phase II), The distribution of overall survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival (Phase II), The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 3 years|Rate of Complete Response (CR) (Phase II), The rate of CR will be estimated by the number of patients with a sCR or CR or divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportions will be calculated., Up to 6 months|Rate of Partial Response (PR) (Phase II), The rate of PR will be estimated by the number of patients with a VGPR or PR divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportions will be calculated., Up to 6 months
Changes in Macrophage Inhibitory Cytokine-1 (MIC) Levels, Effect of inhibition of mdm2 will be assessed by measuring MIC levels. MIC levels at each time point and changes after treatment will be both graphically and quantitatively summarized and explored. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using Wilcoxon's signed rank test., Baseline up to 6 months|Impact of MDM2 Inhibition on Activation of p53 and Clonal Selection, Impact of MDM2 inhibition on activation of p53 and clonal selection examined using gene expression profiling and exome sequencing, Up to 6 months|Potential Biomarkers Associated With Response Determined Using Gene Expression Profiling, Potential biomarkers associated with response will be assessed in an exploratory manner. Potential markers will be determined using gene expression profiling. The correlation between potential biomarkers and response (responders vs. non-responders) will be evaluated using Fisher's exact and Wilcoxon rank sum tests, where appropriate., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of idasanutlin and ixazomib (ixazomib citrate) to be used in combination with dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma with TP53 (17p) deletion. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the confirmed response rate of ixazomib and idasanutlin used in combination with dexamethasone in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma with TP53 (17p) deletion. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicities and the confirmed response rate associated with the combination of idasanutlin, ixazomib and dexamethasone. (Phase I) II. To describe the toxicities associated with the combination of idasanutlin, ixazomib and dexamethasone. (Phase II) III. To describe the complete response (CR) and very good partial response (VGPR) rates. (Phase II) IV. To assess progression-free and overall survival. (Phase II)

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess murine double minute 2 (MDM2) inhibition in bone marrow plasma cells. II. Identify potential biomarkers associated with response. III. To explore the pharmacodynamic effects of idasanutlin.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of idasanutlin and ixazomib citrate followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and idasanutlin PO once daily (QD) on days 1-5 every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 every 28 days for 12 courses at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 3 months, and then every 6 months.