Rhenium-188-HEDP vs. Radium-223-chloride in Patients With Advanced Prostate Cancer Refractory to Hormonal Therapy
Radium-223 chloride is an alpha-emitting radiopharmaceutical with proven survival benefit in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer metastatic to bone. Beta-emitting radiopharmaceuticals have proven efficacy for palliating malignant bone pain. Nowadays, rhenium-188-HEDP is used in clinical practice for pain relief and palliative care. Several studies suggest that also rhenium-188-HEDP has the potential to improve overall survival. The purpose of this study is to investigate if treatment with rhenium-188-HEDP results in improvement of overall survival compared to treatment with radium-223-chloride.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic to Bone
DRUG: Radium-223 chloride|DRUG: Rhenium-188-HEDP
Overall survival, Time from randomization until death due to any cause,, Time from randomization until death due to any cause, an average of 18 months
Time to PSA progression, Time from randomization to the date of a minimum of rising PSA levels with an interval of \>1week between each determination, Time from randomization to the date of a minimum of rising PSA levels, an average of 8 months (PSA measured at baseline and every 4 weeks).|Time to total-ALP progression, Time from randomization to the date of earliest objective evidence of ALP progression., Time from randomization to the date of earliest objective evidence of ALP progression, an average of 8 months (ALP measure at baseline and every 4 weeks)|Clinical progression, Time from randomization to the date of first clinical progression., Time from randomization to the date of first clinical progression, an average of 12 months|Time to first SRE, Time from randomization to the date of first skeletal related events, Time from randomization to the date of first skeletal related events, an average of 12 months|Quality of life, Measured by the EORTC quality of Life Questionnaire C30, Assessed through study completion, an average of 1 year|Effect on pain, Measured with a visual analogue scale, Assessed through study completion, an average of 1 year|Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (IVER), Ratio between the difference in costs and the difference in benefits (quality of life of treatment with rhenium-188-HEDP of radium-223-chloride), Assessed through study completion, an average of 1 year
The main objective of this trial is to compare rhenium-188-HEDP (a beta-emitting radiopharmaceutical) with radium-223-chloride (an alfa-emitting radiopharmaceutical), in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer metastatic to bone, with overall survival as primary endpoint.

For radium-223-chloride, an overall survival benefit has been proven in a large randomized phase III trial. Although such a trial has never been performed for rhenium-188-HEDP, some trials in literature suggest a survival benefit for rhenium as well.

Rhenium has some advantages compared to radium. Firstly, it is easily available as it can be produced in the hospital. Secondly, the costs of rhenium are significantly lower compared to radium. Lastly, rhenium seems to have a favorable pain response. However, no randomized trials have been performed to confirm this.