Photodynamic Therapy (PDT) With Metvix® 160 Milligrams/Gram Cream in Organ Transplant Participants With Non-melanoma Skin Cancer
Participants on immunosuppressive therapy, e.g., organ recipients, had higher occurrence of AK (Actinic Keratosis) than the untreated population. Keratotic lesions (i.e., AK lesions and warts) in this population were highly associated with development of SCC (Squamous Cell Carcinoma) also with 10 times higher mortality rate because of SCC than expected. The risk of developing skin cancer, predominantly SCC and BCC (Basal Cell Carcinoma), increased with graft survival time and the length of immunosuppressive treatment period.

The higher risk of developing skin malignancy and more aggressive skin malignancies in this population, indicated the need for early removal of these pre-malignant lesions.

In this study, two contralateral areas (5x10 cm\^2) with skin lesions within the participant were compared. One area was received Metvix PDT at defined intervals and the other was received lesion specific treatment at the discretion of the investigator. The primary endpoint was the accumulated number of new lesions during the study and number of AK lesions that showed complete response 3 months after baseline. Secondary endpoints were number of BCC lesions that showed complete response, number of recurrent lesions, assessment of cosmetic outcome and safety.
Actinic Keratosis|Warts|Basal Cell Carcinoma|Bowens Disease|Squamous Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Photodynamic therapy with Metvix 160 mg/g cream
Number of Accumulated New Skin Lesions at Month 3, A new lesion was defined as a visible new lesion of any size after the Baseline. New skin lesions accumulated were sum of actinic keratoses (AK) lesions, basal cell carcinoma (BCC) lesions, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) lesions and warts in treated area and contralateral control area (symmetrically). Number of accumulated new skin lesions at Month 3 were reported., At Month 3|Number of Accumulated New Skin Lesions at Month 9, A new lesion was defined as a visible new lesion of any size after the Baseline. New skin lesions accumulated were sum of AK lesions, BCC lesions, SCC lesions and warts in treated area and contralateral control area (symmetrically). Number of accumulated new skin lesions at Month 9 were reported., At Month 9|Number of Accumulated New Skin Lesions at Month 15, A new lesion was defined as a visible new lesion of any size after the Baseline. New skin lesions accumulated were sum of AK lesions, BCC lesions, SCC lesions and warts in treated area and contralateral control area (symmetrically). Number of accumulated new skin lesions at Month 15 were reported., At Month 15|Number of Accumulated New Skin Lesions at Month 21, A new lesion was defined as a visible new lesion of any size after the Baseline. New skin lesions accumulated were sum of AK lesions, BCC lesions, SCC lesions and warts in treated area and contralateral control area (symmetrically). Number of accumulated new skin lesions at Month 21 were reported., At Month 21|Number of Accumulated New Skin Lesions at Month 27, A new lesion was defined as a visible new lesion of any size after the Baseline. New skin lesions accumulated were sum of AK lesions, BCC lesions, SCC lesions and warts in treated area and contralateral control area (symmetrically). Number of accumulated new skin lesions at Month 27 were reported., At Month 27|Number of AK Lesions That Showed Complete Response at Month 3, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. The AK lesions were graded as grade 1(mild); slightly palpable AK, better felt than seen, grade 2 (moderate); moderately thick AK, easily felt and seen, and grade 3 (severe); very thick and/or obvious AK. Mantel-Haenszel weighted difference was used to calculate number of AK lesions that showed complete response., At Month 3|Number of AK Lesions That Showed Complete Response at Month 9, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. The AK lesions were graded as grade 1(mild); slightly palpable AK, better felt than seen, grade 2 (moderate); moderately thick AK, easily felt and seen, and grade 3 (severe); very thick and/or obvious AK. Mantel-Haenszel weighted difference was used to calculate number of AK lesions that showed complete response., At Month 9|Number of AK Lesions That Showed Complete Response at Month 15, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. The AK lesions were graded as grade 1(mild); slightly palpable AK, better felt than seen, grade 2 (moderate); moderately thick AK, easily felt and seen, and grade 3 (severe); very thick and/or obvious AK. Mantel-Haenszel weighted difference was used to calculate number of AK lesions that showed complete response., At Month 15|Number of AK Lesions That Showed Complete Response at Month 21, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. The AK lesions were graded as grade 1(mild); slightly palpable AK, better felt than seen, grade 2 (moderate); moderately thick AK, easily felt and seen, and grade 3 (severe); very thick and/or obvious AK. Mantel-Haenszel weighted difference was used to calculate number of AK lesions that showed complete response., At Month 21|Number of AK Lesions That Showed Complete Response at Month 27, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. The AK lesions were graded as grade 1(mild); slightly palpable AK, better felt than seen, grade 2 (moderate); moderately thick AK, easily felt and seen, and grade 3 (severe); very thick and/or obvious AK. Mantel-Haenszel weighted difference was used to calculate number of AK lesions that showed complete response., At Month 27
Number of BCC Lesions That Showed Complete Response, Complete response was defined as the complete disappearance of the lesion. BCC lesions were characterized as superficial: ill-defined red scaly macule; could increase in size to form crusted, occasionally ulcerated, scaly erythematous patches, but never indurated and nodular: flesh-colored, cream to pink, waxy papule with prominent surface telangiectasias; as the lesions grow, central erosion or ulceration and crusting occur, surrounded by a pearly, rolled, translucent border. Number of BCC lesions that showed complete response was reported., At Months 3, 9, 15, 21 and 27|Number of Recurrent Lesions, Recurrence of lesions was defined as reappearance of previously treated and eradicated lesions and was verified by histology in accordance with local hospital practice., At Months 9, 15, 21 and 27|Number of Participants With Overall Cosmetic Outcome Assessed by Investigator and Participants, Overall cosmetic outcome for the two contralateral areas (treatment and contralateral control) with an area of 5 by 10 cm\^2 was assessed with regards to either absence or presence of all signs or symptoms or the presence of at least one of the signs or symptoms; scarring, atrophy, depigmentation, redness and fibrosis by both investigator and participant. Parameters were assessed for each area were hypopigmentation, hyperpigmentation, scar formation and tissue defect. The occurrence of these parameters was graded as none, slight, or obvious. Cosmetic outcome was presented as number of participants in each category (none, slight, obvious) for each variable assessed (hypopigmentation, hyperpigmentation, scar formation, tissue defect)., At Month 27|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., From Baseline up to Month 27
The treatment area (5x10 cm\^2) was treated at baseline and at 3 ,9 and 15 months visits. At baseline, the area was treated with fractionated Metvix® PDT treatment consisting of two treatment one week apart and at 3 ,9 and 15 months visits with single Metvix® PDT treatment. The participants were evaluated for occurrence of new lesions, lesion response and recurrence at 3 (not recurrence),9,15,21, and 27 months visits. New and recurrent lesions in the treated area were treated with Metvix® PDT treatment. Lesions with partial response in the treated area were re-treated with Metvix® PDT and lesions with no response were treated with lesion specific treatment at the discretion of the investigator.

In the contralateral control area (5x10 cm\^2), new and recurrent lesions and lesions in non-complete response were treated with lesion specific treatment at the discretion of the investigator at each study visit.