Cisplatinum and Everolimus in Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable NEC of Extrapulmonary Origin
Phase II, open-label, multicentre national study. Patients with metastatic neuroendocrine carcinomas of extrapulmonary origin will be eligible. Treatment will be performed as indicated in the section "Investigational drug and reference therapy". Cisplatinum and everolimus dosing is based upon earlier phase 1 studies (Fury et al. 2012). CTs will be done at 9 weekly intervals (after 3 courses of chemotherapy;). Patients will be treated until documented progression according to RECIST 1.1. Enrolment is expected to take between 14 - 16 months. The total study duration is estimated to be 2 to 3 years until publication. Three NET centres in The Netherlands will participate, (Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, Netherlands Cancer Institute in Amsterdam and , the University Medical Center of Groningen) A pre-treatment (and optional post-treatment) tumour biopsy will be included for DNA/RNA analyses and organoid culture. An additional 5cc of blood will be withdrawn as a germline DNA reference. A second 5 cc of blood will be included for measuring circulating tumour transcripts to identify all types of GEP-NET (NETTest).
Neuroendocrine Carcinomas
DRUG: cisplatinum and everolimus
disease control rate, patients having a complete response, partial response or stable disease are considered successes, every 9 weeks until up to 16 months
time to relapse, From date of registration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|overall survival, Time from registration until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 60 months|Effect on the markers chromogranin A (CgA) and neuron-specific enolase (NSE);, from registration in the study markers will be taken every cycle until a maximum of 6 cycles is reached (cycle is every 3 weeks), until a maximum of 18 weeks.|Safety of everolimus in combination with cisplatin (AEs according to CTCAE v4.0), Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, up to 30 days after end of treatment
discovery of biomarkers (including circulating neuroendocrine tumour transcripts: NETTest) for treatment response;, during the 6 cycles of treatment until 30 days post-treatment
Phase II, open-label, multicentre national study. Patients with metastatic neuroendocrine carcinomas of extrapulmonary origin will be eligible. Treatment will be performed as indicated in the section "Investigational drug and reference therapy". Cisplatinum and everolimus dosing is based upon earlier phase 1 studies (Fury et al. 2012). CTs will be done at 9 weekly intervals (after 3 courses of chemotherapy;). Patients will be treated until documented progression according to RECIST 1.1. Enrolment is expected to take between 14 - 16 months. The total study duration is estimated to be 2 to 3 years until publication. Three NET centres in The Netherlands will participate, (Erasmus Medical Center in Rotterdam, Netherlands Cancer Institute in Amsterdam and , the University Medical Center of Groningen) A pre-treatment (and optional post-treatment) tumour biopsy will be included for DNA/RNA analyses and organoid culture. An additional 5cc of blood will be withdrawn as a germline DNA reference. A second 5 cc of blood will be included for measuring circulating tumour transcripts to identify all types of GEP-NET (NETTest).