Usefulness of 18F-FDG PET/CT in the Initial Staging and Surveillance of Endometrial Cancer Patients
1. To assess the value of 18F-FDG PET/CT in the initial staging and detection of recurrent cases of endometrial cancer.
2. To determine correlation between PET/CT derived parameters including SUVmax, TLG and MTV and clinic-pathological patient characteristics.
3. To detect local and distant recurrence after therapy.
Endometrial Cancer
DEVICE: 18F-FDG PET/CT
To evaluate the correlation between metabolic parameters of primary lesions of endometrial cancer examined by 18F-FDG PET/CT and clinic-pathological features., Analysis of metabolic parameters and correlation between it and histopathology, baseline
To evaluate diagnostic accuracy of PET/CT in the identification of EC stages, baseline
Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most common gynaecological malignancies worldwide.The incidence rate of uterine cancer in Egypt was 4.1 per 100,000.

The standard surgery consists of laparotomy, hysterectomy, and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. Maximal surgical cytoreduction is recommended for advanced EC. Prognostic impact of complete lymphadenectomy remains controversial, especially in early- stage disease.

With the aim of predicting extrauterine disease pre-operatively and optimizing surgical planning, several techniques have been evaluated, including 18F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT). PET /CT can be used to effectively and accurately diagnose EC pelvic lymph node metastasis and distant metastasis. It has great value in clinical staging, judging prognosis, diagnosing recurrence.

Radiomics analysis of the uterine primary tumor on pre-operative 18F-FDG PET images may help predict the presence of metastatic nodes, thus reducing false-negative results and increasing the sensitivity of the technique. The maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax), metabolic tumor volume (MTV) and total glycolysis (TLG) of primary lesions are significantly correlated with pathological tissue grading. Previous studies on metabolic parameters of primary lesions examined by 18F-FDG PET/CT for endometrial cancer mainly focused on SUVmax, However, SUVmax can only reflect the functional metabolic degree of the point. It cannot assess the overall metabolic situation of tumor. MTV and TLG can more comprehensively measure the glucose metabolic activity of tumor cells with more clinical value in reflecting the malignancy degree of tumor.