Lenalidomide and Pidilizumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide and pidilizumab and to see how well they work in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to treatment (refractory). Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pidilizumab, can block cancer growth by blocking the ability of cancer to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide with pidilizumab may work better in treating relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: pidilizumab|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD of pidilizumab combined with lenalidomide defined as the dose level at which no more than one of 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (Phase I), 28 days|Overall response rate in responding patients according to the IMWG response criteria (Phase II), The proportion of responses (partial and complete) will be calculated out of all eligible patients who receive any treatment in that disease group who are included in the phase II assessment. Assuming the number of responses is binomially distributed, 95% binomial confidence intervals will also be calculated for the estimate of the proportion of responses., Up to 30 days
Time to progression, Time from start of treatment until progression or death, assessed up to 30 days|Overall survival (Phase II), OS will be evaluated using the methods of Kaplan-Meier., Time from start of treatment to the date of his or her death, assessed up to 30 days|Pharmacokinetic parameters of pidilizumab in combination with lenalidomide, Baseline, immediately at the end of infusion, 1, 24, 72, 168, and 336 hours, and just prior to course 2
Assess CT-011 Immunogenicity of pidilizumab, Up to 30 days|Assess Immunomonitoring of lymphoctes to includeT and NK cell subsets, Extensive immunomonitoring of T and NK cell subsets at baseline and upon completion of each 28-d cycle of therapy will be conducted., Up to 30 days|Ex-vivo assessment of immune functional activities, Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), safety and efficacy of CT-011 (pidilizumab) in combination with lenalidomide (Revlimid) and assess efficacy in terms of overall response rate in patients with relapse/refractory multiple myeloma (MM).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study but this phase did not move forward.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 and pidilizumab intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day 3. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.