Investigational Imaging Technique During Brain Surgery
This early phase I trial tests the safety and reliability of an investigational imaging technique called quantitative oblique back illumination microscopy (qOBM) during brain surgery for detecting brain tumors and brain tumor margins in patients with glioblastoma, astrocytoma, or oligodendroglioma. Surgical margins refer to the edge or border of the tissue removed in cancer surgery. qOBM may be able to assess and reveal brain tumor surgical margins in a more safe and reliable manner.
Astrocytoma|Glioblastoma|Oligodendroglioma
PROCEDURE: Craniotomy|DEVICE: Quantitative Oblique Back-Illumination Microscopy
Incidence of Adverse Events, Adverse events will be assessed and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Summary statistics will be reported for categorical variables using descriptive statistics. Patient demographics will be summarized descriptively. 95% confidence intervals will be reported, unless otherwise specified. All tests will be two-sided., Up to 3 years|Reliability of Quantitative Oblique Back Illumination Microscopy Device Determined by Frequency Distribution, Robustness will be defined as the device's ability to clearly reveal relevant cellular and subcellular histological structures that can lead to clinically actionable outcomes, is determined. Using standard clinical techniques such as loupe magnification, surgical microscopy, histology, intraoperative ultrasound, and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as general points of historical reference.

Summary statistics will be reported for categorical variables using descriptive statistics measures of frequency. Patient demographics will be summarized descriptively. All tests will be two-sided., Up to 3 years|Reliability of Quantitative Oblique Back Illumination Microscopy Device Determined by Standard Deviation, Robustness will be defined as the device's ability to clearly reveal relevant cellular and subcellular histological structures that can lead to clinically actionable outcomes, is determined. Using standard clinical techniques such as loupe magnification, surgical microscopy, histology, intraoperative ultrasound, and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as general points of historical reference.

Summary statistics will be reported for categorical variables using standard deviation.Patient demographics will be summarized descriptively. 95% confidence intervals will be reported, unless otherwise specified. All tests will be two-sided., Up to 3 years|Reliability of Quantitative Oblique Back Illumination Microscopy Device Determined by Central Tendency, Robustness will be defined as the device's ability to clearly reveal relevant cellular and subcellular histological structures that can lead to clinically actionable outcomes, is determined. Using standard clinical techniques such as loupe magnification, surgical microscopy, histology, intraoperative ultrasound, and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as general points of historical reference.

Summary statistics will be reported for categorical variables using descriptive statistics measures of central tendency. Patient demographics will be summarized descriptively. 95% confidence intervals will be reported, unless otherwise specified. All tests will be two-sided., Up to 3 years|Reliability of Quantitative Oblique Back Illumination Microscopy Device Determined by Measures of Position, Robustness will be defined as the device's ability to clearly reveal relevant cellular and subcellular histological structures that can lead to clinically actionable outcomes, is determined. Using standard clinical techniques such as loupe magnification, surgical microscopy, histology, intraoperative ultrasound, and postoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as general points of historical reference.

Summary statistics will be reported for categorical variables using descriptive statistics interquartile range. Patient demographics will be summarized descriptively. 95% confidence intervals will be reported, unless otherwise specified. All tests will be two-sided., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To perform a first-in-human study to assess the ability of a quantitative oblique back illumination microscopy (qOBM) handheld device to safely and reliably image brain tumor pathology intraoperatively in-situ and in-vivo.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the biophysical and structural features that enable detection of bulk tumor and tumor margins, including infiltrative disease, with qOBM.

II. To develop qOBM imaging probes with multimodal capabilities (analog black and white and color imaging, fluorescent imaging) and with the potential to clearly reveal brain tumor margins ex vivo and in vivo during neurosurgical procedures.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo craniotomy with intraoperative ex vivo and in situ tumor assessment with qOBM. Patients then undergo postoperative exam with computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) any of days 1-5 after surgery.