Niclosamide for Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) leads to adenomas and eventual adenocarcinomas in colon and less frequently, duodenum. Chemopreventive strategies have been studied in FAP patients to delay the development of adenomas and cancers. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor have shown the regression of colorectal and duodenal adenomas in FAP patients. However, these drugs showed gastrointestinal damage and cardiovascular risks, and new preventive strategies are needed. Niclosamide, an anti-helminthic drug, has recently been suggested to have a suppressive effect on tumorigenesis via inhibition of Wnt pathway, and have no significant safety issues. The investigators devised a double-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effect of niclosamide on polyps of colorectum and duodenum in FAP patients.
Familial Adenomatous Polyposis
DRUG: Niclosamide|DRUG: placebo
Mean percentage change of the number and size of polyps in colon and/or duodenum., At the base-line endoscopy (colonoscopy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy), india-ink tattoo will be placed in the ascending colon, sigmoid colon/rectum, and duodenum. In case of the subjects with retained rectum after colectomy and ileorectal anastomosis, sigmoidoscopy will be performed. The base-line and six-month endoscopic examination will be recorded, and photographs will be taken at the tattoo-marked area and used for measurements of the number and size of polyps. The diameter of a polyp will be measured with the aid of biopsy forceps included in the photographic field, and only distinct polyps at least 2 mm in diameter will be counted., After six-month administration of niclosamide/placebo
A qualitative assessment of the total extent of colorectal polyposis, A qualitative assessment of the total extent of colorectal polyposis will be conducted via video review(at base line and month 6) by two endoscopists experienced in the management of FAP, and scored as the same as, better than, or worse than base-line endoscopic findings, without the endoscopists' being aware of treatment group., After six-month administration of niclosamide/placebo
This clinical trial is a double-blind randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effect of niclosamide on polyps of colorectum and duodenum in FAP patients. FAP patients, satisfied an enrollment criteria, will be randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive niclosamide (650 mg) or placebo tablets orally once a day for 6 months. The base-line and six-month endoscopic examination (colonoscopy/sigmoidoscopy and upper gastrointestinal endoscopy) will be recorded, and photographs will be taken at the tattoo-marked area. The number and size of polyps, and a qualitative assessment of the total extent of polyposis will be measured. If there is no significant improvement in any of the 12 initial cases (niclosamide 8: placebo 4), this trial will be discontinued.