Lean Body Mass in Head and Neck Cancer Patients During Cisplatin-based Chemoradiation
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the changes in body composition in head and neck cancer patients during treatment. The main questions it aims to answer are: What is the rate of lean body mass loss and how is it associated with changes in muscle strength and functional performance? Is the lean body mass loss impacted by adding chemotherapy to the radiation treatment? Participants will be asked to undergo five body composition scans during treatment and undergo tests for muscle strength and functional performance before and after treatment.
Head and Neck Cancer Patients|Lean Body Mass|Body Composition Changes
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: DXA scan|BEHAVIORAL: Physical testing
Lean body mass, Lean body mass in kg determined by DXA scans, Bi-weekly from treatment start to two weeks post treatment (5 scans in total)
Fat mass, FAt mass in kg measured by DXA scans, Bi-weekly from treatment start to two weeks post treatment (5 scans in total)
Maximal muscle strength, One repetition maximum in knee extension (unilateral), leg press (unilateral) and chest press (bilateral), Before and after treatment (i.e. 2-3 days before treatment start and two weeks after treatment end)|Stair climb performance, The fastest walking/running time in a stair climb test is recorded (two flights of stairs), Before and after treatment (i.e. 2-3 days before treatment start and two weeks after treatment end)|Arm curl performance, The maximum number of repetitions in 30 s arm curl test are recorded, Before and after treatment (i.e. 2-3 days before treatment start and two weeks after treatment end)|Chair rise performance, The maximum number of repetitions in 30 s chair rise test are recorded, Before and after treatment (i.e. 2-3 days before treatment start and two weeks after treatment end)
The primary aim of the present study is to investigate the rate of decline in body composition (LBM, body weight and fat mass) as well as changes in maximal muscle strength and functional performance during radiation treatment in HNSCC patients and to investigate the association between the loss of LBM and impairments in maximal muscle strength and functional performance. Secondly, the study investigates whether adding cisplatin during chemoradiation induces exacerbated LBM loss compared to radiation alone.

50 patients are expected to be included in the study. Inclusion criteria are: (1) histologically proven squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx, pharynx, or oral cavity, (2) prescribed to radical or post-operative radiotherapy of at least 60 Gy with or without concomitant chemotherapy. Exclusion criteria were palliative radiation or participation in competing research protocols.

Five times during treatment (biweekly), patients will be asked to undergo a Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry scan to evaluate changes in lean body mass and fat mass. Before and after treatment patients are asked to perform three test for maximal muscle strength (one repetition maximum knee extension, chest press and leg press) as well as three functional performance test (30 s arm curl, 30 s chair rise and stair climb).