A Real-World Assessment of the Demographic, Clinical Characteristics and Outcomes of a Brazilian Cohort of Previously Untreated Extensive Stage-Small Cell Lung Cancer Receiving Durvalumab Combined With Platinum-Etoposide in (ES-SCLC) in Brazil
The central objective of this study is to characterize the demographic of an ES-SCLC Brazilian cohort treated with durvalumab. Secondarily, to assess the outcomes of durvalumab-based regimens in 1L treatment of ES-SCLC Brazilian patients from the private health care setting.
Extensive-stage Small-cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Observational study
Demographic Characteristics of the Cohort, This measure encompasses relevant demographic information of the patients included in the cohort, including median age at diagnosis, gender distribution, smoking history, and World Health Organization Performance Status (WHO PS) score. These details will provide a comprehensive understanding of the patient profile within the cohort., Baseline.|Clinical Characteristics of the Cohort, This measure encompasses relevant clinical information of the patients included in the cohort, including presence of hepatic and cerebral metastases, type of platinum used in first-line (1L) treatment, and diagnostic stage (III vs. IV) of CPPC-EE. These details will provide a comprehensive understanding of the patient profile within the cohort., Baseline.|Comparison of Demographic and Clinical Characteristics between Recurrent and Newly Diagnosed CPPC-EE Patients, This measure focuses on comparing patients with recurrent CPPC-EE and those newly diagnosed. The incidence of disease recurrence and distinct demographic and clinical characteristics between these groups, such as age, gender, smoking history, World Health Organization Performance Status (WHO PS) score, presence of hepatic and cerebral metastases, type of platinum used in first-line (1L) treatment, and diagnostic stage, will be analyzed and reported. This will allow for a deeper understanding of differences between recurrent and newly diagnosed patients., During the cohort follow-up, an average of 24 months, starting from diagnosis.
The central objective of this study is to characterize the demographic of an ES-SCLC Brazilian cohort treated with durvalumab. Secondarily, to assess the outcomes of durvalumab-based regimens in 1L treatment of ES-SCLC Brazilian patients from the private health care setting.