A Phase 2, Single Arm Study of Cabozantinib in Patients With Hepatocellular Carcinoma Who Have Received Prior Atezolizumab and Bevacizumab
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common liver cancer and a leading cancer death worldwide. Currently, atezolizumab and bevacizumab combination is the standard of care for patients with advanced HCC. There have not been proven therapy for patients with advanced HCC previously treated with atezolizumab and bevacizumab. Cabozantinib is a proven therapy for patients with advanced HCC previously treated with sorafenib. The study aims to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of cabozantinib in patients with advanced previously treated with atezolziumab and bevacizumab. It is a multi-center single-arm study which all participants will receive cabozantinib. Participants will continue cabozantinib until. disease progression or unacceptable toxicities.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Disease control rate (DCR) per RECIST 1.1 at 4th month, Proportion of participants with stable disease, partial response and complete response at 4th month of cabozantinib treatment based on RECIST 1.1, 4th month of treatment
Objective response rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 at 4th month, Proportion of participants with partial response or complete response at 4th month of treatment based on RECIST 1.1, 4th month of treatment|Progression-free survival (PFS) per RECIST 1.1, Time from treatment initiation to documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death, Time from treatment initiation to documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival (OS), Time from treatment initiation to patient death, Time from treatment initiation to patient death, assessed up to 36 months
Currently, atezolizumab and bevacizumab combination is the standard of care for patients with advanced HCC. There have not been proven therapy for patients with advanced HCC previously treated with atezolizumab and bevacizumab. Cabozantinib is a proven therapy for patients with advanced HCC previously treated with sorafenib. The study aims to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of cabozantinib in patients with advanced previously treated with atezolziumab and bevacizumab.

This is a phase II, single-arm, multi-center trial which all participants will receive cabozantinib. Eligible patients will provide informed consent to participate the trial. The study will enroll 40 patients. All participants will receive cabozantinib until disease progression or unacceptable toxicities. Efficacy assessment will be performed with CT scan or MRI every 8 weeks. Clinical assessments and laboratory tests will be scheduled every 2-4 weeks for safety assessments.