A Safety Study of the Pan-immunotherapy in Patients With Unresectable/Metastatic Solid Tumors or Lymphomas
Identification of T cell inhibitory signals, including PD-1/PD-L1, has prompted the development of a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. However, elimination of cancer by T cells is only one step in the Cancer-Immunity Cycle, which enable providing several therapeutic targets and tailoring of combinations of immune therapies. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This study is a first-in-man, Phase I, 3 + 3 dose escalation study of a combined regimen of Manganese and anti-PD-1 antibody with or without chemotherapies in subjects with unresectable/ metastatic solid tumors or lymphomas. This study is designed to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile (PK profile), mode of delivery and Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of this regimen.
Solid Tumor|Lymphoma
DRUG: Manganese Chloride|DRUG: Anti-PD-1 antibody|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Systemic therapy
Number of Subjects with treatment-related adverse events (AEs), Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0. AEs were considered to be treatment-related if they had started or worsened within the interval from first study drug administration until the follow-up visit., Approximately 6 months|Number of subjects with specific Manganese-related adverse events, Manganese-related AEs were considered to be that start or worsen after administration Manganese administration，improve after withdrawal, and even occur again after re-administration., Approximately 6 months
Preliminary efficacy evaluation, Objective response rate (ORR) and disease control rate (DCR) will be evaluated by investigators per the RECIST V1.1., Approximately 6 months|The q3w pharmacokinetic profile of Manganese, PK parameters such as Maximum concentration (Cmax) are assessed., Approximately 3 months|Number of participants with laboratory test abnormalities, The laboratory tests of serum cytokines and chemokines will be performed on day 1 and 3 of each cycle, and the abnormality will be determined by the investigator., Approximately 3 months
Identification of T cell inhibitory signals, including PD-1/PD-L1, has prompted the development of a new class of cancer immunotherapy that could restore an adequate immunosurveillance against the neoplasm and enhance T-cell-mediated anticancer immune responses. However, elimination of cancer by T cells is only one step in the Cancer-Immunity Cycle, which enable providing several therapeutic targets and tailoring of combinations of immune therapies. Manganese has been confirmed to activate antigen-presenting cells and function as mucosal immunoadjuvants in pre-clinical studies. This study is a first-in-man, Phase I, 3 + 3 dose escalation study of a combined regimen of Manganese and anti-PD-1 antibody with or without chemotherapies in subjects with unresectable/ metastatic solid tumors or lymphomas. This study is designed to assess the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetic profile (PK profile), mode of delivery and Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of this regimen.