Delayed Effects of Treatment in Cancer Survivors (DETECS)
Hypotheses and Specific Aims: There is limited data on the long-term consequences of cancer therapy on young, reproductively aged cancer survivors. The investigators objective is to characterize some of these effects in the cancer population.
Breast Cancer|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Gynecologic Cancer
Serum anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH), Test of ovarian reserve via a blood sample., Day 0 - 1 time measurement
Body Mass Index (BMI), Height and weight will be measured to calculate BMI., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Antral Follicle Count, Measure of ovarian reserve via a transvaginal ultrasound., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Hemoglobin A1c, Will measure the percentage of hemoglobin that is coated with sugar (glycated)., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|High sensitivity C reactive protein (hsCRP), We will measure low levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) by blood test. The test will be done to determine risk for heart disease., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), We will measure the amount of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) in a blood sample., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|25-OH vitamin D, We will measure how much vitamin D is present via a blood test., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Estrone, We will measure the amount of estrone (form of estrogen) by testing a urine sample., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Pregnanediol, We will measure the amount of pregnanediol by testing a urine sample. This is an indirect way to measure progesterone levels in the body., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Testosterone, We will measure the amount of the steroid hormone testosterone by testing a blood sample., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Ovarian volume, Ovarian volume will be measured via a transvaginal ultrasound., Day 0 - 1 time measurement|Quality of Life, Validated instruments will be used to compare quality of life markers between cancer survivors and healthy controls., Day 0 - 1 time measurement
Specific Aim 1: To compare markers of ovarian reserve between cancer survivors and healthy controls.

Hypothesis: Cancer survivors will have lower serum Anti-Mullerian Hormone (AMH) and antral follicle count (AFC), and higher Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH) than healthy controls.

Specific Aim 2: To compare cardio-metabolic, endocrine and bone profiles between cancer survivors and controls using a combination of anthropometric measures, fasting serum markers, and urinary markers of bone health.

Hypothesis: Cancer survivors will have higher total cholesterol and lower 25-OH vitamin D than healthy controls.

Specific Aim 3: To evaluate potential associations between ovarian reserve and markers of metabolism, obesity, and tumor bone health in young female cancer survivors.

Hypothesis: As BMI and total cholesterol increases, serum AMH will decrease.

Specific Aim 4: To compare quality of life markers, as assessed by validated instruments, between cancer survivors and controls using recommended scoring techniques.

Hypothesis: Cancer survivors will have lower quality of life markers as compared to controls.

The investigators will conduct a prospective study to characterize the quality of life and cardio-metabolic, endocrine, and bone profiles of female cancer survivors using a combination of anthropometric, serum, urinary, and ultrasonographic markers in combination with QOL instruments.