Inotuzumab Ozogamicin for Children With MRD Positive CD22+ Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This trial is a limited multi-center, Phase II study to evaluate inotuzumab ozogamicin (Besponsa) in pediatric patients with MRD positive CD22-positive B-lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL).

Some patients with newly diagnosed ALL maintain low levels of MRD, despite achieving complete remission with less than 5% blasts in the bone marrow. Others experience re-emergence of low level MRD or increasing levels of MRD on therapy or post-transplant. New approaches are needed to achieve undetectable MRD in these high-risk patients.

Inotuzumab ozogamicin is an antibody-drug conjugate composed of a humanized IgG subtype 4 monoclonal CD22-targeted antibody linked to calicheamicin, a potent anti-tumor antibiotic. CD22 is expressed in more than 90% of patients with B-cell ALL, making it an attractive target in this patient population. Inotuzumab ozogamicin has demonstrated exceptional activity in adults with relapsed or refractory B-ALL.

Primary Objective

* Assess the efficacy of inotuzumab ozogamicin in patients with MRD positive CD22+ B-ALL with 0.1 - 4.99% blasts in bone marrow.

Secondary Objectives

* Study the safety of inotuzumab ozogamicin when used in patients with MRD - positive CD22+ B-ALL with \< 5 % blasts in bone marrow.
* Estimate the incidence, severity, and outcome of hepatotoxicity and sinusoidal obstruction syndrome/veno-occlusive disease (SOS/VOD) in patients during inotuzumab ozogamicin and following subsequent treatment, including hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT).
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Inotuzumab ozogamicin|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Diphenhydramine|DRUG: Acetaminophen|DRUG: Methylprednisolone
Treatment response Cycle1 - count, Number of patients that reach MRD negative at the end of cycle 1, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Treatment Response Cycle 1 - percentage, Percentage of patients that reach MRD negative at the end of cycle 1, At the end of cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Treatment Response Cycle 2 - count, Number of patients that reach MRD negative at the end of cycle 2, At the end of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)|Treatment Response Cycle 2 - percentage, Percentage of patients that reach MRD negative at the end of cycle 2, At the end of cycle 2 (each cycle is 28 days)
Occurrence of death - count, Number of patient deaths that occur at any time during observation on study, up to 30 days from last dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin or up to 30 days post-transplant among the patients who proceed to transplant|Occurrence of death - percentage, Percentage of patient deaths that occur at any time during observation on study, up to 30 days from last dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin or up to 30 days post-transplant among the patients who proceed to transplant|Occurrence of Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) - count, Number of patients that develop VOD at any time during observation on study, up to 30 days from last dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin or up to 30 days post-transplant among the patients who proceed to transplant|Occurrence of Veno-occlusive disease (VOD) - percentage, Percentage of patients that develop VOD at any time during observation on study, up to 30 days from last dose of inotuzumab ozogamicin or up to 30 days post-transplant among the patients who proceed to transplant
The drug will be administered intravenously on days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle. Patients who do not meet the definition of treatment failure after the first cycle may receive up to five additional cycles of therapy. .

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 1 year.