A Study of ATTR-01 in Participants With Select Epithelial Solid Tumours
ATTR-01 is the experimental drug being studied in the ATTEST clinical trial. The drug is made from a common cold virus that has been changed to only infect and multiply in cancer cells. This virus delivers an immune therapy drug into the cancer that is intended to promote a participant's own immune system to attack the cancer. The first part of this trial (sub-protocol A) is a phase 1 trial including dose escalation and expansion at one or more doses. It is the first time that ATTR-01 will be given to humans. If an optimal dose is identified, additional sub-protocols will be added by to further elicit whether ATTR-01 may successfully treat cancer. Expanded access is not available.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: ATTR-01
• Incidence of treatment emergent adverse events (AEs) [safety and tolerability], 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|• Determination of the optimal dose of ATTR-01, • Incidence of AEs, serious adverse events (SAEs), dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), discontinuation of investigational product(s) due to toxicity and clinically significant alterations in vital signs or other clinical safety assessments, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|• Objective Response Rate (ORR) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Duration of Response (DoR) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], 1 year, 2 years and 5 years
Disease Control Rate (DCR) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Time To Response (TTR) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Overall Survival (OS) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Maximum reduction in tumour size [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|Duration of Response (DoR) [Evaluation of the anti-tumour activity of ATTR-01 per RECIST V1.1], From first scan onwards, 1 year, 2 years and 5 years|To evaluate the viral persistence of ATTR-01, ATTR-01 viral persistence/blood concentrations, 1 year|To evaluate the immunogenicity of ATTR-01, Immunogenicity/Anti-ATTR-01-antibodies, 1 year
ATTR-01 is the experimental drug being studied in the ATTEST clinical trial. The drug is made from a common cold virus that has been changed to only infect and multiply in cancer cells. This virus delivers an immune therapy drug into the cancer that is intended to promote a participant's own immune system to attack the cancer. The first part of this trial (sub-protocol A) is a phase 1 trial including dose escalation and expansion at one or more doses. It is the first time that ATTR-01 will be given to humans. If an optimal dose is identified, additional sub-protocols will be added by to further elicit whether ATTR-01 may successfully treat cancer. Expanded access is not available.