A Feasibility Trial of Geriatric Assessment and Management for Older Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility of implementing a randomized controlled study of the intervention (Geriatric Assessment followed by an integrated care plan carried out by the multidisciplinary geriatric oncology team) designed to maintain/improve quality of life and functional status in older adults with advanced gastrointestinal, genitourinary or breast cancer referred for first line chemotherapy.

Secondarily, the study will investigate the impact of the Geriatric Assessment on the cancer treatment decision of the cancer specialist.
Breast Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Genitourinary Cancer
PROCEDURE: GA and Integrated Care Plan
Quality of life, We will measure quality of life with European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core version 30 items (EORTC QLQ C30), 6 months
Impact of the Geriatric Assessment (GA) on the cancer treatment decision questionnaire, The treating oncologist will be asked to indicate the cancer treatment plan prior to receiving the geriatric assessment results using a survey previously used in the study of Dr. Alibhai et al (Am J Clin Oncol. 2012 Aug;35(4):322-8.).

After the GA the results will be send to the treating oncologist and after the physician will be asked to indicate whether or not and if yes how he/she modified the treatment plan based on the GA results, 6 months|Functional status, We will measure functional status with the Older American Resources and Services Instrumental Activities of Daily Living questionnaire (7 items), 6 months
Introduction: A comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) can identify functional and psychosocial issues in older cancer patients, which in turn can inform interventions to prevent/postpone adverse outcomes and maintain/improve the functional status and well-being of this population. However, few randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been completed showing the evidence.

OBJECTIVE - To explore the feasibility and impact of a CGA followed by an integrated care plan on quality of life and functional status for older adults with advanced breast, gastrointestinal or genitourinary cancer METHODS -

A two-group parallel single-blind phase II RCT is enrolling 60 patients aged 70 or above, diagnosed with cancer, and starting first line chemotherapy at Princess Margaret Cancer Centre in Toronto. The randomization using sealed opaque envelopes is stratified by treatment intent (adjuvant versus palliative). The intervention entails a comprehensive CGA by a multidisciplinary geriatric oncology team followed by an integrated care plan to address any issues identified. Participants in the intervention group are seen at baseline for the CGA and for initiation of the integrated care plan, and again at 3 and 6 months to assess intervention fidelity and measure outcomes. The co-primary outcomes are: 1) maintaining/improvement in quality of life; 2) refining of cancer treatment plan. The secondary outcomes include: 1) Functional status; 2) feasibility of the study by tumor site.

Recruitment has been completed November 2015