Endoscopic Optical Coherence Tomography for Screening and Diagnosis of Colorectal Precancerous and Malignant Polyps
Colorectal cancer arises from the mucosal layer of the colon. Current screening is performed by flexible endoscopy, which involves visual inspection of the mucosal lining of the colon and rectum with an optical camera mounted on the endoscope, with abnormal areas being biopsied. This method is somewhat limited in that there are no readily available surface pattern or morphological classification systems with adequate sensitivity or specificity to evaluate extent of submucosal invasion (deep, superficial, or none). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) using pattern recognition is a high-resolution imaging modality. There is currently an unmet need to predict depth of invasion for colonic tumors to decide on applicability of endoscopic (endoscopic submucosal dissection or endoscopic mucosal resection) vs. surgical therapy. The investigators' hypothesis is that OCT will have a higher diagnostic accuracy for determining depth of submucosal invasion compared to existing modalities. The investigators will first aim to assess the procedural feasibility and safety of using an OCT probe during routine colonoscopy with an early feasibility study. This study will identify appropriate modifications to the device and help with development of subsequent clinical study protocols. The eventual goal is to assess the diagnostic accuracy of OCT imaging for predicting depth of invasion of colonic tumors.
Colon Cancer|Rectal Cancer|Cancer of the Rectum|Cancer of the Colon|Precancerous Polyp|Malignant Polyp
DEVICE: Optical coherence tomography probe
Proportion of Participants Whose Procedure Length Using an OCT Probe During Routine Colonoscopy is Within 5 Minutes, If the proportion of the patients whose procedure length using an OCT probe during routine colonoscopy is within 5 minutes is greater than 75%, then the feasibility is defined in this study., Within 5 minutes during standard of care colonoscopy - Day 1 (average length 3:40 minutes (full range 1:54-8:20 minutes)
Number of Participants With Adverse Events Related to OCT Imaging During Routine Colonoscopy, The descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 will be utilized for all toxicity reporting., From start of colonoscopy through 48 hours after colonoscopy (estimated time of 3 days)|Number of Participants Who Have a Successfully Captured OCT Image Using Machine Learning Algorithm, Whether OCT image is successfully captured using machine learning algorithm, coded as "good" or "noisy"., During colonoscopy (Day 1)|Cohen's Weighted Kappa Score, Overall agreement (OCT probe yielding results consistent with clinical pathology biopsy results) as measured by Cohen's Kappa. Overall Cohen's Kappa is a statistical measure for assessing the reliability of agreement between the two results by taking into account the element of chance. Cohen's kappa can range from 0 to 1 with 1 indicating perfect agreement and 0 indicating an agreement equivalent to chance.

Clinical pathology is the gold standard for diagnosis. Diagnosis from both OCT and clinical pathology will be assigned as normal mucosa, hyperplastic polyp, tubular adenoma, sessile serrated adenoma, or colorectal cancer., During colonoscopy (Day 1)
Colorectal cancer arises from the mucosal layer of the colon. Current screening is performed by flexible endoscopy, which involves visual inspection of the mucosal lining of the colon and rectum with an optical camera mounted on the endoscope, with abnormal areas being biopsied. This method is somewhat limited in that there are no readily available surface pattern or morphological classification systems with adequate sensitivity or specificity to evaluate extent of submucosal invasion (deep, superficial, or none). Optical coherence tomography (OCT) using pattern recognition is a high-resolution imaging modality. There is currently an unmet need to predict depth of invasion for colonic tumors to decide on applicability of endoscopic (endoscopic submucosal dissection or endoscopic mucosal resection) vs. surgical therapy. The investigators' hypothesis is that OCT will have a higher diagnostic accuracy for determining depth of submucosal invasion compared to existing modalities. The investigators will first aim to assess the procedural feasibility and safety of using an OCT probe during routine colonoscopy with an early feasibility study. This study will identify appropriate modifications to the device and help with development of subsequent clinical study protocols. The eventual goal is to assess the diagnostic accuracy of OCT imaging for predicting depth of invasion of colonic tumors.