A Trial of Intratumoural Tigilanol Tiglate in Adult Participants With Stage IIIB to IV M1c Melanoma
A phase IIb, multicentre, open label study to evaluate the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of intratumoural tigilanol tiglate in adult participants with Stage IIIB to IV M1c melanoma
Melanoma
DRUG: tigilanol tiglate
Tumour Responses, - To evaluate the tumour responses of both injected and non injected tumours following treatment with intratumoural injections of tigilanol tiglate into one or more tumours (long term tumour response according to RECIST v1.1 criteria)., 36 months|Tumour Ablation, - To assess the tumour ablation rate following treatment(s) with intratumoural injections of tigilanol tiglate., 36 months
Tumour Recurrence Rate, - To assess the tumour recurrence rate at injected tumour site(s), 36 months|Safety and Tolerability, Total number of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events. Number of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events deemed related to tigilanol tiglate., 36 months|Wound Healing, - To assess the degree of wound healing at injection site(s) using a specifically designed Injection Site Assessment Worksheet, observed at 14 and 28 days post treatment., 28 days|Progression Free Survival (PFS), - To evaluate disease control by looking at Progression Free Survival (PFS) in melanoma participants receiving tigilanol tiglate injections over 36 months, 36 months
Overall Survival (OS), - To evaluate Overall Survival (OS) in melanoma participants receiving tigilanol tiglate injections, 36 months|Tumour Microenvironment, - To assess the tumour microenvironment by looking at the degree of immune cell infiltration in non-injected tumours, 28 days|Quality of Life (QoL), QoL assessment using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Melanoma (FACT-M) questionnaire at screening and at 6-monthly intervals until the end of study., 36 months
Primary Objective

1. To evaluate the tumour responses of both injected and non injected tumours following treatment with intratumoural injections of tigilanol tiglate into one or more tumours (according to RECIST v1.1); and
2. To assess the tumour ablation rate following treatments with intratumoural injections of tigilanol tiglate.

Secondary Objectives

1. To assess the tumour recurrence rate at injected tumour site(s);
2. To assess the safety and tolerability of intratumoural injections of tigilanol tiglate;
3. To assess the degree of wound healing at injection sites; and
4. To evaluate disease control by looking at Progression Free Survival (PFS) in melanoma participants receiving tigilanol tiglate injections over 36 months.

Exploratory Objectives

1. To evaluate Overall Survival (OS) in melanoma participants receiving tigilanol tiglate injections over 36 months;
2. To assess the tumour microenvironment by looking at the degree of immune cell infiltration in non-injected tumours; and
3. To assess the Quality of Life (QoL) in melanoma participants receiving tigilanol tiglate injections.