Bicalutamide in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Androgens can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as bicalutamide, may stop the adrenal glands from making androgens.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well bicalutamide works in treating patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method
6-month Response Rate (Complete Response, Partial Response, and Stable Disease), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 months
Count of Participants With Progression-free Survival, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, 1 year|Number of Participants Evaluated for Toxicity, Toxicity measured by CTCAE v3.0, 1 year
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the 6-month efficacy rate of bicalutamide as first-, second-, or third-line therapy in patients with androgen receptor-positive and estrogen receptor- and progesterone receptor-negative metastatic breast cancer.

Secondary

* Determine the 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug.
* Evaluate the safety of this drug in these patients.
* Evaluate changes in estradiol, total and free testosterone, and sex-hormone binding globulin in response to androgen blockade in patients treated with this drug.
* Evaluate tissue, including cytokeratins 5/6 and 17, SPDEF, ALCAM, ERBB2, FGFR4, and prostate-specific antigen (PSA), using immunohistochemical analysis in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a open-label study.

Patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response, partial response, or stable disease may continue to receive bicalutamide as above at the discretion of the investigator.

Patients undergo blood and tissue sample collection for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for hormonal levels, including estradiol, total testosterone, free testosterone, and sex-hormone binding globulin, and proteins, including ALCAM, SPEDF, and CK 5/6, by immunohistochemical analysis at baseline, after course 1, and at the end of the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 28 patients will be accrued for this study.