Metformin Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Can be Removed by Surgery
This randomized clinical trial studies metformin hydrochloride in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that can be removed by surgery. Metformin hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: metformin hydrochloride|OTHER: pharmacological study
Pancreatic tumor cell proliferation and apoptosis as measured by the percentage of cells Ki-67+, percentage of cells TUNEL+, and mitotic counts in tissue samples, The difference between treatment groups will be compared using analysis of variance (ANOVA) (3 groups) followed by Tukey's pair-wise comparison procedure. Transformation may be applied (e.g. natural log) prior to analysis to better approximate normality., At time of surgery (after 7 days of treatment)
Occurrence of grade 3 and 4 toxicities according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE; version 4.0), Will be summarized as the percentage of patients by type and grade according to treatment group., Baseline to 30 days after treatment has been discontinued or after the date of surgery, whichever occurs first|Expression of pACC and pMTOR quantified by the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) in tissue samples, The difference between treatment groups will be compared using ANOVA followed by Tukey's pair-wise comparison procedure. Laser scanning cytometry and iCyte software used to quantify the MFI of pACC and pMTOR., At time of surgery (after 7 days of treatment)|Percentage of pancreatic cancer stem cells in tissue samples, For each of biologic biomarkers (pACC, pMTOR, CD44+CD24+ESA+ cells), the difference between treatment groups will be compared using ANOVA (3 groups) followed by Tukey's pair-wise comparison procedure. Transformation may be applied (e.g. natural log) prior to analysis to better approximate normality., At time of surgery (after 7 days of treatment)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of escalating doses of metformin (metformin hydrochloride) given pre-operatively on pancreatic cancer cell proliferation and apoptosis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess toxicity of escalating doses of metformin given pre-operatively in patients with resectable pancreatic carcinoma.

II. To measure the effect of metformin on the expression of phosphorylated acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACC), phosphorylated mechanistic target of rapamycin (serine/threonine kinase) (mTOR), and pancreatic cancer stem cells.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo observation.

GROUP II: Patients receive metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for at least 7 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP III: Patients receive metformin hydrochloride as in Group II.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 30 days.