Zileuton With or Without Celecoxib As Chemopreventive Agents in Smokers
The goal of this clinical research study is to learn how zileuton alone or the combination of zileuton and celecoxib may affect certain chemicals in the body that may be linked with a risk for smoking-related lung disease. These effects will be measured by a urine test
Tobacco Use Disorder
DRUG: Zileuton|DRUG: Celecoxib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Median Urinary PGE-M Levels (Pre and Post Treatment), Pre and Post treatment differences in urinary PGE-M levels measured in each treatment arm. PGE-M levels reported as median with full range (ng/mg creatinine) for Pre treatment versus Post treatment PGE-M levels among study participants compliant to treatment with evaluable urine samples at both time points (baseline and Day 6 +/- 1 day)., Baseline and Day 6|Median Urinary LTE4 Levels (Pre and Post Treatment), Pre and Post treatment differences in urinary LTE4 levels measured in each treatment arm compared using paired t-test should the data conform to the normality assumption or one-sample Wilcoxon rank-sum test. LTE4 levels reported as median with full range (pg/mg creatinine) for Pre treatment versus Post treatment LTE4 levels among study participants compliant to treatment with evaluable urine samples at both time points (baseline and Day 6 +/- 1 day)., Baseline and day 6
Proportion of Cases With a Post-treatment Increase in Urinary PGE-M Levels, Proportion of cases with a post-treatment increase in urinary PGE-M levels by comparing those treated with Zileuton and Celecoxib combined therapy compared to those treated with Zileuton alone. Pre/postchange in levels (Increase) derived from baseline level to Day 6 +/- 1 day. Differences in baseline levels between 2 treatment arms were examined using the Wilcoxon rank-sum test., Baseline to Day 6
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether short-term administration of zileuton, a 5-lipoxygenase (5-LO) inhibitor, in current smokers will suppress the formation of urinary leukotriene E4 (LTE4) and shunt arachidonic acid into the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathway, resulting in elevated urinary prostaglandin E-metabolite (PGE-M).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether short-term co-administration of celecoxib, a selective COX-2 inhibitor, and zileuton suppresses levels of both urinary LTE4 and PGE-M in current smokers.

II. To evaluate the association between baseline levels of urinary LTE4 and magnitude of the arachidonic acid shunt induced by zileuton.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive zileuton orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-6.

ARM II: Patients receive zileuton as in Arm I and celecoxib PO BID on days 1-6.