Imaging Apoptosis for Lymphoma Treatment Response
Apoptosis is a specific form of cell death that leads to clearance of dead cells without causing inflammation or injury to normal adjacent tissues. Targeted cancer therapeutics that target this pathway for tumor cell death induction are in development, but few specific biomarkers of apoptosis are available to assess treatment response. Apoptosis also occurs in response to standard anthracycline or combination therapies such as rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP), rituximab, etoposide, phosphate, prednisone, vincristine sulfacte, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrocholoride (R-EPOCH) used to treat many different histopathological types of lymphoma including Hodgkin and non- Hodgkin lymphoma such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), Burkitts lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma and double hit DLBCL. Caspase-3 activation occurs as a result of apoptosis and may be a specific marker of apoptosis. Therefore, this study will assess whether 18F-FluorApoTrace (18F-FAT), a caspase-3 targeted tracer, has a reasonable dosimetry profile and can be used to detect apoptosis in patients with lymphoma being treated with standard therapy.
Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: 18F-FluorApoTrace
Whole body effective dose (in rems) of a 5 mCi injection of 18F-FAT (Cohort 1 only), -The time activity curves will be created using all the scans obtained and integrated to determine organ residence times. This data, plus the counts and volumes from urine collection(s) after tracer injection, will then be used to calculate the dosimetry using OLINDA/EXM v1.1. The calculated residence times will be used with the program OLINDA/EXM for 18F and using the adult human (adult female or male) model to calculate the whole body effective dose., Day 1|Radiation doses (rems) to critical organs (Cohort 1 only), The time activity curves will be created using all the scans obtained and integrated to determine organ residence times. This data, plus the counts and volumes from urine collection(s) after tracer injection, will then be used to calculate the dosimetry using OLINDA/EXM v1.1. The calculated residence times will be used with the program OLINDA/EXM for 18F and using the adult human (adult female or male) model to calculate the individual organ radiation dose., Day 1|Change in mean standard uptake value (SUV) (Cohort 2 only), -30 minutes and 60-90 minutes post pre-treatment baseline monitoring scan and 30 minutes and 60-90 minutes post early interim treatment monitoring scan, Through completion of early interim treatment monitoring scan (estimated to be 14 days)|Change in maximum standard uptake value (SUV) (Cohort 2 only), -30 minutes and 6-90 minutes post pre-treatment baseline monitoring scan and 30 minutes and 60-90 minutes post early interim treatment monitoring scan, Through completion of early interim treatment monitoring scan (estimated to be 14 days)
Distribution volume ratio (DVR) (Cohort 2 only), -DVR will be calculated by reference region Logan plot analysis, in the largest (by size) and most FDG-avid (by maximum SUV) lymphoma lesions., Through completion of early interim treatment monitoring scan (estimated to be 14 days)|Change in percent positive caspase-3 staining (Cohort 2 only), * Biopsy samples from baseline and post-treatment will be collected. Immunohistochemical analysis will be performed for caspase-3 staining.
* The preference for the post-treatment biopsy is for the biopsy to be performed on the same day as 18F-FAT imaging with imaging occurring prior to biopsy (either 2 or 4 days after receiving cycle 1 of R-CHOP). However, due to scheduling conflicts biopsy performed 2-7 days after cycle 1 R-CHOP therapy will be allowed.
* The staining intensity will be assessed semi-quantitatively using a four-point scale (No Signal=0, Mild=1, Moderate=2, Strong=3). The percentage of stained cells at each intensity level will also be graded typically as 0 (\<5%), 1 (5-25%), 2 (26-50%), 3 (51-75%), and 4 (\>75%). The intensity score and percentage of positive cells will be then added to produce the final scores (0-7)., Baseline and post-treatment (estimated to be 14 days)
Apoptosis is a specific form of cell death that leads to clearance of dead cells without causing inflammation or injury to normal adjacent tissues. Targeted cancer therapeutics that target this pathway for tumor cell death induction are in development, but few specific biomarkers of apoptosis are available to assess treatment response. Apoptosis also occurs in response to standard anthracycline or combination therapies such as rituximab, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (R-CHOP), rituximab, etoposide, phosphate, prednisone, vincristine sulfacte, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin hydrocholoride (R-EPOCH) used to treat many different histopathological types of lymphoma including Hodgkin and non- Hodgkin lymphoma such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), Burkitts lymphoma, primary mediastinal B-cell lymphoma and double hit DLBCL. Caspase-3 activation occurs as a result of apoptosis and may be a specific marker of apoptosis. Therefore, this study will assess whether 18F-FluorApoTrace (18F-FAT), a caspase-3 targeted tracer, has a reasonable dosimetry profile and can be used to detect apoptosis in patients with lymphoma being treated with standard therapy.