Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Recurrent Aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well sorafenib works in treating patients with recurrent diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Sorafenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Immunoblastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: sorafenib tosylate
Overall Response (OR) Rate, Response was assessed using the criteria from International Workshop to Standardize Criteria for NHL (Cheson, 1999). OR=complete response(CR)+complete response/uncertain(CRu)+partial response(PR) CR: 1)Disappearance of clinical/radiographic evidence of disease (dz) and all dz-related B-symptoms; normalization of biochemical abnormalities attributed to NHL; 2)Lymph nodes and nodal masses regress to normal size; 3)Spleen, if enlarged before therapy, has decreased in size and is not palpable; 4)Complete resolution of lymphoma in bone marrow biopsy CRu: Meet criteria 1 and 3 above but with ≥1 of the followings. Residual dominant nodal mass \>1.5 cm in greatest diameter that has decreased by \>75%. Indeterminate bone marrow.

PR: ≥50% decrease in SPD (sum of products of diameters) of 6 largest dominant nodes or nodal masses. No increase in size of liver or spleen. No unequivocal progression in nonmeasurable or nondominant sites. Splenic/hepatic nodules regress ≥50% in SPD. No new dz sites., Assessed at the end of Cycle 2 and Cycle 6 (1 cycle = 28 days). Then every 3 months beginning Cycle 9 if patient is < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-3 years from study entry, up to 3 years.
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first of progression, relapse or death from any cause. Per criteria from International Workshop to Standardize Criteria for NHL (Cheson, 1999), progression (for patients who have not responded) and relapse (for patients who responded) are defined as:

1. Appearances of any new lesions/sites during or after therapy
2. Increase of ≥50% in the SPD from nadir measurement of all involved dominant lymph nodes and liver/spleen nodules or unequivocal progression in any nonmeasurable disease or nondominant site
3. Increase by ≥50% in greatest diameter from nadir measurement of any previously involved dominant node \>1.0 cm in its short axis, Assessed after month 2 and month 6, then every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-3 years from study entry, up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from study entry until death from any cause., Assessed after month 2 and month 6, then every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-3 years from study entry, up to 3 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate of treatment with sorafenib (BAY43-9006) in patients with recurrent aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphomas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of response and progression free survival of treatment with BAY43-9006 in patients with recurrent aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas.

II. To characterize the toxicity of treatment with BAY43-9006 in patients with recurrent aggressive Non-Hodgkin's Lymphomas.

III. To further characterize the pharmacokinetics properties of BAY43-9006 and assess influence of monooxygenases polymorphisms and multi-drug resistance transporter (MDR) on pharmacokinetics.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

PLANNED ACCRUAL: 41 ACTUAL ACCRUAL: 14