Efficacy of Extracorporeal Shock Wave Therapy on Carpal Tunnel Syndrome Post Mastectomy Lymphedema
Sixty eight female patients who had symptoms of carpal tunnel syndromesuch as wrist pain or numbness and paraesthesia and had lymphedema of an upper extremity.Their ages will be ranged from 40 to 60 years. The participants will be selected from Out Patient clinic of Faculty of Physical Therapy, Cairo University and randomly distributed into two equal groups.Duration of treatment for 4weeks.All subjects signed an informed consent form, and the rights of subjects were protected.
Carpal Tunnel Syndrome
DEVICE: extra corporeal shock wave therapy device
Nerve conduction studies, For assessing the motor response, the recorder electrode on abductor pollicis brevis muscle and median nerve was stimulated at wrist region with stimulator electrode, 8 cm proximal to the active electrode , and the distal latency was recorded. Regarding the sensory response, the recorder was fastened on the third finger, and stimulator electrode was placed 14 cm proximal to the recorder and stimulated median nerve at wrist and at palm region, then distal latency was recorded. If only the SNAP distal latency was long, patient had mild CTS, but if both SNAP and CMAP distal latency were long and denervation was not observed in electromyography of APB, it was moderate CTS, 4weeks|Limb volume, Upper limb volumes were calculated from circumference measurements taken at 5cm intervals from the dorsum of the wrist to the axilla. Volume was calculated from circumference using the established formula, 4weeks|Visual analogue scale (VAS), The VAS uses a straight 10-centimeter line with one end being 'no pain' and on the other end the 'worst imaginable pain'. The patient chooses a spot on the line then places a perpendicular line to indicate their pain level within the last 24 hours., 4weeks|Boston Carpal Tunnel Questionnaire (BCTQ), The BCTQ is used to evaluate symptom severity and dysfunction in patients with CTS .It contains 2 measurement scales: a symptom severity scale (BCTQ-S) and a functional status scale (BCTQ-F). The BCTQ-S uses 11 questions to evaluate the intensity and frequency of pain, numbness, weakness and loss of dexterity on a five-point scale ranging from 1 (no symptoms) to 5 (severe symptoms). The results are interpreted as the average scores of the 11 questions. The BCTQ-F has 8 questions to evaluate the level of difficulty in performing daily tasks, each rated on a five-point scale ranging from 1 (no difficulty) to 5 (cannot do at all due to hand or wrist symptoms). The results are interpreted as the average scores of the 8 questions, 4weeks
In this study the patients will be randomly assigned into two equal groups(34 patients for each group)Group A (experimental group):This group includes 34female patients who will receive extra corporeal shock wave therapy one session per week for 4 weeks in addition to physical therapy exercises (including carpal bone mobilization, nerve glide skin care and manual lymph drainage 2 sessions per week for 4 weeks. Group B (control group):

This group includes 34female patients who will receive shame extra corporeal shock wave therapy one session per week for 4 weeks in addition to physical therapy exercises (including carpal bone mobilization, nerve glide exercises, skin care and manual lymph drainage 2 sessions per week for 4 weeks.