Alisertib and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Patients With Rb-deficient Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This phase I/II trial investigates the best dose and effect of alisertib in combination with pembrolizumab in treating patients with Rb-deficient head and neck squamous cell cancer. Alisertib may help block the growth of cancer.. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving alisertib in combination with pembrolizumab may help control Rb-deficient head and neck squamous cell cancer. HPV positive head and neck cancers are Rb-deficient.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Alisertib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Phase I: The Recommended Phase II Dose Determenation. Phase II: Overall Response Rate (ORR) and Progression Free Survival (PFS), Phase I: To determine the recommend phase II dose of the combination of alisertib and pembrolizumab, Approximately 33 months|Phase II: Overall Response Rate (ORR), Phase II: To determine the overall response rate (ORR) of patients with recurrent or metastatic Rb-deficient head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) treated with the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib., Approximately 33 months|Phase II: Progression Free Survival (PFS), Phase II: To determine the progression free survival (PFS) of patients with recurrent or metastatic Rb-deficient head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) treated with the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib., Approximately 33 months
The Safety of the Combination of Pembrolizumab and Alisertib, To evaluate the safety of the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib in patients with solid tumors., Adverse events were monitored until off study due to disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, consent withdrawal, or physician's discretion, approximately 33 months.|The Overall Survival in HNSCC Patients, To determine the overall survival in HNSCC patients treated with the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib in Phase II only., 28 patients (4 patients were screen failures) enrolled from September 2020 to June 2023, 24 were treated and evaluable for response. Patients were followed for overall survial for approximately 33 months|The Relationship Between Pharmacokinetics, Pharmacodynamics, Baseline Immune and Tumor Biomarkers and Clinical Responses, To determine the relationship between pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, baseline immune and tumor biomarkers and clinical responses in patients treated with alisertib and pembrolizumab in phase II only., The trial design dictated that if there were no objective responses in thefirst cohort of the phase II study, the trial would close after the first cohort.|Correlations Between Clinical Responses and the Effect of the Treatment on Human Papilloma Virus (HPV)-Reactive T Cells in HPV+ Cancers., To determine correlations between clinical responses and the effect of the treatment on human papilloma virus (HPV)-reactive T cells in HPV+ cancers in phase II only., The trial design dictated that if there were no objective responses in the first cohort of the phase II study, the trial would close after the first cohort.|Correlations Between Clinical Responses and Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocyte Function and T Cell Repertoire., To determine correlations between clinical responses and tumor infiltrating lymphocyte function and T cell repertoire in phase II only., The trial design dictated that if there were no objective responses in the first cohort of the phase II study, the trial would close after the first cohort.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the recommend phase II dose of the combination of alisertib and pembrolizumab. (Phase I) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) and progression free survival (PFS) of patients with recurrent or metastatic Rb-deficient head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) treated with the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib in patients with solid tumors.

II. To determine the overall survival in HNSCC patients treated with the combination of pembrolizumab and alisertib.

III. To determine the relationship between pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, baseline immune and tumor biomarkers and clinical responses in patients treated with alisertib and pembrolizumab.

IV. To determine correlations between clinical responses and the effect of the treatment on human papilloma virus (HPV)-reactive T cells in HPV+ cancers.

V. To determine correlations between clinical responses and tumor infiltrating lymphocyte function and T cell repertoire.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of alisertib in combination with fixed dose pembrolizumab followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive alisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-7 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2-3 months.