Cemiplimab and Transarterial Radioembolization With Y-90 SIR-S Spheres for the Treatment of Liver Directed Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial tests how well cemiplimab and transarterial radioembolization (TARE) with yttrium-90 (Y90) SIR-Spheres, registered trademark, works in treating breast cancer that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to the liver (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cemiplimab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. TARE is a treatment that uses radioactive microspheres, such as Y90 SIR-S Spheres, to both cause hepatic artery embolization and to deliver regional radiotherapy. Y90 SIR-S Spheres is an injectable form of the radioisotope yttrium Y 90 encapsulated in resin microspheres. When injected into the artery supplying the tumor, yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres block the tumor blood vessels and deliver the yttrium Y 90 directly to the tumor site, which may kill or slow tumor growth. Giving cemiplimab and Y90 SIR-Spheres by TARE to the tumor in the liver may kill more tumor cells in patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic Breast Carcinoma|Metastatic Carcinoma in the Liver
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Cemiplimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Transarterial Radioembolization|RADIATION: Yttrium Y 90 Resin Microspheres
CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor microenvironment (TME): baseline, Will be analyzed using multiplex immunofluorescence (IF) of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue. Will estimated the mean and standard deviation of the percent change., At baseline|CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor microenvironment (TME): post TARE -1 (day 21), Will be analyzed using multiplex immunofluorescence (IF) of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue. Will estimated the mean and standard deviation of the percent change., At Post-transarterial radioembolization TARE -1 (day 21)|CD8+ T cell infiltration in tumor microenvironment (TME): prior to TARE-2 (day 42), Will be analyzed using multiplex immunofluorescence (IF) of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue. Will estimated the mean and standard deviation of the percent change., At prior to TARE-2 (day 42)
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed and graded using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|T cell activation in TME: baseline, Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At baseline|T cell activation in TME: post-TARE-1 (day 21), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At Post-transarterial radioembolization TARE -1 (day 21)|T cell activation in TME: prior to TARE-2 (Day 42), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At prior to TARE-2 (Day 42)|Dendritic cell activation in TME: baseline, Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At baseline|Dendritic cell activation in TME: post-TARE-1 (day 21), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At Post-transarterial radioembolization TARE -1 (day 21)|Dendritic cell activation in TME: prior to TARE-2 (Day 42), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At prior to TARE-2 (Day 42)|PD-L1 expression in TME: baseline, Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At baseline|PD-L1 expression in TME: post-TARE-1 (day 21), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At Post-transarterial radioembolization TARE -1 (day 21)|PD-L1 expression in TME: prior to TARE-2 (Day 42), Will be analyzed using multiplex IF of FFPE., At prior to TARE-2 (Day 42)|Immune activation, High parameter flow cytometry of peripheral blood samples used to assess proliferating (Ki-67+) CD8+ T cells, activated Tregs (CTLA-4+, TIGIT+), exhausted CD8+ T cells (PD-1high, CD39+, CD38+), CD8:Treg ratio, and myeloid derived suppressor cells (HLA-DR low monocytes)., At baseline and post-TARE-1 (day 7-14)|Objective tumor response, Evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and modified RECIST (mRECIST)., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To describe the effect of cemiplimab and yttrium Y90 resin microspheres (90Y TARE) on immune activation in the treated tumor based on CD8+ T cells.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate other measures of changes (both in treated and untreated lesions after the first TARE treatment) in the tumor microenvironment (TME) of 10 metastatic breast cancer (MBC) patients with liver-dominant disease.

II. To identify systemic immune activation in the peripheral blood. III. To determine the safety and tolerability of cemiplimab and hepatic radioembolization in patients with liver dominant metastatic breast cancer using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 criteria.

IV. To evaluate objective tumor response of the target lesion treated with Y90 by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and modified RECIST (mRECIST).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cemiplimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive Y90 SIR-Spheres intratumorally via TARE over 60-90 minutes once during days 7-14 and on day 67. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy at baseline and at day 42 after immunotherapy begins. Additionally patients also undergo blood sample collection and computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months within 1 year of start of treatment, and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.