Clinical Study of CVL006 Injection in Advanced Solid Tumors
Evaluate the safety and tolerability of CVL006 monotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumors; Observe the dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of CVL006 monotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumors, evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and recommend the dosage for phase II clinical trials (RP2D).
Advanced Solid Tumor
BIOLOGICAL: CVL006 Injection
DLT of CVL006 monotherapy in advanced solid tumor patients., Safety events that occur during the DLT observation period and are determined by researchers to be related to the investigational drug., In Phase Ia trials, if there is a delay in the second administration 28 days after the first dose, the DLT observation period will be extended to 14 days after the second administration.|MTD of CVL006 monotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumors., During the DLT observation period, the highest dose at which ≤ 1 subject experienced DLT and could not continue to increase in dose among at least 6 subjects, Phase Ia trial, from the first subject to the end of the DLT observation period for the last subject.|RP2D of CVL006 monotherapy in patients with advanced solid tumors, RP2D is an extended study conducted through dose escalation stage exploration, recommended by SMC, to obtain sufficient safety, tolerability, PK, and preliminary efficacy results. The dosage selected for subsequent efficacy expansion stage is further discussed and confirmed by SMC. RP2D should not exceed the MTD obtained by dose escalation., From the first subject enrolled in Phase 1a to the last subject removed from Phase Ib.
Objective response rate (ORR) in patients, ORR by investigator, Throughout the study for approximately 5 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from the start of study treatment to any documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Throughout the study for approximately 5 years.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from enrollment to death due to any cause. Efficacy of each tumor type will be analyzed independently., Throughout the study for approximately 5 years.
This study is a phase I clinical trial of single arm, open label, multicenter dose escalation/dose extension/efficacy extension. The research process for each dose group includes a screening period (from the signing of the informed consent form by the subjects to 1 day before the first study medication), a medication period (from the first study medication to termination of medication), and a follow-up period (90 days after termination of medication). This study is divided into three stages: I. Dose escalation stage: Accelerated titration combined with a "3+3" design is used to dose up CVL006 injection. Accelerated titration is preset with three doses, starting at 0.03 mg/kg. Only one subject is enrolled in each dose group. After completing the three preset doses, four dose groups are designed according to the "3+3" principle, with 3-6 subjects enrolled in each dose group, up to a maximum of 42 subjects enrolled. Ib. Dose extension stage: Based on the observed safety, tolerability, efficacy, and PK characteristics during the dose escalation process, in the dose group where a certain therapeutic effect is observed in the subjects (such as 1 PR/CR or 2 SD), the SMC meeting will decide whether to extend the dose in that dose group. Plan to expand each dose group by no more than 10 subjects (including subjects with the same dose during the dose escalation phase). And determine RP2D based on data from dose escalation and expansion stages. Ic. Efficacy expansion stage: RP2D was selected for expansion, with each tumor type expanded to 10-30 cases. This study is expected to enroll approximately 100-120 cases, depending on the actual situation. Dose escalation, dose expansion, and efficacy expansion are the same: CVL006 injection, intravenous infusion, once every 2 weeks, every 28 days as a cycle. The subsequent administration time is calculated based on the actual date of the previous CVL006 administration. SMC can adjust the dosing frequency based on safety, tolerability, and PK results data.