Sorafenib and Bevacizumab to Treat Ovarian, Fallopian and Peritoneal Cancer
Background:

* Sorafenib and bevacizumab are anti-cancer drugs that work by targeting the blood vessels that allow tumors to grow. Using the two drugs together may more effectively block the formation of blood vessels that feed tumors.
* Sorafenib and bevacizumab both are approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in other cancers but have not ovarian cancer. In a preliminary trial of this drug combination, however, tumors in 6 of 14 patients with ovarian cancer shrank.

Objectives:

* To determine the safety and activity of the combination of sorafenib and bevacizumab for treating patients with ovarian, fallopian and peritoneal cancer.
* To determine how sorafenib and bevacizumab may affect the cancer by measuring amounts of different proteins in small biopsy samples of tumor taken before starting treatment and after 6 weeks.

Eligibility:

* Females 18 years of age and older with ovarian, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer whose disease has not responded to standard treatment or for which no standard treatment is available.
* Patients must have not been previously treated with bevacizumab or must have had their disease worsen while taking bevacizumab-based therapy.

Design:

* Patients take 200 mg of sorafenib by mouth twice a day Monday through Friday each week and 5 mg/kg of bevacizumab through a vein every 2 weeks.
* Tumor biopsies and imaging scans (magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) are done before treatment, 3 days after beginning treatment, and 6 weeks into therapy.
* Computed tomography (CT) or other imaging tests are done every 8 weeks to evaluate response to treatment.
* History, physical examinations, blood and urine tests are done periodically during treatment for health checks and research purposes.
* About 74 patients are to be enrolled in the trial.
Ovarian Neoplasm|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: BAY 43-9006
Clinical Response Rate., Clinical response rate is defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR is disappearance of all target lesions. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Progressive disease (PD) is a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable disease (SD) is neither sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started lasting at least 6 months., patients were followed for a median of 18 weeks (range 1-116 weeks)
Progression-free Survival, Progression free survival is defined by the number of weeks between the first day of treatment and the date of cancer progression., up to 28 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Here is the number of participants with adverse events. For a detailed list of adverse events, see the adverse event module., up to 28 months
Background:

Sorafenib is an inhibitor of wild-type and mutant proto-oncogene BRaf (B-Raf) and proto-oncogene c-Raf (c-Raf) kinase isoforms in vitro, but it also inhibits mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38), proto-oncogene c-kit (c-kit), vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFR)-Beta affecting tumor growth as well as possibly promoting apoptosis by events downstream of c-Raf.

Bevacizumab is a humanized immunoglobulin G 1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody (MAb) that binds all biologically active isoforms of human vascular endothelial growth factor (vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), or VEGF-A) with high affinity (kd = 1.1nM).

Phase I trial of sorafenib and bevacizumab administered concurrently showed activity of the combination in patients with refractory ovarian cancer.

Objectives:

Determine the activity and tolerability of the combination bevacizumab and sorafenib in patients with refractory or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer in patients who are bevacizumab-naive or bevacizumab-resistant.

Eligibility:

Adults with histologically documented refractory or recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian, or peritoneal cancer.

Patients must be off prior chemotherapy, radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, or biological therapy for at least 4 weeks.

Patients must have an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) of 1 or less.

Patients must have disease that is amenable to biopsy.

Patients must have not been previously treated with bevacizumab or must have progressed on prior bevacizumab-based therapy.

Design:

Patients will be stratified on entrance to the trial based on their previous exposure to bevacizumab to either strata A (bevacizumab-naive patients) or strata B (patients previously treated with bevacizumab).

Patients will receive oral sorafenib 200 mg twice daily 5 out of 7 days each week and intravenous bevacizumab 5 mg/kg every two weeks.

Tumor biopsies will be obtained from patients before treatment and six weeks into therapy. Dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and fludeoxyglucose 18F-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) will be obtained from patients before treatment, on day 3 of treatment, and six weeks into therapy.

Patients will be evaluated for response every 8 weeks using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria.

Approximately 74 patients will be needed to achieve the objectives of the trial.