Safety and Efficacy Study of Nab-paclitaxel Plus Gemcitabine in Chinese Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and efficacy of nab-paclitaxel combined with gemcitabine in Chinese patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Neoplasms
DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Based on Independent Radiological Review (IRR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on independent radiological review per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria (V1.0). Using RECIST Version 1.0, participants were to achieve either a complete response defined as the disappearance of all known disease and no new sites or disease related symptoms confirmed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation or partial response defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions and no progression in non-target lesions based on confirmed responses from the independent radiological review of best overall response during study treatment., Assessment every 8 weeks; Day 1 to data cut off of 01 June 2015; Up to approximately 70 weeks
Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), TEAEs were defined as adverse events (AEs) that began or worsened in severity on or after the date of the first dose of study drug and within 30 days of the last dose of study drug. A Serious AE (SAE) = any AE that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; constitutes an important medical event. Treatment-related AEs (TRAEs) were any TEAEs considered to be related to the study drug. A TRAE is a TEAE with relationship as suspected to either ABI-007 or gemcitabine The intensity of AEs were graded 1 to 5 according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0. Other AEs not described in the CTCAE criteria, the intensity will be assessed by the investigator as mild grade (Gr 1), moderate (grade 2), severe (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) or death (grade 5), Study drug initiation through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or End Of Study, whichever is later; maximum treatment duration was 54.9 weeks|Duration of Response (DoR) Based on IRR According to RECIST Guidelines, DoR was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment when the confirmed CR/PR response criterion is met to the date of disease progression based on IRR following RECIST 1.0. Only for those participants with a confirmed CR/PR. If a participant had disease progression, then the date of disease progression was the event date. For a participant who did not develop disease progression or disease progression occurred after 2 or more missing tumor assessments, the participant was censored on the date of last tumor assessment where the participant was documented to be progression free. If a participant died prior to disease progression, the participant was censored on the date of death. If patient started new anti-cancer therapy, the patient was censored on the last tumor assessment date on or prior to the start date of new anti-cancer therapy, Assessment performed every 8 weeks; from the first participant enrolled to cut off date of 01 June 2015; up to approximately 70 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimate of Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of first treatment to the date of death. Participants who did not die at the end of study or clinical data cut were censored on the last-known-to-be-alive date or the clinical cut-off date, whichever was earlier., From the first participant enrolled to data cut off of 01 June 2015; up to approximately 70 weeks
This is a Phase 2 trial in China to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine administered in patients diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This study is designed to be a Chinese bridging study to complement the Global pivotal study (CA-046).

The study consists of three parts: (1) Dose evaluation; (2) Single arm to evaluate efficacy following an optimal Simon two-stage design; and (3) Randomized 2-arm to evaluate the efficacy and safety of nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine versus gemcitabine alone. These 3 parts will be carried out sequentially. The Part 3 randomized 2-arm portion will only be carried out if deemed necessary per protocol.