Outpatient Oncology Aromatherapy for Symptom Management
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether using aromatherapy during chemotherapy infusion treatments in the outpatient Oncology setting promote relief of nausea and anxiety.

The objectives of this study are: 1. To promote relief of nausea using peppermint aromatherapy oil in an outpatient oncology setting. 2. To promote relief of anxiety using lavender aromatherapy oil in an outpatient oncology setting.
Anxiety|Nausea
OTHER: Young Living Lavender Essential Oil
Post Intervention Interview From, After the patients' infusion they will be asked questions from this form, Immediately upon Completion of the patient's infusion
Subject Selection: Every outpatient oncology patient experiencing nausea and/or anxiety during an infusion visit will be offered hospital-approved aromatherapy of Peppermint oil or Lavender oil. If patient says yes, then they will be selected for the study and infusion nurse will notify the study co-investigators or principal investigator. Informed consent will then be obtained by co-investigators or principal investigator of the study. The consents as well as the data collection tool sheets will be numbered without identifying patient's personal information. Peppermint oil aromatherapy and/or lavender oil aromatherapy will then be administered to consented patients.

Method of Subject Identification and Recruitment: Every outpatient oncology patient experiencing nausea and/or anxiety during an infusion visit will be offered hospital- approved aromatherapy of Peppermint oil or Lavender oil. If patient says yes, then they will be selected for the study and infusion nurse will notify the study co-investigators or principal investigator. Informed consent will then be obtained by co-investigators or principal investigator of the study. The consents as well as the data collection tool sheets will be numbered without identifying patient's personal information. Peppermint oil aromatherapy and/or lavender oil aromatherapy will then be administered to consented patients.