Narrow Band Imaging (NBI) Under Electronic Bronchoscope in Lung Cancer
Narrow-Band Imaging (NBI) is useful to better demarcate the superficial extent of central type of lung cancer, but its sensitivity and specificity in clinical practice were little studied. This study aimed to investigate the diagnostic effects of NBI in suspected patients with central lung cancer and its application in staging diagnosis of central lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Malignant Airway Obstruction
PROCEDURE: NBI and interventional bronchoscopy
The specificity of diagnosis of NBI plus electronic bronchoscopy in central type lung cancer, Abnormal blood vessels or lack of staining is defined as suspected lesions. All the suspected lesions were biopsied., 4 months
The sensitivity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value., Abnormal blood vessels or lack of staining is defined as suspected lesions. All the suspected lesions were biopsied., 4 months
With high morbidity and mortality, lung cancer is one of the most common tumors in the world. Therefore, early detection, accurate diagnosis and staging division can effectively guide clinical interventions, thereby improving patient survival. Narrowband imaging under electronic bronchoscope (NBI) is an emerging optical image emphasis technology that can enhance the contrast between the mucosal surface and underlying blood vessels, specifically display the distribution of blood vessels, and highlight the subtle changes in mucosal structure. Meanwhile, it can reduce unnecessary biopsy with low risk and costs. In recent years, NBI technology has gradually begun to show its unique advantages in the diagnosis of gastric cancer, esophageal cancer, nasopharyngeal cancer, and bladder cancer. The purpose of this study is to explore the diagnostic value of NBI under electronic bronchoscopy for early detection and accurate diagnosis of lung cancer, and to provide a more economical, safer and more efficient diagnosis option for lung cancer patients.