Androgen Therapy for Management of Estrogen/Progesterone Receptor Negative ER(-)PR(-) Metastatic Breast Cancer
This study is for patients with breast cancer that has spread to other tissues and organs. The purpose of this study is to identify patients who may respond favorably to certain types of hormonal therapy. Researchers will study your tumor, which was removed during your breast surgery. They will look for the presence or absence of Androgen (AR) receptors. These tests are for research purposes only. They will not affect the treatment of your breast cancer. The presence or absence of Androgen receptors on the tumor does not alter the therapy that is offered to patients. Recent evidence suggests that AR+ tumors are more likely to be destroyed when treated with androgen drugs. We will ask about 35 ER-/PR- breast cancer patients from Legacy Health System to be in this study. All tests and procedures are done as an outpatient in the doctor's office, a clinic, or at the hospital. The study drug that will be used in this trial is Androxy®, a synthetic androgen hormone. Androgens have been shown to inhibit the growth of some breast cancer cells. Arimidex is an aromatase inhibitor that will be used in conjunction with Androxy to inhibit the in vivo production of estrogen. It is hoped that the combination of these two drugs will inhibit the growth of your tumor and possibly cause it to shrink.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Fluoxymesterone 10 mg|DRUG: Anastrozole 1 mg
Time to disease progression
Response of metastatic ER(-)PR(-) breast cancer to treatment with testosterone|Measure quality of life: improvement of fatigue in metastatic breast cancer patients|Measure degree of morbidity of treatment with testosterone in this setting
This study is for patients with breast cancer that has spread to other tissues and organs. The purpose of this study is to identify patients who may respond favorably to certain types of hormonal therapy. Researchers will study your tumor, which was removed during your breast surgery. They will look for the presence or absence of Androgen (AR) receptors. These tests are for research purposes only. They will not affect the treatment of your breast cancer. The presence or absence of Androgen receptors on the tumor does not alter the therapy that is offered to patients. Recent evidence suggests that AR+ tumors are more likely to be destroyed when treated with androgen drugs. We will ask about 35 ER-/PR- breast cancer patients from Legacy Health System to be in this study. All tests and procedures are done as an outpatient in the doctor's office, a clinic, or at the hospital. The study drug that will be used in this trial is Androxy®, a synthetic androgen hormone. Androgens have been shown to inhibit the growth of some breast cancer cells. Arimidex is an aromatase inhibitor that will be used in conjunction with Androxy to inhibit the in vivo production of estrogen. It is hoped that the combination of these two drugs will inhibit the growth of your tumor and possibly cause it to shrink.