NEOBREADS: Neoadjuvant Breast Diet Study
This is a feasibility trial of a 6-month extreme carbohydrate restricted diet (20 grams total carbs/day) via counseling with dietitian plus aromatase inhibitor therapy. Visits will occur at screening, mid-study, and pre-surgery. Anthropomorphic measurements, and patient reported outcomes (PROs) will be taken at all three visits. Patients will speak with a dietitian at their monthly standard of care visits, and will receive weekly calls for the first 4 weeks of the intervention. All subjects will receive surgery after approximately 6 months of intervention. Total duration of the study is expected to be 2 years, though each patient's participation will be approximately 6 months.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Carbohydrate restricted dietary intervention|DRUG: standard of care aromatase inhibitors
Diet adherence, Proportion of patients able to consistently adhere to the low carbohydrate diet in combination with AIs during neo-adjuvant treatment. The patient will be considered adherent for each food diary if \<20% of calories were obtained from carbohydrates. This will be approximately 80 grams of carbohydrates but will vary depending on total caloric intake. A patient will be considered adherent to the diet overall if they meet the adherence cutoff at least 75% of the time (i.e. in at least 75% of food diaries for a single patient \<20% of calories were obtained from carbohydrates)., 6 months
Change in tumor size, Difference in change in tumor size between pre- and post-intervention between carbohydrate restricted and control group., 6 months|Mean change in Ki67, Change in Ki67 between pre-and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in weight, Change in weight between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in HbA1c, Change in HbA1c between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in insulin, Change in insulin between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in triglycerides, Change in triglycerides between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in LDL cholesterol, Change in LDL cholesterol between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in HDL cholesterol, Change in HDL cholesterol between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months|Mean change in total cholesterol, Change in total cholesterol between pre- and post- intervention, 6 months
This is a feasibility trial of a 6-month extreme carbohydrate restricted diet (20 grams total carbs/day) via counseling with dietitian plus aromatase inhibitor therapy. Visits will occur at screening, mid-study, and pre-surgery. Anthropomorphic measurements, and patient reported outcomes (PROs) will be taken at all three visits. Patients will speak with a dietitian at their monthly standard of care visits, and will receive weekly calls for the first 4 weeks of the intervention. All subjects will receive surgery after approximately 6 months of intervention. Total duration of the study is expected to be 2 years, though each patient's participation will be approximately 6 months.