A Message Framing Intervention for Increasing Parental Acceptance of Human Papillomavirus Vaccination
The goal of this study is to determine the effects of message framing (gain vs. loss) on African American parents' acceptance of the HPV vaccine and how such effects are moderated by parents' salient beliefs prior to message exposure. Participants are randomized into gain and loss conditions in which they view either gain-framed or loss-framed HPV vaccination messages. Key outcome variables include parents' attitudes and intentions toward vaccinating their children against HPV.
Cervical Cancer|Anal Cancer|Penile Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: HPV vaccination messages
Attitudes, Attitudes toward HPV vaccination for children Scale range: 1-7 (higher score indicates more positive attitude) Subscales were averaged., baseline posttest (test was approximately 5 minutes to complete)|Intention to Vaccinate Free of Cost, Intention to have children vaccinated against HPV free of cost Scale range: 1-6 (higher score indicates stronger intention) Subscales were averaged., baseline posttest (test was approximately 5 minutes to complete)
Intention to Vaccinate With Cost, Intention to have children vaccinated against HPV free with cost Scale range: 1-6 (higher score indicates stronger intention) Subscales were averaged., baseline posttest (test was approximately 5 minutes to complete)
The goal of this study is to determine the effects of message framing (gain vs. loss) on African American parents' acceptance of the HPV vaccine and how such effects are moderated by parents' salient beliefs prior to message exposure. Participants recruited from local communities and online panels will complete a computer-assisted survey. In the survey participants will first answer questions related to their beliefs about HPV and the HPV vaccine (e.g., perceived susceptibility, perceived severity, perceived efficacy, perceived safety, etc.), as well as other background information. Then they will be presented with either a gain-framed or loss-framed human papillomavirus vaccination message. After the message exposure, they will answer questions related to their attitudes toward HPV vaccination, intentions to vaccinate their children, as well as other message response measures. Eligible participants are at least 21 years old, self-identify as African American, and are custodial parents or caretakers of at least one child ages 9-17 who has not initiated the HPV vaccine series.