Ruxolitinib for the Treatment of T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial tests whether ruxolitinib works to shrink tumors in patients with T-cell large granular lymphocyte leukemia. Ruxolitinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
T-Cell Large Granular Lymphocyte Leukemia
DRUG: Ruxolitinib
Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR will be calculated as the proportion of patients who achieve a response to therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. An evaluable patient is defined as an eligible patient who has received at least four months of therapy with ruxolitinib. All evaluable patients will be included in calculating the ORR for the study along with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals (CIs) (assuming that the number of patients who respond is binomially distributed). Additional outcomes including rates of conversion from PR at 4 months to CR at 8 and 12 months on full dose ruxolitinib, and rate of molecular remission (TCR clearance, STAT3 mutation clearance) at 4, 8, 12 months on full dose ruxolitinib will also be reported as proportions with 95% binomial CIs., Up to 12 months
Incidence of treatment-emergent adverse events, Treatment-emergent adverse events will be reported overall and by toxicity grade., Up to 12 months|Leukemia-free survival (LFS), Kaplan Meier curves will be generated and the median LFS and 95% CIs will be reported., From first response until disease progression, death, or censoring (if alive and disease-free at the end of follow-up), assessed up to 12 months|Patient quality-of-life (QOL) EORTC, Will be assessed via responses to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire at baseline, 5 months, and 1 year on study. Changes in QOL will be calculated from the differences in scores between baseline and 5 months, baseline and 1 year, and 5 months and 1 year, for each patient. The proportions of patients who had improvement in QOL scores between time points will be compared between responding patients and non-responding patients, patients with and without rheumatologic disease, and between patients classified as having an objective benefit and patients who did not have an objective benefit. Mean changes in patient QOL between time points will also be reported., Up to 12 months|Patient quality-of-life (QOL) QLQ-C30, Will be assessed via responses to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 given at baseline, 5 months, and 1 year on study. Changes in QOL will be calculated from the differences in scores between baseline and 5 months, baseline and 1 year, and 5 months and 1 year, for each patient. The proportions of patients who had improvement in QOL scores between time points will be compared between responding patients and non-responding patients, patients with and without rheumatologic disease, and between patients classified as having an objective benefit and patients who did not have an objective benefit. Mean changes in patient QOL between time points will also be reported., Up to 12 months|Patient quality-of-life (QOL) HAQDi, Will be assessed via responses to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index questionnaires given at baseline, 5 months, and 1 year on study. Changes in QOL will be calculated from the differences in scores between baseline and 5 months, baseline and 1 year, and 5 months and 1 year, for each patient. The proportions of patients who had improvement in QOL scores between time points will be compared between responding patients and non-responding patients, patients with and without rheumatologic disease, and between patients classified as having an objective benefit and patients who did not have an objective benefit. Mean changes in patient QOL between time points will also be reported., Up to 12 months|Patient quality-of-life (QOL) SF-36, Will be assessed via responses to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Short Form-36 given at baseline, 5 months, and 1 year on study. Changes in QOL will be calculated from the differences in scores between baseline and 5 months, baseline and 1 year, and 5 months and 1 year, for each patient. The proportions of patients who had improvement in QOL scores between time points will be compared between responding patients and non-responding patients, patients with and without rheumatologic disease, and between patients classified as having an objective benefit and patients who did not have an objective benefit. Mean changes in patient QOL between time points will also be reported., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the overall response rate (ORR) of ruxolitinib in patients with T-cell large granular lymphocytic leukemia (T-LGLL) as compared to historical controls.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Rate of conversion from PR at 4 months to CR at 8 and 12 months (at full ruxolitinib dosage).

II. Rate of molecular remission (T-cell receptor \[TCR\] clearance, STAT3 mutation clearance) at 4, 8, 12 months.

III. Incidence of grade III/IV toxicities (at full ruxolitinib dosage). IV. Quality of life using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Core 30 (C30), Health Assessment Questionnaire-Disability Index (HAQDi), Short Form (SF)-36 questionnaire at baseline, after 5 months, 1 year of treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Objective benefit (OB) rate at 4 months defined as a patient that had improvement in their cytopenias, transfusion dependence but not attaining a PR.

II. Leukemia-free survival III. Progression-free survival

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a response (CR or PR) may receive an additional 12 months of ruxolitinib, for a maximum of 24 months.