Vitamin D Deficiency, Muscle Pain, Joint Pain, and Joint Stiffness in Postmenopausal Women Receiving Letrozole For Stage I-III Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying vitamin D deficiency, muscle pain, joint pain, and joint stiffness in postmenopausal women receiving letrozole for stage I-III breast cancer. Learning about vitamin D deficiency and muscle pain, joint pain, and joint stiffness in patients receiving letrozole for breast cancer may help doctors plan treatment and may help patients live more comfortably
Arthralgia|Musculoskeletal Complications|Pain|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
DRUG: letrozole|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: calcium carbonate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: calcium citrate|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: calcium glucarate|DRUG: calcium gluconate|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: cholecalciferol|PROCEDURE: assessment of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: musculoskeletal complications management/prevention
Number of Early Breast Cancer Patients Prescribed Adjuvant Letrozole That Are Vitamin D Deficient and Who Experience Myalgias, Arthralgias and/or Joint Stiffness, Count of early breast cancer patients prescribed adjuvant letrozole that are vitamin D deficient and who experience myalgias, arthralgias and/or joint stiffness, assessed at baseline and 1 month after vitamin D repletion., Baseline and 1 month post vitamin D repletion
Letrozole Serum Levels Before and After Vitamin D Repletion, Letrezole serum level concentration in patients that were vitamin D deficient and experienced myalgias, arthralgias and/or joint stiffness., Baseline and 1 month post vitamin D repletion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the rate of vitamin D deficiency in breast cancer patients who experience myalgias, arthralgias and/or joint stiffness following initiation of adjuvant letrozole treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if there is a correlation between letrozole serum levels and the development of myalgias, arthralgias and/or joint stiffness.

II. To assess if vitamin D supplementation may alleviate myalgias, arthralgias and/or joint stiffness associated with letrozole in those subjects with vitamin D deficiency.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive letrozole orally (PO) once daily (QD). Patients, who experience muscle pain, joint pain, or joint stiffness that requires an intervention and who are found to be vitamin D deficient, also receive calcium PO and vitamin D3 PO. Treatment continues for up to 28 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.