HPV-16 Vaccination and Pembrolizumab Plus Cisplatin for "Intermediate Risk" HPV-16-associated Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This clinical trial will evaluate a new combination of pembrolizumab, HPV-16 E6/E7 specific therapeutic vaccination (ISA101b) and cisplatin-based chemoradiotherapy for patients with newly diagnosed, local-regionally advanced, intermediate risk HPV-associated head and neck squamous cell carcinoma.
HPV-Related Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: IMRT (Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy)|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|BIOLOGICAL: ISA101b
Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 2 years, The proportion of participants whose disease has to progressed per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 at 2 years. PFS will be calculated from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause for 2 years. Per RECIST 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 2 years
Adverse Events Related to Study Treatment, The percentage of Serious Adverse Events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment., Up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The length of time during and after the treatment that patients remain alive with disease that does not progress. PFS will be calculated from treatment initiation to disease progression or death from any cause or last follow up. Per RECIST 1.1, Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time (months) from the initiation of treatment that patients are still alive., Up to 3 years
This study aims to enroll adult male and female patients who have intermediate risk disease with histologically-confirmed head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) with no evidence of distant metastasis. All patients will receive the same treatment and there is no active control group.

In this trial, patients will undergo biopsy followed by treatment with the ISA101b vaccine which targets human papillomavirus (HPV). The vaccine treatment will begin 2 weeks prior to cisplatin and Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy (cisplatin-IMRT) and one week prior to the first dose of pembrolizumab, an anti-cancer immunotherapy targeting PD-1. The vaccine will be administered 2 additional times at weeks 2 and 5. Pembrolizumab will be initiated 1 week prior to cisplatin-IMRT at the dose of 200 mg IV q3 weeks (+/- 3 days). Pembrolizumab will be continued concurrently through cisplatin-IMRT (weeks 3, 6 ), and continued for a 15 week maintenance period after completion of cisplatin-IMRT for a total pembrolizumab treatment period of 24 weeks (8 doses; 6 months).

The purpose of this study is to evaluate patient survival following this combination of treatments.