Retrospective Study of the Relationship Between Human Papillomavirus Genotype and Cervical Epithelial Lesions
Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection plays a key role in the carcinogenesis of cervical cancer and pre-invasive lesions. There are hundred types of HPV, including high risk and low risk types, and it is proved the close association between the cervical cancer and high risk HPV. While HPV 16 and 18 are known to be the leading two genotypes detected in women with cervical neoplasm worldwide, there is considerable difference in the other prevalent high risk genotypes in different geographic areas. It is important to establish the local database about the cervical intraepithelial lesions and the related prevalent HPV genotypes. The investigators designed a retrospective study which included total 784 patients managed at our hospital from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2007. The present study was to investigate the HPV genotypes in the Taiwanese female patients with abnormal cervical cytology and analyses the association between HPV types and cervical pre-invasive lesions. It could provide the guide for the clinicians in the management of patients with abnormal cytological change of Pap smear.
Cervical Cancer
overall survival, from disease diagnosis to death
Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection plays a key role in the carcinogenesis of cervical cancer and pre-invasive lesions. There are hundred types of HPV, including high risk and low risk types, and it is proved the close association between the cervical cancer and high risk HPV. While HPV 16 and 18 are known to be the leading two genotypes detected in women with cervical neoplasm worldwide, there is considerable difference in the other prevalent high risk genotypes in different geographic areas. It is important to establish the local database about the cervical intraepithelial lesions and the related prevalent HPV genotypes. The investigators designed a retrospective study which included total 784 patients managed at our hospital from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2007. The present study was to investigate the HPV genotypes in the Taiwanese female patients with abnormal cervical cytology and analyses the association between HPV types and cervical pre-invasive lesions. It could provide the guide for the clinicians in the management of patients with abnormal cytological change of Pap smear.