Magnetic Resonance (MR) Guided Focused Ultrasound in the Treatment of Brain Tumors
Focused Ultrasound Focused ultrasound is an attractive method for non-invasive thermal ablation of soft tissue tumors. Treatment begins by acquiring a series of MR images of the target organ. The physician then identifies a target volume in the MR images and delineates the treatment contours on the images. Therapy planning software calculates the parameters required to effectively treat the defined target volume. During the treatment an ultrasound transducer generates and focuses ultrasound energy to a focal point, called a sonication. The sonication raises the tissue temperature within a well-defined region to a degree, which causes thermal coagulation. MR images acquired during sonication provide a quantitative, real-time temperature map of the target area to confirm the location of the sonication and the size of the coagulated region. The sonication process is repeated at multiple adjacent points to cover the entire prescribed treatment volume.
Malignant Brain Tumors
DEVICE: Non-invasive intervention with focused ultrasound (ExAblate 4000)
Lesion Size, Size of lesion in the tumor tissue for each sonication as a function of applied energy/temperature., 3 months|Patient Safety, Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., 3 months
Focused Ultrasound Focused ultrasound is an attractive method for non-invasive thermal ablation of soft tissue tumors. Treatment begins by acquiring a series of MR images of the target organ. The physician then identifies a target volume in the MR images and delineates the treatment contours on the images. Therapy planning software calculates the parameters required to effectively treat the defined target volume. During the treatment an ultrasound transducer generates and focuses ultrasound energy to a focal point, called a sonication. The sonication raises the tissue temperature within a well-defined region to a degree, which causes thermal coagulation. MR images acquired during sonication provide a quantitative, real-time temperature map of the target area to confirm the location of the sonication and the size of the coagulated region. The sonication process is repeated at multiple adjacent points to cover the entire prescribed treatment volume.