Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics and Anti-tumour Activity of AC0010 in Advanced Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
AC0010 Maleate Capsules is a new, irreversible, Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) mutation selective Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor.Aim at local advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer patients with EGFR mutation or T790M drug-resistant mutation. The molecular mechanism: by irreversible combining the EGFR-RTKs ATP binding site of cell, selectively suppress the activities of EGFR tyrosine kinase phosphorylation, block the sigal signal transduction system of EGFR, and close the function of ras/raf/MAPK downstream. at last block the tumor cell growth by EGFR induction, and promotes apoptosis. AC0010 Maleate Capsules has three characters: 1. Irreversible combination with EGFR; 2.Efficient suppress the EGFR mutant tumor cell and has no suppression to EGFR wild-type cell; 3. Efficient suppress the EGFR T790M drug-resistant mutation tumor cell.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: AC0010
Safety, tolerability and ORR of AC0010, Assessed by number and severity of adverse events as recorded on the case report form, vital signs, laboratory variables, physical examination, electrocardiogram, ophthalmic examinations, RECIST1.1, and NCI CTCAE v4.03, Adverse events will be collected from baseline until 28 days after the last dose
Plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetic parameters of single dose AC0010, Plasma concentrations of AC0010 and 4 metabolites and pharmacokinetic parameters following single dose with fast in D1 and fed in D4 (Cmax, tmax, AUC, terminal rate constant, clearance, half life, volume of distribution and mean resistance time), Blood samples will be collected from each subject at pre-specified times after the first dose of the study on Day 1 ,4 (pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48hours post dose)|Plasma concentrations and pharmacokinetic parameters of multiple doses AC0010, Plasma concentrations of AC0010 and 4 metabolites and pharmacokinetic parameters following multiple doses (steady state Cmax, tmax, Cmin AUC, clearance, accumulation ratio and time dependency), Blood samples will be collected from each subject at pre-specified times during the multiple dosing cycles (Cycle 1-pre-dose Day 1, 8 ,15 and 22. D28- pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48 hours post dose)|Efficacy of AC0010, Evaluation of tumour response, duration of response, tumour shrinkage, progression free survival and overall survival as assessed by RECIST 1.1, CT or MRI at screening and every 4-8 weeks (from first dose of multiple dosing) until disease progression or withdrawal from study, expected average 6 months|Food effect on AC0010's bioavailibility, Blood samples will be collected from each subject at pre-specified times after the first dose of the study on Day 4 (pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 24, 48hours post dose)
This study will treat patients with advanced NSCLC who have already received at least one course of specific anti-cancer treatment but the tumor has started to re-grow following that treatment. This is the first time that this drug is used or tested in patients, and so it will help to understand what type of side effects may occur with the drug treatment, it will measure the levels of drug in the body, it will also measure the anti-cancer activity. By using these pieces of information together the best dose of this drug to use in further clinical trials will be selected.

This study is a multicenter, open-label, two-stage phase I clinical trial. Trial including single-dose and successive-dose tolerance research, single-dose and successive-dose pharmacokinetic research, food bioavailability study, exploration of different dosing methods and tentative evaluation for clinical efficacy. Stage one is a dose escalation study, using the modified Fibonacci methods. 7 dose level are set, respectively are 50mg/d 100mg/d 200mg/d 350mg/d 550mg/d 850mg/d and 1100mg/d. Three patients are enrolled in each dose level, the observed indicator is dose-limited toxicity. No DLT occurred of all 3 patients, the dose escalate to next level. 1/3 DLT observed, 3 more patients are enrolled in the level, if no DLT is observed, the dose escalated to next level, if DLT occurs again, escalation stops. 2/3 DLT are observed, escalation stops. A recommend phase II dose level will acquire by this method. Stage two is a multicenter, open label, one arm successive dose clinical trial, based on the dosing level and method acquired in stage one, for further safety evaluation and tentative evaluation of clinical efficacy.