Study of Tecemotide (L-BLP25) in Participants With Stage III Unresectable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Following Primary Chemoradiotherapy
This is a phase I/II study in Japan to evaluate the safety of EMD531444 and its effects on survival time in patients with stage III unresectable non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Tecemotide (L-BLP25)|DRUG: Single low dose cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Placebo|OTHER: Saline
Overall Survival (OS) Time, OS time was defined as the time from randomization to death. Participants without event were censored at the last date known to be alive or at the clinical cut-off date (01 May 2014), whichever was earlier., Time from randomization to death or last day known to be alive reported between day of first subject randomized in Step 2 (i.e. 03 Feb 2010), until clinical cut-off date (i.e. 01 May 2014).
Time To Progression (TTP) - Investigator Read, TTP was defined as the time from date of randomization to date of radiological diagnosis of PD (based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] v1.0). In the event that radiological confirmation could not be obtained but participant was withdrawn from trial treatment or died due to disease progression, TTP was measured from date of randomization to the date of discontinuation of trial treatment. Participants without event who died from causes other than disease progression were censored at date of death. Participants without event who were lost to follow-up were censored at the date of lost to follow-up, except if they missed 2 consecutive scheduled doses, in which case they were considered as having disease progression at time of first missed administration. Participants without event with ongoing treatment at time of analysis, or who had stopped treatment for reasons other than PD, were censored on the date of last treatment administration., Time from randomization to PD, reported between day of first subject randomized in Step 2 (i.e. 03 Feb 2010), until clinical cut-off date (i.e. 01 May 2014).|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time - Investigator Read, PFS time was defined as the duration from randomization to either first observation of objective PD (based on RECIST v1.0) or occurrence of death due to any cause. Participants without event still on treatment at time of analysis, or who stopped treatment for reasons other than PD or PD without radiological confirmed progression, were censored at the last imaging date. Participants without event who were lost to follow-up were censored at the date of lost to follow-up, except if they missed 2 consecutive scheduled doses, in which case they were considered as having disease progression at time of first missed administration., Time from randomization to disease progression, death or last tumor assessment, reported between day of first subject randomized in Step 2 (i.e. 03 Feb 2010), until clinical cut-off date (i.e. 01 May 2014).|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF was defined as the duration from date of randomization to the date of discontinuation of any trial treatment (cyclophosphamide or saline, tecemotide \[L-BLP25\] or placebo vaccine) for any reason as reported by the Investigator. Participants who had missed 2 consecutive scheduled doses and were subsequently lost to follow-up were considered as treatment failures with event date as date of first missed administration. Participants without event still on treatment at time of analysis were censored on the date of last treatment administration., Time from randomization to discontinuation of trial treatment, reported between day of first subject randomized in Step 2 (i.e. 03 Feb 2010), until clinical cut-off date (i.e. 01 May 2014).
Phase I part is designed to evaluate the safety of EMD531444 930 microgram (mcg) dose to be used in phase II. Phase II part is designed to be conducted as randomized, double blind, placebo controlled study to compare overall survival time in all randomized subjects.