OSPREY is a Post-market, Global, Multicentre, Observational, Prospective Registry.
The OSPREY Patient Registry has been developed to collect and assess the performance and safety of the OncoSil™ device when used within the approved indication of unresectable, locally advanced pancreatic cancer, in combination with gemcitabine-based chemotherapy, within a real-world observational registry.

The Registry data will provide both complementary and contemporary information to the existing clinical data across various countries and will form part of the post-market clinical follow-up activities for OncoSil™. Therefore, the Registry will be implemented only in countries with regulatory (commercial) approval for the OncoSil™ device.
Pancreatic Neoplasm|Digestive System Neoplasm|Neoplasms by Site|Neoplasms|Endocrine Gland Neoplasm|Digestive System Disease|Pancreatic Diseases|Endocrine System Diseases
Safety and tolerability of Device, The analysis for safety within the real-world setting will be performed. The safety of OncoSil™ is defined by the Adverse Event profile. All safety summaries will be produced for the Intention-To-Treat (ITT) population. Adverse events will be coded using Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). All Adverse Events recorded during the Registry will be listed.

Summary tables will be produced for Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs). The number and percentage of patients with device-related Adverse Events by system organ class (SOC) and preferred term will be tabulated. Similar summaries will be produced by severity of event (both mild, moderate or severe, CTCAE grade 1-4) and drug and/or device relationship.

In addition, summary tables will be produced for serious TEAEs and TEAEs associated with special interest acute/late radiation effects and or withdrawal., Followed to death or to 24-months post the date of the last enrolled patient implanted with OncoSil™|Device Implantation Performance, Safety of the implantation of OncoSil™ within the target tumour will be measured by means of procedure-related Adverse Events. An assessment of the utility of OncoSil™ Implantation will be made and listed appropriately., 7 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from enrolment to the date of death from any cause. Patients who are alive or permanently lost to follow-up at the cut-off date for the analysis will be censored at the last date the patient was known to be alive.

Overall Survival (OS) will be analysed at the interim analysis and once all 500 OncoSil™ implanted patients have been followed to death or to 24-months post the date of the last enrolled/treated patient., Followed to death or to 24-months post the date of the last enrolled patient implanted with OncoSil™|tumour response as demonstrated by target tumour response demonstrated by RECIST 1.1, Target (implanted) tumor response (local and distant), 7 years|Resection Rates, Surgical resection rates and outcome, 7 years
OSPREY is a post-market, global, multicentre, observational, prospective registry in which data is recorded from patients who undergo OncoSil™ device implantation.

Countries intended for initial commercial distribution include Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Singapore, Spain, \& the United Kingdom.

Only patients who are intended to undergo treatment with the OncoSil™ device in the commercial (sales) setting will participate in this Registry.

Every patient who is prescribed OncoSil™ in the commercial setting will be approached by the Treating Physician to consent to participate in the OSPREY Patient Registry.

Patients who choose not to consent to participate in the OSPREY Patient Registry will not be excluded from being treated with the OncoSil™ device.

Five hundred patients (implanted with OncoSil™) will be recruited into the OSPREY Patient Registry. It is anticipated recruitment will be over a five-year period, subject to the rate of commercial adoption of the OncoSil™ device in the market.

To adequately collect data relating to the performance and safety of the OncoSil™ device, data will be collected from patients over a prescribed 12-month period from enrolment, the cohort is then followed to death or to 24-months post the date of the last enrolled patient implanted with OncoSil™.

Therefore, the Registry is expected to run for a seven-year period. Relevant observational data will be collected via medical record review.