A Study of Gemcitabine and Cisplatin/Carboplatin Plus Erlotinib in Patients With Nasopharyngeal Cancer
Cisplatin or Carboplatin will be given on day 1 every 21 days for 6 cycles; Gemcitabine will be given on day 1 and day 8 every 21 days for 6 cycles. Those patients that do not progress on GC after 6 cycles of chemotherapy will be started on erlotinib daily until disease progression. A cycle of erlotinib will be 28 days. Patients who progress on GC will be offered erlotinib as well,in order to evaluate its activity as a single-agent in the second-line setting.

Patients previously treated with GC have reported a progression-free survival (PFS) of 9 months. We would anticipate an extension of PFS to 12 months in patients treated with GC followed by maintenance erlotinib. Furthermore, we hypothesize that patients who achieved benefit from GC therapy would have further response when treated with maintenance erlotinib, such that this strategy may increase the likelihood of attaining long-term survival.
Nasopharyngeal Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin/Cisplatin|DRUG: erlotinib
Progression Free Survival., From randomization to the first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed until all participants randomized to the study have progressed for died., From the on-study date until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause any cause until all participants have progressed or died.
Number of Participants With the Responses Outlined, Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all clinical and radiological evidence of tumour.

Partial Response (PR): at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD.

Progressive Disease (PD): at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD of measured lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started. Appearance of new lesions will also constitute progressive disease., Measured every 2 cycles until the participant is off treatment.
Cisplatin or Carboplatin will be given on day 1 every 21 days for 6 cycles; Gemcitabine will be given on day 1 and day 8 every 21 days for 6 cycles. Those patients that do not progress on GC after 6 cycles of chemotherapy will be started on erlotinib daily until disease progression. A cycle of erlotinib will be 28 days. Patients who progress on GC will be offered erlotinib as well,in order to evaluate its activity as a single-agent in the second-line setting.

Patients previously treated with GC have reported a progression-free survival (PFS) of 9 months. We would anticipate an extension of PFS to 12 months in patients treated with GC followed by maintenance erlotinib. Furthermore, we hypothesize that patients who achieved benefit from GC therapy would have further response when treated with maintenance erlotinib, such that this strategy may increase the likelihood of attaining long-term survival.