A Window of Opportunity Study of Methionine Deprivation in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
Given preliminary data demonstrating that methionine deprivation enhances cell surface expression of TRAIL receptor-2, the objective of this clinical trial is to confirm that methionine restriction enhances its expression in triple negative breast cancer and to establish the feasibility and acceptability of this dietary intervention in humans. This study will also examine the effect of methionine restriction on cancer stem cells and metabolic health.
Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: hominex-2
Change in cell surface expression of TRAIL receptor-2, To determine if methionine restriction can enhance the cell surface expression of TRAIL receptor-2 in triple negative breast cancers., Up to 3 weeks
Safety and tolerability of methionine measured by number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, To examine the safety and tolerability of methionine restriction in participants with operable triple-negative breast cancer, measured by the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0., Up to 3 weeks|Effect of methionine restriction on cancer stem cell markers CD44 and CD24, To examine the effect of methionine restriction on the expression of the cancer stem cell markers CD44 and CD24 by immunohistochemistry. Five to ten slides from each time point will be evaluated from baseline and after completion of the methionine restricted diet., Up to 3 weeks|Change in plasma concentrations, To evaluate plasma concentrations of methionine and methionine metabolites before and after methionine restriction. Blood will be collected after an overnight fast before dietary methionine restriction, weekly during methionine restriction and at the completion of the diet. Plasma concentration will be determined by high-throughput targeted LC-MS (liquid chromatography--mass spectrometry) assay., Up to 3 weeks|Change in subject weight, To evaluate subject weight before and after dietary methionine restriction. Subjects will be weighed before starting the diet and weekly (every 7 days +/- 1)., Up to 3 weeks|Change in subject BMI, To evaluate subject BMI before and after dietary methionine restriction. Subjects will be weighed before starting the diet and weekly (every 7 days +/- 1)., Up to 3 weeks|Change in subject waist circumference, To evaluate subject BMI, waist circumference and metabolic indices before and after dietary methionine restriction. Waist circumference will be measured before starting the diet and weekly (every 7 days +/- 1) while on the methionine restricted diet., Up to 3 weeks|Change in subject metabolic indices, To evaluate subject metabolic indices before and after dietary methionine restriction., Up to 3 weeks|Change in body composition, To evaluate body composition before and after dietary methionine restriction, Up to 3 weeks
Under the supervision of a registered dietitian, subjects will receive an individualized dietary prescription that incorporates a methionine-free amino acid-modified medical food (Hominex-2, Abbott Nutrition) supplemented with low-methionine foods. Hominex-2 contains a mixture of L-amino acids but lacks methionine. Subjects will be instructed in the preparation of Hominex-2 beverages (approximately 4-5 per day or per dietician recommendation) to deliver 100% of daily protein requirements (0.8 g/kg/day) and 40-45% of the caloric requirements. The remaining calories will be met with low-methionine foods, including fruits, vegetables, grains (e.g., specified cereal and bread), margarine and cooking oils. Subjects will be provided with a list of foods that are low in methionine. Calories will not be restricted. Subjects will be encouraged to follow their usual level of physical activity and instructed to maintain a daily diet and exercise diary that will be reviewed weekly by the dietitian.