Short-Term Fasting Before Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Cancer
This clinical trial studies short-term fasting before chemotherapy in treating patients with cancer. Fasting before chemotherapy may protect normal cells from the side effects of chemotherapy.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: preventative dietary intervention|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Number of patients hospitalized during fasting period (for reasons that are not attributed to disease or post-operative complications), Up to 48 hours|Number of patients experiencing greater than or equal to grade 3 adverse event related to the fasting period, Up to 48 hours|Percentage of patients able to achieve designated fasting regimen (i.e., greater than or equal to 50%), Up to 48 hours
Weight changes in patients who are exposed to short-term fasting prior to chemotherapy, Descriptive statistics will be applied to summarize weight changes from baseline for each subsequent course., Baseline and 4 months|Frequency and percentage of the longest feasible fasting period prior to chemotherapy, 4 months|Overall toxicity incidence and profiles by fasting time and patient as per NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, Analyzed by frequency distributions, graphical techniques, and other descriptive measures., 4 months|Change in toxicity as assessed by Side Effect Questionnaire and descriptive statistics, Assessing symptoms (with 0 being not at all and 10 being as bad as it can be), fasting difficulty (with 0 being very easy and 10 being extremely difficult), and willingness (with 0 being very willing and 10 being not willing at all)., Baseline and 4 months|Changes in levels of plasma glucose, insulin, IGF-1 and IGF-1BP in subjects who undertake short-term fasting by descriptive statistics, Baseline and 4 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and feasibility of short-term fasting prior to administration of chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate weight changes in patients who are exposed to short-term fasting prior to chemotherapy.

II. Get a preliminary estimate of the longest feasible fasting period prior to chemotherapy.

III. Evaluate the toxicity profile of systemic chemotherapy treatment in patients who undergo short-term fasting prior to treatment.

IV. Investigate changes in plasma glucose, insulin, Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and IGF-1binding proteins (BP) in patients who undertake short-term fasting.

OUTLINE:

COHORT I: Patients fast 24 hours before day 1 of course 2 of chemotherapy. If fast is well tolerated, patients may escalate fasting by 12 hours for each subsequent course of chemotherapy for up to 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients fast at the longest fasting regimen found to be safe and tolerable in cohort I before day 1 of each course of course of chemotherapy for up to 4 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.