Lenalidomide and Temsirolimus in Treating Patients With Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of temsirolimus when given together with lenalidomide in treating patients with previously treated multiple myeloma. Lenalidomide may stop the growth of multiple myeloma by blocking blood flow to the cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temsirolimus, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Temsirolimus may also stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for their growth. Giving lenalidomide together with temsirolimus may kill more cancer cells.
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: temsirolimus|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of temsirolimus when given together with lenalidomide, The MTD is the dose level at which less than 2 out of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities (DLT). The National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse events (CTCAE) version 3.0 will used to characterize toxicities., Course 1 (first 28 days)
Toxicity of lenalidomide and temsirolimus combination therapy in previously treated mulple myeloma patients, Measured by NCI CTCAE version 3.0., From the time of their first treatment with lenalidomide and temsirolimus|Pharmacokinetic analysis of lenalidomide, Plasma drug levels will be measured by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectroscopy., Baseline and days 1 and 22 (lenalidomide only) of course 1|Pharmacodynamics of temsirolimus in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), PBMC will be used to assess the phosphorylation status of p70S6K to evaluate the pharmacodynamic activity of each dose level. This will assist in determining the biologically active dose in the event that dose limiting toxicity is not observed. The analysis of p70\^S6K and phospho (P)-p70\^S6K will be assessed by Western blotting using specific antibodies. The expression level will be quantified by densitometry. The inhibition of P- p70S6K will be correlated with clinical endpoints and PK parameters., Days 1 and 8 of course 1|Assessment of serum cytokines; IL-2, sIL-2R, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-1 beta, IL-1Ra, GM-CSF, IL-8, IL-6, sIL-6R, MIP-1 alpha, VEGF, and b-FGF, Assessed by ELISA., Baseline and then every 4 weeks|Assessment of peripheral blood immune cell subsets, We will investigate immune cell subsets by flow-cytometry., Baseline and then every 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of CCI-779 (temsirolimus) when given together with lenalidomide in patients with previously treated multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. Determine the clinical response of patients treated with this regimen. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen. IV. Determine the pharmacodynamic effects of this regimen in these patients. V. Determine the effect of this regimen on immunological cellular and serological parameters and hematopoietic precursor cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CCI-779.

Patients receive temsirolimus intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and oral lenalidomide once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients achieving at least a partial response after 12 courses may continue to receive CCI-779 and lenalidomide as above in the absence of disease progression. Cohorts of 3 patients receive escalating doses of CCI-779 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Ten patients are treated at the MTD. Patients undergo blood sample and bone marrow collection periodically during study treatment for pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies, and to determine the immunomodulatory effects of CCI-779 and lenalidomide.