Metabolomics Explores Biomarkers for Metastatic Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Studying samples of plasm by metabolomics-based approach from women with metastasis breast cancer may help doctors understand the biomarker of visceral metastasis.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying the biomarker of visceral metastasis by metabolomics approach in metastasis breast cancer undergoing treatment.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: There is no other intervention, only clinical treatment.
Metabolites changes of plasma by High Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS)., To assess the changes of metabolites during the process of our observation, and to find out the relationship between metabolite(s) and therapeutic effect., up to six months
progression of disease, To observe the duration from the stable condition to progression of disease. Patients were followed up every six months in first five years, then followed up once a year., Up to 10 years|overall survival, To observe the duration from the stable condition to death. Patients were followed up every six months in first five years, then followed up once a year., Up to 10 years
Imaging evaluation of the effect of chemotherapy on patients with visceral metastases from breast cancer, metabolomics was used to analyze the changes of metabolites in plasma, and to find biomarkers that could reflect visceral metastasis and treatment effects. The purpose is to help clinicians predict whether patients have potential visceral metastases, evaluate the effects of visceral metastasis treatment, and reflect the patient's prognosis.

Patients with visceral metastases on imaging examinations received chemotherapy as planned, and blood samples were collected from patients before and during imaging assessments. Analysis of metabolites in plasma using ultra high performance liquid chromatography. Patient information were collected through medical record, including race, age, height and body mass index, menarche age, menstrual status, menopausal age (if applicable), tobacco and alcohol history, motherhood history, family history, etc.