HOrmone Therapy Immediately After Histological Diagnosis of Breast Cancer
Breast Cancer is a public health issue worldwide. The time from diagnosis to treatment initiation varies from country to country and regionally within a country. Early diagnosis and prompt treatment initiation are key factors in patient survival rates.

Currently there is a rising trend, with a high percentage of patients with "Luminal" like breast cancer only undergoing adjuvant endocrine therapy.

Authors argue that tumor biology alterations after introducing very early endocrine therapy might have a prognostic and therapeutic impact and should be studied.
Hormone Dependent Neoplasms|Breast Cancer Female
DRUG: Aromatase Inhibitors
Tumor Biology, Effects of neoadjuvant aromatase inibitors on tumor biology in terms of RE,PR,Ki 67 measuring the after IA presurgical values, 6 weeks
Tumor Pathology response, Effects of neoadjuvant aromatase inibitors on tumor pathologic response , in terms of breast imaging re-avaliation before surgical intervention. For patients that refuse surgery or extend hormone therapy for other reasons, 6 weeks|Disease free survival, Effects of neoadjuvant aromatase inibitors on disease free survival the first, fifth and tenth years of follow-up, 1 5 and 10 years|Hormone treatment, Disease stability or progression under Hormone treatment in patients under active surveillance. Clinical and immaging follow up, 1 5 and 10 years
Surgical outome, Eventual influence of the aromatase inibitor in the surgical procedure (time, bleeding, scaring, infections, seroma formation, sentinel node detection and axillary response) is to be evaluated, 3 days 1 month and 3 months
Selected patients of female gender, above 50 y.o, and after a biopsy of Luminal-like Breast Cancer will go under aromatase inhibitor, from the diagnosis day till the surgical therapy to be decided (if so).In this study are going to be included patients that refuse surgical treatment, remaining this way in an "active surveillance". This last group is going to be randomised in order to recieve hormontherapy plus placebo vs hormontherapy plus acetolisalicilic acid.

In this way, authors want to investigate if:

1. st This approach influences the tumor biology
2. nd This approach influences tumor pathologic response and progression free survival.
3. rd It is a valid approach and in which grade, for patients that refuse surgical treatment