Efficacy and Safety of Liver Transplantation for Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Bile Duct Tumor Thrombus: a Single-arm, Multicenter, Prospective Study (HCC-BDTT in LT)
The prognosis for patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma with bile duct tumor thrombus (BDTT-HCC) remains notably grim, as there are presently no universally accepted treatment guidelines in place to address this complex condition. Long-term outcomes of liver transplantation (LT) for BDTT-HCC are unclear, whether LT is a proper therapeutic option for BDTT-HCC patients remains to be determined. Therefore, we designed a clinical trial to evaluate survival of BDTT-HCC patients in LT. This is an open-labeled, single-arm, prospective, multicenter and real-world study designed to assess the survival outcomes of BDTT-HCC patients in LT. Patients will be enrolled based on histological confirmation of HCC with BDTT. The study will span a total of 4 years, including a 2-year enrollment phase and a subsequent 2-year follow-up period. We anticipate that LT will provide favorable survival benefits for BDTT-HCC patients, particularly in the key indicator recurrence-free survival (RFS) and improved quality of life. Upon successful completion of the trial, we will extend our monitoring over a longer follow-up time to accurately estimate important indicators such as overall survival (OS). We expect that this study will provide substantial evidence to refine treatment guidelines through thorough data analysis, ultimately contributing to better patient outcomes and advancing our understanding of the disease.
Liver Transplant|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Bile Duct Tumor Thrombus
Recurrence free survival rate, 2025.1.10-2029.1.10
Overall survival rate, 2025.1.10-2029.1.10
Tumor recurrence rate, 2025.1.10-2029.1.10
The prognosis for patients diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma with bile duct tumor thrombus (BDTT-HCC) remains notably grim, as there are presently no universally accepted treatment guidelines in place to address this complex condition. Long-term outcomes of liver transplantation (LT) for BDTT-HCC are unclear, whether LT is a proper therapeutic option for BDTT-HCC patients remains to be determined. Therefore, we designed a clinical trial to evaluate survival of BDTT-HCC patients in LT. This is an open-labeled, single-arm, prospective, multicenter and real-world study designed to assess the survival outcomes of BDTT-HCC patients in LT. Patients will be enrolled based on histological confirmation of HCC with BDTT. The study will span a total of 4 years, including a 2-year enrollment phase and a subsequent 2-year follow-up period. We anticipate that LT will provide favorable survival benefits for BDTT-HCC patients, particularly in the key indicator recurrence-free survival (RFS) and improved quality of life. Upon successful completion of the trial, we will extend our monitoring over a longer follow-up time to accurately estimate important indicators such as overall survival (OS). We expect that this study will provide substantial evidence to refine treatment guidelines through thorough data analysis, ultimately contributing to better patient outcomes and advancing our understanding of the disease.