Validation of the CPS+EG, Neo-Bioscore and Modified Neo-Bioscore Staging Systems After PST of BC in China
Prognostic assessment after preoperative systemic therapy (PST) plays a vital role in breast cancer patients. The clinical-pathologic staging system incorporating estrogen receptor (ER)-negative disease and nuclear grade 3 tumor pathology (CPS+EG staging system) can effectively predict prognosis after PST. The Neo-Bioscore has been developed by the incorporation of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status into the CPS+EG staging system. But in a real world in China, the both staging systems had limits because of trastuzumab administration varied a lot in China from the United States. This retrospective study will validate CPS+EG and Neo-Bioscore system and explored a modified Neo-Bioscore system in multiple centers.
Breast Cancer|Neoadjuvant Therapy|Neoplasm Staging|Estrogen Receptor|Histological Grade|HER2|Prognosis|Predictive Value of Tests
Disease Specific Survival (DSS), DSS will be calculated from the time of diagnosis to death resulting from breast cancer. Patients still alive at the time of the analysis will be censored using the date they were last known to be alive., 5 years
Disease-free survival (DFS), DFS, defined as the time from the time of post-PST breast cancer surgery to local recurrence following mastectomy, local recurrence in the ipsilateral breast following lumpectomy (invasive or non-invasive), regional recurrence, distant metastasis, contralateral breast cancer (invasive or non-invasive), second primary cancer (other than squamous or basal cell carcinoma of the skin, melanoma in situ, carcinoma in situ of the cervix, colorectal carcinoma in situ, or lobular carcinoma in situ of the breast), or death from any cause prior to recurrence or second primary cancer. Patients who have not had any such event at the time of data analysis will be censored at the last date they were known to be event-free., 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be measured as the time from the date of diagnosis to the date of death. Patients still alive at the time of the analysis will be censored using the date they were last known to be alive., 5 years
Prognostic assessment after preoperative systemic therapy (PST) plays a vital role in breast cancer patients. The clinical-pathologic staging system incorporating estrogen receptor (ER)-negative disease and nuclear grade 3 tumor pathology (CPS+EG staging system) can effectively predict prognosis after PST. The Neo-Bioscore has been developed by the incorporation of the human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status into the CPS+EG staging system. But in a real world in China, the both staging systems had limits because of trastuzumab administration varied a lot in China from the United States. This retrospective study will validate CPS+EG and Neo-Bioscore system and explored a modified Neo-Bioscore system in multiple centers.