Effects of Steroid Tapering on Functional Capacity and Neurocognition
Purpose and Objective:

1. To compare the effects of either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone on functional capacity in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients.
2. To compare neurocognitive function in newly diagnosed GBM patients receiving either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone.
3. To compare skeletal muscle strength in newly diagnosed GBM patients receiving either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone.
4. To examine the association between functional capacity and neurocognitive function and patient-reported measures (i.e. quality of life, fatigue, etc.) in newly diagnosed GBM patient on either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone.
5. To examine the association between functional capacity and neurocognitive function and body composition measures (body-mass index, etc.) in newly diagnosed GBM patient on either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone.
6. To examine the association between functional capacity and neurocognitive function and biochemical metabolic measurements in newly diagnosed GBM patient on either an abbreviated or protracted taper of dexamethasone.

All study endpoints will be assessed at three timepoints as follows: (1) initial assessment after surgery in the hospital, (2) second assessment at initial clinical visit at the Preston Robert Tisch Brain Tumor Center (PRT-BTC) at Duke, approximately 1 week post-operatively, and (3) third assessment at second clinical visit in the PRT-BTC at Duke, approximately 10 weeks post-operatively and after completion of radiotherapy. An additional fourth assessment will be obtained at 4 weeks post-operatively if the subject is undergoing radiotherapy here at Duke.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
DRUG: Dexamethasone acetate|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Functional Capacity (6-minute walk test), The exercise test is designed to determine how far you can walk in six minutes. This test will take place at the PRT-BTC at Duke University Medical Center and/or Duke University Medical Center inpatient unit on 4100 or 4300 with appropriate medical supervision., 10 weeks
Neurocognitive Function, A computerized neurocognitive test battery called CNS Vital Signs® including verbal memory test, visual memory test, finger tapping test, symbol digit coding, Stroop test, shifting attention test, continuous performance test., 10 weeks|Skeletal Muscle Strength, Isokinetic muscle strength for bilateral grip and bilateral quadriceps., 10 weeks|Patient-Reported Outcomes (PROs), Assessed by standardized and validated questionnaires including: Depression (Beck Depression Inventory); Quality of Life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain); Fatigue (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue); Cognition (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Cognition), Symptomalogy Index (Phone Questionnarie/Survery), Computerized Battery from CNS Vital Signs (Medical Outcomes Survey, Epworth Sleepiness Scale, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale)., 10 weeks|Body composition, Body-mass index, weight, height, and circumference of the abdomen, hips, and quadriceps., 10 weeks|Biochemical metabolic measurements, Hematocrit (%), albumin (g/mL), fasting blood glucose (mg/dL), fasting insulin (micro IU/mL), insulin like growth facto binding protein 1 (IGFBP-1) (ng/mL), cystatin C (mg/dL), and retinol binding protein 4 (RBP-4)., 10 weeks
The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial. After obtaining written informed consent, all participants will be randomized to either an abbreviated (14 days) or protracted (30 days) course of dexamethasone post-operatively.