Abdominal CT to Predict the Risk of Acute Graft-versus-Host Disease Following Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation
Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT will be performed 1-2 weeks after allogeneic stem cell transplant, and radiographic evidence of mucosal inflammation will be correlated with the subsequent development of acute graft versus host disease. The primary endpoint is the feasibility and safety of contrast-enhanced abdominal CT in the early post-transplant period, as defined by the risk of contrast-related nephropathy or allergic reaction.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute|Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic|Multiple Myeloma
RADIATION: Dynamic contrast-enhanced computed tomography|DRUG: Ioversol
Incidence of contrast related nephropathy, Contrast related nephropathy is defined as \>25% increase in serum creatinine from baseline (day of CT) or 0.5 mg/dL increase in absolute value, within 48-72 hours of intravenous contrast administration.

Assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0.

The proportion of patients who develop contrast nephropathy will be recorded., Baseline through 72 hours after intravenous contrast administration|Incidence of contrast allergic reaction, Assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0.

The proportion of patients who an allergic reaction will be recorded., Within 4 hours after contrast administration
Correlation between CT risk scores and occurrence of acute GVHD, Images will be reviewed for presence of abnormal mucosal enhancement along the gastrointestinal tract including gallbladder and biliary system, bowel wall thickening, engorgement of vasa recta, mesenteric edema, mesenteric lymphadenopathy, bowel wall thickening, and periportal edema. Abnormal GI mucosal enhancement, if present, will be characterized by relative intensity (mild, moderate, severe), number of involved segments (single segment, two segments, or three segments or more), and location of involved segments. Other findings listed above will provide binary data. All data points will then be used for patient risk stratification for developing GvHD., 180 days
Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT will be performed 1-2 weeks after allogeneic stem cell transplant, and radiographic evidence of mucosal inflammation will be correlated with the subsequent development of acute graft versus host disease. The primary endpoint is the feasibility and safety of contrast-enhanced abdominal CT in the early post-transplant period, as defined by the risk of contrast-related nephropathy or allergic reaction.