Optimizing Health Related Quality of Life Measurement in Adolescent and Young Adult Oncology
This study evaluates how adolescent and young adults with cancer in the U.S. and their loved ones respond to questions that will later be used with people who may have cancer and other chronic health conditions
Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic Neoplasms|Lymphatic System Neoplasm
OTHER: Surveys/Questionnaires
Refining of Item Pools - Development of Four Item Banks, Upon completion of data analysis and study team review, investigators will have four unidimensional and locally independent, calibrated item banks: three for AYAs (body image, fertility, and financial burden) and one for caregivers (financial burden). In order to successfully calibrate an item bank, an n=500 is required per bank. In order to examine differential item functioning (DIF), a minimum n=200 per group is recommended. Our proposed sample sizes and specific subgroup accrual targets will be needed to calibrate multiple new item banks (body image, fertility, financial burden), evaluate DIF for various categories (age, gender, race, education) within our sample subgroups (AYAs with and without cancer), and to conduct confirmatory factor analysis (CFAs) on the item banks. In addition, the AYA sample without a history of cancer will serve as our reference to establish the mean and standard deviation for body image and fertility., Up to study completion, up to 1 year
Short Form Development Based on Item Bank Data, After the body image, fertility, and financial burden item banks have been calibrated from the primary outcome, short forms will be assembled by selecting the most informative (i.e., high measurement precision with little measurement error) and discriminating items (i.e., item response therapy (IRT) slopes that describe how well an item discriminates among individuals at different points along the measurement continuum) from each of the calibrated item banks. The convergent validity of the new PROMIS item banks and short forms will be examined using bivariate Pearson correlations with comparable constructs., Up to study completion, up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

* To refine patient-reported outcome assessment tools of body image, fertility, and financial burden for PROMIS and evaluate assumptions for IRT consistent with PROMIS Scientific Standards (e.g., unidimensionality, local independence).
* To examine item-level properties to support computer adaptive testing and evaluate possible differential item functioning (DIF).

Secondary Objective

* To create short forms and examine convergent validity of the new body image, fertility, and financial burden short forms and item banks with corresponding legacy measures of those constructs.

OUTLINE: This is an observational study.

Participants complete surveys on study.