Phase 2 Pragmatic Trial of Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy (SLNB) in Patients With Clinically Node-Negative (cN0), High-Risk Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cSCC) of the Head and Neck
This is a phase 2 pragmatic study at a single site that evaluates the clinical benefit of SLNB in patients with high-risk cSCC and cN0. The primary goal is to evaluate the efficacy of SLNB based on the DFS rate at 2 years post-definitive therapy.
Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Clinically Node-Negative (cN0)|High-Risk Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma (cSCC) of the Head and Neck
PROCEDURE: Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB)|PROCEDURE: Lymphadenectomy|DRUG: Adjuvant Definitive Therapy
Disease-free survival (DFS), Defined as the time from definitive therapy to local/regional relapse, distant metastasis, or death due to any cause, whichever comes first., Up to 2 years post definitive therapy completion
Number of participants experiencing surgical and perioperative morbidity, Assessed per the Clavien-Dindo Classification (CDC) scale 1 and a list of pre-specified complications, Through 30 days post-sentinel lymph node biopsy|Local/regional control, Defined as the time of completing definitive therapy to any evidence of disease in the primary or regional lymph nodes based on biopsy testing or imaging., Up to 2 years post definitive therapy completion|Overall survival, Up to 2 years post definitive therapy completion|Sensitivity of sentinel lymph node biopsy for occult nodal disease, Up to 14 days post-SLNB|Specificity of sentinel lymph node biopsy for occult nodal disease, Up to 14-days post-SLNB
This is a phase 2 pragmatic study at a single site that evaluates the clinical benefit of SLNB in patients with high-risk cSCC and cN0. Participants must be a candidate for surgical intervention with sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) and potential lymphadenectomy for treatment of cSCC. Following enrollment, participants will have preoperative lymphoscintigraphy performed before planned surgery. During surgery, participants will have SLNs excised from the affected area(s) per standard of care. Surgeon preference will dictate the order of the surgery for resecting the primary tumor. The surgeon may elect to return to the operating room for re-resection of the primary tumor to achieve a negative pathological margin. This may also coincide with a lymphadenectomy if the patient has a positive SLN. Participants will be monitored for adverse events (AEs) during and following their SLNB per institutional practices; only pre-specified AEs of interest will be documented for the study. Definitive systemic therapy (e.g., radiation therapy, chemoradiation therapy) will then be administered per standard of care following surgery.

The primary aim is to evaluate the efficacy of SLNB based on the disease-free survival (DFS) rate at 2 years post-definitive therapy compared to historical control. The patients' 2-year DFS will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier approach, and a one-sided log-rank test will be conducted to compare the DFS based on the historical control (50%). Secondary aims include surgical and perioperative morbidity evaluations, and efficacy evaluations assessed by 2-year local/regional control rate, 2-year overall survival, and sensitivity/ specificity of for occult nodal disease.