Radiotherapy in Combination With Atezolizumab Prior to Surgical Resection for HPV Unrelated HNSCC
To determine the outcomes of patients with specific head and neck cancer after undergoing radiation therapy with atezolizumab followed by surgery then radiation with or without chemotherapy according to national guidelines.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
DRUG: Atezolizumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Phase I lead in: Primary Outcome is Safety determined by Adverse Events, Phase I lead in: the primary endpoint will be the binary outcome of whether or not a patient experiences the occurrence of a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). Adverse events will be reviewed for safety assessments., 24 months|Phase II: Primary Endpoint is Efficacy as measured by the rate of MPR, Phase II: the primary endpoint will be efficacy as measured by the rate of MPR (≤10% residual tumor) or pathologic complete response (pCR, no residual tumor). Response will be assessed by pathology review and will be labeled as pathologic tumor response 0 (pTR-0, \<10% of sample characterized by tumor necrosis, keratinous debris, and/or giant cells/histiocytes), pTR-1 (10-49%), pTR-2 (50-89%), MPR (90-99%, also referred to pTR-3), or complete pathologic response (pCR, 100%, also referred to as pTR-4)., 24 months
Survival, OS will be determined from the time of enrollment to date of death due to any cause. PFS determined from the time of enrollment to date of progression (any distant recurrence or locoregional recurrence), 24 months
Translational Endpoints, Will examine effect of the treatment on the infiltration of immune cells into the tumor, 24 months|Secondary Translational Endpoint, Will examine effect of the treatment on the activation of immune cells in the circulation, 24 months
Hypothesis: that the addition of SBRT to neoadjuvant checkpoint inhibition would be safe and would prime the immune system and improve the chances of a successful surgery and overall survival. The preliminary analysis demonstrated the safety of dose escalation of anti-PD-L1-RT to 18Gy in 3 fractions. In this study, the maximum dose to the tumor was escalated to 133%, an equivalent dose of 24 Gy in 3 fractions, with no safety or unexpected surgical issues encountered. At interim analysis, counting all patients, even those treated for the 12Gy in 2 fractions and even those that received surgery at 2 weeks, the rate of pTR-2 or greater was close to 100%. With only 11 analyzable patients and counting those who received the dose escalated 18 Gy in 3 fractions radiation with anti-PD-L1, investigators have observed much higher pathological responses. Another group of investigators has also demonstrated the safety of delivering 24 Gy in 3 fractions with anti-PD-L1 (https://clincancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/26/12_Supplement_2/B01). Given the safety and preliminary efficacy of 24 Gy in 3 fractions SBRT with anti-PD-L1 therapy in the neoadjuvant setting, the investigators propose the present study to assess the impact of this regimen on pathologic tumor response rate.