Nintedanib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
This phase II trial studies how well nintedanib works in treating patients with neuroendocrine tumors that have spread from where they started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or have spread from the primary site (place where they started) to other places in the body (metastatic). Nintedanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by slowing or stopping a certain type of receptor called vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) from attaching to its target. This may stop the growth of neuroendocrine tumors by blocking the growth of new blood vessels necessary for tumor growth.
Carcinoid Tumor|Metastatic Carcinoid Tumor|Neuroendocrine Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Nintedanib|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
PFS, Will be reported using standard Kaplan-Meier methods. Ninety percent confidence intervals for the median PFS will be calculated using Greenwood's formula. Additionally, a confidence interval for the 16-week PFS rate will be obtained using Jeffrey's prior method. The association between survival and quantified variables will be investigated using the Cox-proportional hazard model., Time interval from initiation of therapy, to its cessation for documentation of PD or death, assessed up to 2 years
Change in Quality of Life Score, Quality of life will be investigated calculated by Subjects filing out EORTC Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumour 21 Questionnaire (QLQ-GI.NET21) A 21 question questionnaire that use a 4-point scale (1 = Not at all, 2 = A little, 3 = Quite a bit, 4 = Very much). The scores for different scales (i.e. endocrine, gastrointestinal, treatment, social function, disease Related, and global) are calculated by summing related questions from the questionnaire. The range of the subscale scores are from 0 to 100, with higher scores being worse.

After the subscale scores being calculated, the Change in quality of life is calculated by subtracting baseline score from end of treatment, Baseline to 30 days post-treatment|Plasma Concentrations at Steady State (Cpre,ss) of Nintedanib at Baseline and Week 8, Sample collection will be obtained at baseline and week 8, Baseline to week 8|Clinical Response (Complete Response + Partial Response) Measured Using Standard RECISTv1.1 Criteria, Exact 90% confidence interval estimates using the Clopper-Pearson method will be given for the response rates. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI, response rates are categorized as Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 2 years|Median OS, Will be reported using standard Kaplan-Meier methods. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the median OS will be calculated using Greenwood's formula. The association between survival and quantified variables will be investigated using the Cox-proportional hazard model., Up to 3 years (telephone contact is acceptable).|Ratio of FGFR IIIb/IIIc and Ki-67 and Microvessel Density Scores, Scores will be obtained to investigate association with PFS, clinical response, QOL and survival., Baseline
Biomarker Levels, Will be analyzed for all patients and reported in groups based on response., Baseline|Change in Cytokine Expression, Will be analyzed for all patients and reported in groups based on response. Changes in pre- and post-treatment cytokine expression will be analyzed using permutation paired t-tests., Baseline to 8 weeks|Change in Growth Factors, Will be analyzed for all patients and reported in groups based on response. Changes in pre- and post-treatment growth factors will be analyzed using permutation paired t-tests., Baseline to 30 days post-treatment|Gene Mutations and Copy Number Alterations, Gene mutations and copy number alterations in the several pathways particularly mTOR pathway will be evaluated. Will be analyzed for all patients and correlated with clinical outcomes., Baseline|Treg Levels, Will be analyzed for all patients and reported in groups based on response., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression free survival (PFS), defined as the time interval from initiation of therapy, to its cessation for documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical response (complete response + partial response) in all patients with measurable disease (using standard Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version \[v\]1.1 criteria).

II. To assess overall survival (OS) in all patients. III. Assess changes in quality of life (QOL) throughout treatment using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ) - Gastrointestinal Neuroendocrine Tumors (NET) 21 (GI.NET21) questionnaire for carcinoid patients with gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors, in all patients who have filled out at least two QOL questionnaires and, will be reported by groups based on response (response, stable disease or progressive disease).

IV. Steady-state pharmacokinetics (PK) of nintedanib, biomarkers, regulatory T cell (Treg) and cytokine expression and growth factors will be analyzed for all patients and reported in groups based on response.

V. Gene mutations and copy number alterations analysis in the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway (will be performed only on the first 10 patients), protein expression of activation of protein kinase B (Akt) (as well as other downstream targets).

VI. Toxicity (graded using the National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] version 4.0) will be closely monitored and all toxicities will be tabulated.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nintedanib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months for 2 years.