WT1 Vaccine Treatment of Patients With Multiple Myeloma After Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation
The purpose of this trial is to assess the immune response after vaccination with a peptide vaccine called galinpepimut-S (or GPS) in a type of blood cancer called multiple myeloma. A protein called WT1 is often present in cancerous cells and GPS can train the immune system to recognize and kill the cancerous cells containing WT1. This study will also assess the safety of GPS, effect on disease, and on survival.

Participants who has undergone autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will receive vaccinations with GPS every 2 weeks for 10 weeks (a total of 6 vaccinations). Vaccinations will start 12 to 22 days after ASCT. In the absence of disease progression and if clinically stable after the first 6 vaccinations, participants may continue to receive six more vaccinations every month. The use of post-ASCT maintenance therapy is allowed starting from 3 months after transplant.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Galinpepimut-S|BIOLOGICAL: GM-CSF|OTHER: Montanide|DRUG: lenalidomide|DRUG: bortezomib
WT1 T-cell Immune Response (IR) 12-14 Weeks After First GPS Administration (6 x Administrations), Number and percentage of participants with CD4 and/or CD8 immune responses against WT1m measured 12-14 weeks after first GPS administration (6 x administrations), 12 weeks after the initial GPS vaccine (end of first series [GPS x 6 administrations])
Progression-free Survival (PFS) From Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT), PFS measured from ASCT to time of myeloma progression (as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group \[IMW\] consensus criteria or subject death., 3 years and 8 months|Overall Survival (OS) From Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT), OS measured from time of autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) to the time of subject death, 3 years and 8 months
This is an early phase clinical study conducted in patients with newly diagnosed high-risk multiple myeloma to examine the effects of vaccination with galinpepimut-S (GPS) on clinical and immunobiological indices. The study is titled "A Pilot Trial of a WT1 Analog Peptide Vaccine (Galinpepimut-S) in Patients With Multiple Myeloma Following Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation" and is designed as a single-arm, single-institution, open-label study. The primary objective is to assess immune response 12 to 14 weeks after administration of GPS in patients with new diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM) following autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). Secondary objective includes assessing the safety profile, progression-free survival, and overall survival.

Galinpepimut-S (GPS) consists of four WT1-derived peptides which have been chosen to strengthen antigenicity, but also broaden immunogenicity over a wide range of HLA subtypes, being able to stimulate both CD8+ (MHC Class I)- and CD4+ (MHC Class II)-dependent responses. Galinpepimut-S is administered with the adjuvant Montanide and sargramostim (GM-CSF).

Participants who has undergone autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will receive vaccinations with GPS every 2 weeks for 10 weeks (a total of 6 vaccinations). Vaccinations will start 12 to 22 days after ASCT. In the absence of disease progression and if clinically stable after the first 6 vaccinations, participants may continue to receive six more vaccinations every month. The use of post-ASCT maintenance therapy with immunomodulatory drugs (IMIDs, eg, thalidomide, lenalidomide) or proteasome inhibitors (PSIs, eg, bortezomib) is allowed from 3 months after transplant.