mFOLFOX6+Bevacizumab+PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody in Local Advanced MSS CRC
Immunotherapy has achieved significant therapeutic effect in DNA mismatch repair-deficient or microsatellite instability-high (dMMR/MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC). However, for proficient mismatch repair(pMMR)/microsatellite stable(MSS) CRC, the curative effect of PD-1 monoclonal antibody was poor and most of the data came from stage Ⅳ patients with distant metastasis. Among the whole CRC patients, more than eighty-five percent were pMMR/MSS CRC. It would be very inspiring when major CRC patients(pMMR/MSS) could be benefit from immunotherapy. For T4NxM0 CRC patients, R0 resection was difficult to achieve. If the patients could not got R0 resection, which means the tumors were almost destined to recurrent and patients life time were counting down. Whether combined treatment of mFOLFOX6+ Bevacizumab+PD-1 monoclonal antibody could maximize the curative effect was still unknown. This study aims to evaluate the effect and safety of mFOLFOX6+ Bevacizumab+PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment combinations in patients with local advanced(T4NxM0) pMMR/MSS CRC.
Colorectal Cancer|Immunotherapy
DRUG: mFOLFOX6+Bevacizumab+PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment combinations
PCR rate, pathological complete remission rate in T4NxM0 colorectal cancer treated after mFOLFOX6+Bevacizumab+PD-1monoclonal antibody, 1 year
Incidence rate of Grade ≥3 PD-1monoclonal antibody-related adverse events, Incidence rate of participants with Grade ≥3 PD-1monoclonal antibody-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 1 year|Incidence rate of Grade ≥3 chemotherapy-related adverse events, Incidence rate of participants with Grade ≥3 chemotherapy-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 1 year|R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate in participants treated after mFOLFOX6+Bevacizumab+PD-1monoclonal antibody, 1 year|Down-stage rate, Down-stage rate of pathological stage after surgery compared with clinical stage before drug treatment, 1 year|3 years DFS Rate, 3 years Disease Free Survival Rate, 3 years|3 years OS Rate, 3 years Overall Survival Rate, 3 years
Immunotherapy has achieved significant therapeutic effect in DNA mismatch repair-deficient or microsatellite instability-high (dMMR/MSI-H) colorectal cancer (CRC). MMR expression and MSS status are the important effective factors of immunotherapy. PD-1monocolnal antibody therapy has accessed excellent treatment effect in advanced dMMR/MSI-H CRC and neoadjuvant therapeutic effect in early colon cancer, more than fifty percent of dMMR/MSI-H CRC patients might get pathological complete response(pCR) after PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment. The treatments had been proved to be safe and the toxicities were controllable. However, for proficient mismatch repair(pMMR)/microsatellite stable(MSS) CRC, the curative effect of PD-1 monoclonal antibody was poor and most of the data came from stage Ⅳ patients with distant metastasis. Among the whole CRC patients, more than eighty-five percent were pMMR/MSS CRC. It would be very inspiring when major CRC patients(pMMR/MSS) could be benefit from immunotherapy. For T4NxM0 CRC patients, R0 resection was difficult to achieve. If the patients could not got R0 resection, which means the tumors were almost destined to recurrent and patients life time were counting down. However, there were no standard conversion of neoadjuvant treatment recommendations for T4NxM0 CRC. Although PD-1 monoclonal antibody alone has poor effect in pMMR/MSS CRC, it seems to be effective in early stage of MSS CRC(Nicole study) or when it was combined with chemotherapy or target therapy. So far, whether combined treatment of mFOLFOX6+ Bevacizumab+PD-1 monoclonal antibody could maximize the curative effect was still unknown. This study aims to evaluate the effect and safety of mFOLFOX6+ Bevacizumab+PD-1 monoclonal antibody treatment combinations in patients with local advanced(T4NxM0) pMMR/MSS CRC.