Pembrolizumab and Binimetinib in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose of pembrolizumab and binimetinib and how well it works when given together with pembrolizumab in treating patients with triple negative breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Binimetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pembrolizumab and binimetinib may work better in treating patients with triple negative breast cancer.
Breast Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Binimetinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Pembrolizumab in Combination With Binimetinib Using the Standard 3+3 Design (Phase I), Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Safety/adverse events data will be tabulated, including adverse events of all grades., 35 days|Objective Response Rate (ORR) as (Phase II), Will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). Will utilize Simon's Two-Stage Optimal Design to test the null hypothesis. Will be estimated using the approach of Jung and Kim. The 90% lower confidence bound will be calculated using the approach of Koyama and Chen. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 3 years
ORR by Immune-related (ir)RECIST, Will be estimated as a binomial proportion with a 2-sided 95% confidence intervals. Baseline tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TILs) and percent change in TILs from baseline will be summarized. Logistic regression models will be used to assess the correlation between these biomarkers and ORR in order to assess their prognostic significance., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Patients who are alive (including those lost to follow-up) at the time of data analysis will be censored at the last known alive date. A Kaplan-Meier curve will be used to summarize the PFS experience of this patient cohort. Cox Proportional Hazard models will be used to assess baseline TILs and percent change in TILs from baseline and their correlation with PFS. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., The time from study enrollment to date of progression, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Patients who are alive (including those lost to follow-up) at the time of data analysis will be censored at the last known alive date. A Kaplan-Meier curve will be used to summarize the OS experience of this patient cohort. Cox Proportional Hazard models will be used to assess baseline TILs and percent change in TILs from baseline and their correlation with OS., The time from study enrollment to death attributable to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of binimetinib in combination with pembrolizumab. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) of binimetinib in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic triple negative breast cancer by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of binimetinib in combination with pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate the ORR by immune-related RECIST criteria (irRECIST). III. To evaluate the progression free survival (PFS), duration of response (DoR), and disease control rate (DCR) by RECIST and irRECIST.

IV. To assess overall survival (OS).

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the correlation between ORR, PFS, or OS and baseline and/or change in tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs).

II. To assess the correlation between ORR, PFS, or OS and baseline and/or change in immune related gene signature and PDJ amplification.

III. To assess the change in immunoregulatory cells (IRC). IV. To assess the change in the cytokine profile. V. To assess the change in circulating tumor cells (CTC).

OUTLINE: This is phase I, dose-escalation study of binimetinib followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive binimetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 of cycle 1 and on days 1-21 of cycle 2 and subsequent cycles. Beginning cycle 2, patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycle 1 equals 14 days. Cycles 2 and beyond repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3 months until progressive disease, then every 6 months for up to 3 years.