Modified Video-assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery (VATS) Lobectomy for Early-stage Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The purpose of this study is to modify the surgical technique of VATS (video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery) lobectomy for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: VATS lobectomy using modified equipments|PROCEDURE: VATS lobectomy using less staples|PROCEDURE: Standard VATS lobectomy|PROCEDURE: Open lobectomy
Operative time, For modified equipments group, if the operative time is significantly less than stand VATS group, the equipments is considered as feasible., 6 weeks after surgery.|Survival time, overall survival rate(1-year, 3-year,5-year)will be analysed by the survival times of the follow-up patients., 5 years|Hospital cost, less staples group vs.standard VATS group, 6 weeks after surgery.
Quality of life, measured by Zubrod-ECOG-WHO score, 1 year|Pain Scale Evaluation, measured by Visual analog scale (VAS), 6 weeks after surgery|Blood loss, to evaluate the blood loss volume as followed:open group vs. standard VATS group; modified equipments group vs. standard VATS group; less staples group vs.standard VATS group., 3 months after surgery|Postoperative mortality, to evaluate the postoperative mortality as followed: open group vs. standard VATS group; modified equipments group vs. standard VATS group; less staples group vs.standard VATS group., 3 months after surgery|Conversion rate, For modified equipments group, if conversion rates is not significantly different with stand VATS group, and success rate is over 90%, VATS lobectomy is considered as feasible., 6 weeks after surgery|Disease-free survival time, overall Disease-free survival rate(1-year, 3-year,5-year)will be analysed by the survival times of the follow-up patients., 5 years after surgery|Postoperative morbidity, to evaluate the postoperative morbidity above as followed: open group vs. standard VATS group; modified equipments group vs. standard VATS group; less staples group vs.standard VATS group., 3 months after surgery|Postoperative drainage duration, to evaluate the postoperative drainage duration as followed: open group vs. standard VATS group; modified equipments group vs. standard VATS group; less staples group vs.standard VATS group., 3 months after surgery|Postoperative hospital stay, to evaluate the postoperative hospital stay above as followed: open group vs. standard VATS group; modified equipments group vs. standard VATS group; less staples group vs.standard VATS group., 3 months after surgery
VATS (video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery) lobectomy is a relatively new minimally invasive surgical treatment for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), associated with low morbidity and mortality and effective oncologic results over the standard thoracotomy. However, this surgical procedure has not spread widely in china for several reasons. First , VATS surgery cost more than thoracotomy for thoracoscopic staples; second, the procedure of VATS lobectomy may be more difficult in china as the lack of VATS surgical equipments adjusted for smaller thoracic cavity of chinese, and more common adhesive and calcified lymph nodes due to infection and tuberculosis; Third, the surgical levels of VATS lobectomy are far from equal in china, and the Continuing Medical Education training programs of thoracoscopic surgery seem to be less efficient without major criterion.

The purpose of this study is to modify the surgical technique of VATS (video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery) lobectomy for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer, to examine the feasibility of VATS lobectomy performed by less staples, and to evaluate the feasibility of VATS lobectomy performed by modified surgical equipments designed according to the experience of chinese lobectomy surgery, and to generate a chinese standard operative procedure of VATS lobectomy for technique learning and spread. The investigators will intend to recruit 250 patients each group, for 4 groups. Group A(open group) will undergo radical lobectomy via thoracotomy approach. Group B(standard VATS group) will undergo lobectomy via standard VATS approach introduced. Group C(less staples group) will undergo lobectomy via VATS approach with staples limitation. Group D(modified equipments group) will undergo lobectomy via VATS approach using VATS surgical equipments designed according to the experience of chinese lobectomy surgery. The investigators will compare two groups of patients as followed: A vs. B, B vs. C, B vs. D.