Building Caregiver Skills Using a Simulation-based Intervention for Care of Head and Neck Cancer
Patients with head and neck cancer and their caregivers face many challenges. These include learning about cancer and its treatment, coping with symptoms from illness and treatment side effects, making adjustments to usual activities, and managing the emotional effects of having a serious illness. This study tests whether different forms of education and support can help family caregivers feel better prepared. To find out if education about caregiving and different kinds of support are effective, this study wants to compare approaches.One group includes caregivers who will receive an education and support program throughout radiation treatment in addition to usual care by their doctors and nurses. The other group receives an educational booklet about caregiving in addition to usual care by their doctors and nurses. The caregiver also completes surveys about his or her emotions, distress, confidence as a care giver, and quality of life. In addition, the study asks the caregiver questions about his or her age, race, ethnicity, marital status, employment status, education, annual household income, and current living arrangements. This pilot study will only be offered at the Case Medical Center, University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center, Case Comprehensive Cancer Center Main Campus.
Head and Neck Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: In-person education sessions|BEHAVIORAL: NCI Booklet|OTHER: Survey|OTHER: Interview
Average efficacy of caregiving summary score, Summary statistics as well as observed values of longitudinally measured efficacy outcome variables (efficacy for caregiving, anxiety, depression, and HRQOL) will be presented graphically. Linear mixed models will be used to estimate within- and between-subject components of variance needed for design of a larger trial with these endpoints., Up to 5 weeks|Average anxiety summary score, Summary statistics as well as observed values of longitudinally measured efficacy outcome variables (efficacy for caregiving, anxiety, depression, and HRQOL) will be presented graphically. Linear mixed models will be used to estimate within- and between-subject components of variance needed for design of a larger trial with these endpoints., Up to 5 weeks|Average depression summary score, Summary statistics as well as observed values of longitudinally measured efficacy outcome variables (efficacy for caregiving, anxiety, depression, and HRQOL) will be presented graphically. Linear mixed models will be used to estimate within- and between-subject components of variance needed for design of a larger trial with these endpoints., Up to 5 weeks|Average Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) summary score, Summary statistics as well as observed values of longitudinally measured efficacy outcome variables (efficacy for caregiving, anxiety, depression, and HRQOL) will be presented graphically. Linear mixed models will be used to estimate within- and between-subject components of variance needed for design of a larger trial with these endpoints., Up to 5 weeks
Qualitative assessment of acceptability, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize responses to semi-structured interviews, Up to 5 weeks|Attrition rate to assess feasibility, Feasibility will be assessed via attrition and consent rates., Up to 5 weeks|Consent rate to assess feasibility, Feasibility will be assessed via attrition and consent rates., Up to 5 weeks|Total time for delivering intervention to assess costs, Time for delivering the intervention will be recorded to aid in assessing costs., Up to 5 weeks|Average missed checklist items to assess integrity of intervention, Integrity of the intervention will be assessed through monitoring of intervention checklist., Up to 5 weeks|Event rate for patient events, Describe the average incidence of all patient events that may be impacted by caregiver self-efficacy. Events may include acute care visits, admission to the hospital, visits to the emergency department, need for fluids in the radiation oncology department, and interrupted treatment course, and others, Up to 5 weeks
Aim 1: Conduct a pilot test of the effects of a novel caregiver intervention, as compared to a control group, on family caregiver self-efficacy for caregiving, anxiety, depression, and health-related quality of life.

Aim 2: Explore the acceptability of a caregiver intervention that utilizes simulation.

Aim 3: Assess the feasibility of the intervention. Aim 4: Describe the incidence of patient events that may be impacted by caregiver self-efficacy, such as acute care visits, admissions to the hospital, visits to the emergency department, need for fluids in the radiation oncology department, and interrupted treatment course.