Carboplatin, Paclitaxel, and Temozolomide for Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
The number of melanoma cases has been steadily increasing over the past few decades. For many patients with metastatic melanoma, there are no effective therapies. The goal of this study is to determine whether a combination drug treatment of carboplatin, paclitaxel and temozolomide is effective in the treatment of metastatic or recurrent melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel, carboplatin, temozolomide
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response is evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.0). Target lesions are assessed by physical exam and/or computerized tomography (CT): Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions to qualify for Progressive Disease; Progressive Disease (PD), 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. The Objective Response Rate (ORR) is the sum of the percentages of patients achieving CR or PR., 6 months
Overall Survival, The time from treatment initiation to death by any cause., 2 years|Safety Profile, All toxicities encountered during the study by patients who receive at least one on-study treatment will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE (Version 3.0). The number of patients experiencing adverse events will be reported according to grade., Up to 30 days after last on-study treatment, for up to 2 years|Time to Progression, The time from treatment initiation to disease progression or death by any cause. Progression is evaluated according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version 1.0). Target lesions are assessed by physical exam or computerized tomography (CT): Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions to qualify for Progressive Disease; Progressive Disease (PD), 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 2 years
Over the past several decades, significant research has been conducted to try to identify active chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of melanoma. The rationale for combining taxanes and platinum agents is that both have activity in melanoma; in vitro and clinical data suggest synergy between these drugs when used in combination in a wide variety of tumors, including melanoma; and the toxicity profiles of these agents do not overlap. Temozolomide (a drug approved for the treatment of melanoma) has been combined with other drugs, including taxanes and platinums, in previous clinical trials for melanoma. Specifically, a previous phase I study of the combination of temozolomide, paclitaxel, and carboplatin in melanoma showed objective responses. The efficacy of this combination is now being studied in this phase II trial.