Cancer Prevention in Women With a BRCA Mutation
This study aims to develop a follow-up telephone-based genetic counselling (FTGC) intervention for women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation who have received genetic counseling in the past. Typically, when women undergo genetic testing, they receive standard genetic counselling prior to testing in order to fully understand the procedure and associated implications. If a woman's genetic test results are positive for a mutation, cancer prevention options are then discussed with a counsellor. However, in Canada, there is currently no formal follow-up counselling for women with a BRCA mutation to provide ongoing guidance and support about latest risk reduction strategies. Standard care relies on women making contact for any follow-up questions or concerns they may have. As a result, these women might not have the most current information regarding genetic risk assessment and prevention options. Therefore, individuals are being asked to participate in this study to aid research about the efficacy of FTGC in women with a BRCA mutation.
BRCA1 Gene Mutation|BRCA2 Gene Mutation|Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Follow-up Telephone Genetic Counselling
Efficacy of FTGC session, The primary aim is to determine the effects of a tailored risk communication intervention (FTGC) compared to a standard intervention, 3 years
Emotional and cognitive outcomes of intervention, Secondary aims are to compare the two study groups with regard to intent of cancer prevention strategies, decisional conflict, cancer-related distress, cancer risk and prevention knowledge, choice predisposition and health service utilization., 3 yrs
This study aims to develop a follow-up telephone-based genetic counselling (FTGC) intervention for women with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation who have received genetic counseling in the past. Typically, when women undergo genetic testing, they receive standard genetic counselling prior to testing in order to fully understand the procedure and associated implications. If a woman's genetic test results are positive for a mutation, cancer prevention options are then discussed with a counsellor. However, in Canada, there is currently no formal follow-up counselling for women with a BRCA mutation to provide ongoing guidance and support about latest risk reduction strategies. Standard care relies on women making contact for any follow-up questions or concerns they may have. As a result, these women might not have the most current information regarding genetic risk assessment and prevention options. Therefore, individuals are being asked to participate in this study to aid research about the efficacy of FTGC in women with a BRCA mutation.