An Efficacy and Safety Study of Luspatercept (ACE-536) for the Treatment of Anemia Due to IPSS-R Very Low, Low or Intermediate Risk Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) in Japanese Subjects Who Are Not Requiring Red Blood Cell Transfusion
The study will be conducted in compliance with the International Council for Harmonisation (ICH) of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use/Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and applicable regulatory requirements.

This is a Phase 2, multicenter, single-arm study to evaluate the efficacy, safety and Pharmacokinetics (PK) of luspatercept (ACE-536) for the treatment of anemia due to International prognostic scoring system-Revised (IPSS-R) very low, low or intermediate risk Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS)in Japanese subjects who are not requiring Red blood cell (RBC) transfusion.

The study is divided into the Screening Period, a Treatment Period and a Post-Treatment Follow up Period.
Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: Luspatercept
Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (HI-E) Per International Working Group (IWG) Through Week 24, Hematologic improvement is defined as the percent of participants meeting HI-E criteria of \>= 1.5 g/dL increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) sustained over any consecutive 56-day period in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions from Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24. Participants who discontinued from the Treatment Period without achieving HI-E are counted as non-responders., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24
Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Modified Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (mHI-E) Per International Working Group (IWG), Modified hematologic improvement is defined as the percent of participants meeting mHI-E criteria of \>= 1.5 g/dL mean increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) compared to baseline sustained over any consecutive 56-day period in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions from Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24 and Week 48 of the Treatment Period. Participants who discontinued from the Treatment Period without achieving mHI-E are counted as non-responders. Baseline Hgb is defined as the mean of the two central laboratory values (one performed within 1 day prior to W1D1 and the other performed 7 to 35 days prior to W1D1)., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24 and Week 48|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (HI-E) Per International Working Group (IWG) Through Week 48, Hematologic improvement is defined as the percent of participants meeting HI-E criteria of \>= 1.5 g/dL increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) sustained over any consecutive 56-day period in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions from Week 1 Day 1 through Week 48 of the Treatment Period. Participants who discontinued from the Treatment Period without achieving HI-E are counted as non-responders., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 48|Time to Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (HI-E), Defined as time from Week 1 Day 1 to first onset of achieving ≥ 1.5 g/dL increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) over any consecutive 56-day period in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24 and Week 48|Time to Modified Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (mHI-E), Defined as the time from Week 1 Day 1 to first onset of achieving ≥ 1.5 g/dL mean increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) compared to baseline over any consecutive 56-day period in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. Baseline Hgb is defined as the mean of the two central laboratory values (one performed within 1 day prior to W1D1 and the other performed 7 to 35 days prior to W1D1., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24 and Week 48|Duration of Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (HI-E), Defined as the maximum duration of achieving ≥ 1.5 g/dL increase in hemoglobin (Hgb) for participants who achieve Hgb increase ≥ 56 days in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. Participants who maintain HI-E through the end of the Treatment Period or time of analysis will be censored at the date of treatment discontinuation/time of analysis or death, whichever occurs first., Week 1 Day 1 through end of treatment period (up to an average of 74 weeks and maximum of 178 weeks)|Duration of Modified Hematologic Improvement in Erythroid Response (mHI-E), Defined as the maximum duration of achieving ≥ 1.5 g/dL increase in hemoglobin for participants who achieve mean hemoglobin (Hgb) increase compared to baseline ≥ 56 days in the absence of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. Participants who maintain mHI-E through the end of the Treatment Period or time of analysis will be censored at the date of treatment discontinuation/time of analysis or death, whichever occurs first. Baseline Hgb is defined as the mean of the two central laboratory values (one performed within 1 day prior to W1D1 and the other performed 7 to 35 days prior to W1D1., Week 1 Day 1 through end of treatment period (up to an average of 74 weeks and maximum of 178 weeks)|Red Blood Cell Transfusion Independence (RBC-TI), Defined as the percentage of participants not being given any red blood cell (RBC) transfusion during the treatment period., Week 1 Day 1 through Week 24, Week 48, and Week 72|Progression to Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), Number of participants progressing to acute myeloid leukemia (AML). AML progression is defined per WHO classification of ≥ 20% blasts in peripheral blood or bone marrow. Subjects with diagnosis of AML will be considered to have had an event. Subjects who have not progressed to AML at the time of analysis will be censored at the last assessment date which does not indicate progression to AML., From Week 1 Day 1 up to approximately 44 months|Time to Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Progression, Defined as the time between W1D1 and first diagnosis of AML as per WHO classification of ≥ 20% blasts in peripheral blood or bone marrow. Participants with diagnosis of AML will be considered to have had an event. Participants who have not progressed to AML at the time of analysis will be censored at the last assessment date which does not indicate progression to AML., Week 1 Day 1 to first diagnosis of AML (up to approximately 44 months)|Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as time from Week 1 Day 1 to a participants death date or last known alive date. Participants who die, regardless of the cause of death, will be considered to have had an event. Participants who are alive at the time of analysis will be censored at the last assessment date at which the participant was known to be alive. All participants who were lost to follow-up will also be censored at the time of last contact., Week 1 Day 1 to to a participants death date or last known alive date (up to approximately 44 months)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Treatment-emergent adverse events include adverse events that started on or after the first dose until 42 days after the last dose, as well as those SAEs made known to the investigator at any time thereafter that are suspected of being related to study drug. An AE is any noxious, unintended, or untoward medical occurrence that may appear or worsen in a participant during the course of a study.

Grade 3 = Severe Grade 4 = Life-threatening Grade 5 = Death, From first dose to 42 days after last dose (up to approximately 42.5 months)|Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax), W1D1 (pre-dose), W1D3, W2D1, W2D3, W3D1, W4D1, W10D1, W13D1, W16D1, W17D1, W18D1, W19D1, W22D1, 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment, and every 12 weeks from the 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment Visit for up to 1 year from the first dose.|Time to Maximum Plasma Concentration (Tmax), W1D1 (pre-dose), W1D3, W2D1, W2D3, W3D1, W4D1, W10D1, W13D1, W16D1, W17D1, W18D1, W19D1, W22D1, 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment, and every 12 weeks from the 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment Visit for up to 1 year from the first dose.|Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve (AUC21d), W1D1 (pre-dose), W1D3, W2D1, W2D3 , W3D1, W4D1 (21 days after dose administration)|Number of Participants With a Positive Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) Test, Number of participants under each ADA positive category. A participant is counted as 'Treatment-Emergent' if there is a positive post-baseline sample while the baseline sample is ADA negative, or there is a positive post-baseline sample with a titer \>= 4-fold of the baseline titer while the baseline sample is ADA positive. A participant is counted as 'Preexisting' if the baseline sample is ADA positive and the participant is not qualified for 'Treatment-Emergent'. Positive to preexisting ADA is considered baseline sample is positive and all post-baseline samples are negative, or both baseline and post-baseline samples are positive, but all positive post-baseline sample have a titer \< 4-fold of the baseline titer., W1D1 (must be collected before the first dose), W4D1, W10D1, W16D1, W22D1, 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment Visit and every 12 weeks (± 14 days) from the 24-Week MDS Disease Assessment Visit for up to 1 year from the first dose..
Anemia is considered to be one of the most prevalent cytopenias in patients who have myelodysplastic syndromes, an umbrella term used to describe disorders relating to the ineffective production of red blood cells, white blood cells, and/or platelets. Ranging in severity from mild (asymptomatic) to severe, anemia can result in patients requiring regular red blood cell (RBC) transfusions, which can lead to further complications from iron overload. The goal of this study is to assess the efficacy, safety and PK of luspatercept in anemic patients who are categorized as International Prognostic Scoring System-Revised (IPSS-R) very low, low, or intermediate risk Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and not requiring RBC transfusion. Subjects deemed eligible for the study will be enrolled and treated with luspatercept. Best supportive care (BSC) may be used in combination with study treatment when clinically indicated per investigator. Best supportive care includes, but is not limited to, treatment with transfusions, antibiotic, antiviral and/or antifungal therapy, and nutritional support as needed. Best supportive care for this study excludes the use of ESAs. Patients should receive treatment up to a minimum of 24 weeks after which an MDS Disease assessment visit is scheduled to assess the response to treatment. Patients who are determined to be experiencing clinical benefit may continue treatment. Continued clinical benefit will be re-assessed every 24 weeks. Once patients are discontinued from study treatment, they will enter a post treatment follow-up period.