Study of DCA (Dichloroacetate) in Combination With Cisplatin and Definitive Radiation in Head and Neck Carcinoma
This will be a randomized masked placebo-controlled single-center study to evaluate the effects of Dichloroacetate (DCA) versus placebo given in combination with Cisplatin and radiation treatment in patients with Stage III-IV Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN). Fifty subjects will be enrolled and randomly assigned on a 1:1 ratio to DCA or matching placebo given with standard of care treatment consisting of Cisplatin and radiation treatment.

Patients will receive DCA/placebo PO or per G-tube twice a day for 8 weeks. The first 6 patients of the total study population will represent a safety lead-in cohort. The results of the safety lead-in of DCA/placebo in combination with Cisplatin and radiation therapy will be evaluated after the 6th patient has completed 8 weeks of therapy. Recruitment of patients will be withheld during safety data analysis.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: DCA (dichloroacetate)|DRUG: Placebo
Percentage of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events During Treatment., Percentage of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events During Treatment including but are not limited to mucositis, leucopenia, neuropathy, and treatment breaks. This will be done according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.0, Adverse events (AE) will be assessed from the time the subject begins the study until the 30-days after receiving the last dose of the study medication.
Two-year Progression-free Survival Rate in Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma in Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., Outcome of tumor change will be compared in two separate ways. First, change in measured tumor size at 8 weeks and 3 months will be compared using standard linear models methods (using appropriate transformation to reduce statistical skew).

Progression was determined using RECIST 1.1 definition of 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, in either primary or nodal lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s) and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Year 2|Two-year and Five-year Progression-free Survival Rate in Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma in Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., Progression will be determined using RECIST 1.1 definition of 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, in either primary or nodal lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s) and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Year 5|Local Response Rate for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 3 months|Local Response Rate for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 1 year|Overall Survival for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 1 year|Overall Survival for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 2 years|Overall Survival for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 5 year|Health-related Quality of Life Among Study Patients by Treatment Arm., Completion of Treatment|Health-related Quality of Life Among Study Patients by Treatment Arm ., 1 year|Health-related Quality of Life Among Study Patients by Treatment Arm., 2 year|Health-related Quality of Life Among Study Patients by Treatment Arm ., 5 year|Immune Response and Correlate These Findings With Toxicity and Outcome (Exploratory Analysis)., 3 months|HPV Status- Correlate These Findings With Toxicity and Outcome (Exploratory Analysis)., 3 months|Relative Toxicities for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 2 years|Relative Toxicities for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 3 months|Relative Toxicities During Treatment for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., End of treatment|Relative Toxicities for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients Receiving Concurrent Cisplatin, Radiation Therapy, and DCA., 5 years
Doses for Cisplatin will be based on actual body weight taken on each day of Cisplatin therapy. DCA doses will be calculated at baseline according to actual body weight and will not change during the 8 weeks of therapy.

A careful description of the extent of the primary lesion and nodal spread will be recorded.

Dental Evaluation: Prior to treatment, patients will be evaluated by the dental service and a prophylactic cleaning/fluoride regimen instituted. A delay of at least 14 days from major surgery, including dental extractions, will be required prior to Day 1 treatment.

Airway Patency: Significant laryngeal edema has been described after the use of cisplatin containing regimens. Patients with laryngeal tumors should be considered for a prophylactic tracheostomy prior to the initiation of chemotherapy, if any possibility of airway compromise exists. Patients with laryngeal tumors experiencing respiratory stridor or compromise shortly after chemotherapy/radiotherapy administration should be rapidly evaluated for tracheostomy.

Alimentation: Significant stomatitis, mucositis and dysphagia are expected with these treatment regimens. Hospitalization may be required for symptomatic management. Pronounced weight loss is common, and adequate alimentation needs to be maintained. Early, if not pre-emptive, enteral tube feedings should be considered if difficulty is anticipated.

Compliance: The complexity of these treatment regimes and their attendant toxicity are such that compliance is of major concern. Patients expected to pose compliance problems should not be entered on this study. Patients will need to be seen at least weekly during therapy so that the toxicities can be monitored and treated.