Prospective Study Evaluating the Use of PROSPECT to Reduce Insomnia in Patients With Early Stage Breast Cancer
Women with early stage breast cancer may experience difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. If this occurs for more than 4 weeks, these participants may have chronic insomnia. Chronic insomnia can lead to difficulty coping with stress, changes in mood, increased use of medications for sleep and an overall decrease in quality of life.

The investigators have developed an internet-based website that is designed to help people manage symptoms typically experienced by breast cancer survivors, including insomnia, fatigue, pain and overall poor quality of life. The investigators want to learn whether this type of treatment can reduce chronic insomnia and improve the way subjects feel using both questionnaires and a special form of a wrist watch. This information may help the investigators better manage sleep difficulties in subjects who experience these symptoms after diagnosis of their breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Insomnia
BEHAVIORAL: PROSPECT
Change in Insomnia Severity Index, Insomnia will be measured through the use of a validated survey called the Insomnia Severity Index, 6 weeks
Change in Sleep Disturbance as measured by Actigraphy, Sleep disturbance will be measured through the use of actigraphy watches to be worn for 7 days at baseline and 7 days after 6 weeks of the intervention, 6 weeks
Change in use of sleep aids, A review of the patient's medication list will be conducted at baseline and 6 weeks to determine change in use of sleep aids for chronic insomnia during study participation, 6 weeks|Change in Quality of Life, Quality of life will be measured through the use of a validated survey called Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endocrine Symptoms, 6 weeks|Change in Fear of Cancer Recurrence, Fear of recurrence will be measured through the use of a validated survey called Assessment of Cancer Survivors, 6 weeks
Women with early stage breast cancer may experience difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep. If this occurs for more than 4 weeks, these participants may have chronic insomnia. Chronic insomnia can lead to difficulty coping with stress, changes in mood, increased use of medications for sleep and an overall decrease in quality of life.

The investigators have developed an internet-based website that is designed to help people manage symptoms typically experienced by breast cancer survivors, including insomnia, fatigue, pain and overall poor quality of life. The investigators want to learn whether this type of treatment can reduce chronic insomnia and improve the way subjects feel using both questionnaires and a special form of a wrist watch. This information may help the investigators better manage sleep difficulties in subjects who experience these symptoms after diagnosis of their breast cancer.