LBH589 Treatment for Refractory Clear Cell Renal Carcinoma
Inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) provides a novel approach for cancer treatment. LBH589, an oral HDAC inhibitor, has been well tolerated in phase I trials and has shown activity against several types of cancer. In this nonrandomized phase II trial, we are investigating the activity of LBH589 in the treatment of patients with refractory clear cell renal carcinoma.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: LBH589
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the interval from the date of first treatment with panobinostat until the date that disease progression or death occurred. Progressive disease (PD): 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease in the sum is observed during therapy), with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm., 18 months
Number of Participants Experiencing ≥Grade 2 Adverse Events, An adverse event (AE) is the development of an undesirable medical condition, or the deterioration of a preexisting medical condition (other than the condition that is being treated by the trial) following or during exposure to a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered causally related to the product. The number of participants experiencing such adverse events that are related to the study drug are reported here., 18 months|Number of Participants With Overall Response, Response was evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Overall response is defined as the proportion of participants whose disease either decreased (partial response- PR) or disappeared (Complete response - CR).

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD, 18 months
Inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) provides a potential target for cancer treatment. Histones are components of the core proteins of nucleosomes, and acetylation and deacetylation of these proteins play a role in the regulation of gene expression. HDAC activity is known to be increased in many types of malignant cells; HDAC inhibitors have been shown to induce differentiation, cell cycle arrest, and apoptosis in cultured tumor cells. Since this tumor-associated mechanism is common to many types of cancer, HDAC may have a broad role in cancer treatment.