Polatuzumab Vedotin and Combination Chemotherapy With or Without Glofitamab for the Treatment of Untreated Aggressive Large B-cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects of polatuzumab vedotin when given with combination chemotherapy with or without glofitamab for the treatment of patients with untreated large B-cell lymphoma that grows and spreads quickly and has severe symptoms (aggressive). Polatuzumab vedotin is a monoclonal antibody, polatuzumab, linked to a toxic agent called vedotin. Polatuzumab attaches to CD79B positive cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers vedotin to kill them. Glofitamab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. A monoclonal antibody is a type of protein that can bind to certain targets in the body, such as molecules that cause the body to make an immune response (antigens). Drugs used in combination chemotherapy such as etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Anti-inflammatory drugs, such as prednisone, lower the body's immune response and are used with other drugs in the treatment of some types of cancer. Giving polatuzumab vedotin in combination chemotherapy with or without glofitamab may help treat patients with aggressive large B-cell lymphoma.
Aggressive Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|ALK-Positive Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|EBV-Positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|Primary Mediastinal Large B-Cell Lymphoma|T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Gray-Zone Lymphoma
DRUG: Polatuzumab Vedotin|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Prednisone|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Glofitamab|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: FDG-Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration
Incidence of adverse events, Will estimate the safety and tolerability of polatuzumab vedotin when added to dose-adjusted-etoposide, prednisone, vincristine (Oncovin), cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin-rituximab (DA-EPCH-R) with or without glofitamab, chemoimmunotherapy., Up to 30 days after last dose of polatuzumab or first administration of alternate therapy
The proportion of patients who are unable to complete 6 cycles of therapy for reasons other than disease progression, Up to 18 weeks
OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A (CLOSED TO ACCRUAL 05/23/2024): Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day 1, polatuzumab vedotin IV on day 1, prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5, etoposide IV on days 1-4, doxorubicin IV on days 1-4, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 5. Patients also receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) 24-72 hours after the last dose of each treatment cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan or echocardiography during screening and fludeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT) scan, bone marrow biopsy and aspiration and blood sample collection throughout the study.

ARM B: Patients receive rituximab IV on day 1, polatuzumab vedotin IV on day 1, prednisone PO BID on days 1-5, etoposide IV on days 1-4, doxorubicin IV on days 1-4, and cyclophosphamide IV on day 5. Starting with cycle 2, patients also receive glofitamab, over 4 hours, on day 1 and 8 of cycle 2 and day 1 of subsequent cycles. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo MUGA scan or echocardiography during screening and FDG PET, CT scan, bone marrow biopsy and aspiration and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.