Multiple CAR-T Cell Therapy Targeting AML
The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of multiple CAR T-cell therapy which combines CAR T cells against CLL-1 with CAR T cells targeting CD123 or CD33 in patients with relapsed and refractory AML. The study also aims to learn more about the function of CAR T cells and their persistency in AML patients.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: CLL-1, CD33 and/or CD123-specific CAR gene-engineered T cells
Safety of infusion, Treatment-related adverse events are assessed by NCI CTCAE V4.0 criteria., 1 year
Clinical response, Objective responses (complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)) are assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year
Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a malignant disease characterized by the rapid growth of myeloblasts that grow in the bone marrow and interfere with the generation of normal blood cells.

Over the past few years, several groups have demonstrated that CD33 and CD123 CAR T cells can eradicate AML in both preclinical and clinical trials. Nevertheless, relapse after CAR T therapy remains a critical problem in treating AML. Disease relapse can be caused by antigen escape and by the outgrowth of residual leukemia stem cells (LSCs) that are not effectively eliminated by CAR T cells. CLL-1 (C-type lectin-like molecule-1) is a transmembrane glycoprotein, which is overexpressed in LSCs but absent in HSCs (hematopoietic stem cells), suggesting that CLL-1 might be a promising target for novel AML therapy. In this study, we use CLL-1 CAR-T in combination with CD123 and/or CD33 CAR-T as a new strategy to address LSC issue and prevent relapse caused by antigen escape.

The T cells from patients or transplantation donors will be genetically modified with lentiviral CAR vector to recognize specific molecules (CD33, CD123 or CLL-1) expressed on the surface of AML cells. The engineered T cells will be applied to patients through intravenous delivery.

The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of multiple CAR-T cell therapy in AML. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the function of CAR T cells and their persistency in the patients.