RemImazolam Besylate for ICU-sedation in Patients With Mechanical Ventilation After Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
Remimazolam besylate, as a new benzodiazepine drug, showing rapid clearance and moderate distribution of pharmacokinetic changes. The study will further explore the safety and effectiveness of remimazolam besylate n the sedation of mechanically ventilated patients after oral and maxillofacial surgery in the ICU.
Remimazolam Besylate|Sedation|ICU
DRUG: Remimazolam Besylate|DRUG: Propofol|DRUG: Midazolam
Extubation time, The time from discontinuation of sedation to withdrawal of tracheal catheter., From date of using the intervention drugs until the date of extubation, up to 28 days.
Time to recovery, The time from withdrawal of sedation to recovery., From date of using the intervention drugs until the date of recovery, up to 28 days.|Drug onset time, The time from discontinuation of sedation to meeting the sedation score requirements (RASS score \< -3)., From date of using the intervention drugs until the date of recovery, up to 28 days.|Time to reach the required sedation score, The proportion of time spent meeting sedation requirements (RASS score \<-3) to total time spent on medication, From date of using the intervention drugs until the date of recovery, up to 28 days.|Mechanical ventilation time during ICU, Time from insertion to withdrawal of tracheal catheter., From the time you enter ICU to the time you leave ICU.|Length of ICU stay and total hospital stay, Time from admission to ICU to leave ICU;The time from admission to discharge., From hospitalization to discharge.|Adverse event rate, The proportion of cases with adverse events to the total number of cases for evaluation of adverse events., From date of using the intervention drugs until the date of leaving hospital.
Remimazolam besylate is a new type of ultra-short-acting benzodiazepine, showing rapid clearance and moderate distribution of pharmacokinetic changes. Remimazolam has been widely studied for programmed sedation in endoscopic procedures such as gastroenteroscopy and bronchoscopy. Remimazolam, as a short-acting sedative agent that is not metabolized by liver or kidney, can achieve rapid and reversible sedation and has the potential to shorten the duration of mechanical ventilation.

In the oral and maxillofacial surgical treatment, the use of microvascular free tissue transfer for reconstruction is one of the common operations. In order to avoid mechanical damage to the transplanted reconstructed tissue due to spontaneous movement, patients undergoing major head and neck reconstruction surgery are considered to require postoperative deep sedation for a certain period of time (RASS score required -4/-5 points). Deep sedation may cause hypotension and lead to reduced flap perfusion pressure, increasing the risk of hypoperfusion and flap necrosis, thus requiring close postoperative monitoring in the ICU.

Therefore, there is an urgent need for a sedative drug that can achieve rapid and sufficient sedation, does not inhibit breathing and can reduce the amount of patients or rapid recovery after drug withdrawal without increasing delirium. Based on the deficiencies of currently used sedatives and the potential advantages of remimazolam, we hypothesize that remimazolam can shorten the extubation time and lower the adverse reaction rate in patients with oropharyngeal cancer after mechanical ventilation sedation.

This clinical study was a randomized, multi-center, parallel-controlled, non-inferior clinical study. After signing the informed consent, participants meeting the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to the treatment group (ramazolam besylate) and the control group (propofol, midazolam) in a ratio of 1:1:1, with a total of 285 participants recruited.