Clinical and Laboratory Profile of Myasthenia Gravis in Children At Sohag University Hospitals
This study includes clinical and laboratory studies of patients with Myathenia gravis at Sohag Neurology outpatient clinic of pediatric department
Myasthenia Gravis in Children
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: All patients in this study were subjected to the followings: (A) Clinical history focusing on: Sociodemographic data: age, gender , residence,and degree of consanguinity. Full neurodevelopmental his|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: EMG ,rNST,Ach R antibodies & thyroid function
Clinical and laboratory profile of patients with myasthenia gravis at Sohag Neurology Outpatient clinic of pediatric department, All patients with myasthenia gravis in this study focusing on clinical and laboratory profile at Sohag Neurology outpatient clinic., Follow up for 6 months
All patients in this study were subjected to the followings:

(A) Clinical history focusing on: Sociodemographic data: age, gender , residence,and degree of consanguinity. Full neurodevelopmental history: neurological evaluation Family history. Mode of delivery

(B) Thorough clinical examination: General examination including general look, vital signs and anthropometric measurements.

Scale system include gross motor function and muscle power(Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis Scale) \[36\] detailed neurological examination including motor ,sensory and reflexes. (C) Investigations:

1. Electrophysiological testing:

   EMG : is especially useful in diagnosis of seronegative MG and congenital myasthenic syndromes.

   NCS: including repetitive nerve stimulation test (r NST)
2. laboratory studies: Serology. Detection of antibodies to the AChR supports the diagnosis of JMG. In young children where AChR antibodies are negative this can lead to difficulty in differentiating from CMS.

   Thyroid function tests :
3. Imaging:

   CT chest: Although thymoma in children is rare, the thymus must be imaged once JMG has been diagnosed.
4. molecular studies (when possible).