Molecular Residual Disease Interception in Locoregionally-Advanced High Risk HPV+ and HPV- HNSCC
This is a phase II, open-label study to assess the efficacy of AZD2936 in terms of molecular residual disease (MRD) clearance and treatment outcome in patients with MRD after definitive treatment for high risk locoregionally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (LA-HNSCC). MRD is defined as ctDNA detection in plasma after definitive treatment. Approximately 200 patients are expected to be enrolled.
Locoregionally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma (LA-HNSCC)
BIOLOGICAL: AZD2936
Efficacy (in terms of ctDNA clearance) of AZD2936 compared to observation (Standard of Care, SOC) in LA-HNSCC patients who have MRD (MRD+) after definitive treatment., Clearance of bespoke ctDNA at different time points (week 2 and week 10 after the end of MRD treatment). ctDNA clearance is defined as no detection of ctDNA in both of these two consecutive determinations., 3 years
Efficacy (in terms of delaying or preventing radiological recurrence of disease or death) of AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC) in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients after definitive treatment., Disease free survival (DFS) at 12 months., 3 years|Efficacy (in terms of MRD control) of AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC) in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients after definitive treatment., Time to MRD control failure in MRD+ patients. MRD control failure is defined as two consecutive increases in ctDNA levels (week 2 and week 10 in Part D)., 3 years|Efficacy (in terms of median DFS and OS) of AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC) in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients after definitive treatment., Median DFS and OS in MRD+ patients., 3 years|Safety and tolerability of AZD2936 in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients after definitive treatment and randomized to receive this combination., * Number and severity of treatment related adverse events according to CTCAE v5.0.
* Percentage of participants with AEs, SAEs and rate of AZD2936 discontinuation due to toxicity., 3 years
Predictive value (in terms of predicting radiological recurrence of disease or death) of HPV DNA in patients with HPV positive LA-HNSCC treated with AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC)., • Changes in HPV DNA in MRD+ HPV+ patients treated with AZD2936 or under observation and correlation of such changes with DFS., 3 years|Predictive value (in terms of predicting radiological recurrence of disease or death) of methylated ctDNA in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients treated with AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC)., Changes in methylated ctDNA in MRD+ patients treated with AZD2936 or under observation, and correlation of such changes with bespoke ctDNA and with DFS., 3 years|Kinetics of bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA in LA-HNSCC patients after definitive therapy, Changes in quantitative bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA measurements before treatment and at W4-6 and W 8-12 (Parts A and B)., 2 years|Kinetics of bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients who are treated with AZD2936 compared to observation (SOC)., Changes in quantitative bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA measurements during and after treatment/observation (Parts C and D)., 3 years|Correlation between radiological response and changes in quantitative bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA measurements., Correlation between radiological response and changes in quantitative bespoke ctDNA and HPV DNA measurements., 3 years|To explore the impact of detection of bespoke ctDNA post surgery for patients who underwent definitive surgical resection, • Compare DFS in patients with detectable ctDNA after surgery versus those patients with no detectable ctDNA., 3 years|To compare bespoke ctDNA detection (MRD) as a predictive biomarker for increased risk of relapse in high risk-LA HNSCC., Compare DFS in the MRD-negative observational cohort with DFS in the MRD+ patients under observation (Arm B in Part C)., 3 years|Health related quality of life at various time points throughout the study using the FACT-ICM and EORTC HN43 tool., Overall mean changes in FACT-ICM and EORTC HN43 scores in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients from baseline (of Part C) and cross sectional comparisons including during and after AZD2936/observation and at progression., 3 years|Health related quality of life at various time points throughout the study using the FACT-ICM and EORTC HN43 tool., Overall mean changes in and EORTC HN43 scores in MRD+ LA-HNSCC patients from baseline (of Part A) and cross sectional comparisons including before, during and after AZD2936/observation and at progression, 3 years|Health related quality of life at various time points throughout the study using the FACT-ICM and EORTC HN43 tool., -Overall mean changes in EORTC HN43 scores in MRD-negative LA-HNSCC patients from baseline (part A) and cross sectional comparisons including first year post definitive treatment and at progression., 3 years|Cost effectiveness of the experimental arm vs observation at various time through the study using the EQ-5D-5L., • Utilities, 3 years|Cost effectiveness of the experimental arm vs observation at various time through the study using the EQ-5D-5L., Costs per life-year gained, 3 years|Cost effectiveness of the experimental arm vs observation at various time through the study using the EQ-5D-5L., Quality adjusted life years (QAYs), 3 years|Cost effectiveness of the experimental arm vs observation at various time through the study using the EQ-5D-5L., • Incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs), 3 years
This is a phase II, open-label study to assess the efficacy of AZD2936 in terms of molecular residual disease (MRD) clearance and treatment outcome in patients with MRD after definitive treatment for high risk locoregionally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (LA-HNSCC). MRD is defined as ctDNA detection in plasma after definitive treatment. Approximately 200 patients are expected to be enrolled.

The study is divided in 5 parts:

Part A and Part B are common for all patients in the study, which are defined as the periods of definitive treatment and post definitive treatment. Definitive treatment will be either surgery followed by radiation or chemoradiation; definitive radiation or definitive chemoradiation according to standard of care (SOC) in our institution. A baseline ctDNA sample collection and CT staging will be done before treatment. ctDNA analysis will be performed in Part B at approximately week 5 and at week 10 of this period, and patients will be classified as MRD positive or MRD negative based on the week 10 results. If a patient has equivocal results, a new sample will be taken around week 14. Patients who receive surgery as part of their treatment, will also get ctDNA analysis post-surgery.

Part C is the randomized and interventional part of the study (n=60) for patients with MRD. The patient will be randomized 3:1 to Arm A (treatment with AZD2936) or Arm B (observation). Patients in Arm A will continue treatment until the occurrence of any of these circumstances: after completion of 6 cycles, intolerable toxicity or patient decision. ctDNA analysis will be done at week 10 of Part C.

Part D is the follow up part for patients with MRD. Two ctDNA samples will be analyzed at week 2 and at week 10 of Part D. Plasma samples will be collected every 6 months for the first 3 years and a final sample will be also collected if the patient has radiological or clinical progression. A CT/MRI scan will be performed at week 2 of Part D and, if clinically needed, according to SOC.

Part E is the observational follow up part for patients without MRD. A ctDNA sample will be collected at the time of the first follow up and at radiological or clinical progression if applicable.