Phase 1/2a Dose-Escalation Study of CRLX301 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
A Phase 1/2a, open-label, dose-escalation study with enrollment in Phase 1 to continue until determination of the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) /Recommended Phase 2a Dose (RP2D), and then enrollment into Phase 2a expansion cohorts will be initiated.
Advanced Solid Tumor Malignancy
DRUG: CRLX301
Number of Phase 1 Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events and Dose Limiting Toxicities, Determination of MTD is dependent upon number of dose limiting toxicities and significant adverse events observed., 13 to 19 months|Number of Phase 2a Participants With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Safety variables will include AEs, SAEs, Severe AEs, Related AEs and AEs leading to Discontinuation in phase 2a subjects., 12 months
Evaluate the Pharmacokinetic (PK) Profile of CRLX301, Area under the concentration vs time curve of released docetaxel in blood and/or urine specimens of patients receiving at least 1 dose of CRLX301., 2.5 years|Percentage of Participants Stratified by Best Overall Tumor Response, Best overall tumor response will be provided per dose cohort using RECIST 1.1, 2.5 years
Phase 1 is an open-label, dose-escalation protocol. It is anticipated that up to 36 patients will be enrolled in Phase 1. All patients will be assigned to treatment with CRLX301 as the single agent.

For the first 2 cohorts a 1+5 study design will be utilized. A single patient will be enrolled sequentially into cohort 1 and cohort 2. If either patient in cohort 1 or 2 experiences a dose limiting toxicity (DLT) during Cycle 1, then the cohort will be expanded to enroll additional patients up to a total of 6.

As of cohort 3 and for all subsequent cohorts, a 3+3 dose escalation schema will be utilized.

MTD/RP2D will be determined at the dose level when \<2 of 6 patients experience a DLT in a cohort.

The Phase 2a part of the study will be an open-label expansion cohort study. An additional 24 patients with advanced, histologically confirmed solid tumor malignancies will be enrolled. All patients will be assigned to treatment at the MTD/RP2D with CRLX301 as the single agent.

All patients will be followed for safety, tumor response, and progression free survival (PFS) all per RECIST version 1.1 guidelines. Patients will remain on study treatment until they experience progression of disease, unacceptable toxicity, or other specified reason for discontinuation.