Azacitidine and Entinostat in Treating Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving azacitidine together with entinostat works in treating patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Entinostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving azacitidine together with entinostat may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
DRUG: entinostat|DRUG: azacitidine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Confirmed Tumor Response, Each evaluable patient is classified as having a confirmed tumor response if they have either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) lasts at least 4 weeks. Tumor response is measured by using RECIST v1.1 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). A CR is defined as a disappearance of all target lesions, and each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. A PR is defined as a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation, compared to pre-treatment measurements. The confirmed response rate is calculated as the number of confirmed CR+PR, divided by the total number of evaluable patients, with 95% confidence intervals estimated using the approach of Duffy and Santner., At 6 month evaluation
Time to Progression, Time to disease progression (TTP) is defined as the time from the start of treatment to the earliest of the date documenting disease progression or most recent assessment for patients having no progression. The distribution of TTP is estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., From the start of treatment to the earliest of the date documenting disease progression, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the preliminary efficacy via Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) response rate of the combination of azacitidine and entinostat in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the effects of azacitidine and entinostat on time to progression in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

II. To assess the toxicity for combination azacitidine and entinostat therapy.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate changes in promoter methylation of selected genes from DNA in circulating serum samples.

II. To determine changes in histone deacetylase activity and acetylation of H3 and H4 histones in pre- and post-treatment tumor biopsies.

III. To evaluate correlations between these molecular effects and clinical outcomes (response, time to progression).

IV. To correlate response rates by RECIST criteria versus response rates determined be EASL (change in tumor enhancement).

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously on days 1-5 and 8-10 and oral entinostat on days 3 and 10. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Blood and tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline and periodically during courses 1-3 for DNA methylation, histone deacetylation activity, and acetylation of H3 and H4 histones analysis by PCR, western blot, and RT-PCR assays. Pharmacogenomic studies may also be conducted.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3-6 months for up to 3 years.