Acupuncture for Peripheral Neuropathy Induced by Paclitaxel in Early Stage Breast Cancer
The present study aims to evaluate the effectiveness of acupuncture in the treatment of chemotherapy drug paclitaxel induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with early stage breast cancer
Peripheral Neuropathy Due to Chemotherapy
OTHER: True acupuncture|OTHER: Sham acupuncture
The change the effects of neuropathic pain syndromes management from baseline, Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) scale. This tool included 12 items in total: 10 are differential symptoms descriptors and 2 items evaluate spontaneous and paroxysmal spontaneous pain. The verbal numeric scale from zero (no pain) to 10 (worst imaginable pain). Total pain intensity score may be calculated by the sum of 10 descriptors., Screening visit (baseline), week 4, week 6, week 8, week 12
Baseline pain intensity change, Visual analog scale (VAS). The pain VAS is a unidimensional measure of pain intensity. It is a continuous scale comprised of a horizontal (HVAS) or vertical (VVAS) line, usually 10 centimeters (100 mm) in length. For pain intensity, the scale is most commonly anchored by "no pain" (score of 0) and "pain as bad as it could be" or "worst imaginable pain" (score of 100 \[100-mm scale\])., Screening visit (baseline), week 4, week 6, week 8, week 12|Change in side effects associated with taxane treatments from baseline, FACT-taxane questionnaire. It is a self-report instrument that was developed to measure the health-related Quality of life of patients receiving taxane-containing chemotherapy. This scale has 16 items, including an 11-item neurotoxicity subscale and five additional taxane-specific questions related to the effects of arthralgia, myalgia, and skin changes. The total score is calculated as the sum of the un-weighted subscale score., Screening visit (baseline), week 4, week 6, week 8, week 12
Patients with early stage breast cancer (stages I,II,III) who received paclitaxel in neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy protocol and developed peripheral neuropathy will be randomized to receive true acupuncture (intervention group) vs sham acupuncture (control), once a week, for 8 weeks. The primary outcome is improvement of the symptoms by Neuropathic Pain Symptom Inventory (NPSI) scale (Bouhassira,2004). The secondary outcomes are improvements on Visual analog scale (VAS) and Quality of life by FACT-taxane (Cella, 2003) questionnaire. These scales will be assessed in the Screening visit (baseline), week 4, week 6, week 8 and week 12. The study has duration of 12 weeks.