Evaluation of a New Generation of PET-CT OMNI
The overarching purpose of the study is to provide supporting evidence to the value proposition of OMNI, that offers global access to an affordable hybrid PET/CT system similar in performance to that of systems utilized by world-class academic centers. Specifically, the study will collect a library of oncology 18FDG PET image data from the OMNI system and evaluate the images as compared to the standard of care PET/CT systems.

This evaluation is being performed as a necessary part of product development in order to obtain user feedback on device performance, user preference, image quality (IQ), workflow, and new device features. This study will also help to inform protocol development in reducing both scan time and radiologic tracer dose.
Oncology
DEVICE: OMNI PET/CT Scan
Evaluation, Completed image evaluation will be completed using a 5 point Likert Scale of the OMNI system in comparison to the SoC systems for the same subjects, including analysis, reading, and scoring utilizing Likert Scaling and preference questions by three (3) qualified Nuclear Medicine Physicians. Likert scale is 1-5, 3,4 \& 5 being of diagnostic quality., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Lesion Detectability, Three (3) qualified Nuclear Medicine Physicians shall complete a lesion detectability evaluation of the SoC PET/CT scan (as determined in Phase 1) and OMNI PET/CT scan for each lesion identified for each subject.

Each reader will evaluate the reconstructed images by qualitatively evaluating the visibility of the lesions and by measuring the relevant quantitative values of glycolytic activity of each suspicious lesion (contrast, noise, SUV). The variables conventionally used to quantify the glycolytic activity in PET for characterization, prognosis and therapeutic monitoring are as follows:

* SUV (Standardized Uptake Value): SUVmax, SUVmean, SUVpeak
* Metabolically active volume: VMA
* Total glycolysis of the lesion: TLG = SUV x VMA The reader shall provide the location information of each identified lesion., through study completion, an average of 1 year
The overarching purpose of the study is to provide supporting evidence to the value proposition of OMNI, that offers global access to an affordable hybrid PET/CT system similar in performance to that of systems utilized by world-class academic centers. Specifically, the study will collect a library of oncology 18FDG PET image data from the OMNI system and evaluate the images as compared to the standard of care PET/CT systems.

This evaluation is being performed as a necessary part of product development in order to obtain user feedback on device performance, user preference, image quality (IQ), workflow, and new device features. This study will also help to inform protocol development in reducing both scan time and radiologic tracer dose.