Allogeneic Myeloma GM-CSF Vaccine With Lenalidomide in Multiple Myeloma Patients in Complete or Near Complete Remission
This study seeks to determine whether addition of an allogeneic myeloma vaccine can augment clinical responses to lenalidomide in patients with near complete remission (nCR), or complete remission (CR) leading to a significant improvement in progression-free survival.This main objective of this study is to compare the 2-year progression free survival of patients with multiple myeloma in CR or nCR, treated with lenalidomide plus an allogeneic myeloma vaccine in combination with lenalidomide (with or without Prevnar vaccine) or versus placebo in combination with lenalidomide (control arm).
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: GM-CSF vaccine|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Prevnar13|OTHER: Placebo Prevnar13|OTHER: Placebo GM-CSF Vaccine
2-year progression free survival, Number of participants without disease progression at 2 years., 2 years
Response Conversion Rate, Number of participants who converted from near complete remission (nCR) to complete remission (CR) as measured by the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Near complete remission is defined as negative serum and urine electrophoresis, \< 5% plasma cells in the bone marrow, and positive serum and/or urine immunofixation. Complete response is defined as negative serum and urine immunofixation and a bone marrow aspirate with \< 5% plasma cells., 3 years|MRD Conversion Rate, Number of participants who convert from MRD (Minimal Residual Disease) positive status to MRD negative status as determined through next generation sequencing (NGS)., 3 years|Time to Response, Median time for conversion of response from near complete remission (nCR) to complete remission (CR) as measured by the International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria. Near complete remission is defined as negative serum and urine electrophoresis, \< 5% plasma cells in the bone marrow, and positive serum and/or urine immunofixation. Complete response is defined as negative serum and urine immunofixation and a bone marrow aspirate with \< 5% plasma cells as measured by immunofixation converting from positive to negative., 3 Years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Number of months without disease progression., 3 and 5 years|Evaluate toxicity of allogenic myeloma vaccine, Number of participants experiencing adverse events grade 3 or higher, as defined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0), 3 years|Measure tumor specific immunity and correlate with systemic immunity, 3 years
This is a single institution, three- arm, randomized controlled, Phase II study examining the clinical efficacy of an allogeneic GM-CSF secreting myeloma vaccine in combination with lenalidomide (with or without Prevnar) compared to lenalidomide and placebo (control arm).

Patients enrolled in the study must have two disease measurements (including the last one) consistent with a near complete remission (M-spike negative with persistence of immunofixation), or complete remission (M-spike negative, negative immunofixation, and \<5% clonal plasma cells on bone marrow) per criteria for response in a 3 month period. All patients must be minimal residual disease (MRD) positive by NGS sequencing at enrollment.

Prior to enrollment, patients will have been treated with a lenalidomide containing regimen for a minimum of 6 cycles. All patients will continue on a standard dose of lenalidomide as a single agent until progression, or treatment limiting toxicity, following enrollment.

Patients will be randomized to receive either an allogeneic myeloma vaccine and Prevnar vaccine in combination with lenalidomide, or allogeneic myeloma vaccine without Prevnar vaccine in combination with lenalidomide, or lenalidomide in combination with placebo. Patients will receive allogeneic myeloma vaccine or placebo injections on day 14 (+/-3 days) of cycles 1, 2, 3 and 6 from enrollment, and then annually thereafter for up to 3 years. If assigned to allogeneic myeloma vaccine plus Prevnar vaccine arm, Prevnar-13 will be administered with each allogeneic myeloma vaccine. If assigned to either of the two arms that do not include Prevnar, then patients will receive a placebo in lieu of Prevnar on the same schedule. All patients will be followed for a minimum of 3 years.