Afatinib Dimaleate and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Refractory Solid Tumors, Pancreatic Cancer or Biliary Cancer
This phase I/Ib trial studies the side effects and best dose of afatinib dimaleate when given together with capecitabine in treating patients with solid tumors, pancreatic cancer, or biliary cancer that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment and has not responded to previous treatment. Afatinib dimaleate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving afatinib dimaleate together with capecitabine may be a better treatment for solid tumors, pancreatic cancer, or biliary cancer.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Bile Duct Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IVB Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Afatinib Dimaleate|DRUG: Capecitabine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Incidence of adverse events, assessed according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Adverse events will be tabulated and summarized by dose levels. Summary tabulations will be presented displaying the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum for continuous variables, and the number and percentage per category for categorical data. Toxicity measurement will be accompanied by 90% confidence intervals., Up to 30 days following the last dose of study treatment|Incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT) graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase Ib), DLTs will be tabulated and summarized by dose levels. Summary tabulations will be presented displaying the number of observations, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum, and maximum for continuous variables, and the number and percentage per category for categorical data. Toxicity measurement will be accompanied by 90% confidence intervals., Up to 21 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of afatinib dimaleate in combination with capecitabine (Phase Ib), Defined as the dose at which 0/3 or =\< 1/6 patients experience a DLT graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, will be assessed., Up to 21 days|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) (Phase Ib), Defined as the best tolerated dose overall, considering overall toxicity, including beyond course 1, will be evaluated., Up to 3 years
Biomarker profile (including EGFR and HER2 gene copy number and mutations, Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog, B-Raf proto-oncogene, serine/threonine kinase, neuroblastoma RAS viral oncogene homolog NRAS mutations, and E-cadherin expression), Will be summarized using mean +/- standard deviation. Baseline biomarker profile will also be summarized by the categories of treatment responses. Logistic models with objective response and stable disease as outcome and the baseline tumor profile as covariate will be fitted to evaluate their association. Correlative analysis of the presence of specific biomarkers and objective response/stable disease and progression free survival (PFS) (for patients in expansion cohorts) will be performed using Chi-square test or Fisher?s exact tests, as appropriate., Baseline|Duration of response, Duration of response will be assessed with the Kaplan-Meier method., Time that measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response (whichever status is recorded first) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 3 years|Duration of stable disease, Duration of stable disease will be assessed with the Kaplan-Meier method., Time that stable disease is documented until the first date that recurrent disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival will be assessed with the Kaplan-Meier method., From the day of first treatment to the earlier of (1) death (from any cause) and (2) the last date of subject contact, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Assessed with the Kaplan-Meier method., From time from registration to disease progression or death of any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Rates of response, assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, Response rates will be tabulated and summarized by dose levels. Response rate measurement will be accompanied by 90% confidence intervals., Up to 3 years|Stable disease, defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to quality for progressive disease assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, Stable disease will be tabulated and summarized by dose levels., Up to 3 years|Time to progression, Time to progression will be assessed with the Kaplan-Meier method., From the study enrollment until the criteria for disease progression are met (or death occurs), assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety, maximum tolerated dose (MTD), and the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of afatinib dimaleate (afatinib) in combination with capecitabine in patients with advanced solid tumors (phase I) and pancreatico-biliary cancers (phase Ib). (Phase I/Ib)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate biomarkers of response from tumor biopsies, including markers related to the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) pathways via OncoPlex or other equivalent gene sequencing assay. (Phase I/Ib)

II. Evaluate rates of response and stable disease, duration of response, time to progression, progression-free and overall survival. (Phase I/Ib)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of afatinib dimaleate followed by a phase Ib study.

Patients receive afatinib dimaleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 3 years.