Study of Tumor Samples From Patients With Ewing Sarcoma
This laboratory study is looking at tumor samples from patients with Ewing sarcoma. Studying samples of tumor tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in DNA and identify biomarkers related to cancer
Localized Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor
OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Event-free survival, Time from study entry until disease progression, death without progression of disease, occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 years
Incidence of p53 mutations using the model of Sather and Sposto, Assessed using a two sided log rank test. The expected 95% confidence interval associated with this estimate, as a function of sample size and true mutation/deletion frequency is provided., Baseline|Incidence of p16 loss or deletion using the model of Sather and Sposto, Assessed using a two sided log rank test. The expected 95% confidence interval associated with this estimate, as a function of sample size and true mutation/deletion frequency is provided., Baseline
Study Subtype: Ancillary/Correlative Observational Study Model: Cohort Time Perspective: Prospective Biospecimen Retention: Samples With DNA Biospecimen Description: Tissue Study Population Description: Samples collected from AEWS0031 and patients registered on AEWS08B1 Sampling Method: Non-Probability Sample

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if mutation of p53, and/or deletion of the p16 locus, have prognostic value in patients with Ewing sarcoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the incidence of p53 mutation in Ewing sarcoma samples collected from COG studies.

II. Estimate the incidence of p16 deletions in Ewing sarcoma samples collected from COG studies.

III. Prepare and archive amplified genomic DNA from Ewing sarcoma samples collected from COG studies for future biologic analysis.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Previously archived tumor samples are analyzed for p53 mutations and p16 deletion by immunohistochemistry, FISH, PCR, and DNA sequencing.