Psychosocial Mobile Application (THRIVE-M) for Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This clinical trial aims to evaluate whether a psychosocial mobile application (THRIVE-M), is efficacious for improving quality of life, psychological distress, and fatigue in patients living with multiple myeloma compared to usual care.
Multiple Myeloma
BEHAVIORAL: THRIVE-M
Quality of Life as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Multiple Myeloma (FACT-MM) scale, Compare quality of life between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Multiple Myeloma (FACT-MM) at 8 weeks. the FACT-MM score ranges 0-164 with higher scores indicating better quality of life

Higher scores on the FACT-MM (range 0-164) indicate better quality of life., 8 weeks
Quality of life longitudinally based on the FACT-MM scale, Compare quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer therapy (FACT-MM) between the two groups. The FACT-MM ranges 0-164 with higher scores indicating better quality of life.

Higher scores on the HADS anxiety subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater anxiety symptoms., Up to 15 weeks|Anxiety Symptoms based on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Compare anxiety symptoms between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-anxiety subscale. The HADS-Anxiety subscale ranges from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse anxiety symptoms.

Higher scores on the HADS anxiety subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater anxiety symptoms., Up to 15 weeks|Depression Symptoms based on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, Compare depression symptoms between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)-depression. The HADS-Depression subscale ranges from 0-21 with higher scores indicating worse depression symptoms.

Higher scores on the HADS-depression subscale (range 0-21) indicate greater depression symptoms., Up to 15 weeks|Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) Symptoms based on the PTSD Checkist, Compare PTSD symptoms between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version. The PTSD checklist score ranges from 17-85 with higher scores indicating worse post-traumatic stress symptoms.

Higher Scores on the PTSD Checklist-Civilian Version (range 17-85) indicate greater PTSD symptoms., Up to 15 weeks|Fatigue based on the FACT-Fatigue Scale, Compare fatigue between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Fatigue (FACT-Fatigue). The FACT-Fatigue ranges from 0-52 with higher scores indicating lower fatigue.

Higher scores on the FACT-Fatigue (range 0-52) indicate worse fatigue., Up to 15 weeks
Coping based on the Measure of Current Status Part A (MOCS-A) scale, Compare coping between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Measure of Current Status Part A (MOCS-A). The MOCS-A ranges from 0-52 with higher scores indicating greater coping skills.

Higher scores on the MOCS-A (range 0-52) indicate better coping., Up to 15 weeks|Self-efficacy based on the Cancer Self-Efficacy Scale (CASE), Compare self-efficacy between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Cancer self-efficacy Scale (CASE). The Case ranges from 0-170 with higher scores indicating higher self-efficacy.

Higher scores on the CASE (range 0-170) indicate greater self-efficacy., Up to 15 weeks|Spiritual Well-being based on the FACT-spiritual scale, Compare spiritual well-being between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Spiritual (FACIT-Sp-12). The FACIT-SP-12 score ranges from 0-48 with higher scores indicating better spiritual wellbeing.

Higher scores on the FACIT-Sp-12 (range 0-48) indicate greater spiritual well-being., Up to 15 weeks|Optimism based on the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R) scale, Compare optimism between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R). The score range is 0-24 with higher scores indicating better optimism

Higher scores on the LOT-R (range 0-24) indicate greater optimism., Up to 15 weeks|Life Satisfaction based on the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS), Compare life satisfaction between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Satisfaction with Life Scale (SWLS). The SWLS ranges 5-25 with higher scores indicating better life satisfaction.

Higher scores on the SWLS (range 5-35) indicate greater life satisfaction., Up to 15 weeks|Positive Affect based on the Positive Affect Schedule (PANAS), Compare positive affect between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the positive affect subscale of the Positive Affect Schedule (PANAS). The score ranges 10-50, with higher scores indicating more positive affect.

Higher scores on the positive affect scale of the PANAS (range 10-50) indicate greater positive affect., Up to 15 weeks|Gratitude based on the Gratitude Questionniare-6, Compare gratitude between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Gratitude Questionnaire-6 (GQ-6). the score range 6-42 with higher scores indicating more gratitude.

Higher scores on the GQ-6 (range 6-42) indicate greater gratitude., Up to 15 weeks|Loneliness based on the Cancer Loneliness Scale (CLS), Compare loneliness between participants receiving THRIVE-M versus usual care as measured by the Cancer Loneliness Scale (CLS). The score ranges 20-80 with higher scores indicating greater feelings of loneliness

Higher scores on the CLS (range 15-75) indicate greater loneliness., Up to 15 weeks|Usability of THRIVE-M app based on the System Usability Scale, We will use the System Usability Scale to assess the usability of THRIVE-M for those receiving the intervention. This scale ranes 0-100 with higher scores indicating better usability.

Higher scores on the System Usability Scale ( range 0-100) indicate better usability., Up to 8 weeks
Multiple myeloma, the second most common hematologic malignancy, can be associated with severe end-organ destruction and life-threatening complications (e.g., kidney failure, infection, anemia) resulting in significant morbidity (e.g., pain syndromes, fatigue). The protracted course and treatment of multiple myeloma is also characterized by physical symptoms that can undermine psychological well-being, functioning, and quality of life across the illness trajectory and care continuum.

Despite the high psychological burden that may accompany life with multiple myeloma, the special mental health workforce needed to adequately address their psychological needs is limited. Hence, mobile application-delivered psychosocial interventions offer an innovative approach to overcome the shortage of psychosocial services to support the unique needs of patients living with multiple myeloma. With no psychosocial mobile application interventions for patients living with multiple myeloma, we developed a patient-centered, population-specific, mobile-application psychosocial intervention, THRIVE-M, tailored to the unique needs of patients living with multiple myeloma. With this study, we will establish the impact of THRIVE-M on patient-reported outcomes compared to usual care.

The study will use validated questionnaires to measure patients' quality of life, psychological distress symptoms, fatigue, and self-management targets like coping, spiritual well-being, and self-efficacy. Study questionnaires will be completed in the hospital or clinic, with an option to also complete them remotely via a secure web link or a mailed paper copy.

Divine Mercy University is funding this research study.