Immunological Markers Screening for Colorectal Cancer
Colorectal cancer incidence is increasing at an alarming rate in China. Recent reports concluded aberrant immunological function was associated with colorectal cancer outcome, however, the influence of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on cancer outcome in colorectal cancer survivors is largely unknown.The investigators will explore the impact of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on colorectal cancer disease-specific, disease-free and overall survival. The investigators will recruit approximately 5,000 patients as a prospective study cohort. During follow up, the investigators will explore the association of these factors with outcome of patients. The investigators believe that this project will improve the understanding of the impact of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on colorectal cancer outcome.
Colorectal Cancer
Disease-specific survival, Disease-specific survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to death due to CRC. Concretely, the cause of death obtained in the follow up was classified according to ICD-10 conventions. Disease-specific deaths included those with an underlying cause attributed to ICD-10 codes C18.0-C20.0 or C26.0., 5 years
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to the date of death from any cause., 5 years
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival is defined as the time elapsed from surgery to the first occurrence of any of the following events: recurrence of colorectal cancer; colorectal cancer distant metastasis; development of second non-colorectal malignancy excluding basal cell carcinomas of the skin and carcinoma in situ of the cervix; or death from any cause without documentation of a cancer-related event., 5 years
Colorectal cancer incidence is increasing at an alarming rate in China. Recent reports concluded aberrant immunological function was associated with colorectal cancer outcome, however, the influence of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on cancer outcome in colorectal cancer survivors is largely unknown.The investigators will explore the impact of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on colorectal cancer disease-specific, disease-free and overall survival. The investigators will recruit approximately 5,000 patients as a prospective study cohort. During follow up, the investigators will explore the association of these factors with outcome of patients. The investigators believe that this project will improve the understanding of the impact of immunocyte subgroup and immunologic factors on colorectal cancer outcome.