Vorinostat and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes or Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of vorinostat and azacitidine and to see how well they work in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or acute myeloid leukemia. Vorinostat may stop the growth of cancer or abnormal cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer or abnormal cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving vorinostat together with azacitidine may kill more cancer or abnormal cells.
Acute Erythroid Leukemia|Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia|Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Excess Blasts|Myelodysplastic Syndrome With Ring Sideroblasts|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Anemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Vorinostat
Incidence of toxicities of vorinostat in combination with azacitidine graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0 (Phase I), Exact 95% confidence intervals around the toxicity proportions will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates., Up to 1 month post-treatment|Objective overall response proportion (complete response [CR] + CR with incomplete blood count + partial response) (Phase II), Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be estimated for the response proportion in all three treatment groups via binomial proportions., Up to day 168|Distribution of toxicities in the 12th treatment arm (Phase II), The frequency of subjects experiencing toxicities will be tabulated. Toxicities will be assessed and graded according to CTCAE v. 5.0 terminology. Exact 95% confidence intervals around the toxicity proportions will be calculated to assess the precision of the obtained estimates., Up to 1 month post-treatment
Time to response, Up to day 84|Time to leukemic transformation, Up to day 84|Frequency of leukemic transformation, Up to day 84|Progression-free survival, Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., Time from first treatment day until objective or symptomatic progression, assessed up to 8 years|Overall survival, Assessed by Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated using Greenwood's formulae., Time from first treatment day until death, assessed up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and toxicity of vorinostat in combination with azacitidine in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and some select patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (step 1).

II. To identify doses of both vorinostat and azacitidine for safe combination of the 2 agents that can be administered in repetitive cycles over time for use in phase II studies.

III. To determine the response rate of patients treated with the combination of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) (vorinostat) and azacitidine at the doses established as safe and effective in Step 1 in an expanded cohort of patients with MDS.

IV. To obtain preliminary data on the effects of treatment with the combination of vorinostat and Aza C (azacitidine) in patients with MDS on a series of biologic surrogate markers including: deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation of specific genes (e.g. p15); histone acetylation; hematopoietic progenitor growth and differentiation; the fate of the MDS clone and changes in gene expression by array profiling.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine effect of treatment with the combination on time to response, time to leukemic transformation and frequency of transformation to leukemia in patients with MDS during the phase II segment of the study.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 1-7 and vorinostat orally (PO) 2-3 times daily on days 3-5, 3-9, or 3-16. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly for 6 months and then every 2 months thereafter.