Safety and Efficacy of Pemigatinib in Patients With High-risk Urothelial Cancer After Radical Surgery
The purpose of this clinical trial is to demonstrate the benefit of Pemigatinib, a drug that has indicated promising effects for relapse free survival in molecularly-selected, high-risk patients with urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have received radical surgery. Patients will receive Pemigatinib at a once-daily dose on a continuous schedule, continued until 12 months.
Urothelial Cancer
DRUG: Pemigatinib
Mean Relapse-free Survival (RFS) After Start of Treatment With Pemigatinib., In the protocol, RFS at Year 2 was defined as the time from the start of treatment until disease relapse by Investigator determination, study-end or lost to follow-up, or death due to any cause. Due to the Covid-19 crisis causing significant delay of recruitment and the fact that we needed much more patients to identify patients with FGFR3 alterations, the study recruitment was prematurely stopped in November 2021 when 46 patients were screened and only 4 among 42 tested (9.5%) patients were identified with FGFR3 alterations. Two of the FGFR3 positive patients started treatment and the others were ineligible for the study. Since patients withdrawing from the study before completing the study period of 2 years cannot be included in the calculation of the 2-year RFS rate, the outcome results through premature study-end are presented., Mean Relapse-free survival rate from start of treatment through premature study-end with a maximal follow-up of 62 weeks.
Mean Overall Survival After Start of Treatment With Pemigatinib., Mean Overall Survival of patients who started treatment with Pemigatinib is defined as the time from the start of treatment until the last date known alive, or death due to any cause through premature study-end., Mean Overall Sturvival from start of treatment through premature study-end with a maximal follow-up of 62 weeks.
This is an open-label, single-arm, Phase II study, evaluating safety and efficacy of INCB054828 (Pemigatinib) as adjuvant therapy for molecularly-selected, high-risk patients with urothelial carcinoma (UC) who have received radical surgery. Patients will receive Pemigatinib at a once-daily (QD) dose of 13.5 mg on a continuous schedule. Treatment will be continued until 12 months, or until the evidence of disease relapse or onset of unacceptable toxicity.

Hyperphosphatemia can be managed with diet modification, phosphate binders, or dose modification. Since mineralization of the cornea and retinal changes consisting of serous retinal detachment have been reported in humans, ophthalmic exams are done at baseline and once every 12 weeks during treatment and should include a visual acuity test, slit-lamp examination and fundoscopy. Additional assessments (e.g. Orbital computerized tomography (CT) should be done if clinically relevant retinal findings are observed on ophthalmologic exams and in participants with reported visual adverse events (AEs) or change in visual acuity, if the events or changes are suspected to be of retinal origin.