Dose-adjusted Adjuvant FEC Compared to Standard FEC for Breast Cancer
This is an open randomized phase III study. The primary objective of this study is to compare FEC adjuvant chemotherapy in operable breast cancer given either as fixed doses calculated according to the patients surface area or with doses adjusted according to leukopenia after course one in order to achieve hematological equitoxicity. The main aim of the study is to test whether chemotherapy dosage aimed at hematological equitoxicity will improve the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: 5-FU, epirubicin and cyclophosphamide
Distant disease-free survival., Distant disease-free survival comparing standard and tailored arm., 5-10 years
Regio-locally relapsed disease, Regiolocal disease-free survival, 5-10 years|Overall survival, Overall survival, 5-10 years|Toxicity of treatment., Adverse events, 5-10 years|Leukopenia and correlation to prognosis in distant disease-free survival., Distant disease-free survival in patients groups based on nadir leukopenia after third cycle., 5-10 years.|Effect of dose escalation of leukopenia and correlation to prognosis in distant disease-free survival., Comparing distant disease-free survival difference between patients randomized to tailored and dose-escalated FEC with the Group of patients with standard FEC but with similar grade of leukopenia., 5-10 years.
Group A, FECStandard(standard FEC) is given 7 courses of 5-fluorouracil-epirubicin (Farmorubicin)-cyclophosphamide with doses based on the patient's surface area. Leukocyte nadir values at day 10, 12 or 13 and 15 are measured. Dose-reductions of one step according to table 8.2.1 are performed in case of leukopenic fever or grade 4 leukopenia.

Group B FECTailored(Tailored FEC) receives course one at identical doses to group A. Leukocyte nadir values at day 10,12 or 13 and 15 are measured. Doses of subsequent courses are adjusted to achieve grade 3 leukopenia (leukocyte nadir 1.0 to 2.0) in patients experiencing only grade 0 to 2 leukopenia after course one.

Dose-reductions of one step according to table 8.2.1 are performed in case of leukopenic fever or grade 4 leukopenia .

Patients achieving only grade 0-2 leukopenia at the first course will be randomized into continued treatment at standard doses (Group A) or to doses tailored to achieve grade 3 leukopenia (Group B). The primary comparisons will be made between these two groups of patients.

Patients with grade 3-4 leukopenia after the first course not be randomized but followed according to the protocol and received treatment as group A, FECStandard.