Zanubrutinib, Ixazomib and Dexamethasone in Patients With Treatment Naive Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia
This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of BTK inhibitor Zanubrutinib combined with Ixazomib and Dexamethasone (ZID) for the newly diagnosed Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia. This ZID regimen will be given up to 24 months and stopped for observation. We propose this combination will improve the deep remission (≥VGPR) compared to single Zanubrutinib or IRD regimen and can be a time-limited regimen which will reduce the life-time therapy and benefit the patients.
Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: Zanubrutinib,Ixazomib and Dexamethasone
Deep remission response rate, ≥VGPR after 6 cycles introduction, up to 5 years
Complete response (CR), Disappearance of monoclonal protein on immunofixation (both serum and urine); No histologic evidence of bone marrow involvement; Resolution of adenopathy and/or organomegaly on CT; Resolution of clinical signs or symptoms attributed to WM/LPL., up to 12 months|Progress-free survival (PFS), the time from treatment initiation until disease progression or death, up to 5 years|Duration of response (DoR), the time from best response (R) to progression/death (P/D), up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), The percentage of patients in treatment group who are still alive for a certain period of time after they were diagnosed with Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinemia., up to 36 months|Time to next treatment (TTNT), time from end of primary treatment to institution of next therapy, up to 5 years|Overall response, minimor response+partial response+VGPR+CR, up to 5 year
As Waldenstrom Macroglobulinemia cells always have two or three components tumor cells, including lymphocyte, Lymphoplasmacytic cells and plasma cells. We designed a oral regimen to target both lymphoma cells (Zanubrutinib) and plasma cells (Ixazomib plus Dexamethasone) to eliminate the tumor cells of WM. We propose this combination will improve the deep remission of WM (≥VGPR) . Zanubrutinib will be given 160mg Bid per day, up to 24 months, Ixazomib 4mg per week and Dexamethasone 20mg per week for three weeks, every 4 weeks one course. ID will be given 6 course as introduction and then one course every 12 weeks for up to 24 months. At the last ID course, Zanubrutinib will be stopped. The last ID course is to prevent the bounce of IgM because of Zanubrutinib discontinue.