Treatment of External Genital Warts With Cryotherapy and Sinecatechins 15% Ointment
External Genital Warts (EGW) are the most common sexually transmitted disease associated with more than 30 types of the Human Papillomavirus (HPV). Cryotherapy is an effective method of EGW treatment. However, multiple sessions may be required with reported clearance rates ranging between 27-88%. Sinecatechins 15% ointment is Food and Drug Administration approved for three times daily application in immunocompetent subjects 18 years and older for the treatment of EGW and perianal warts. Treatment of EGW with cryotherapy followed by sinecatechins appears to be logical. Cryotherapy has direct cytodestructive effects with immediate short-term efficacy on treated EGW, while sinecatechins provide field therapy, treating both clinical and sub-clinical lesions. For this study, the investigators used sinecatechins 15% ointment twice daily regimen and anticipated that the synergistic effect with cryotherapy will provide better efficacy that cryotherapy alone. The investigators also anticipated that the sequential therapy with be safe.
External Genital Warts
DRUG: Sinecatechins 15% Ointment|DRUG: Cryotherapy alone
Number of Participants With Complete Clearance,, Subjects with complete clearance, or no longer have HPV infected cells. Complete clearance was defined as zero lesions at the respective time points., at week 1, week 9, and week 17
Number of Participants With Recurrence of Previously Treated EGW Lesions, To evaluate the efficacy of using combination cryotherapy-sinecatechins 15% ointment BID versus cryotherapy alone on EGW lesions via recurrence rates of previously treated EGW lesions in those subjects who achieved a complete response over a 24 week post-treatment period., at 24 week post-treatment period|Number of Participants With Recurrence of Previously Treated EGW Lesions, To evaluate the efficacy of using combination cryotherapy-sinecatechins 15% ointment BID versus cryotherapy alone on EGW lesions via recurrence rates of previously treated EGW lesions in those subjects who achieved a complete response over a 48 week post-treatment period., at 48 week post-treatment period|Local Skin Reactions, To evaluate the safety of cryotherapy-sinecatechins 15% ointment BID versus cryotherapy alone as a regimen for EGW by evaluating for local skin reactions and adverse events.

Number of participants with local skin reactions., at 16 week treatment period|Subjects With Partial Clearance of Lesions, Partial clearance is described as at least 50% reduction from baseline, At week 1, week 9, and week 17|Mean Change in Number of Lesions, Mean change in number of lesions after 1 weeks, 9 weeks and 17 weeks post treatment as compared to baseline, Week 1, week 9 and week 17|Mean Change in Number of Lesions, Mean change in number of lesions as compared to baseline at Week 1, Week 9 and Week 17 for the intent-to-treat population, At week 1, week 9, and week 17
A total of 42 subjects received standardized cryotherapy to all lesions, using two cycles of five seconds each, separated by a five second interval rest (Week 0/Baseline). One week following cryotherapy, subjects were randomized 1:1 to either additional treatment with sinecatechins 15% ointment twice daily or no additional treatment. Those subjects randomized to additional treatment received sinecatechins 15% ointment BID for up to sixteen weeks, or until complete clearance of all EGW, whichever occurred first. Additionally, subjects were advised to maintain safe sexual practices and have all recent sexual partners examined for EGW. Subjects were followed every 8 weeks for a total of 16 weeks (Table 1). EGW lesion counts were conducted at all study visits by the same qualified blinded evaluator. Additionally, at each visit local skin reactions, change in concomitant medications, and adverse events were assessed. Any subjects who received sinecatechins 15% ointment and discontinued prematurely were asked to return for an End of Study Visit. Females of childbearing potential underwent a urine pregnant test at all visits during study treatment period. Subjects that met complete responder criteria as above, were additionally followed and assessed at Visit5/Week 41 and Visit 6/Week 65 to assess for wart recurrence.