Pemetrexed and S-1 in Combination With Bevacizumab in Refractory Colorectal Cancer
Limited agents are optional after standard first and second line treatment for mCRC. Only Regorafenib and Fruquintinib are approved in China. PFS of these targeted drugs are not very long. Pemetrexed has shown significant efficacy in advanced lung cancer regarding PFS and OS with controllable toxicity. S-1 has been used in colorectal cancer with promising outcomes. Bevacizumab is also an important monoclonal antibody which could make benefits in treated patients. This study is aimed to explore the efficacy, safety in advanced colorectal cancer failed to standard therapy in Chinese population.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: S-1|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression-free Survival(PFS), PFS was defined as the time from assignment to disease progression radiological/clinical or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Subjects without progression or death at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of tumor evaluation., From assignment of the first subject to 3 months later after the last participant is recruited.The last participant will be recruited before November 1,2021
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of assignment to death due to any cause. Subjects still alive at the time of analysis were censored at their last date of last contact., From assignment of the first subject until 40 death events observed, up to 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of subjects whose best response was not Progressive Disease (PD) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (= total number of Complete Response (CR) + total number of Partial Response (PR) + total number of Stable Disease (SD), From assignment of the first subject to 3 months later after the last participant is recruited.The last participant will be recruited before November 1,2021|Objective response rate(ORR), The percentage of subjects with total number of Complete Response (CR) + total number of Partial Response (PR), From assignment of the first subject to 3 months later after the last participant is recruited.The last participant will be recruited before November 1,2021|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, adverse events will be assessed according to CTCAE v4.0, including hematological and non-hematological adverse events. Non-hematological adverse events will be collected by patients reported outcomes questionaire. The adverse events of interest include hypertension,hand-foot syndrome,proteinuria,hoarseness,rash,etc.The dose reduction and drug discontinuance due to adverse events will also be recorded., From assignment of the first subject to 3 months later after the last participant is recruited.The last participant will be recruited before November 1,2021
Limited agents are optional after standard first and second line treatment for mCRC. Only Regorafenib and Fruquintinib are approved in China. PFS of these targeted drugs are not very long. Pemetrexed has shown significant efficacy in advanced lung cancer regarding PFS and OS with controllable toxicity. S-1 has been used in colorectal cancer with promising outcomes. Bevacizumab is also an important monoclonal antibody which could make benefits in treated patients. This study is aimed to explore the efficacy, safety in advanced colorectal cancer failed to standard therapy in Chinese population.