Safety and Efficacy of NRG-103 Injection in the Treatment of Recurrent Glioblastoma Patients
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn if NRG103 works to treat recurrent GBM in adults. It will also learn about the safety of NRG103.

The main questions it aims to answer are:

Does NRG103 prolong overall survival or disease-free survival in patients with GBM? What medical problems do participants have when receiving NRG103 treatment? Researchers will give patients with NRG103 to see if NRG103 works to treat recurrent GBM.

Participants will:

Receive NRG103 twice in 14 days Visit the clinic once every 2 weeks for checkups and tests Keep a diary of their symptoms
Glioblastoma (GBM)
DRUG: NRG-103
Progression-free survival, The participants will be followed until disease progression by RANO criteria, 6 months after NRG-103 treatment
Overall survival, The participants will be followed until death, 12 months after NRG-103 treatment
The annual incidence rate of malignant brain tumors in China is 4.2/100000, and GBM accounts for 50.9%. GBM is highly invasive and malignant. After undergoing anti-tumor treatments such as surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy, the short-term recurrence rate is extremely high. The median survival time after recurrence is only 9 months, and the 1-year survival rate is 30%. It is urgent to explore new therapy strategy.

Transgenic oncolytic virus therapy for GBM is an emerging anti-tumor therapy. The genetically engineered oncolytic virus has improved selectivity towards tumor cells, replicating and lysing only within infected tumor cells, while activating the body's immune system to launch a more extensive attack on tumors. At present, various genetically modified oncolytic viruses targeting GBM have entered the clinical trial stage both domestically and internationally. For example, G47Δ, with superior anti-tumor activity and good safety in early clinical trials, has been conditionally approved for marketing in Japan for the treatment of malignant gliomas. DNX-2401, JL15003, and others are also in the early stages of clinical research. NRG-103 is an innovative gene therapy drug developed based on the in situ trans-differentiation technology. Through multiple mutation modifications of the adenovirus genome, it can enhance the specific recognition and killing effect of oncolytic virus on GBM tumor cells without being limited by tumor gene phenotype, and regulate the immune microenvironment to induce stronger anti-tumor immune response. In addition, the two transcription factors expressed on NRG-103 can efficiently transdifferentiate residual GBM tumor cells into non tumor like neuronal cells, in order to achieve the goal of delaying tumor recurrence and long-term survival. NRG-103 exhibits significant anti-tumor activity and clear in situ trans-differentiation effects in preclinical models, providing scientific evidence for the potential clinical efficacy of NRG-103.