Evidence Based Dissemination for Mammography Adherence in Safety Net Communities
Breast cancer is the most common cancer and the second leading cause of cancer related death in American women. Regular screening, early diagnosis, and timely treatment initiation have been shown to reduce breast cancer morbidity and mortality. However, disparities continue to exist across the breast cancer continuum for underserved women, particularly minority women. The reduction of disparities in breast cancer outcomes is a major goal of Healthy People 2020 and the National Cancer Institute. However, the preventable burden of late stage breast cancer will continue until the investigators close the gap between what is known about prevention and what is implemented in the community. Although many sources of information exist about theory and \[theory-\] and evidence-based interventions (EBIs) to promote mammography screening, their adoption and use in the community has been limited and haphazard at best.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Peace of Mind Program
Mammography Appointment Adherence, Appointment attendance will be taken from the electronic health record for both control and intervention patients, 12 months
Cancellations or rescheduled appointments, Patients who cancelled and rescheduled will be taken from the electronic health record for both control and intervention patients, 12 months
In order to effectively reach underserved women and reduce breast cancer disparities, D\&I efforts should target the healthcare delivery system where these women receive service - the so called "safety net". Within the safety net, federally qualified health centers (FQHCs), provide comprehensive primary health care services for underserved communities regardless of ability to pay, including mammography screening. Our team has successfully pilot tested a National Cancer Institute research tested intervention program (RTIP) with underserved women and were able to reduce no-show rates from 44% to 19%. In order to accelerate the adoption and implementation of our EBI within the safety net, the investigators will use a two-step approach based on the consolidated framework for implementation research (CFIR), and intervention mapping. The investigators will actively disseminate the EBI through a unique breast health collaborative with a wide membership of FQHCs, support implementation through training and evaluate the adoption, implementation, sustainment and effectiveness of the EBI. The investigators will use a clinic clustered stepped wedge design for implementation in FQHCs.