Docetaxel/Cisplatin/5-Fluorouracil (TPF) Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Squamous Cell Carcinoma Study
In this research study, the investigators are studying whether a reduced dose of radiation when given with standard doses of chemotherapy can reduce side effects without compromising control of the cancer. An approved treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is initial chemotherapy followed by radiation and chemotherapy together. This treatment is effective but has many immediate and long-term side effects. People who have squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SSCHN) that is related to an infection by the human papillomavirus (HPV) have been shown to have a high response to this treatment along with a high cure rate. The investigators think that by reducing the intensity of this treatment, they may be able to reduce immediate and long-term side effects which may lead to long term improvements in quality of life and function.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Human Papilloma Virus
DRUG: docetaxel|DRUG: cisplatin|DRUG: 5-FU|RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: cetuximab|DRUG: carboplatin
2-Year Local-Regional Control Rate, 2-year local-regional control rate is defined as the proportion of participants who achieve confirmed stable disease (SD) or better by 2-years post study registration based on RECIST 1.0 criteria. Per RECIST 1.0 for target lesions, complete response (CR) is disappearance of all target lesions and partial response (PR) is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started. SD is neither PR nor PD. For non-target lesions, PD is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Follow-up for response continued until first progression. Disease assessments occurred at completion of induction cycle 3 along with months 12, 18 and 24 post study registration.
4-y Overall Survival Rate, 4-year overall survival rate is the percentage of patients remaining alive 4-years from study entry., Patients were followed for survival up to 5 years from study entry. Patients alive have been followed for a mean of 55 months (range 52-60 months).
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

To determine rate of local-regional control at 2 years

Secondary

To determine Progression Free Survival at 2 and 5 years

To determine Overall Survival at 2 and 5 years

To assess acute toxicity and long term toxicity of reduced radiation dose at 2 and 5 years