Study on Correlation Between Cytomegalovirus and Ocular Myasthenia Gravis
Ocular myasthenia gravis (OMG) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disease mediated by pathogenic autoantibodies. Its etiology and pathogenesis are not completely clear. The occurrence and development of OMG are the result of the joint participation of genetic factors, environmental factors and immune factors. The role of infectious factors in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases is a hot topic in the international discussion.By analyzing the difference in the positive rate and titer of CMV antibodies between ocular myasthenia gravis and healthy people. By analyzing the correlation between the positive rate and titer of CMV antibodies and ocular myasthenia gravis clinical manifestations, acetylcholine receptor antibodies, ESR, hypersensitive C-reactive protein, complement C3, complement C4 and thymus status.To investigate the correlation between cytomegalovirus and ocular myasthenia gravis. It can provide new insights for further studies on the etiology and possible pathogenesis of ocular myasthenia gravis.
Ocular Myasthenia Gravis|Cytomegalovirus Infections
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Serum acetylcholine receptor antibody, erythrocyte deposition rate, hypersensitive C protein, neostigmine test,thymus CT, low frequency repeated nerve stimulation
CMV lgG, lgM positive rate, CMV-lgG titer ≥14IU/ mL is positive, 12-14 IU/ mL is critical, and 0-12 IU/ mL is negative. CMV-lgM titer \> 22U/ mL is positive, 18-22U/mL is critical, and 0-18U/mL is negative., 1year|CMV lgG, lgM antibody titer, Concentrations of cytomegalovirus lgG and lgM antibodies is collected for analysis., 1year
A total of 75 patients and 40 healthy volunteers are collected who are diagnosed with ocular myasthenia gravis in the First Affiliated Hospital of Jinan University from January 2019 to January 2022 . All subjects undergo eye examination and cytomegalovirus antibody detection. OMG patients undergo the following examinations: serum acetylcholine receptor antibody, erythrocyte deposition rate, hypersensitive C protein, neostigmine test, chest CT, low frequency repetitive nerve stimulation (orbicularis oculi, levator palpebrae superioris, frontalis muscle), thyroid function and color ultrasound. The difference of lgG positive rate ,lgM positive rate of CMV and antibody titers of lgG and lgM are analyzed between the two groups, and the relationship between CMV antibody and OMG clinical manifestations, acetylcholine receptor antibody, laboratory indicators and thymus status are analyzed.