Intratumoral Extracellular Metabolic Impact of DFMO and AMXT 1501 in Patients With Diffuse or High Grade Glioma
This early phase I trial studies brain tumor (glioma) metabolism in response to eflornithine (DFMO) and polyamine transport inhibitor AMXT-1501 dicaprate (AMXT 1501) in patients with diffused or high grade glioma. Brain tumors use and produce certain molecules to survive and grow. DFMO is an irreversible inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, the enzyme catalyzing polyamine synthesis. AMXT 1501 is a polyamine transport inhibitor which prevents uptake of polyamines from the extracellular environment. This trial is being done to analyze how DFMO and AMXT 1501 affect brain tumor metabolism based on the molecules in the tumor's fluid.
Diffuse Glioma|Malignant Glioma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Eflornithine|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Polyamine Transport Inhibitor AMXT-1501 Dicaprate|PROCEDURE: Resection|DEVICE: Microdialysis|PROCEDURE: Placement
Change in the tumor/brain extracellular guanidinoacetate ratio, Targeted metabolomics will be performed using the microdialysate aliquot collected at each time point to quantify guanidinoacetate content. Fold change values will be calculated between each time point within a patient. Fold changes values between time points will be compared across the three arms for statistically significant differences using a Wilcoxon signed rank test; p \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Baseline up to 2 months
Measured extracellular levels of glutamate in tumor and brain microdialysates, Targeted metabolomics will be performed for each time point's microdialysate, assaying for polyamines (putrescine, spermine, and spermidine), in addition to ornithine and glutamate. Fold change values will be calculated between each time point within a patient. Fold changes values between time points will be compared across the three arms for statistically significant differences using a Wilcoxon signed rank test; p \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Up to 2 months|Proportion of longitudinal microdialysis aliquots containing > 30 uL of microdialysate, Targeted metabolomics will be performed for each time point's microdialysate, assaying for polyamines (putrescine, spermine, and spermidine), in addition to ornithine and glutamate. Fold change values will be calculated between each time point within a patient. Fold changes values between time points will be compared across the three arms for statistically significant differences using a Wilcoxon signed rank test; p \< 0.05 will be considered statistically significant., Up to post-operative day 5|Central nervous system free drug levels from microdialysate - DFMO, Drug levels of difluoromethylornithine (eflornithine \[DFMO\]) at each time point will be calculated for pharmacokinetic analyses by Aminex Therapeutics to determine time of peak concentration (hr), maximum drug concentration (ng/mL), and area under the curve 0-t (hr\*ng/mL)., Up to 2 months|Central nervous system free drug levels from microdialysate - AMXT 1501, Polyamine transport inhibitor AMXT-1501 dicaprate (AMXT 1501) at each time point will be calculated for pharmacokinetic analyses by Aminex Therapeutics to determine time of peak concentration (hr), maximum drug concentration (ng/mL), and area under the curve 0-t (hr\*ng/mL)., Up to 2 months|AMXT 1501 brain/plasma ratio over time, Will be assessed via longitudinal microdialysis to understand how AMXT 1501 is distributed in Central Nervous System (CNS) tissue with and without tumor as compared to plasma levels over time., Up to 2 months|Incidence of adverse events, Although no significant additional risks are anticipated in the proposed context, safety data will be assessed to evaluate for any unanticipated adverse events., Up to 2 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine how polyamine depletion impacts extracellular guanidinoacetate abundance.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the impact of polyamine depletion on polyamine abundance and the global extracellular metabolome within live human gliomas, in situ.

II. Assess the feasibility of longitudinal microdialysis to evaluate pharmacodynamic responses of in situ gliomas to therapeutic intervention in a post-operative setting.

III. Assess the central nervous system (CNS) pharmacokinetics of DFMO and AMXT 1501.

IV. Adverse effects of study drugs in the immediate postoperative setting during microdialysis.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo surgical resection with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and placement of catheters for microdialysis at baseline. Patients receive DFMO orally (PO) in combination with AMXT 1501 PO on days 1-5 post-surgery in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also continue microdialysate collection as well as undergo computed tomography (CT) and collection of blood on study.

ARM II: Patients undergo surgical resection with MRI and placement of catheters for microdialysis at baseline. Patients receive DFMO PO and AMXT 1501 PO on days 3-5 post-surgery in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also continue microdialysate collection, as well as undergo CT and collection of blood on study.

ARM III: Patients undergo surgical resection with MRI and placement of catheters for microdialysis at baseline. Patients receive DFMO PO alone on days 1 and 2 post-surgery, then receive eflornithine PO in combination with AMXT 1501 PO on days 3-5 post-surgery in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also continue microdialysate collection, as well as undergo CT and collection of blood on study.