Web-Based Physical Activity Intervention in Improving Long Term Health in Children and Adolescents With Cancer
This randomized clinical phase III trial studies how well web-based physical activity intervention works in improving long term health in children and adolescents with cancer. Regular physical activity after receiving treatment for cancer may help to maintain a healthy weight and improve energy levels and overall health.
Carcinoma In Situ|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Internet-Based Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DEVICE: Medical Device Usage and Evaluation|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Physiologic cost index (PCI), Differences in PCI will be compared between groups at the end of the intervention. Intent to treat analysis of variance (either transforming the data or employing a non-parametric equivalent if the data are not normally distributed) controlling for the stratification factors (sex, age, and treatment related risk group) will be used for comparison. General linear mixed models will be utilized to evaluate the effects of group assignment on changes in PCI over time to account for repeated measures on individual children, and for potential random effects such as original treating institution., Up to 24 weeks (end of intervention)
Change in markers of cardiometabolic health, Markers of Cardiometabolic health include blood pressure, body mass index, waist to height ration, fasting insulin, glucose, and lipid levels. Differences in these markers between randomized groups and the effects of group assignment on changes over time will be evaluated., Baseline up to 48 weeks post intervention|Change in inflammation, Markers of an Inflammatory state include High sensitivity C-reactive protein, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor alpha. Differences in these markers between groups and the effects of group assignment on changes over time will be evaluated., Baseline up to 48 weeks post intervention|Change in quality of life, Will be assessed using Pediatric Quality of Life (PedsQL) 4.0 Generic Core Scale. The 23-item PedsQL Generic Core Scales were designed to measure the core dimensions of health as delineated by the World Health Organization, as well as role (school) functioning. Scores range from 0-100, higher is better. There are four scales (Physical Functioning, Emotional Functioning, Social Functioning, and School Functioning). Emotional, Social and School Functioning can be combined to create a psychosocial summary (summed and divided by total number of items). Differences between groups and the effects of group assignment on changes over time will be evaluated., Baseline up to 48 weeks post intervention|Change in fatigue, Will be assessed using Pediatric Quality of Life Multidimensional Fatigue Scale. The PedsQL Multidimensional Fatigue Scale was designed as a generic symptom-specific instrument to measure fatigue in patients with acute and chronic health conditions as well as healthy school and community populations. It has three dimensions, general fatigue, sleep/rest fatigue and cognitive fatigue. Scores range from 0-100 and items are summed and divided by the total to get the mean. Differences between groups and the effects of group assignment on changes over time will be evaluated., Baseline up to 48 weeks post intervention|Change in school attendance, Will be assessed using parent report. Differences between groups and the effects of group assignment on changes over time will be evaluated., Baseline up to 48 weeks post intervention|Markers of cardiometabolic health, Markers of cardiometabolic health include blood pressure, body mass index, waist to height ration, fasting insulin, glucose, and lipid levels. It will be determined if the effect of an interactive web-based physical activity intervention on markers of cardiometabolic health is mediated by changes in fitness among children and adolescents following treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. A causal inference approach will evaluate whether group assignment results in an improved outcome in the presence of a lower PCI. This requires decomposing the averaged total effect into indirect and direct effects of group assignment of on the cardiometabolic outcomes. A principal stratification method will be used that classifies participants into strata based on their performance on the PCI (mediator variable) for each group of the randomized intervention. Mediation analyses would then be based on intent-to-treat effects of group assignment on cardiometabolic health outcome within each strata., Up to 48 weeks post intervention
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the effects of a rewards-and web-based physical activity intervention that includes structured social interaction between participants to the same web-based physical activity intervention that does not include structured social interaction on fitness among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive web-based physical activity intervention on markers of cardiometabolic health among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based physical activity intervention without social interaction).

II. To evaluate the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive, web-based physical activity intervention on physical activity, quality of life, fatigue, and school attendance among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based physical activity intervention without social interaction).

III. To determine if the effect of a rewards-based, socially interactive, web-based physical activity intervention on markers of cardiometabolic health is mediated by changes in fitness among children and adolescents following treatment for cancer (compared to the same web-based physical activity intervention without social interaction).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive educational handouts about physical activity and are encouraged to increase physical activity to at least 420 minutes per week. Patients wear a physical activity tracking device daily and upload data at least once a week to the device app/website. Patients also access the limited version of the app/website to get basic information related to their physical activity. Patients will not be told of the details of earning of monetary incentives. Their activity will be monitored during the 6 month intervention period and will receive all earned gift cards or prizes after the intervention period ends. The patient will be encouraged to continue to wear the device for the remainder of the study, although they will no longer be earning monetary incentives.

ARM II: Patients receive educational handouts about physical activity and are encouraged to increase physical activity to at least 420 minutes per week. Patients wear a physical activity tracking device daily and upload data at least once a week to the device app/website. Patients also access the full version of the interactive-reward based device app/website to see their activity, earn activity points, see other's activity, and interact with other patients randomized to this study arm. Patients will receive additional details about how to earn gift cards or prizes for engaging in the intervention and will be rewarded for all earned incentives throughout the 6 month intervention period. The patient will be encouraged to continue to wear the device for the remainder of the study, although they will no longer be earning monetary incentives.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24 and 48 weeks.