Nurse-led Medication Self-management Intervention in the Improvement of Medication Adherence
Back ground \& Aims Adult patients suffering from multimorbidity are at high risk of medication non-adherence. It has been well established that self-management support is an effective strategy to enhance medication adherence for patients with chronic conditions. However, little is known about the effect of the medication self-management intervention in Adult patients with multimorbidity. The aim of this study to evaluate the effectiveness of a nurse-led medication self-management intervention in improving medication adherence and health outcomes in adult patients with multimorbidity.

Methods This study is a single centre, single-blind, two-arm randomised controlled trial. Adult patients with multi-morbidity will be recruited from NCCCR Qatar. A total of 100 participants will be randomly allocated to receive standard care or standard care plus the medication self-management intervention. The intervention will be delivered by clinical nurse specialists. The 6-week intervention includes three face-to-face education sessions (2st week, 4rd week and 6th week) and two weekly (8th week and 10 week) follow-up phone calls. Participants in the control group continue to receive all respects of standard care offered by healthcare providers, including chronic disease management, drug prescription, referral to hospital specialists, health education and consultations regarding patients' diseases and treatments during centre visits.

Outcome The primary outcome is medication adherence as measured by the 8-item Medication Adherence Report Scale. Secondary outcomes include medication self-management capacity (medication knowledge, medication beliefs, and medication self-efficacy), treatment experiences (medication treatment satisfaction and treatment burden). All outcomes will be measured at baseline, immediately post-intervention (7th week), and at 3-month post-intervention.
Heart Diseases|CKD|Diabetes|Cancer|Asthma|Thyroid|Hypertension
BEHAVIORAL: Motivational tteaching
Medication Adherence, The Morisky-8 is a self-reporting measure of unintentional and intentional medication non-adherent behaviors with a yes and no response. The total score of the moresky-8 ranges from 0 to 8, with a higher score representing higher adherence to medication. Approx 50% percentage change in medication adherence after intervention from baseline to 3 months as compared to control, 3 months
Medication Knowledge, Change medication knowledge using The Patients' Perceived Knowledge in Medication Use Questionnaire (PKMUQ). The response scale ranges from 1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree, and the response scores of all 5 items will be summed. Higher scores indicate a higher level of medication knowledge. the score will vary from 5 to 25., 3 months|Medication beliefs, using the Beliefs about Medication Questionnaire (BMQ 18-item)self-reported questionnaire we will assess the medication beliefs from baseline to 3 months.

A 5-point Likert scale ranging from 1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree is used. A higher score indicates stronger beliefs about the corresponding concepts in each subscale. the score range would be 5 to 90., 3 months|Medication self-efficacy, Change in Self efficacy will be assess using the SEAMS 13 items of questionnaire. Each item has a 3-point scale ranging from 1 = not confident to 3 = very confident. The score of scale ranges from 13 to 39, with a higher medication self-efficacy by a higher score., 3 months|Treatment burden, The change in behavior and emotional burden using MTBQ questionnaire. Each item is scored on 6-point Likert scale, ranging from 0 = does not apply to 5 = most difficult. Scores are summed to derive a total score ranging from 0 to 50 with a higher score indicating a higher level of treatment burden., 3 months
In terms of intervention we are giving six weeks motivational training ( 3 face face session and 2 telephonic follow ups).