Remotivation Process for Improving Adherence to Lymphedema Treatment Programs in Patients With Breast Cancer-Related Lymphedema
This trial studies how well the Remotivation Process in an occupational therapy program works in improving adherence to lymphedema treatment programs in patients with breast cancer-related lymphedema. Lymphedema treatment programs are well developed and effective, but adherence to these programs are an issue. The Remotivation Process is a series of techniques that helps guide discussions between occupational therapists and their patients based on their level of motivation. This study uses the Remotivation Process by gathering patients' thoughts about their experience with lymphedema and occupational therapy services to determine their motivation and learn about the barriers they face in order to improve adherence to these programs.
Breast Carcinoma|Lymphedema
OTHER: Best Practice|BEHAVIORAL: Motivational Interviewing|BEHAVIORAL: Motivational Interviewing|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in daily performance of the lymphedema management techniques, Will be assessed by frequency count that records the number of times the participant performed the self-management program during the first and fourth week of the study, which is a 7-day period., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Change in arm girth measurement, Repeated measures analysis of variance will be used to establish significance and compare the pre-test and post-test girth of the affected arm as well as compare the difference between the affected and non-affected arm at pre-test and post-test. Non-parametric tests will be used should the study not meet the assumptions of parametric test. For non-parametric tests in this case, Friedman's analysis of variance will be used to compare girth., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Change in the number of times each patient performed the self-management program, Will be compared by a paired t-test., Baseline up to 4 weeks
Change in quality of life, Will be measured by the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory. Will be compared using paired t-test. Pearson correlation will be used to determine the correlation between the score from the Model of Human Occupation Screening Tool and scores from the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory. Non-parametric tests will be used should the study not meet the assumptions of parametric test. For non-parametric tests in this case, Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used to compare the pre-test and post test scores. The Spearman's ranks tests will be used to determine the correlation between the score from the Model of Human Occupation Screening Tool and scores from the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory. The qualitative phase follows a descriptive phenomenological design. Thematic analysis will be used to analyze data., Baseline up to 4 weeks|Change in occupational performance, Will be measured by the Model of Human Occupation Screening Tool. Will be compared using paired t-test. Pearson correlation will be used to determine the correlation between the score from the Model of Human Occupation Screening Tool and scores from the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory. Non-parametric tests will be used should the study not meet the assumptions of parametric test. For non-parametric tests in this case, Wilcoxon signed-ranks test will be used to compare the pre-test and post test scores. The Spearman's ranks tests will be used to determine the correlation between the score from the Model of Human Occupation Screening Tool and scores from the Lymphedema Quality of Life Inventory. The qualitative phase follows a descriptive phenomenological design. Thematic analysis will be used to analyze data., Baseline up to 4 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. How does remotivation process change daily performance of the lymphedema management techniques? (Quantitative Study) II. How does the Remotivation Process affect the client's manifestation of breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL)? (Quantitative Study) III. How does the Remotivation Process affect the client's occupational participation and quality of life? (Quantitative Study) IV. What are the perspectives of patients with BCRL about the self-management program after participating in an occupational therapy using the Remotivation Process? (Qualitative Study) V. What are the perspectives of patients with BCRL about their arm after the occupational therapy program? (Qualitative Study) VI. How do patients with BCRL describe their daily life after occupational therapy? (Qualitative Study)

OUTLINE:

Patients participate in a discussion with an occupational therapist via videoconferencing over 15 minutes once weekly (QW) for 4 weeks about their experience with lymphedema and the occupational services they received. After 4 weeks, some patients may also participate in an interview with an occupational therapist via videoconferencing over 60 minutes. During the first week of the study, patients also receive occupational therapy per standard of care.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 month.