Axillary Versus Primary Breast Approach for Second-stage Breast Reconstruction
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the safety of axillary or primary breast approach for second-stage operation in expander-implant breast reconstruction for breast cancer patients. The main question it aims to answer are: 1. if the wound related events, including wound dehiscence, infection, delayed healing is significant less often in patients receiving second stage operation via axillary approach compared with primary breast approach; 2. if the aesthetic outcome is comparable between patients receiving different approach for second stage operation. To answer these questions, the breast cancer patients have received nipple-sparing or skin-sparing mastectomy and had breast tissue expander insertion via breast incision, will be prospectively recruited, and randomized into two groups while receiving implant exchange operation: (1) operate via axillary incision; (2) operate via primary breast incision.
Breast Neoplasm Female|Breast Reconstruction|Wound Complication
PROCEDURE: implant exchange operation
Proportion of Wound healing within 7 days post-operation, Without one of the following conditions：wound dehiscence requiring local wound care or operative intervention, wound infection requiring antibiotics 24hours post-operation, or debridement, within 7 days of post-operation., up to 7 days post-operation
other surgical complications, Including hematoma, seroma, nipple and areola Necrosis, implant exposure, implant removal, and cyst contracture, measured by Clavien-Dindo stage., one year|Breast Q score, The satisfaction of breast reconstruction of participants will be measured by Breast Q questionnaire 12 months post-operation. Breast-Q questionnaire is based on 6 dimensions: Physical health, mental health, sexual health, satisfaction with breast, satisfaction with surgical outcome, and satisfaction with medical care. The scores of each dimension are expressed as independent scores between 0 and 100 calculated by the Q Score system., one year|Length of incision, length of incision measured within one-week post-operation., up to 7 days post-operation|Pathological evaluation, A piece of scar tissue will be collected during surgery and embedded with paraffin, and pathological evaluation, including Masson staining, immune histochemistry of desmin, SMA, Ki67，TGFβ，Smad2/3，CTGF/CCN2，IL-6, IL-8，MMP-1，MMP-2，MMP-3，MMP-13，COL I，COLIII, COL-5. And the staining intensity will be measured by two independent pathologists., through study completion
The goal of this clinical trial is to compare the safety of axillary or primary breast approach for second-stage operation in expander-implant breast reconstruction for breast cancer patients. The main question it aims to answer are: 1. if the wound related events, including wound dehiscence, infection, delayed healing is significant less often in patients receiving second stage operation via axillary approach compared with primary breast approach; 2. if the aesthetic outcome is comparable between patients receiving different approach for second stage operation. To answer these questions, the breast cancer patients have received nipple-sparing or skin-sparing mastectomy and had breast tissue expander insertion via breast incision, will be prospectively recruited, and randomized into two groups while receiving implant exchange operation: (1) operate via axillary incision; (2) operate via primary breast incision.