Single-port, Two-port Versus Three-port VATS on Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
In china, the incidence and death rate of lung cancer is 48.32 per 100 000 person-years and 39.27 per 100 000 person-years, respectively, the highest in malignant tumor. Surgical operation is still main treatment means to resectable NSCLC. VATS pulmonary resection is performed in clinical operation with the aim of decreasing postoperative complications morbidity. The mechanisms may be due to minimize the inflammation reaction to surgical injury. There are some trials regarding two-port VATS versus three-port VATS versus four-port VATS or single-port VATS versus three-port VATS. However, there is no prospective randomised controlled trial regarding Single-port versus two-port versus three-port video assisted thoracoscopic pulmonary resection on NSCLC. So, we hope to demonstrate that single-port and two-port VATS were feasible and safe through the trial, and we hope the results of our study will provide a high level of clinical evidence for choosing the best operative approach in VATS.
Lung Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Three-port pulmonary resection surgery|PROCEDURE: Single-port or two-port surgery
Local recurrence, two-year local recurrence rate after surgery, 2 years
Postoperative respiratory complications, Systematic Classification of Morbidity and Mortality After Thoracic Surgery. Grade I, any complication without need for pharmacologic treatment or other intervention. Grade II, any complication that requires pharmacologic treatment or minor intervention only. Grade III , any complication that requires surgical, radiologic, endoscopic intervention, or multitherapy.

Grade IV, any complication requiring intensive care unit management and life support.

Grade V, any complication leading to the death of the patient., 30 days after surgery|Lymph node dissection, During the surgery, lymph node dissection were performed. The number of removed lymph-nodes were recorded according to the postoperative pathological diagnosis, and the stations of the lymph node were recorded according to the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) Lymph Node Map., Intraoperation|Blood loss, blood loss during the surgery, Intraoperation
Introduction: In china, the incidence and death rate of lung cancer is 48.32 per 100 000 person-years and 39.27 per 100 000 person-years, respectively, the highest in malignant tumor. Surgical operation is still main treatment means to resectable NSCLC. VATS pulmonary resection is performed in clinical operation with the aim of decreasing postoperative complications morbidity. The mechanisms may be due to minimize the inflammation reaction to surgical injury. There are some trials regarding two-port VATS versus three-port VATS versus four-port VATS or single-port VATS versus three-port VATS. However, there is no prospective randomised controlled trial regarding Single-port versus two-port versus three-port video assisted thoracoscopic pulmonary resection on NSCLC. So, we hope to demonstrate that single-port and two-port VATS were feasible and safe through the trial, and we hope the results of our study will provide a high level of clinical evidence for choosing the best operative approach in VATS.

Methods and analysis: this is a three years prospective randomised controlled trial, which aims to attest the safety and feasibility of simple-port VATS and two-port VATS. Group A, B and C receives single-port VATS, two-port VATS and three-port VATS pulmonary resection respectively. The primary endpoint is postoperative recurrence rate. The secondary endpoints include other postoperative complications morbidity , such as the number and location of lymph nodes dissected、operation time, intraoperative volume of blood loss, hospital stays, hospitalization expenses, quantity of using antalgica, change of pulmonary function. 70 patients are enrolled per group in three years, after adding 10% loss of the sample, 77 patients will be required for each group so a total of 231 patients will be enrolled into the study in the end.