DCE-MRI and MBI in Assessing Tumor Response to Chemotherapy in Patients With Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This early phase I trial studies how well dynamic contrast enhanced molecular resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and technetium-Tc99m sestamibi molecular breast imaging (MBI) work in assessing tumor response to chemotherapy in patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) who are undergoing chemotherapy. Investigational imaging scans such as MBI and DCE-MRI may help researchers predict which patients may respond to treatment.
Estrogen Receptor Negative|HER2/Neu Negative|Progesterone Receptor Negative|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Scintimammography|DRUG: Technetium Tc-99m Sestamibi
Percent change in volume of index tumors and estimated area under receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves assessed by digital mammogram, ultrasound, dynamic contrast enhanced molecular resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) and molecular breast imaging (MBI), The ability to assess and predict response will be compared among the imaging modalities and with standard pathological evaluation. These volume changes will be correlated with residual cancer burden (RCB) status after surgery and will be used to classify patients into predicted responder or non-responder categories. Predictive accuracies among the imaging modalities will be compared using paired ROC curve analyses., Up to 4 years|Percent change in tumor volume assessed by dynamic Tc99m-sestamibi MBI, The index tumor will be measured on both cranial-caudal (CC) and medio-lateral oblique (MLO) views and 3 dimension will be recorded. The percentage change in volume at time points 2 and 3 relative to baseline imaging (time point 1) will be calculated. Data acquisition and image processing algorithms will be developed from having conjugate views of the breast in the MBI examination. Appropriate methods to correct the image from loss of contrast due to scatter and loss of signal from photon attenuation as it transits breast tissue will be explored and implemented. Will investigate the correlations of absolute and relative values of baseline standardized uptake value (SUVb) with pathological tumor response., up to 6 months|Tumor response assessed by pathological examination, Correlations of pathological response with absolute and relative values of MBI SUVb will be investigated. The longest dimension of the residual tumor will be measured. If only foci of disease are seen the longest dimension of tumor cell distribution will be measured. The M D Anderson Cancer Center (MDACC) Residual Cancer Burden Calculator will be used to categorize cancer burden: RCB-0 (no residual disease in breast or in lymph nodes), RCB-1 (minimal residual disease), RCB-2 (moderate residual disease), or RCB-3 (extensive residual disease)., Up to 4 years
Utility of molecular breast imaging (MBI) and dynamic contrast enhanced molecular resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) together with molecular profiling to identify a subgroup of chemoresistant triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients, Assessed by baseline SUVb and baseline genomic signature. Will fit one logistic regression model with baseline SUVb and baseline genomic signature as covariates and response to the upfront chemotherapy as the endpoint and one model with baseline DCE-MRI tumor volume and baseline genomic signature as covariates and response to the upfront chemotherapy as the endpoint. Will assess the predictive accuracy of this model by estimating the area under the ROC curve using the predicting response probability and the observed response outcome. ROC curves will be generated for each modality and each TNBC molecular subtype and compute the areas under these curves along with 95% confidence intervals. Will determine a cut-point in the predicted probabilities to classify patients as predicted responders and non-responders based an appropriate trade-off between sensitivity and specificity., up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the predictive value of advanced imaging modalities Tc99m sestamibi (technetium Tc-99m sestamibi) molecular breast imaging (MBI) and dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) response in triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate and compare the ability all imaging modalities including standard of care digital mammogram (DM) and ultrasound (US) as well as novel modalities DCE-MRI and MBI to assess and predict response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine effect of molecular subtype of TNBC on diagnostic performance of different types of imaging modalities in predicting treatment response.

II. To determine the Utility of Dynamic Tc99m sestamibi MBI and DCE-MRI together with molecular profiling to identify a subgroup of chemoresistant TNBC patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo DCE-MRI over 45-60 minutes. Patients receive technetium Tc-99m sestamibi via injection, and after 5 minutes patients undergo MBI scan over 1 hour. Both DCE-MRI and MBI are performed at the time of enrollment, at the end of anthracycline therapy, and at the conclusion of NAC before surgery. All patients also undergo standard of care imaging with DM and US (at the same time points if the treating doctor chooses to do so).