Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy Plus Chemotherapy for Potentially Resectable Stage IIIA/IIIB Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Cancer has always been one of the leading causes of death in the world, and China is facing more and more severe challenges from cancer. Among all the causes of cancer death, lung cancer (25.2%) ranks first, among which non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) accounts for about 80% to 85%, of which about 1 / 3 of the patients have been in the local advanced stage (IIIA stage / IIIB stage) at the time of initial diagnosis. For the patients with stage IIIA NSCLC who can be operated on, surgery is still the most effective way to treat them. Even so, NSCLC in stage I-III undergoing radical surgery is the most effective way 30-60% of the patients eventually had relapse or distant metastasis. Therefore, people began to explore a new treatment mode, preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy, to improve the survival rate of NSCLC 2.

At present, the NCCN guidelines for the new adjuvant treatment of NSCLC mainly recommend platinum based dual drug chemotherapy.

Immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy will be a potential new adjuvant therapy in the future, which can improve the resection rate of patients, reduce the recurrence rate after surgery, and have tolerable adverse reactions.
IIIA Stage Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Sintilimab Injection
2 years DFS rate, To evaluate the 2-year DFS rate of neoadjuvant treatment of Asian patients with resectable stage IIIA NSCLC with Sintilimab combined with albumin paclitaxel and carboplatin, 2 years
MPR rate, Major pathological remission rate, 36 month|PCR rate, Pathological complete response rate, 36 month|Downgrade rate, Downgrade rate,including T downgrade and N downgrade, 36 month|DFS, Disease-free survival, 36 month|OS, Overall survival, 36 month|ORR, Objective response rate, 36 month|TRAE, Treatment-related adverse reactions, 36 month
Sample size calculation： The primary endpoint is the 2-year DFS rate，however, due to the extended observation time required for this endpoint, it is not suitable for promptly validating treatment response. MPR rate is employed to calculate the necessary sample size.

Simon's optimal two-stage design is utilized. The addition of sintilimab to chemotherapy is assumed to elevate the MPR rate from 8.9% to 35%. The sample size should be 29(17+12). In the first stage, the study will be concluded if ≤2 patients achieve MPR, indicating a negative outcome. Conversely, if more than 4 patients achieve MPR, the study will proceed by enrolling an additional 12 patients. Considering the sample size calculation results and sufficient funding, the final enrollment is 30. The type 1 error rate is 0.05. The outlined protocol yield an 95% statistical power to detect an MPR rate of 35% under alternative hypotheses.

MRD detectition： Using previously retained biomarkers from patients for MRD detection, exploring the relationship between MRD and patient DFS and OS.