Study of ASP8374, an Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor, in Japanese Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tolerability and safety profile and to characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of ASP8374 in Japanese patients with locally advanced (unresectable) or metastatic solid tumors.

This study also evaluates the anti-tumor effect of ASP8374.
Advanced Solid Tumors
DRUG: ASP8374
Safety and tolerability assessed by Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), DLT is graded using National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events \[NCI-CTCAE\] Version 4.03. The DLT observation period may be increased if deemed appropriate by the Tolerability Evaluation Meeting., Up to 21 days|Safety and tolerability assessed by adverse events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject administered a study drug, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product whether or not considered related to the medicinal product., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of a new anti-cancer treatment, whichever comes first (a maximum of 109 weeks)|Safety and tolerability assessed by immune-related AEs (irAEs), Most frequent immune-related AEs observed with currently approved checkpoint inhibitors include rash, oral mucositis, dry mouth, colitis/diarrhea, hepatitis, pneumonitis, and endocrinopathies ., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of a new anti-cancer treatment, whichever comes first (a maximum of 109 weeks)|Safety and tolerability assessed by serious adverse events (SAEs), An AE is considered "serious" if, in the view of either the investigator or sponsor, it results in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening, persistent or significant disability/incapacity or substantial disruption, congenital anomaly or birth defect, hospitalization, or medically important event, Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug or until initiation of a new anti-cancer treatment, whichever comes first (a maximum of 117 weeks)|Number of participants with laboratory value abnormalities and/or adverse events related to treatment, Number of patients with potentially clinically significant laboratory values., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 109 weeks)|Safety and tolerability assessed by 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG), ECGs should be obtained after the subject has rested quietly and is awake in a fully supine position (or semi-recumbent, if supine is not tolerated) for 10 minutes before the first ECG from a triplicate or single ECG. Any clinically significant adverse changes on the ECS will be reported as (serious) AEs., Up to end of treatment period (a maximum of 105 weeks)|Number of participants with vital signs abnormalities and/or adverse events related to treatment, Number of patients with potentially clinically significant vital sign values., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|Number of participants with physical exam abnormalities and/or adverse events related to treatment, Number of patients with potentially clinically significant physical exam values., Up to end of treatment period (a maximum of 105 weeks)|Safety and tolerability assessed by eastern cooperative oncology group (ECOG) performance status, The ECOG Scale \[Oken, 1982\] will be used to assess performance status ; 0=Fully active, able to carry on all predisease performance without restriction; 1=Restricted in physically strenuous activity, but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, (e.g., light housework, office work); 2=Ambulatory and capable of all self-care, but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3=Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4=Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 109 weeks)|Pharmacokinetics (PK) of ASP8374 in serum: AUClast, AUClast: area under the concentration-time curve from the time of dosing up to the last measurable concentration. AUClast will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: AUCinf, AUCinf: AUC from the time of dosing extrapolated to time infinity. AUCinf will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: AUCinf(%extrap), AUCinf(%extrap): Percentage of AUCinf due to extrapolation from the last measurable concentration to time infinity, Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: AUCtau, AUCtau: AUC from the time of dosing to the start of the next dosing interval at multiple dose conditions. AUCtau will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: Cmax, Cmax: maximum concentration. Cmax will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: Ctrough, Ctrough: trough concentration. Ctrough will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: tmax, tmax: time of maximum concentration. Tmax will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: t1/2, t1/2: terminal elimination half-life. t1/2 will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: tlast, tlast: time of last measurable concentration. tlast will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: CL, CL: total clearance after intravenous dosing. CL will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: Vz, Vz: volume of distribution after intravenous dosing during the terminal elimination phase. will be derived from the PK serum samples collected. Vz will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)|PK of ASP8374 in serum: Vss, Vss: volume of distribution at steady state after intravenous dosing. Vss will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug (a maximum of 117 weeks)
Percent change in tumor size from baseline, Tumor size is defined as the sum of the diameters of all target lesions per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. The percent change from baseline in tumor size will be calculated for subjects with target lesions at baseline., Up to end of treatment period (a maximum of 105 weeks)|Best overall response (BOR) per RECIST 1.1 and 'immune' Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST), BOR is defined as the best response recorded from the start of the study treatment until the end of treatment., Up to end of treatment period (a maximum of 105 weeks)
This study consists of two arms (Arm A: ASP8374 dose A; and Arm B: ASP8374 dose B). Arm B would only be opened if Arm A is deemed tolerable.

The study consists of 2 periods: Screening (up to 28 days) and treatment period. The Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) observation period is set at the beginning of the treatment period. A subject can continue to participate in the study after the end of the DLT observation period until discontinuation criteria are met. After discontinuation of study drug treatment, all subjects will complete an end of treatment visit and safety follow-up visits.