Artificial Intelligence for Diminutive Polyp Characterization
Artificial intelligence is a promising tool that may have a role in characterizing colon epithelial lesions (CADx), helping to get a reliable optical diagnosis regardless of the endoscopist experience. Performances of the different CADx systems are variable but it seems that, in most cases, high accuracy and sensitivities are achieved. However, these CADx systems have been developed and validated using still pictures or videos, and a real-world accurate test is lacking. No clinical trials have tested this technology in clinical practice and, therefore, performance in real colonoscopies, practical problems, applicability, and cost are unknown.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DEVICE: GI-Genius artificial intelligence
Comparison of the AIOD and HOD accuracy of the post-polypectomy surveillance interval assignment with respect to the surveillance interval assigned by pathology, A surveillance interval will be assigned using optical diagnosis of ≤ 5 mm polyps (Arm 1: AIOD; Arm 2: HOD of polyps diagnosed with high confidence) plus histopathology of \> 5 mm polyps and polyps ≤ 5 mm diagnosed with low confidence. For each patient included, the optical-diagnosis surveillance assignment will be matched with the histology-directed one, and a concordance rate will be calculated. The post-polypectomy surveillance interval will be calculated using the ESGE 2020 and the USMSTF 2020 guidelines. Per-patient analysis., At the end of the study (2 years)|Comparison of the AIOD and HOD negative predictive value (NPV) for adenoma in rectosigmoid polyps ≤ 5 mm with respect to histology, The optical diagnosis of ≤ 5 mm rectosigmoid polyps (Arm 1: AIOD; Arm 2: HOD, only high-confidence diagnosis) reliability on ruling out the presence of an adenoma will be calculated using histopathology as the gold standard. Per-lesion analysis. NPV = number of confirmed hyperplastic polyps/number of hyperplastic optical diagnosis, At the end of the study (2 years)
Comparison of the AIOD and HOD diagnostic accuracy parameters of polyps ≤ 5 mm (Arm 1: AIOD; Arm 2: HOD) with respect to histology, Operative characteristics (sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value and positive likely hood ratio) using histopathology as the gold standard. Per-lesion analysis, Interim analysis (when half of the sample size had been included). At the end of the study (2 years)|Cost-effectiveness of AIOD, The economic burden of applying the AIOD and HOD to assign the post-polypectomy surveillance intervals compared to the histology-driven strategy. A direct cost evaluation will be performed including medical and non-medical costs. Per-patient analysis., At the end of the study (2 years)|Comparison of the proportion of adverse events in colonoscopies with and without the AIOD device., The occurrence and severity of adverse events in colonoscopies with and without the AIOD device will be monitored during the 30-days period after the procedure. Adverse events are defined as: abdominal pain or discomfort, post-polypectomy bleeding, perforation, post-polypectomy syndrome and infection. Per-patient analysis, 30 days after the colonoscopy (Day 30)|Proportion of patients accepting to have their polyps diagnosed by the AI system or human optical diagnosis (designed questionnaire), The proportion of patients willing to have their polyps diagnosed by an AI system or HOD will be assessed using a structured questionnaire. Per-patient analysis., Day of colonoscopy (Day 1)
The resect-and-discard (R\&D) and diagnose-and-leave (D\&L) strategies have been proposed as a means to reduce costs in the evaluation of colorectal polyps avoiding a substantial number of pathology evaluations. A pre-requisite for this paradigm shift is an accurate optical diagnosis (HOD). However, performance results for HOD have been highly variable among endoscopists representing a barrier for the adoption of the R\&D and the D\&L strategies.

Artificial intelligence is a promising tool that may have a role in characterizing colon epithelial lesions (CADx), helping to get a reliable optical diagnosis regardless of the endoscopist experience. Performances of the different CADx systems are variable but it seems that, in most cases, high accuracy and sensitivities are achieved. However, these CADx systems have been developed and validated using still pictures or videos, and a real-world accurate test is lacking. No clinical trials have tested this technology in clinical practice and, therefore, performance in real colonoscopies, practical problems, applicability, and cost are unknown.

Methods and analysis: The ODDITY trial is a European multicenter randomized, parallel-group superiority trial comparing GI-Genius artificial intelligence optical diagnosis (AIOD) to human optical diagnosis (HOD) of colon lesions ≤ 5 mm performed by endoscopists, using histopathology as the gold standard. A total of 643 patients attending a colonoscopy within a CRC screening program (either FIT- or colonoscopy-based) or because of post-polypectomy surveillance will be randomized to the ADI group or the HOD (control) group. A computer-generated 1:1 blocking randomization scheme stratified for center and endoscopist will be used.