Molecular Disease Characterization Initiative (MDCI)
This is a single arm interventional molecular analysis study with no administration of investigational product and no masking. This multicenter study will involve participants with advanced/metastatic disease for the purpose of collecting tumor tissue and blood samples for broad molecular analysis and examining the expression of specific biomarkers using validated clinical assays.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell|Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Tumor biopsy
Number of Participants With Positive Inducible T-cell Co-Stimulator (ICOS) Status, Blood samples were collected for clinical biomarker testing and a tumor specimen was collected as per tumor specimen collection requirements. The specimen was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) to determine the expression of tumor specific antigens and immune markers. The ICOS is the biomarkers and data for participants with its positive status has been presented., Up to approximately 17 months|Number of Participants With Positive New York Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma 1 (NY-ESO-1)/Cancer Testis Antigen 2 (LAGE-1a) Status, Blood samples were collected for clinical biomarker testing and a tumor specimen was collected as per tumor specimen collection requirements. The specimen was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) to determine the expression of tumor specific antigens and immune markers. The NY-ESO-1 and LAGE-1a are biomarker and data for number of participants with its positive status has been presented., Up to approximately 17 months|Number of Participants With Positive Programmed Death Protein 1 Ligand (PD-L1) Status, Blood samples were collected for clinical biomarker testing and a tumor specimen was collected as per tumor specimen collection requirements. The specimen was evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) to determine the expression of tumor specific antigens and immune markers. The PD-L1 is a biomarker and data for number of participants with its positive status has been presented., Up to approximately 17 months
This is a single arm interventional molecular analysis study with no administration of investigational product and no masking. This multicenter study will involve participants with advanced/metastatic disease for the purpose of collecting tumor tissue and blood samples for broad molecular analysis and examining the expression of specific biomarkers using validated clinical assays.