A Natural History Study in Participants With Congenital Myasthenic Syndromes (CMS) Due to Mutations in DOK7, MUSK, AGRN, or LRP4
Participants will attend up to 4 study visits to collect clinical assessments. The assessments will evaluate participants' symptoms and quality of life to understand disease activity in patients with CMS due to mutations in DOK7, MUSK, AGRN, or LRP4.
Congenital Myasthenic Syndrome
Summary statistics of retrospective and prospective collection of data on diagnosis., Up to 12 months|Summary statistics of retrospective and prospective collection of data on health care utilization., Up to 12 months|Summary statistics of retrospective and prospective collection of data on medications., Up to 12 months|Summary statistics of retrospective and prospective collection of data on change in health status related to CMS, Up to 12 months
Change from baseline for QMG total score, each component score, and raw values, The Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) consists of 13 items that assess ocular, bulbar, and limb function. Six of the 13 items are timed endurance tests measured in seconds. Each item has a possible score from 0 to 3, with 3 being the most severe. The total possible score is 39, with higher scores indicating more severe impairments., Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for MG-ADL total score, The Myasthenia Gravis Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) is an 8-item scale that assesses MG symptoms and their effects on daily activities. The 8 items are rated by the participant on a scale of 0 to 3. The total score can range from 0 to 24, with higher total scores indicating more impairment., Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for PROMIS-GHS, The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Global Health Scale (PROMIS-GHS) is a quality-of-life questionnaire that comprises questions on overall physical health, physical function, pain, and fatigue (GPH); and quality of life, mental health, satisfaction with social activities, and emotional problems (GMH). The participant marks their response on a 5-point Likert scale, with lower scores indicating poorer health, Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for PROMIS-DFL, The Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Dyspnea Functional Limitations (PROMIS-DFL) is a questionnaire that evaluates the impact of dyspnea on the ability to perform daily activities within the last 7 days. The participant marks their response on a 4-point scale (0 to 3), with lower values indicating less functional impairment., Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for EQ-5D-5L, The EQ-5D-5L questionnaire is a standardized test recognized by many health authorities as a generic measure of health status for clinical and economic appraisal. The descriptive system comprises 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Participants mark their health status from 0 (the worst health you can imagine) to 100 (the best health you can imagine)., Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for 3TUG, The Triple Timed Up and Go (3TUG) is an objective measure of mobility requiring 3 repetitions (laps) to assess lower extremity weakness and fatigability., Up to 12 months|Change from baseline for Neuro-QoL Fatigue score, The Quality of Life in Neurological Disorders (Neuro-QoL) Fatigue questionnaire will be completed by participants aged ≥18 years. The Neuro-QoL Pediatric Fatigue questionnaire will be completed by pediatric participants aged ≥12 to \<18 years. Participants aged \<8 years will be evaluated using the proxy version of the questionnaire., Up to 12 months
Participants will attend up to 4 study visits to collect clinical assessments. The assessments will evaluate participants' symptoms and quality of life to understand disease activity in patients with CMS due to mutations in DOK7, MUSK, AGRN, or LRP4.