Study of the Efficacy of Chloroquine in the Treatment of Ductal Carcinoma in Situ (The PINC Trial)
The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that chloroquine will reduce the ability of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) to survive and spread. Participants will receive either chloroquine standard dose (500mg/week) or chloroquine low dose (250mg/week) for 1 month prior to surgical removal of the tumor.
Carcinoma, Intraductal, Noninfiltrating|DCIS|Ductal Carcinoma In Situ
DRUG: Chloroquine Standard Dose (500mg/week)|DRUG: Chloroquine Low Dose (250mg/week)|PROCEDURE: Breast Biopsy
Average Change in the Longest Diameter of the Breast MRI Target Lesion, One of the primary outcomes of this study was to measure the impact of weekly chloroquine on the amount of DCIS seen on MRI.The tumor response was evaluated by RECIST criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR The longest diameter of the target lesion or primary area of non-mass enhancement was measured by digital calipers. For one patient, the longest diameter was difficult to measure due to the presence of a significant post biopsy resolving hematoma at the biopsy site. Further correlation was made based on the extent of the pre-treatment microcalcifications and post treatment areas of non-mass enhancement., Immediately preceding study drug treatment and again after treatment prior to surgery. The total time interval was up to 8 weeks
Total Number of Treatment-Related Adverse Events, One of the outcomes was to ensure the safety of weekly chloroquine. Patients were followed clinically during the treatment with chloroquine and during their surgery and postoperative period ( including radiation therapy). Patients were verbally assessed for additional symptoms or concerns. Patients were also examined by the provider during treatment and follow up visits to the surgeon., The patients were monitored from the time of diagnosis through 6 months of surgical follow up.|Effect of Chloroquine on Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen (PCNA) Proliferation Index, We evaluated the effect of therapy on cellular proliferation as measured by the change in proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) proliferation index. PCNA , which is elevated during the G1/S phase of the cell cycle, may be used as a marker of cellular proliferation. The PCNA proliferation index was measured as the number of PCNA positive stained cells in the DCIS lesion/ total number of cells in the lesion. The change in the PCNA index is equal to the mean PCNA proliferation index pre-treatment minus the mean PCNA proliferation index post-treatment., At the time of breast biopsy and again at time of surgery.|Impact of Chloroquine Treatment on the Cell Signaling Kinase Levels in DCIS Lesions., The study evaluated the effect of chloroquine treatment on the proteomic signaling profiles of the DCIS lesions. Post treatment surgical specimens were evaluated by immunohistochemical staining to measure cell signaling kinase levels for CD68 and HMGB1. CD68 (Cluster Determinant 68) is a marker of macrophages/monocytes in the breast ducts. and HMGB1 (High Mobility Group Box 1) is involved in oxidative stress-mediated autophagy. HMGB1 is a non-histone DNA binding protein. The number of positive cells were quantified and recorded.

., At the time of surgery
The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that inhibiting the autophagy pathway in DCIS will reduce the capacity of DCIS to survive and invade. The study will examine the safety and effectiveness of neoadjuvant chloroquine administration for a one month period to patients with low, intermediate grade, or high grade DCIS. We will evaluate whether this treatment will reduce the capacity of DCIS neoplastic cells, existing within the duct, to survive, induce lesion regression, and kill the invasive DCIS progenitor cells.