Modification of Extracorporeal Photopheresis in Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma or Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease
Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP), is commonly used for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and chronic graft-versus-host disease. ECP (cGVHD) is an immune modulating treatment. White blood cells from the patient are standardized activated by a photosensitizer psoralen (8-MOP) and irradiated with visible ultraviolet light (UV-A). The purpose is to induce programmed cell death (apoptosis). Disadvantage of current treatment is that 8-MOP targets both diseased and normal cells with no selectivity.

The purpose of this study is to improve the current ECP technology using aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and UV light. ECP will be carried out in conventional manner except that 8-MOP will be replaced with ALA. Systemic ALA / UV light is already approved and used in the detection and treatment of disease in humans. The primary objective is to assess its safety and tolerability after single and multiple treatment in patients with CTCL or cGvHD.
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma, Unspecified|Chronic Graft Versus Host Disease in Skin
DRUG: ECP with 5-aminolevulinic acid
Treatment safety: Monitored through recordings of ECG, vital signs and safety laboratory measurements including haematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis., Monitored through recordings of ECG, vital signs and safety laboratory measurements including haematology, clinical chemistry and urinalysis., up to 1 year
Main efficacy for CTCL, Response of skin disease and reduction in immunosuppression. Response will be evaluated with study baseline as reference as: complete response, partial response, minimal response, stable disease, progressive disease or maximal response based on set definitions., up to 1 year|Main efficacy for cGvHD, Response of skin disease and reduction in immunosuppression. Response will be evaluated with study baseline as reference as: complete response, partial response, minimal response, stable disease, progressive disease or maximal response based on set definitions., up to 1 year
The main advantages of using ALA for ECP are (1) highly effective and selective apoptotic destruction of transformed/activated hyper-proliferative T-cells through an endogenously selective production of the potent photosensitiser, protoporphyrin IX (PpIX) from ALA via heme biosynthetic pathway; (2) ALA/PpIX only targets membranous structures outside of the cell nucleus thus causing no risk of carcinogenesis and (3) induces systemic anti-tumour immunity.