Darolutamide Augments Standard Therapy for Localised Very High-Risk Cancer of the Prostate
The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of darolutamide as part of adjuvant androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) with a luteinising hormone releasing hormone analogue (LHRHA) in men having radiation therapy for localised prostate cancer at very high risk of recurrence.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Darolutamide|DRUG: Placebo oral tablet|DRUG: Luteinizing Hormone-Releasing Hormone Analog|RADIATION: External Beam Radiotherapy
Metastasis-free survival, Evidence of metastases includes findings on WBBS or CT or MRI (as reported by the site investigator) that are either characteristic of metastatic prostate cancer, and/or confirmed by other test results e.g. cytology or histopathology., Through study completion, an average of 5 years
Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the interval from the date of randomisation to date of death from any cause, or the date of last known follow-up alive., Through study completion, an average of 5 years|Prostate cancer-specific survival, Prostate cancer-specific survival is defined as the interval from the date of randomisation to the date of last known follow-up alive, or the date of death from prostate cancer. Deaths from other causes will be summarised., Through study completion, an average of 5 years|PSA-progression free survival, For participants who receive definitive radiotherapy (i.e. without radical prostatectomy), PSA progression is defined by the Phoenix criteria (requires confirmation by a repeat PSA performed at least 3 weeks later). For participants who have undergone a radical prostatectomy, an increase in PSA of \>0.2 ng/mL above the nadir would be considered PSA progression (requires confirmation by a repeat PSA performed at least 3 weeks later)., Through study completion, an average of 5 years|Time to subsequent hormonal therapy, Time to subsequent hormone therapy is the interval from randomisation to the first date that endocrine therapy is recommenced or changed for the treatment of recurrent (or progressive) prostate cancer., Through study completion, an average of 5 years|Time to castration-resistance, Defined according to the PCWG3 criteria. If a participant has radiographic progression without serological progression, this will also be deemed castration resistant prostate cancer, Through study completion, an average of 5 years|Frequency and severity of adverse events (CTCAE v5.0, RTOG/EORTC acute/late radiation morbidity criteria), Safety reporting will describe the frequency and severity of AEs. The CTCAE v5.0 will be used to classify and grade the intensity of AEs occurring until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment. The RTOG/EORTC Scoring Criteria will be used to assess morbidities related to radiation therapy (RT) until 6 years after randomisation. Acute AEs are those occurring within 90 days after starting RT, and will be classified and graded according to the RTOG/EORTC Acute Radiation Morbidity Scoring Criteria. Late AEs are those occurring more than 90 days after starting RT, and will be classified and rated according to the RTOG/EORTC Late Radiation Morbidity Scoring Schema., Approximately 12-weekly for 2 years from randomisation until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment.|Health-related quality of life, EORTC Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQC-30). Importance of quality of life issues are assessed using a four-point scale (1 = not at all, 4 = very much)

EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire for Prostate Cancer (PR-25). Importance of quality of life issues are assessed using a four-point scale (1 = not at all, 4 = very much)

Euroqol 5 item preference-based measure of health (EQ-5D-5L), comprising 5 questions with a score from 1 to 5 each and a visual analogue scale from 0 to 100., Through study completion, an average of 5 years|Fear of cancer recurrence, Using the Fear of Cancer Recurrence Inventory (FCRI), a 42-item questionnaire with scores of 0 (never/not at all) - 4 (all the time/a great deal) for each., Through study completion, an average of 5 years
This trial aims to demonstrate that the use of darolutamide (in addition to standard of care) will be more effective than current standard of care in enhancing the ability of prostate or prostate bed radiation and 96 weeks of androgen suppression in decreasing the number of patients who develop metastases and subsequently die of prostate cancer. Darolutamide is a novel antagonist of the AR with favourable tolerability due to negligible penetration of the blood-brain barrier. Emergence of metastatic disease is the lethal event after local therapy, either with prostatectomy or definitive radiation. Augmenting adjuvant systemic therapy (either ADT or ADT plus docetaxel) with darolutamide has the potential to eradicate micrometastatic disease after either type of local therapy and decrease the death rate from prostate cancer.

This pragmatic design incorporates current standard of care for all patients and the option for docetaxel to be added to ADT. As such, the data will be applicable for all patients with very high risk prostate cancer treated with local therapy and will be the first study incorporating docetaxel use as one of the standard of care options. Even if docetaxel is definitively proven to improve MFS and OS in the adjuvant setting, not all patients will be fit for docetaxel. This will be the first trial that has the potential to build upon current and future advances that may emerge and be the most effective strategy to decrease death rate from prostate cancer in the near term if it further augments docetaxel efficacy in chemo-fit patients.