Dendritic Cell Vaccination in Patients With Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to investigate a method of using dendritic cells (a kind of white blood cell) as a vaccine to stimulate your own immune system to react to your melanoma cells.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Mature dendritic cell (DC) vaccine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide 300mg/m^2|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Immune Response Measuring Increased Numbers of Peptide Specific T Cells as Calculated by the Tetramer Assay., Immune response measuring increased numbers of peptide specific T cells as calculated by the tetramer assay. The numbers of Peptide Specific T Cells are reported as the percent of CD8+ T cells that were p/HLA multimer positive for each antigen., Screening through week 21|Safety and Tolerability of the Mature Dendritic Cell Vaccine (mDC3/8 Vaccines)., Safety endpoint is type and number of adverse events. Tolerability endpoint is subject's completion or withdrawal from study treatment., End of Study visit (10-28 days after last DC vaccine)
Clinical Response to the mDC3/8 Vaccine(s), using RECIST 1.1, At the End of Study Treatment visit (~10-28 Days after the last DC vaccine)|Time to Progression Post-mDC3/8 Vaccine Administration, based on RECIST 1.1 criteria, until occurrence of a censoring event, Up to 30 weeks after the first mDC3/8 Vaccine|Safety and Side Effect Profile of the Dendritic Cell Vaccine (mDC3/8 Vaccines) Administered to Patients Given After a Single Dose of Cyclophosphamide., Assessed through collection of Adverse Events., End of Study visit (10-28 days after last DC vaccine)
This is a single arm open label trial that will assess the safety and tolerability of mature dendritic cell (mDC3/8) vaccine (primer and booster) in subjects with stage III and stage IV melanoma, followed by treatment with pembrolizumab (anti-PD-1 therapy).

Eligible patients that provide written informed consent will undergo apheresis to collect blood mononuclear cells for vaccine production approximately 1 week prior to vaccine infusion. Each study subject will receive cyclophosphamide 300mg/m\^2 intravenously or by mouth 3 to 4 days prior to the vaccine dose, to deplete regulatory T cells. For each vaccine dose, all subjects will receive autologous dendritic cells pulsed with melanoma tumor-specific peptides. On Day 1, the subject will receive the primer vaccine dose; this will be followed by two booster vaccine doses at 6 weeks apart. Peripheral blood will be taken weekly to monitor the immune response to each peptide by tetramer assay. Re-staging will occur after the 3rd vaccine dose, along with tumor biopsy and second apheresis. Anti PD-1 therapy (standard of care) will commence 7-8 weeks after the subject's last dendritic cell vaccine.