Blinatumomab in Treating Younger Patients With Relapsed B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
This randomized phase III trial studies how well blinatumomab works compared with standard combination chemotherapy in treating patients with B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia that has returned after a period of improvement (relapsed). Immunotherapy with blinatumomab may allow the body's immune system to attack and destroy some types of leukemia cells. It is not yet known whether blinatumomab is more effective than standard combination chemotherapy in treating relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
Recurrent B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Asparaginase|BIOLOGICAL: Blinatumomab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Mercaptopurine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Mitoxantrone|DRUG: Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride|DRUG: Pegaspargase|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Therapeutic Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Thioguanine|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Disease Free Survival (DFS) of High-risk (HR) and Intermediate-risk (IR) Relapse Patients, DFS rates of HR and IR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following Induction Block 1 chemotherapy to receive either two intensive chemotherapy blocks or two 5-week blocks of blinatumomab (HR/IR Randomization). DFS is calculated as the time from randomization to date of first event (treatment failure, relapse, second malignancy, remission death) or date of last contact. Two-year DFS estimates will be calculated from date of randomization for both Arm A and Arm B. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 2 years from date of randomization|Disease Free Survival (DFS) of Low Risk (LR) Relapse Patients, DFS rates of LR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following Block 1 chemotherapy to receive either chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus blinatumomab (LR Randomization). DFS is calculated as the time from randomization to date of first event (relapse, second malignancy, remission death) or date of last contact. Three-year DFS estimates will be calculated from date of randomization for both Arm C and Arm D. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 3 years from date of randomization
Overall Survival (OS) of HR and IR Relapse Patients, OS rates of HR and IR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following Induction Block 1 chemotherapy to receive either two intensive chemotherapy blocks or two 5-week blocks of blinatumomab (HR/IR Randomization). OS is calculated as the time from randomization to date of death or date of last contact. Two-year OS estimates will be calculated from date of randomization for both Arm A and Arm B. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 2 years from date of randomization|Overall Survival (OS) of LR Relapse Patients, OS rates of LR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following Block 1 chemotherapy to receive either chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus blinatumomab (LR Randomization). OS is calculated as the time from randomization to date of death or date of last contact. Three-year OS estimates will be calculated from date of randomization for both Arm C and Arm D. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 3 years from date of randomization
Rates of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) Positivity (> 0.01%), The rates at the end of Block 2 and Block 3 will be calculated for the randomized arms for HR and IR relapse patients., Up to 12 weeks|Hematologic Complete Remission Rate (for Treatment Failure Patients Not Previously Receiving Blinatumomab), The observed rate will be calculated among patients with treatment failure who did not previously receive blinatumomab., Up to 12 weeks|MRD Negativity (< 0.01%) Rate (for Treatment Failure Patients Not Previously Receiving Blinatumomab), The observed rate will be calculated among patients with treatment failure who did not previously receive blinatumomab., Up to 12 weeks|Proportion of Patients That Proceed to Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant (HSCT) After Treatment With Blinatumomab (for Treatment Failure Patients Not Previously Receiving Blinatumomab), The observed rate will be calculated among patients with treatment failure who did not previously receive blinatumomab., Up to 12 weeks|Feasibility of Rapid Taper of Immune Suppression for Subset of HSCT Patients With MRD >= 0.01% Pre- and/or Post-HSCT With no Acute Graft Versus Host Disease (aGVHD), The observed rate of grade III-IV aGVHD among this subset will be calculated with 95% confidence intervals and compared descriptively to target rate., Up to 10 years|Safety of Rapid Taper of Immune Suppression for Subset of HSCT Patients With MRD >= 0.01% Pre- and/or Post-HSCT With no aGVHD Defined as < 5% Rate of Treatment-related Mortality (TRM), The observed rate of TRM among this subset will be calculated with 95% confidence intervals and compared descriptively to target rate., Up to 10 years|Blinatumomab Pharmacokinetics (PK), Blinatumomab PK will be evaluated by summarizing blinatumomab steady state concentrations and systemic clearance obtained from non-compartmental analysis. In addition, a population PK approach using a non-linear mixed effect model will also be used to assess blinatumomab PK. Exposure-response analyses will be performed to explore associations among blinatumomab exposure, relevant clinical covariates and clinical measures of safety and efficacy., Days 2 and 14 of cycle 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare disease free survival (DFS) of high-risk (HR) and intermediate-risk (IR) relapse B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients who are randomized following induction block 1 chemotherapy to receive either two intensive chemotherapy blocks or two 5-week blocks of blinatumomab (HR/IR randomization) as a part of a treatment regimen prior to allogeneic bone marrow transplantation. (Closed to enrollment effective September 18, 2019) II. To compare the DFS of low risk (LR) relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following block 1 chemotherapy to receive either chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus blinatumomab (LR randomization). (Closed to enrollment effective September 30, 2019)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare overall survival (OS) of HR and IR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following induction block 1 chemotherapy to receive either two intensive chemotherapy blocks or two 5-week blocks of blinatumomab (HR/IR randomization). (Closed to enrollment effective September 18, 2019) II. To compare OS of LR relapse B-ALL patients who are randomized following block 1 chemotherapy to receive either chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus blinatumomab (LR randomization).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the rates of minimal residual disease (MRD) \>= 0.01% at the end of block 2 and block 3 for HR and IR relapse B-ALL patients in HR/IR randomization.

II. To estimate, for treatment failure (TF) patients not previously receiving blinatumomab, the hematologic complete remission rate (CR), rate of MRD \< 0.01%, and proportion able to proceed to hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in CR after treatment with blinatumomab.

III. To assess the feasibility and safety of rapid taper of immune suppression for the subset of HSCT patients with MRD \>= 0.01% pre- and/or post-HSCT with no acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD).

IV. To evaluate blinatumomab pharmacokinetics (PK) and explore exposure-response relationships for measures of safety and effectiveness.

OUTLINE:

All patients receive Block 1 over 4 weeks.

BLOCK 1: Patients receive dexamethasone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or intravenously (IV) on days 1-5 and 15-19; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8, 15, and 22; pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on days 3 and 17; mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 15-30 minutes on days 1-2, and methotrexate intrathecally (IT) on day 1. Patients with central nervous system (CNS) 1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on day 8. Patients with CNS3 (including isolated CNS relapse) also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on days 8, 15, and 22. High risk and intermediate risk patients are then assigned to randomization R1. Low risk patients are assigned to randomization R2.

RANDOMIZATION R1 (HR and IR patients): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Effective 09/18/2019, HR/IR patients not yet randomized are not eligible for post-Induction therapy on AALL1331 and will be removed from protocol therapy. Patients receiving therapy on Arm A prior to Amendment #10A who have not yet received day 22 treatment on Block 3 will be offered the opportunity to cross over to Arm B to receive blinatumomab.

ARM A: Patients receive Block 2 over 4 weeks, Block 3 over 4 weeks, and then undergo allogeneic HSCT if eligible. Patients with persistent testicular involvement after Block 1 receive testicular radiation during the Block 2.

ARM B: Patients receive Blinatumomab Block 1 over 5 weeks, Blinatumomab Block 2 over 5 weeks, and then undergo allogeneic HSCT if eligible. Patients with persistent testicular involvement after Block 1 receive testicular radiation during the first block of blinatumomab.

RANDOMIZATION R2 (LR patients): LR patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM C: Patients receive Block 2 over 4 weeks, Block 3 over 4 weeks, Continuation 1 over 8 weeks, Continuation 2 over 8 weeks, and then Maintenance. CNS3 patients receive chemoradiation post-Maintenance Cycle 1. Patients with persistent testicular involvement after Block 1 receive testicular radiation during Block 2.

ARM D: Patients receive Block 2 over 4 weeks, Blinatumomab Cycle 1 over 5 weeks, Continuation 1 over 8 weeks, Blinatumomab Cycle 2 over 5 weeks, Continuation 2 over 8 weeks, Blinatumomab Cycle 3 over 5 weeks, and then Maintenance. CNS3 patients receive chemoradiation post Maintenance Cycle 1. Patients with persistent testicular involvement after Block 1 receive testicular radiation during Block 2.

BLOCK 2: Patients receive dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1; methotrexate IV over 36 hours on day 8; leucovorin calcium IV or PO on days 10-11; pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on day 9 or 10; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 15-19; and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 15-19. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on day 8. Patients with CNS3 also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on days 8 and 22.

BLOCK 3: Patients receive dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1; cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours on days 1, 2, 8, and 9; asparaginase intramuscularly (IM) or IV over 1 hour on days 2, 4, 9, 11, and 23; methotrexate IT on day 1and IV over 36 hours on day 22; leucovorin calcium PO or IV on days 24-25. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on day 22. Patients with CNS3 also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on day 22.

BLINATUMOMAB BLOCK 1: Patients receive dexamethasone PO or IV on day 1 and blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on days 15 and 29. Patients with CNS3 also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on days 15 and 29.

BLINATUMOMAB BLOCK 2: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on days 8 and 29. Patients with CNS3 also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on days 8 and 29.

BLINATUMOMAB BLOCK 3: Patients receive blinatumomab IV continuously on days 1-28 and dexamethasone PO or IV on day 1.

CONTINUATION 1 \& 2: Patients receive dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on day 1; mercaptopurine tablet PO on days 1-42; methotrexate PO on days 8, 15, 29, and 36; or; cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes on days 43 and 50; etoposide IV over 1-2 hours on days 43 and 50; thioguanine PO once daily on days 43-49; and cytarabine IV over 1-30 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 44-47 and 51-54. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on days 1 and 43, methotrexate PO every 6 hours for 4 doses on day 22, leucovorin calcium PO every 6 hours for 2 doses on day 24. Patients with CNS3 also receive methotrexate IT, hydrocortisone IT, and cytarabine IT on days 1 and 43 ; methotrexate IV over 36 hours on day 22; and leucovorin calcium IV or PO every 6 hours on days 24-25.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-5, 29-33, and 57-61; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 29, and 57; mercaptopurine tablet PO on days 1-84; and methotrexate PO on days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50, 57, 64, 71, and 78. Patients with CNS1 or CNS2 also receive methotrexate IT on day 1. Patients with CNS3 receive Triple Intrathecal Therapy (ITT) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 12 weeks for up to 2 years from the beginning of treatment in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE CHEMORADIATION (LR CNS3 PATIENTS ONLY): Following maintenance cycle 1, patients receive 1800 cGy cranial radiation; dexamethasone PO BID or IV on days 1-7 and 15-21; vincristine sulfate IV over 1 minute on days 1, 8 and 15; and pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on day 1. Patients then resume maintenance with cycle 2 and beyond.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for 10 years.