Correlation of Early Postoperative Scar Appearance With Long-term Scar Outcomes
A retrospective cohort study of early and late period postoperative scars using previously validated survey measures and clinical photographs. The target population consists of participants treated with Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) for a facial skin cancer by the division of dermatologic surgery. This study aims to determine if patient assessment of scar appearance correlates with physician ratings and/or third-person observer ratings. Secondary goals are to assess for correlations between early post-operative scar appearance and long-term scar appearance as well as identification of predictive factors for scar healing.
Scar|Surgical Wound|Quality of Life|Mohs Micrographic Surgery|Skin Cancer Face
PROCEDURE: Mohs micrographic surgery
Physician Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS), The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS) is a validated scoring instrument that takes into account patient, physician, and third-party observer input to evaluate postsurgical scar quality in clinical photos. The instrument has 6 patient and 6 observer specific questions. Scoring of each question is performed on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 is synonymous with "like normal skin" and 10 to the "worst scar imaginable". In addition, an overall total opinion score on a scale from 1 to 10 where 1 is akin to normal skin and 10 to the worst scar imaginable. Consequently, higher scores on either scale represent a worse scar appearance in the perception of the rater., 1 week postoperative measure|Physician Observer Scar Assessment Scale (POSAS), Please refer to description above., 3 month postoperative measure
Scarring is an inevitable outcome of surgical manipulation of the skin. Previous studies have shown that postoperative scarring, especially in cosmetically sensitive areas, may negatively affect patient quality of life and social interactions. The impact of surgical scarring is magnified in Mohs micrographic surgery, for which the large proportion of treated lesions are in highly visible areas, such as the head, face, and neck. Clinicians often underestimate the significance of scarring in patients' daily activities. Patients desire quick healing surgical scars in order to reintegrate into their normal social routines. Anecdotal evidence suggests that scars that heal well early in the post-operative period will achieve better results in the late postoperative period. Determining a model of early and late surgical scar evolution, as rated by patients, physicians, and third-party observers may; 1. Identify gaps between physician and patient evaluations; 2. Assist clinicians in effectively evaluating and counseling patients regarding their post-operative scar appearance.