Implementation of Online Adaptive Radiotherapy for Breast Cancer Patients on Ethos (BREAST-ART)
Postoperative radiotherapy is for the majority of breast cancer patients the standard of care. During postoperative radiotherapy, unexpected dosimetric deviations can occur due to breast contour changes resulting from resorption of postoperative breast or chest wall seroma/hematoma, oedema either postoperatively or during irradiation, or arm/body positioning variation. In approximately 10% of cases, repositioning after setup imaging is not sufficient, and offline plan adaptation is required. When a new treatment planning is required in the standard offline workflow this will take in general 2 days. By using an online adaptive workflow with a daily treatment planning this delay and extra work caused by offline plan adaptation can be omitted. The aim of this study is to translate the offline adaptive workflow to an online adaptive workflow, and investigate the experiences of patients who have been treated with online adaptive radiotherapy for breast cancer (BREAST-ART).
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Online adaptive radiotherapy
Time spend on the online adaptive workflow, All separate parts of the online adaptive workflow will be registered in minutes, starting when the patients enters the room of the radiation machine until the patient leaves the room., 30 minutes|Patient experience, Patient experience is measured using an in-house designed short study questionnaire after the first and the last radiation fraction. The questionnaires is on a 4-point Likert scale with a lowest score for discomfort and the highest score appears for good comfort., 10 minutes|Dosimetric data, The dosimetric data of the standard offline treatment plan (reference plan), scheduled plan and the online adapted treatment plan (adapted plan) will be compared., 1 week|DICOM images, DICOM images of the standard offline treatment plan (reference plan), scheduled plan and the online adapted treatment plan (adapted plan) will be compared., 1 week|Volumes, Target volumes of clinical target volume (CTV), planning target volume (PTV), coverage of CTV and PTV will be registred in cubic centimetres., 1 week|Number of monitor units (MU)., The number of monitor units (MU) will be compared between the reference treatment plan, scheduled plan and adapted treatment plan., 1 week
Radiation associated toxicity, Toxicity will be assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria Adverse Events version 5.0., Baseline, 1 month and 3 months after radiotherapy
In this single-arm prospective BREAST-ART study breast cancer patients with an indication for postoperative radiotherapy will be treated according to the Dutch and institutional guidelines. Target volumes will be the whole breast, chest wall, axillary levels, tumor bed boost and partial breast irradiation on the right side and left side with a deep inspiration breath hold technique. Robust templates are developed for offline and online treatment planning with an IMRT tangential multiple-beam setup. A simulation of the online adaptive workflow is performed in breast cancer patients already treated on the Ethos-linac with the standard offline adaptive workflow. Patients will be treated following the online adaptive workflow delivered on the Ethos-Linac. Patient experience will be evaluated using an in-house developed questionnaires after the first and last fraction, scoring treatment satisfaction on a 4-point Likert scale. Furthermore, all dosimetric data, volume details, DICOM images and the time spend on all parts of the online adaptive workflow will be evaluated.