HPV Typing Between Self- and Physician-sampled
Hygeia Touch Inc. developed a safe and comfortable vaginal self-sampling device "Hygeia Touch Self Sampling Kit for Women" to self-collect the vaginal discharge sample for high-risk Human Papillomavirus (hrHPV) detection.

This clinical trial aimed to evaluate the agreement of hrHPV detections between vaginal self-sampling using "Hygeia Touch Self Sampling Kit for Women" and physician sampling, and these results will be applied for TFDA registration approval.
Human Papillomavirus Infection|Self Sampling|Vaginal Discharge
DEVICE: Self sampling kit for collecting discharge from vaginal fornix
Agreement in the Detection of High-risk HPV Type in Physician-sampled Specimen and Self-collected Specimen., Rate of the "agreement". The "agreement" is defined as either (1) presence of any high-risk HPV type in physician collected specimen, and the patient sampled specimen, or (2) absence of high-risk HPV in physician collected specimen and the patient sampled specimen., 14 days
Agreement in HPV Detection Between Physician Collected Sample and Self-collected Sample, Rate of the "agreement". The "agreement" is defined as either (1) presence of any HPV type in physician collected specimen, and the patient sampled specimen, or (2) absence of any HPV in physician collected specimen and the patient sampled specimen., 14 days|Percentage of a Valid Specimen, According to the Presence of the Beta-globin Gene in Specimens, Percentage of the presence of the beta-globin gene. The ratio could be calculated between self-collected and physician-collected specimens., 14 days|Adverse Event From Self Sampling, The number of participants with any adverse event., within one month after sample collection
Primary end-point:

1. Agreement of hr-HPV types, including types 16, 18, 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 58, 59, 66, and 68, between the physician-collected sample and self-collected sample
2. Agreement of the presence of hr-HPV between the physician-collected sample and self-collected sample

Secondary end-point:

1. Percentage of the valid sample between self-collected and physician-collected specimens
2. Agreement of all (N = 27) HPV types between the paired samples
3. Adverse events associated with sample collection
4. Questionnaire of the appreciation and satisfaction of using self-collecting vaginal discharge sample using "Hygeia Touch Self Sampling Kit for Women" through a short movie and a brief illustration
5. Correlation between histological diagnosis and HPV types