18Fluorine-Fluciclovine PET/CT for Staging Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer Preceding Radical Cystectomy
This research study is studying a positron emission tomography (PET) agent called 18F-fluciclovine to evaluate how well 18F-fluciclovine-PET scans determine the extent of muscle invasive bladder cancer (as compared to regular CT and MRI imaging) and whether 18F-fluciclovine-PET scans can provide information about the pathologic grade of the tumor.
Bladder Cancer|Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: 18F-fluciclovine|DEVICE: PET/CT
The agreement rate of metastatic disease status between 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT and histopathology from radical cystectomy, Lymph nodes will be classified as positive or negative for metastatic disease on 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT and compared to pathologic stage as determined from surgery., 2 years
The amount of 18F-fluciclovine accumulation in the primary bladder tumor on PET, 18F-fluciclovine SUVmax in primary bladder tumor as a measure of uptake; primary tumor stage and size at radical cystectomy, 2 years|The rate of detection of suspected distant metastatic disease by 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT, Visualization of distant metastases on 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT will be binary-categorized as present/absent. We will compute sensitivity to compare 18F-fluciclovine-PET/CT with standard imaging modalities for distant metastases. The number of distant metastases will be descriptively shown by imaging modalities., 2 years|18F-fluciclovine uptake on PET/CT to the presence/absence of ASCT2 and LAT1 amino acid transporters., 18F-fluciclovine SUVmax in primary bladder tumor; Presence/absence of ASCT2 and LAT1 amino acid transporter in resected primary bladder tumors, 2 Years
This research study is a pilot study, which is the first-time investigators are examining this study imaging agent, 18F-fluciclovine, for use in imaging bladder cancer.

Staging of muscle invasive bladder cancer is currently done using computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Both CT and MRI are useful to determine the extent of bladder cancer, but some studies show that up to 40% of patients with negative CT or MRI scans for disease outside the bladder are found to have disease outside the bladder (in lymph nodes near the bladder) at the time of surgery.

Given the limitations of the imaging exams currently used for staging bladder cancer, new techniques and imaging agents that can better identify metastatic lesions, especially within the pelvis, are desired and would be very useful.

18F-fluciclovine is a new radiotracer that was recently approved to evaluate lesions in recurrent prostate cancer (but not for bladder cancer). This radiotracer targets amino-acid receptors, which are overexpressed in multiple cancers. Studies have shown that 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT can visualize other types of cancers, such as breast cancer. A major advantage of 18F-fluciclovine is that it does not get into the bladder during the time of imaging. This may make it easier to see disease in the pelvis that is outside the bladder.

The purpose of this study to determine whether 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT can better stage muscle invasive bladder cancer compared to conventional CT or MRI. A secondary aim of this study is to determine whether 18F-fluciclovine PET/CT can reveal the pathologic grade of the bladder cancer, which is only determined from pathology specimens obtained at surgery.