CAN-2409 Plus Prodrug With Standard of Care Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor for Stage III/IV NSCLC
The purpose of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effects of adding CAN-2409 + prodrug for stage III/IV NSCLC patients who are on standard of care first line immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) treatment with evidence that the clinical response is inadequate. CAN-2409 is a viral immunotherapy approach that induces tumor-infiltrating T-cells and a consequent PD-L1 up-regulation. A combination of CAN-2409 added to standard of care (SOC) checkpoint inhibitors may lead to improved long-term outcomes for patients with NSCLC who have suboptimal response to ICI therapy.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Aglatimagene besadenovec
Response rate, Tumor response as measured by RECIST criteria including overall response rate (ORR) and/or disease control rate (DCR), 12 months|Safety graded by CTCAE version 5.0, Frequency of adverse events, 12 weeks
Biomarker Studies, Blood and tumor will be evaluated for changes in immune response before and after CAN-2409 + prodrug, 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Defined as time from date of first dose of CAN-2409 to death by any cause (OS-1). An additional OS will be defined as time from ICI treatment initiation to death due to any cause (OS-2)., 3 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as time from date of first dose of CAN-2409 to post-treatment progression or death by any cause (PFS-1). An additional PFS estimate will be calculated from ICI treatment initiation (PFS-2)., 3 years|Changes in patient-reported symptoms using the NSCLC-SAQ, Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Symptoms Assessment Questionnaire (NSCLC-SAQ) score after compared to before treatment. The lowest score possible is 0, and the highest score possible is 20. Higher score indicates more severe symptoms., 12 months|Response rate, Tumor Response as measured by iRECIST criteria, 12 months
This clinical trial evaluates the addition of CAN-2409 plus prodrug for stage III/IV NSCLC patients who are on standard of care first line ICI (anti-PD-1/PD-L1) but with evidence of suboptimal response (either disease progression or stable disease at time of study enrollment). CAN-2409 plus prodrug has been shown to increase the response rate to ICI in animal studies. Safety and tolerability of CAN-2409 plus prodrug has been demonstrated in clinical trials in over 950 patients with cancer, including cancers of the lung, pancreas, prostate, and brain. Initial proof of mechanism has been shown in non-small lung cancer, prostate cancer, high-grade glioma, and pancreatic cancer. The eligibility criterion in the current clinical trial is based on time on ICI and response status with cohorts as follows:

Cohort 1A and 1B: patients with stable disease radiographically at least 18 weeks after starting ICI treatment and who are clinically stable

Cohort 2A and 2B: patients with evidence of radiographic progression at least 18 weeks after starting ICI treatment but who are clinically stable.

Cohort 3, which is now closed for enrollment, was for patients who had evidence of radiographic progression at least 9 weeks after starting ICI but who were clinically stable.

The specific ICI treatment regimen is not specified to allow for different standard of care options with or without chemotherapy; for example, pembrolizumab alone, pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy, or atezolizumab/chemotherapy. In addition, it allows stage III patients after chemoradiation who may be on durvalumab as their standard of care. For example, a stage III patient may be eligible for cohort 2 if they have radiographic progression but are clinically stable 18 weeks after starting durvalumab.

The release of Version 05 of the protocol increased enrollment numbers into Cohorts 1 and 2 (from target n=32 evaluable to n=40 evaluable), while closing Cohort 3. In Amendment 6, cohort 1B and 2B were initiated to evaluate a 3-dose regimen of CAN-2409 + prodrug. Adjustments to the sample size extended the anticipated primary completion date for this trial.