Home Sleep Apnea Machine in Evaluating Obstructive Sleep Apnea in Patients With Stage III-IV Head and Neck Cancer
This trial studies information from a home sleep apnea machine to evaluate obstructive sleep apnea in patients with stage III-IV head and neck cancer. Sleep apnea (trouble breathing during sleep) can occur in head and neck cancer patients who have swelling in their neck. Wearing a sleep apnea machine overnight may help doctors evaluate obstructive sleep apnea in patients with head and neck cancer.
Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Monitoring Device|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) rate before and after chemoradiation therapy (CRT) in stage III-IVb patients undergoing CRT, The definition of OSA will be defined as apnea-hypopnea index of \> 5 for both pre and post CRT. The OSA rate is the proportion of patients diagnosed with OSA. Will be assessed using a two-sided McNemar test based on the OSA occurrence (Yes versus \[vs.\] No) for each patient. The OSA rates pre and post CRT will be described by means and their two-sided confidence intervals (Cls). The univariable and multivariable conditional logistic regression models will be further used for the primary objective with patients' baseline characteristics as covariates., Up to 1 year
Response to CRT, Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. Will be described by mean and the two-sided CI. The univariable and multivariable binary (multinomial) logistic regression models will be used to assess the association of the effects of patients' baseline characteristics and the occurrence of OSA on the CRT responses., Up to 1 year|Occurrence of OSA in stage III-IVb patients undergoing CRT, Will be grouped into four categories (Yes/Yes, Yes/No, No/Yes, and No/No for pre/post CRT). Then a 2x4 contingency table will be generated by CRT response (binary; Yes vs. No) and OSA occurrence (quaternary; Yes/Yes vs. Yes/No vs. No/Yes vs. No/No) and a Chi- 23 squared test (or Fisher's exact test) will be used. The univariable and multivariable binary (multinomial) logistic regression models will be used to assess the association of the effects of patients' baseline characteristics and the occurrence of OSA on the CRT responses., Up to 1 year|OSA rate in locally advanced or metastatic stage head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients, A descriptive analysis will be performed on all patients enrolled and on all eligible patients who undergo home sleep apnea study to evaluate the OSA rate in locally advanced or metastatic stage HNSCC patients. The OSA rate will be estimated for locally advanced or metastatic stage HNSCC patients who enter the study in Part 1 and then will be described by mean and the two-sided Cl., Up to 1 year
Adherence rate to OSA treatment to 30 days, It is defined as the ratio of the number of days adhered to OSA treatment to 30 days., Up to 1 year|Incidence rate of OSA by MRI neck findings, It is the OSA rate detected by MRI neck findings among oropharyngeal cancer patients., Up to 1 year
This is a single center study in HNSCC subjects to assess the effects of CRT on OSA.. Patients will be screened with a physical exam and questionnaire (The Berlin questionnaire, STOP-BANG, PSQI) and when eligible, will have the home sleep study (Specific aim 1). The low risk group (based on the physical exam and questionnaire) with stage IVc will not be eligible for the home sleep study and will concentrate on palliation of their symptoms. For locally advanced HNSCC patients undergoing definitive CRT, post CRT home sleep study results will also be assessed (Specific aim 2). When the patient is diagnosed with OSA based on the home sleep study, or if the home sleep study is negative but if the patient had high risks based on the screening process, the patient will be referred to the sleep medicine clinic. If life-threatening obstructive sleep apnea is found, the patient will be referred to sleep medicine clinic right away and will be taken off study. Otherwise, the patients will prioritize their definitive CRT for HNSCC, and will be referred to sleep medicine clinic once CRT has been completed.