Involving Family to Improve Communication in Breast Cancer Care
This study evaluates a multi-component communication intervention in the outpatient setting to strengthen communication among patients being actively treated for breast cancer and their support network of family members and friends. The intervention comprises: 1.) a patient-family agenda-setting checklist completed immediately before a regularly scheduled oncology visit, 2.) facilitated registration for the patient portal (for patient and family member, as desired by the patient), and 3.) education (as relevant) on access to clinician electronic visit notes. The study team will conduct a two-group randomized trial to examine feasibility of the protocol and to compare quality of communication with oncology providers, understanding of patient's cancer, confidence in managing patient's care and satisfaction with cancer care between patient-companion dyads who are in the intervention group (n=60) and patient-companion dyads who receive usual medical oncology care (n=60).
Active Breast Cancer Treatment
OTHER: Checklist, MyChart, OpenNotes|OTHER: Usual Care
Between-group Differences in Patient Complete Illness Understanding at 9-months, Illness understanding was measured by 4 questions regarding knowledge that is considered to be essential to making informed treatment decisions in serious illness, including: 1.) understanding of illness, 2.) knowledge of disease status, 3.) awareness of disease state, and 4.) expectation of duration of life. We summed responses to each item (coded 1 or 0 to reflect the presence or absence of understanding), yielding a score ranging from 0 to 4. Participants with perfect scores reflecting complete illness understanding (4 of 4 correct responses) were compared to all others., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Mean Patient Satisfaction With Cancer Care at 9-months, Outcome was measured with the short-form 10-item version of the Family Satisfaction with Cancer Care (FAMCARE) questionnaire, a validated multi-item instrument that was developed to assess family perspective on cancer care. Respondents are asked to rate 10 items that relate to emotional support, personalization of care, support of decision-making, accessibility, and coordination. Response categories include "very satisfied" (2 points), "satisfied" (1 point), or "not satisfied" (0 points), and the 10-items may be summed to yield a total score (range: 0 to 20) with higher scores reflecting greater satisfaction., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Patient Anxiety at 9-months, Outcome was measured using the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 2-item questionnaire (GAD-2), a well-established 2-item instrument that asks about symptoms of anxiety in a two-week recall period from 0 ("not at all") to 3 ("nearly every day"). Full range is 0-6 with higher scores indicating more anxiety. Symptoms of anxiety refer to a cutpoint of 3+ on the GAD-2., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Care Partner Complete Illness Understanding at 9-months, Illness understanding was measured by 4 questions regarding knowledge that is considered to be essential to making informed treatment decisions in serious illness, including: 1.) understanding of illness, 2.) knowledge of disease status, 3.) awareness of disease state, and 4.) expectation of duration of life. We summed responses to each item (coded 1 or 0 to reflect the presence or absence of understanding), yielding a score ranging from 0 to 4. Participants with perfect scores reflecting complete illness understanding (4 of 4 correct responses) were compared to all others., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Care Partner Satisfaction With Cancer Care at 9-months, Outcome was measured with the short-form 10-item version of the FAMCARE (Family Satisfaction with Cancer Care) questionnaire, a validated multi-item instrument that was developed to assess family perspective on cancer care. Respondents are asked to rate 10 items that relate to emotional support, personalization of care, support of decision-making, accessibility, and coordination. Response categories include "very satisfied" (2 points), "satisfied" (1 point), or "not satisfied" (0 points), and the 10-items may be summed to yield a total score (range: 0 to 20) with higher scores reflecting greater satisfaction., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Care Partner Anxiety at 9-months, Outcome was measured using the Generalized Anxiety Disorder 2-item questionnaire (GAD-2), a well-established 2-item instrument that asks about symptoms of anxiety in a two-week recall period from 0 ("not at all") to 3 ("nearly every day"). Full range is 0-6 with higher scores indicating more anxiety. Symptoms of anxiety refer to a cutpoint of 3+ on the GAD-2., 9 months
Between-group Differences in Patient Quality of Communication at 9-months, Outcome was measured using the Quality of Communication (QC) Scale, a validated 10-item instrument to assess quality of communication between the participant and the medical oncology team. The scale for each item is from 0 ('Worst you can imagine') to 10 ('Best you can imagine'). Full range is 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher perceived quality of communication., 9 months|Between-group Differences in Care Partner Quality of Communication at 9-months, Outcome was measured using the Quality of Communication (QC) Scale, a validated 10-item instrument to assess quality of communication between the participant and the medical oncology team. The scale for each item is from 0 ('Worst you can imagine') to 10 ('Best you can imagine'). Full range is 0-100 with higher scores indicating higher perceived quality of communication., 9 months
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among survivors in the US. Most patients with breast cancer receive help from family in making complex decisions about treatment, handling logistically demanding care coordination, and managing symptoms and side effects. Although family members (as defined by each patient) play a vital role in cancer care, they are not formally recognized or assessed in care delivery, and their need for information and support is typically unmet. Lack of attention to family in care delivery is an important gap that too often leaves families without adequate information about patient health and treatments. This may prevent families and patients from engaging in open conversations, cause them unnecessary anxiety, and negatively affect the quality of cancer care and delivery.

Communication is particularly important in cancer care, as the optimal course of action is determined through longitudinal discussion of prognosis, treatments, and patient goals, preferences, and concerns. Strategies to improve communication for serious illnesses such as cancer have been developed, but typically target a specific decision, conversation, or setting, most often the inpatient hospital. There is growing agreement that communication among patients, families, and providers should be initiated early and continue throughout the disease trajectory. However, little is known about how to provide both patients and families with access to timely information about patient health and mechanisms to communicate directly with health care providers, as proposed in this study.

The goal of this study is to test a multicomponent intervention to strengthen communication and longitudinal partnerships among women with breast cancer and their family members. Recent work by the study team has demonstrated the feasibility, acceptability, and benefit of intervention components which will be combined into a single model of care. The study team's preliminary studies indicate that clarifying patient and family expectations regarding the role of family and providing family with timely and comprehensive information about patient health (as desired by the patient) leads to more effective family involvement, more frequent patient-family-provider interactions, more patient-centered communication, and greater preparedness to manage care.

This study will evaluate the feasibility of delivering a multicomponent communication intervention in the outpatient setting comprising: 1.) a patient-family agenda-setting checklist completed immediately before a regularly scheduled medical oncology visit with a participating medical oncologist, 2.) facilitated registration for the patient portal (for patient and family member, as desired by the patient), and 3.) education (as relevant) on access to doctor's electronic visit notes. The study will focus on patients who typically attend medical oncology visits with a family member or trusted friend who are already present and involved in communication. This study will enroll up to 132 patients who are on active treatment for breast cancer, up to 132 family member/friend "companions" and up to 14 medical oncology providers. The study team will compare patients and companions who are in the intervention group (n=60 dyads) with patients and companions who are in the control group and receive usual medical oncology care (n=60 dyads). This study will compare quality of communication with medical oncology providers, understanding of patient's cancer, confidence in managing patient's care, satisfaction with cancer care, and symptoms of anxiety after 3 months, 9 months, and 12 months of follow-up.