Sunitinib and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer or Other Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sunitinib and gemcitabine in treating patients with pancreatic cancer or other solid tumors. Sunitinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in hemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving sunitinib together with gemcitabine may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas|Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: sunitinib malate|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) determined according to dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, 28 days
Response rate assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST), Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of sunitinib malate and gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas or other solid tumors.

II. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 OR on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-21 OR days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 21 days OR every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride and sunitinib malate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to 10 patients may be treated at the recommended phase II dose (RPTD), which is generally the dose level below the maximally administered dose.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 30 days and then periodically thereafter.