Cushing´s Disease Epidemiology in Sweden
The purpose of this study is to study since 1987 all patients diagnosed with CD in Sweden and determine their outcomes including mortality. A secondary objective is to focus on patients in remission and identify determinants of their different outcomes.
Cushing Disease
Mortality, If event (death) has been occured during the observation period. Data obtained by the Swedish Cause Of Death Register (Swedish Board of Health and Welfare), From date of diagnosis until the last day of December 2014 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years.
influence of Cushing's Disease on myocardial infarction, If event (myocardial infarction) has been occured during the observation period.Data obtained by the Swedish Register of In- and Out-patient Diagnoses (Swedish Board of Health and Welfare), From date of diagnosis until the last day of December 2014 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years|influence of Cushing's Disease on stroke, If event (stroke) has been occured during the observation period.Data obtained by the Swedish Register of In- and Out-patient Diagnoses (Swedish Board of Health and Welfare), From date of diagnosis until the last day of December 2014 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years|influence of Cushing's Disease on cancer, If event (cancer) has been occured during the observation period.Data obtained by the Swedish Register of Cancer Diagnoses (Swedish Board of Health and Welfare), From date of diagnosis until the last day of December 2014 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years|influence of Cushing's Disease on hip fracture risk, If event (hip fracture) has been occured during the observation period.Data obtained by the Swedish Register of Hip Fractures (Swedish Board of Health and Welfare), From date of diagnosis until the last day of December 2014 or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 20 years|incidence of Cushing's Disease in Sweden, Validation of Data obtained by The Swedish Board of Health and Welfare by reviewing all patients' journals, Assessed up to 20 years.|prevalence of Cushing's Disease in Sweden, Validation of Data obtained by The Swedish Board of Health and Welfare by reviewing all patients' journals, Assessed up to 20 years.
This study is a retrospective nationwide study of all patients in Sweden with diagnosis CD between 1987 and 2013 were baseline data at diagnosis, information about the different treatments and follow-up data is going to be obtained by reviewing patients' medical journals. This information as well as the exact diagnose criteria for each patient are going to be extracted by Endocrinologists in all University Hospitals in Sweden. An expert group at the Sahlgrenska University Hospital in Gothenburg will put together the data.By the use of the Swedish Personal Number, the investigators are going to obtain information about both patients' and background population co-morbidities which have been collected in the different Swedish Registers.

Primary aim:

To study mortality of CD in Sweden.

Secondary aims:

1. To study the influence of CD on myocardial infarction
2. To study the influence of CD on stroke
3. To study the influence of CD on cancer
4. To study the influence of CD on hip fracture risk
5. To study incidence and prevalence of CD in Sweden.