PreOperative Endocrine Therapy for Individualised Care With Abemaciclib
POETIC-A is a phase 3 trial which targets post-menopausal primary breast cancer patients with a high 5-year risk of relapse as determined by a high Ki67 after 2 weeks aromatase inhibitor therapy pre-surgery. Eligible patients will be randomised to standard adjuvant endocrine therapy alone or standard adjuvant endocrine therapy with a CDK4/6 inhibitor called abemaciclib.
Breast Cancer Female
DRUG: Abemaciclib|DRUG: Endocrine therapy (letrozole, anastrozole, exemestane or tamoxifen)
Time to tumour (local or distant disease) recurrence, the time from randomisation to local, regional or distant tumour recurrence or death from breast cancer without prior notification of relapse. Second primary cancers and intercurrent deaths will be treated as censoring events., from randomisation until tumour recurrence or patient death, assessed up to 5 years
Relapse-free-survival, the time from randomisation to local, regional or distant tumour recurrence or death from any cause., from randomisation until relapse or patient death, assessed up to 5 years|Time to distant recurrence, the time from randomisation to distant tumour recurrence. Second primary cancers and intercurrent deaths will be treated as censoring events, from randomisation until distant recurrence or patient death, assessed up to 5 years|Breast cancer specific survival, time from randomisation to death from breast cancer (with or without prior notification of relapse). Intercurrent deaths will be treated as censoring events., from randomisation until patient death from breast cancer, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival, time from randomisation to death from any cause., from randomisation until patient death, assessed up to 5 years|Patient reported quality of life, measured using validated questionnaires which will be defined before the commencement of the relevant sub-study., 5 years from randomisation|Grade 3/4 Adverse Events, SAEs and hospitalisations, assessed by NCI CTCAE v5, from treatment start up to 28 days after treatment discontinuation|Treatment related deaths, defined as death occurring at any time point after randomisation and assessed to be possibly, probably or definitely related to the intervention, 5 years from randomisation
In women with hormone sensitive early breast cancer, taking a hormone therapy (also known as endocrine therapy) for at least five years after surgery is very effective at reducing the risk of the cancer returning. However, for some women their cancer may eventually become resistant to these drugs. POETIC-A Registration part will identify those who have a higher risk of developing resistance to standard endocrine therapy (ET). At least 8000 women diagnosed with early stage breast cancer will enter the Registration stage from 80 centres. Study doctors will use aromatase inhibitors (AIs), a type of ET, to treat the cancer for between 2 weeks and 6 months before surgery. A sample will be taken from the cancer during surgery and the study laboratory will measure a biological marker called Ki67. If the level of Ki67 does not drop after 2 weeks of AI treatment, the patient is likely to be less sensitive to endocrine therapy, and the study doctor will explore additional treatments after surgery in the POETIC-A Treatment part. Everyone who agrees to join the Treatment stage (2032 patients) will be randomly put into one of the 2 treatment groups; Group1: ET only; or Group2: ET plus a new drug called abemaciclib. The first aim of the Treatment stage is to confirm whether abemaciclib given in combination with ET is more effective than giving ET alone in preventing the cancer coming back. The study laboratory will perform a second test on the cancer sample, called an AIR-CIS test. This test aims to find out if particular groups of patients based on their tumour biology are more suitable for treatment with abemaciclib. Patients in Group 2 will receive ET plus abemaciclib for 2 years. Patients in both groups will have regular study visits during this period.