Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Treated With Regorafenib and FOLFIRI
The survey is a retrospective study to evaluate the prognotic value of EGFR expression, KRAS mutations and tumor sideness in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with regorafenib and FOLFIRI as a third- or fourth-line setting.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Regorafenib|GENETIC: UGT1A1 genotyping (TA6/TA6)|GENETIC: UGT1A1 genotyping (TA6/TA7)|GENETIC: UGT1A1 genotyping (TA7/TA7)
Progression-free survival, Time from treatment to disease progresses, From date of initiaton of treatment until the date of first documented progression, assessed up to 23 months
Overall survival, Time from treatment to death of subjectives, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 23 months|Best objective response, best response recorded during treatment, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of disease progression, assessed up to 23 months|Disease control rate, Rate of best objective response, including complete response, partial response and stabel disease, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of disease progression, assessed up to 23 months|Rate of treatment-associated adverse events., Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 was used for evaluating treatment-associated adverse events., Adverse events is evaluated and recorded during every cycle of treatment. Up to 23 months.
Primary objective:

Progression-free survival

Secondary objecive:

Overall survival, best objective response, disease control rate and adverse events

Number of Subjects: 41 patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with regorafenib and FOLFIRI as a third- or fourth-line setting.

Plan of the Study:

1. This is a retrospective study.
2. Study Schedule Study date: the time getting approval letter issued by both regulatory authority and institutional review board (IRB). Duration of the study: 5 years.
3. Duration of Treatment: Treatment was administered until disease progressed.