Tipifarnib and Etoposide in Treating Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of tipifarnib and etoposide in treating older patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia. Tipifarnib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving tipifarnib together with etoposide may kill more cancer cells
Adult Acute Megakaryoblastic Leukemia (M7)|Adult Acute Minimally Differentiated Myeloid Leukemia (M0)|Adult Acute Monoblastic Leukemia (M5a)|Adult Acute Monocytic Leukemia (M5b)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia With Maturation (M2)|Adult Acute Myeloblastic Leukemia Without Maturation (M1)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Adult Acute Myelomonocytic Leukemia (M4)|Adult Erythroleukemia (M6a)|Adult Pure Erythroid Leukemia (M6b)|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: tipifarnib|DRUG: etoposide
Number of patients who experience dose limiting toxicities (DLT), based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v3.0, Up to 28 days|Clinical response in terms of optimal dose combination for further study, A response surface will be constructed using a flexible two dimensional polynomial., Up to 4 years|Clinical tolerance in terms of additive or synergistic non-hematologic toxicities grade 2 or greater, A response surface will be constructed using a flexible two dimensional polynomial., Up to 4 years|Surrogates of response in terms of cell cycle progression and apoptosis, deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage, and results of in vitro model studies (using pre-post assessments)., A response surface will be constructed using a flexible two dimensional polynomial., Up to day 63
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility, tolerability, and toxicities of administering a fixed dose of R115777 in combination with escalating doses of VP-16 in elderly adults ( = 70 years) with newly diagnosed, previously untreated acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

II. To determine the maximal tolerated dose (MTD) of R115777 + VP-16 combination, including the duration of R115777 administration, for future Phase II trials.

III. To obtain preliminary descriptive data regarding the effects of R115777 + VP-16 on cell cycle progression and apoptosis in AML marrow cells.

IV. To study mechanisms of leukemia cell resistance to R115777 in combination with etoposide.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral tipifarnib twice daily on days 1-14 OR 1-21 and oral etoposide once daily on days 1-3 and 8-10. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve a complete response (CR) may receive up to 5 additional courses of therapy beyond documentation of CR.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of tipifarnib and etoposide until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Up to 14 additional patients receive treatment at the MTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1 month and then every 3 months thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-100 patients will be accrued for this study.