Comparison Between the Axillary Bilateral-breast Approach (ABBA) and Bilateral Axillo-breast Approach (BABA) for Robotic Thyroidectomy
The purpose of this study is to compare the therapeutic effects between the axillary bilateral-breast approach (ABBA) and bilateral axillo-breast approach (BABA) for robotic thyroidectomy.To explore the efficacy, safety, cosmetic results and clinical value by the two approaches.
Thyroid Papillary Carcinoma|Thyroidectomy
PROCEDURE: The Axillary Bilateral-breast Approach|PROCEDURE: The bilateral Axillo-breast Approach
Change of VAS Pain Scores for the First 24 Hours, The visual analogue scale is utilized to assess the postoperative pain change for the first 24 hours.Using a 10cm straight line, one end is marked 0 for "pain free" and the other end is marked 10 for "unbearable pain". The pain intensity of the patient's own feelings was marked on a straight line, and the length from 0 to the marked point represented the pain level of the patient. The evaluation criteria of VAS were as follows: 0 for pain, 3 for mild pain, 4 to 6 for moderate pain and 7 to 10 for severe pain.Lower values represent better outcomes, higher values represent worse outcomes., The pain scores of 2pm, 10pm and 6am on the first day after operation were evaluated.The mean values were calculated and recorded.|Cosmetic Outcomes, The satisfaction with cosmetic outcomes was analyzed quantitatively using a scoring system that ranged from 1 to 4(1, extremely; 2, fairly; 3, normal; 4: not at all) that was rated by patients at the outpatient clinic 3 months after the operation., 3 months after surgery
Subjective Voice, We have developed a questionnaire with a total of 30 questions, each with a score of 4, and the patients scored according to their own situation. The highest score of the questionnaire is 120, the lowest score is 0, the best, the score is 0-30, 30-60 is good, 60-90 is normal, 90-120 is poor., After operation 8 a.m. on the 7th day|Swallowing Evaluation, The patient sat upright and drank 30 ml warm boiled water to observe the time required and the cough.

1. score (excellent) can swallow water smoothly once
2. score (good) more than 2 times, can swallow without coughing
3. score (middle) can swallow once, but have a choking cough
4. score (may) more than 2 times swallowing, but with choking cough
5. score (difference) frequent cough, not all swallowing Calculate the average value for statistical analysis, 8 a.m. on the 3rd day after operation
Although several reports on operative outcomes of the robotic technique have appeared, no prospective trials comparing the clinical results of between the axillary bilateral-breast approach (ABBA) and bilateral axillo-breast approach (BABA) for robotic thyroidectomy have been described. The investigators therefore designed a prospective trial comparing outcomes, including surgical outcomes and patient satisfaction, between patients undergoing robotic and conventional open thyroidectomy.