Physical and Health Outcomes With ExeRcise in Cancer SURVIVORS
This study aims to evaluate the effect of a physical exercise intervention model on breast cancer survivors and their adherence. The sample will consist of 30 women with a primary diagnosis of breast cancer. The intervention will be carried out in a highly complex oncology center in Maceió-AL, Brazil, using the FITT components of the prescription: frequency (4 days a week), intensity (aerobic part through musical beats, subjective perception scale and resistance exercises through the number of maximum repetitions), the total time of each session will be 45 minutes. The intervention arms include combined exercise training and aerobic exercise (i.e., walking). Adherence to each intervention evaluated in the 12-week intervention cycle will be measured in each session.
Breast Cancer Female|Exercise
BEHAVIORAL: Physical exercise
Exercise adherence, Total adherence will be expressed by the percentage of attendance by each participant in the total exercise intervention length. This will be measured by the study staff as the participants presence in each session., 12-weeks intervention
Change in systolic and diastolic blood pressure, Blood pressure is going to be measured after 10 minutes in a seated position. Mean Systolic blood pressure and diastolic blood pressure will be evaluated through a digital wrist monitor., 12-weeks|Change in cardiorespiratory fitness, cardiorespiratory fitness will be evaluated through the 6-minutes walk test, 12-weeks|Change in depression total score, Depression will be evaluated using the 9-Item Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) total score, 12-weeks|Change in pain total score, Pain will be evaluated using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) total score, 12-weeks|Change in Health-related Quality of Life total score, Health-related quality of life will be evaluated through the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), 12-weeks|Change in Sleep quality, Sleep quality will be evaluated using the The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), 12-weeks
The study participants will be enrolled in a visit to a group of psychologic therapy women cancer survivors who met monthly and who have submitted to breast cancer treatment in a hospital in the city of Maceió (AL), Brazil, classified as High Complexity Oncologic Clinic. At this visit, the proposal for physical exercises will be presented in the hospital area. Volunteers will be scheduled for an in-person visit and assessed for eligibility. Those who meet all the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be invited to integrate the physical exercise intervention.

The 12-week exercise intervention will consist of a combined exercise including an aerobic component (dance) and resistance training, and aerobic exercise (i.e., walking). Participants will be evaluated pre- and post-intervention in terms of several health indicators. All ethical approvals were collected before study initiation.