Efficacy and Safety of Ruxolitinib in the Treatment of Anemic Myelofibrosis Patients.
This was a study of treatment with ruxolitinib in patients who presented with transfusion dependent or independent anemia. Starting dose was 10 mg BID. This dose was maintained for the first 12 weeks of the study and up-titrated thereafter unless the subject met criteria for dose hold or dose reduction
Primary Myelofibrosis|Post-Polycythemia Vera-Myelofibrosis|Post-Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis
DRUG: ruxolitinib
Percentage of Participants With at Least 50% Reduction in Spleen Length From Baseline at Week 24, Percentage of participants achieving a 50% reduction in spleen length at week 24. For subjects with palpable spleen at baseline and non-palpable at post-baseline, the post-baseline spleen are imputed as 0. Subjects who had palpable, but missing spleen length at baseline is excluded from the analysis. Subjects with missing spleen length at Week 24 or who withdraw earlier from the study are considered as a non-responder. The 95% CI is computed using exact Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline up to week 24
Percentage of Participants With at Least 50% Reduction in Spleen Length From Baseline at Week 48, Percentage of participants achieving a 50% reduction in spleen length at week 48. For subjects with palpable spleen at baseline and non-palpable at post-baseline, the post-baseline spleen is imputed as 0. Subjects who had palpable, but missing spleen length at baseline is excluded from the analysis. Subjects with missing spleen length at Week 48 or who withdraw earlier from the study are considered as a non-responder. The 95% CI is computed using exact Clopper-Pearson method., Baseline up to week 48|Percentage of Participants by Spleen Length Reduction or no Increase From Baseline Category at Week 24 and Week 48, Participants who achieved a ≤ 50% reduction in spleen length at week 24 and 48 (reduction) and participants who had no increase greater than or equal to 50% (increase). The edge of the spleen shall be determined by palpation, measured in centimeters, using a soft ruler, from the costal margin to the point of greatest splenic protrusion. For subjects with palpable spleen at baseline and non-palpable at post-baseline, the post-baseline spleen is imputed as 0., baseline, weeks 24 and 48|Percentage of Participants With at Least a 50% Reduction in Myelofibrosis 7 Item Symptom Scale (MF-7) and Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form (MFSAF) at Week 24, The MF-7 is a disease specific questionnaire comprised of 7 items that measures the severity of seven of the most prevalent associated symptoms including: tiredness, early satiety, abdominal discomfort, night sweats, itching (pruritus), bone pain (diffuse not joint or arthritis) and pain under ribs on left side. Each item was scored on a scale ranging from 0 (absent) to 10 (worst imaginable). The MF-7 score is computed as the sum of the observed scores in the individual items to achieve a 0 to 70 score. There would be one recall period of 24 hours used in this questionnaire. A separate question on Inactivity was to be measured for severity of this symptom on a scale from 0 (absent) to 10 (worst imaginable). This would allow the computation of the MFSAF v2.0 questionnaire results, as 6 out of 7 items in the latter PRO are in overlap with MF7 (they also share same 0-10 range Likert scale and ascending order, absent to worst imaginable)., Baseline and week 24|Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) at Week 24 and Week 48, The PGIC is comprised of a single question intended to measure a subject's perspective of improvement or deterioration over time relative to treatment. The PGIC uses a seven-point scale where '1' equals very much improved and '7' equals very much worse., Baseline up to week 48|Percentage of Participants Transfusion Independency From Baseline up to Week 96, Percentage is based on number of subjects who are transfusion dependent at baseline. Transfusion dependence (TD) is defined as subjects receiving 6 or more units of transfusions 12 weeks prior to baseline. Transfusion independence (TI) rate is defined as subjects who are transfusion dependent at baseline and require no unit of transfusion for ≥ 12 weeks at any time during the study.

Transfusion response rate is defined as subjects who are TD at baseline and have 5 or less units of transfusion for ≥ 12 weeks at any time during the study., Baseline up to week 96
This was a study of treatment with ruxolitinib in patients who present with transfusion dependent or independent anemia at screening defined as an hemoglobin \<10 g/dL with 10 mg BID starting dose with subsequent up titrations (maximum dose 25 mg BID) depending on safety and efficacy. This dosing approach for anemic MF patients will be systematically studied in this prospective multicenter phase II open label single arm trial to determine if the levels of spleen length reduction and symptom improvement are consistent with those reported in previous clinical trials with ruxolitinib in patients with anemia and doses according to platelet counts at the moment of treatment initiation, and whether this lower starting dose and up titration approach may minimize the initial hemoglobin and platelet declines and transfusion requirements.