Short Course Radiotherapy for Localized Prostate Cancer
Hypofractionated external beam radiotherapy has been clinically used for localized prostate cancer in view of the low estimated alpha/beta ratio of prostate cancer cells. Moderate fraction sizes of \<4Gy per fraction has been investigated in several phase II/III studies and has been found to be well tolerated with comparable biochemical control in comparison with standard fractionated dose-escalated regimens. Fraction sizes of \> 4 Gy has also been investigated in single center studies. However, its toxicity and disease control outcomes is less well known. In this Phase I/II single arm study the investigators aim to treat non-metastatic prostate cancer with stageT1-T4N0M0 and Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) \<60 ng/ml to a regimen of 35Gy in 5 fractions delivered once a week with a view to determine acute toxicity, biochemical control with PSA and late toxicity.
Adenocarcinoma of Prostate
RADIATION: Short-course Hypofractionated Once-weekly Radiation Therapy
Incidence of Acute Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary toxicity as assessed by National Cancer Institute(NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0, To determine the rates of acute gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity according to NCI CTCAE v4.0., Day 29
Biochemical control (with measurement of Prostate Specific Antigen measured in ng/ml), To determine the incidence of biochemical control (with measurement of prostate specific antigen) at 3 years. Failure is defined by the Phoenix criteria of nadir PA value in ng/ml + 2 ng/ml., 3 years|Incidence of Late Gastrointestinal Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.0, the incidence of late gastrointestinal toxicity according to NCI CTCAE v4.0 as assessed at 3 years., 3 years|Incidence of Late Genitourinary Toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.0, To determine the incidence of late genitourinary toxicity according to NCI CTCAE v4.0 as assessed at 3 years., 3 years|Assessing the Quality of Life by measuring patient reported outcomes using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 questionnaire, To evaluate the quality of life using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 questionnaire and measure the impact of this regimen of radiotherapy on the global health status, functional scales and all general symptom scores on a scale of 0 to 100 (higher score in global and functional scales representing better quality-of-life, while higher sores on symptom scales representing more symptoms). A scale difference of 10 or more would be considered clinically meaningful in any domain., 3 years|Assessing the Quality of Life by measuring patient reported outcomes using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) PR25 questionnaire, To evaluate the quality of life using the PR25 questionnaire and measure the impact of this regimen of radiotherapy on the prostate cancer related urinary, bowel and hormonal therapy related scores on a scale of 0 to 100 (higher score on symptom scales representing more symptoms). A scale difference of 10 or more would be considered clinically meaningful in any domain., 3 years
There is robust evidence to suggest that prostate cancers are slow growing with long tumor doubling times. Evidence accumulated from reported results of several thousands of patients suggest that unlike epithelial malignancies, the alpha/beta ratio for prostate cancer is low, in the range of 1.5 compared to 10. From the radiobiological standpoint, this means that instead of conventional daily fraction sizes of 1.8-2Gy, prostate cancer will be equally well if not better approached with larger fraction sizes. Based on this derivation several single arm and randomized studies have been started. Some have already been reported. They show quite uniformly that hypofractionated radiotherapy using fraction sizes of 2.6-3.1 Gy/fraction with appropriate modifications in the total dose is safe and effective. Therefore the paradigm of radiotherapy treatment of prostate cancer is shifting from 37-40Fractions delivered over 7-8 weeks to shorter courses delivered in 20-28fractions delivered over 4-5 weeks.

Taking this approach further it has been hypothesized that the schedule may be modified further and the total number of treatments can be reduced to 4-7 fractions delivered in a spaced schedule over 2-5 weeks. There are already 6-7 published reports of non-randomized cohorts treated with such schedules delivered using Image Guided Intensity modulated Radiation Therapy (IG-IMRT) or stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT) techniques for localized risk cancers. Preliminary results from these studies show excellent safety and efficacy. These results have considerable implications. If the treatment of prostate cancer can be safely and effectively truncated from 37-40 fractions over 8 weeks to only 4-7 treatments delivered over 2-5 weeks, it results in better patient convenience, compliance, cost savings and also a significant sparing of healthcare resources. All of these are of great importance in countries like India.

The short course hypofractionated schedules have so far been mainly tried in selected risk groups, and have not previously been used in India. The investigators intend to perform a phase I/II study to test the safety and efficacy of a schedule of once weekly hypofractionated radiotherapy. The study population will be 30 patients with localized prostate cancer (T1-T4N0M0) with a PSA \<60 ng/ml. The patients will receive image-guided radiotherapy (IGRT) delivering 5 fractions of 7Gy at weekly intervals. Androgen deprivation therapy will be done according to standard criteria based on risk stratification. The primary endpoint of this study is the incidence of acute grade 2 or more side-effects. The secondary endpoints will be biochemical control at 3 years and late grade 2 side-effects at 2 years. Side effects will be monitored according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4. Quality of life assessments will be done using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30 and PR25 questionnaires at baseline, treatment completion, 3 and 6 months post treatment.

If found safe and effective, this schedule of treatment will lead to phase I studies comparing this schedule with standard fractionation or more moderate hypofractionation schedules.