TIL Therapy for Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell activation and proliferation in vivo.

Recent studies suggest, that TIL therapy works in other cancers than Metastatic Melanoma, including Renal Cell Carcinoma. In this study TIL therapy is administered to patients with metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Surgical removal of tumor tissue for T cell production|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: TIL infusion|DRUG: Interleukin-2
Number of Patients in Which the Treatment Was Tolerable, Determine the safety of the administration of TIL therapy including lymphodepleting chemotherapy and Interleukin-2 for patients with metastatic renal cell cancer. This will be assessed clinically by whether the patients are able to receive treatment as described in the protocol., 0-24 weeks
Number of Infusion Products With Detectable in Vitro Anti-tumor Responses, In vitro anti-tumor responses will be measured by cytokine production in a flow-cytometry based assed after co-culture of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes from the infusion product with autologous tumor cells (from tumor digest and/or autologous tumor cell lines)., Up to 12 months|Objective Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 12 months
Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) with tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) has achieved impressive clinical results with durable complete responses in patients with metastatic melanoma. The TILs are isolated from patients own tumor tissue followed by in vitro expansion and activation for around 4-6 weeks. Before TIL infusion the patients receive 1 week of preconditioning chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine. After TIL infusion Interleukin-2 is administered to support T cell activation and proliferation in vivo.

Objectives:

To evaluate safety and feasibility when treating patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma with ACT with TILs.

To evaluate treatment related immune responses . To evaluate clinical efficacy.

Design:

Patients will be screened with a physical exam, medical history, blood samples, pulmonary function test, Cr-EDTA clearance, MUGA scan and ECG.

Patients will undergo surgery to harvest tumor material for TIL production.

Patients is admitted day -8 in order to undergo lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludara starting day -7.

On day 0 patients receive TIL infusion and shortly after starts IL-2 administration with high-dose bolus IL-2 every eight hour for up to 5 days (maximum of 15 doses).

The patients will followed until progression or up to 5 years.