Sepsis in Oncology Patients
The overall objective of this prospective observational study is to address the significant knowledge gap that exists around the impact of immune dysfunction on the development and survival from sepsis in patients with cancer. This proposal primarily focuses on establishing the transcriptomic immune profiles of sepsis patients with a background of cancer. This analysis will be complemented with in vitro functional analyses, and in addition will commence a collection of genome-wide data, including a focus on predicting white cell number and function in health. Uniquely, the investigators propose to establish a robust link between these analyses: transcriptomic, in vitro, and genome-wide, to enable them to comprehensively explore septic oncology patient 'immune phenotypes' and effectively identify novel exploitable therapeutic pathways.

To this end, this project will collect, analyse and/or sequence DNA, RNA, leukocytes and soluble materials from a cohort of oncology patients presenting to intensive care with sepsis. This cohort will include all-comers with an oncological background but will also focus on two core groups at high risk of sepsis where baseline samples can also be sought prior to major immunosuppressive events in the cancer pathway. These are:

1. Oesophageal/upper gastrointestinal (GI) cancer patients prior to systemic anticancer therapy initiation or surgery
2. Haematological malignancy patients prior to stem cell transplantation.

These sub-cohorts will provide a previously unexplored unique insight into the role of pre-existing patient transcriptomic phenotypes.
Sepsis in Cancer Patients
OTHER: No intervention
Identification of circulating leukocyte transcriptomic phenotypes relating to mortality in sepsis patients with a background of cancer, (in comparison to those previously identified in non-immunosuppressed patients)., Identification of circulating leukocyte transcriptomic phenotypes relating to mortality in sepsis patients with a background of cancer, (in comparison to those previously identified in non-immunosuppressed patients)., end of trial (4 years)|28 day mortality, 28 day mortality, end of recruitment (3 years)
Differences in the trajectory of transcriptomic phenotypes of patients admitted to ICU with sepsis, and how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, end of trial (4 years)|Differences in the trajectory of functional phenotypes of patients admitted to ICU with sepsis, and how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, end of trial (4 years)|Differences in the trajectory of genomic phenotypes of patients admitted to ICU with sepsis, and how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, how they relate to severity scorings and mortality/morbidity outcomes, end of trial (4 years)|Identification of differences in transcriptomic phenotypes between patient subgroups and on comparison to non-immunosuppressed sepsis patients. Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, end of trial (4 years)|Identification of differences in functional phenotypes between patient subgroups and on comparison to non-immunosuppressed sepsis patients. Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, end of trial (4 years)|Identification of differences in genomic phenotypes between patient subgroups and on comparison to non-immunosuppressed sepsis patients. Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, Comparison in length of stay measures and quality of life parameters, end of trial (4 years)
The specific aims will be to perform multi-modal parallel immune phenotyping to determine:

* The transcriptomic (RNA) phenotypes (or 'signatures') of cancer patients with sepsis
* The association of these transcriptomic phenotypes with:

  1. Leukocyte function in sepsis, as quantified by cell surface and functional assays and plasma soluble mediator content
  2. Pre-existing genomic determinants such as leukocyte numbers
  3. Severity of, and outcome from, sepsis in oncology patients