Gut Microbiota and Color-rectal Cancer.
This clinical trial is focused in the development of a screening test for the people at risk of colo-rectal cancer (aged more than 50 years old), valid and safe, improving the screening prognosis increasing the sensitivity and sensitive as compared with the current method, fecal occult blood.
Cancer|Colo-rectal Cancer|Diagnoses Disease|Microbiota-related Disease|Intestinal Disease
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Gut microbiota determination from feces samples.
Gut-microbiota-based color-rectal cancer diagnosis., Determination of the gut microbiota composition by 16S metagenomic, data analysis and building of a mathematical model to test the potential use of the gut microbiota architecture as biomarker to color-rectal cancer prognosis in patients with positive results in fecal occult blood test., A week before colonoscopy.
Colonoscopy clinical results., Prevalence of the different color-rectal cancer lessions., At week 2.|Characteristic of the population., The characteristic of the population includes gender (man/woman), age (years), weight in kilograms and height in meters (weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2), which will be used to check for any association with the prevalence of the different color-rectal cancer lesions., A week before colonoscopy.|Dietary habits, The dietary habits will be assessed by a questionnaire and will be used to check for any association with the prevalence of the different color-rectal cancer lessions., A week before colonoscopy.
Colo-rectal cancer (CCR) is one of the most prevalent cancers in developed countries. Several studies suggest that the CCR may be related with changes in the gut microbiota. This clinical trial is focused in the development of a screening test for the people at risk of CCR (aged more than 50 years old), valid and safe, improving the screening prognosis. The main potential improvement lies in the fact that the proposed method is more specific and sensitive than the current method, fecal occult blood. It aims to distinguish whether the positive results for fecal occult blood test is due to fissures, not related with CCR (which are positive for fecal occult blood, false positive) or was caused by a cancer-related lesion. The methodology derived will also improve the sensitive as sometimes the polyps do not leak blood. Based in the previous differences found in the gut microbiota composition related with CCR for several research groups, the gut microbiota composition will be used as diagnosis tool.