Pembrolizumab and Lenvatinib for the Treatment of Advanced, Unresectable, or Metastatic Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This early phase I trial studies the effect of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib in treating patients with gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma that has spread to other places in the body (advanced/metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Lenvatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pembrolizumab and lenvatinib may kill more tumor cells.
Advanced Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Advanced Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Clinical Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Clinical Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Metastatic Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma|Pathologic Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IIIC Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Pathologic Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage III Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IIIB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastric Cancer AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IV Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVA Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Postneoadjuvant Therapy Stage IVB Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Overall response rate, through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To estimate the overall response rate (ORR) of pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 in adult subjects with previously treated advanced (unresectable and/or metastatic) gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the duration of response (DOR), disease control rate (DCR), time-to-progression (TTP), progression-free survival (PFS), using RECIST 1.1 and immune-related (i)RECIST criteria and overall survival (OS).

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab plus lenvatinib in adult subjects with previously treated advanced (unresectable and/or metastatic) gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma.

EXPPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To perform exploratory biomarker analyses to study the correlation between immunological and molecular changes in tumor tissues and peripheral blood with clinical outcomes (DOR, DCR, TTP, PFS, and OS) using RESIST 1.1 and iRECIST.

II. To explore the association between PD-L1 expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC), shed PD-L1 levels, somatic gene expression profiling (18-gene T-cell inflamed GEP) and antitumor efficacy of pembrolizumab based on RECIST 1.1 imaging criteria as well as OS.

III. To explore the relationship between genomic variation and response to the treatment administered.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and lenvatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 12 weeks.