Patient Derived Preclinical Models
Study goal is to collect tumor specimens that may inform cancer biology to eventually improve outcomes for patients with cancer. This proposal represents a highly collaborative effort to support cancer research with the goal of developing novel therapeutic strategies using patient derived preclinical models.

This study is being done to collect samples of tumor tissues, matched normal tissue when possible, and approximately 50 mL of blood.
Cancer
PROCEDURE: Tissue Collection|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood Collection|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Buccal Swab
Number of participants accrued with genomic, microbiome, and drug sensitivity components of aggressive cancer., Sequencing data from DNA and RNA will be integrated into a visualization platform to allow individualized study of patient tumor mutations, rearrangements, and RNA expression. Genomically informed analysis will be employed to select potential targets for drug screening in the patient-derived 3D models and determine how many specimens are able to grow as 3D models. In some cases, immunostain results may be analyzed for correlation to RNA expression levels., Up to 6 years post tissue and blood collection
Determine number of participants with genomic, microbiome and drug sensitivity assays (profile or functional) that suggest changes to treatment plan., Sequencing data from DNA and RNA will be integrated into a visualization platform to allow individualized study of patient tumor mutations, rearrangements, and RNA expression. Genomically informed analysis will be employed to select potential targets for drug screening in the patient-derived 3D models. In some cases, immunostain results may be analyzed for correlation to RNA expression levels., Up to 6 years post tissue and blood collection
The objective of this study is to collect tumor specimens (tumor tissues, matched normal tissue when possible, and 50 mL of blood) that may inform cancer biology to eventually improve outcomes for patients with cancer. Additionally, relevant specimens that were previously collected under an IRB approved protocol (13-000942), will be used with approval of the PI of that protocol and patient consent for participation in this protocol.

The collected tissue specimens will be used to develop preclinical models; i.e., cell lines, patient derived micro-cancer models as well as patient-derived xenograft models. In this study we may profile tumors using genomic and/or proteomic approaches to identify targetable alterations in tumor tissue from patients. To assure that the derived cell lines and micro-cancer models have not been cross contaminated during development with other models in development, DNA sequencing may be used. Using these preclinical models, we will test new therapies in vitro, or in vivo in mice in order to identify novel therapeutics as well as interrogate genes for their role in tumor biology. Guidance for molecular targeted therapy will involve gene analysis of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes. Results from these studies may provide the rationale for the design of future novel clinical trials. The evaluation of these preclinical models may lead to predictive value related to patient response to therapy as well as clinical trials. With consent, these models may be shared with other investigators internal or external to Mayo Clinic.