A Trial of ABI-007 Versus Dacarbazine in Previously Untreated Patients With Metastatic Malignant Melanoma
The main purpose of this research study is to compare the safety, tolerability, and anti tumor activity of an investigational drug, ABI-007 versus Dacarbazine in patients with metastatic melanoma who have not previously received chemotherapy. ABI-007 is a new preparation of the active drug paclitaxel. It contains the same medication as the prescription chemotherapy drug Abraxane®. Abraxane® is approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. Dacarbazine is approved by the FDA for the treatment of melanoma. In this study, ABI-007 and Dacarbazine will be tested as therapy for people who have not yet had any cancer treatment for the diagnosis of metastatic melanoma.
Malignant Melanoma
DRUG: ABI-007|DRUG: Dacarbazine
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on a Blinded Radiology Assessment of Response Using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Guidelines, PFS was defined as the time from the randomization date to the start of disease progression or patient death, whichever occurred first. Participants who did not have disease progression or had not died were censored at the last known time that the patient was progression free. In the event of palliative radiotherapy or surgery, they were censored at the last assessment where they were documented to be progression-free prior to the date of radiotherapy or surgery. In follow up, participants who began new anticancer therapy prior to documented progression were censored at the last assessment where they were documented as progression free. Those with two or more missing response assessments prior to a visit with documented disease progression (or death) were censored at the last visit where they were documented to be progression free. RECIST defines progressive disease as a ≥ 20% increase taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameters recorded since the treatment began., Response assessment completed every 8 weeks until disease progression for up to 106 weeks; data cut off 30 June 2012
Participant Survival, Survival was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death (any cause). Participants were censored at the last known time that they were alive., Up to 38 months; Up to data cut off of 30 June 2012|Summary of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (AEs), A Treatment Emergent AE (TEAE) was any AE that began or worsened after the start of the study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug or end of study whichever is later. A treatment related toxicity was one considered by the investigator to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug. AE's were graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) V 3.0 criteria and the following scale:

Grade 1 = Mild, Grade 2 = Moderate, Grade 3 = Severe, Grade 4 = Life threatening, and Grade 5 = Death A SAE is any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that is fatal or life threatening, results in persistent or significant disability or incapacity; requires prolonged hospitalizations; is a congenital anomaly birth defect in the offspring of a patient, and conditions not included in the above that may jeopardize the patient or may require intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above., Maximum exposure to study drug was 106 weeks; up to data cut off of 30 June 2012|Number of Participants Experiencing Dose Reductions, or Dose Interruptions, or Dose Delays of Study Drug, The number of participants with dose reductions, dose interruptions and dose delays that occurred during the treatment period. Dose reductions, interruptions and delays are typically caused by clinically significant laboratory abnormalities and /or treatment emergent adverse events/toxicities., Maximum study drug exposure 106 weeks; data cut off 30 June 2012|Nadir for the Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC) Measurements, Maximal degree of myelosuppression during study drug dosing was represented by the nadir in ANC measurements over all treatment cycles., Day 1 up to 106 weeks; up to data cut off 30 June 2012|Nadir for White Blood Cells (WBCs) Measurements, Maximal degree of myelosuppression was represented by the nadir in white blood cells (WBCs) count measurements over all treatment cycles., Day 1 up to 106 weeks; up to data cut off 30 June 2012|Nadir for Platelet Count Measurements., Maximal degree of myelosuppression was represented by the nadir in platelet count measurements over all treatment cycles., Day 1 up to 106 weeks; up to data cut off 30 June 2012|Nadir for the Hemoglobin Count Measurements, Maximal degree of myelosuppression during study drug dosing was represented by the nadir in hemoglobin count measurements over all treatment cycles., Day 1 up to 106 weeks; up to data cut off 30 June 2012|Pharmacokinetic Parameters, On Cycle 1, Day 1 blood samples were taken at 0.25, 3.5, and 24 hr post-infusion end of the initial dose
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on Investigator Assessment Using RECIST Response Guidelines, PFS was defined as the time from the randomization date to the start of disease progression or patient death, whichever occurred first. Participants who did not have disease progression or had not died were censored at the last known time that the patient was progression free. In the event of palliative radiotherapy or surgery, they were censored at the last assessment where they were documented to be progression-free prior to the date of radiotherapy or surgery. In follow up, patients who began new anticancer therapy prior to documented progression were censored at the last assessment where they were documented as progression free. Those with two or more missing response assessments prior to a visit with documented disease progression (or death) were censored at the last visit where they were documented to be progression free., Response assessments completed every 8 weeks until disease progression; up to data cut off 30 June 2012; 38 months|Percent of Participants Who Achieve an Objective Confirmed Complete or Partial Response Based on Blinded Radiology Assessment of Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0, RECIST defines complete response (CR): The disappearance of all known disease and no new sites or disease related symptoms confirmed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation. All sites must be assessed, including non-measurable sites, such as effusions, or markers. Disappearance of all non-target lesions. The normalization of tumor marker level confirmed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation. Partial response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters confirmed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation. PR is also recorded when all measurable disease has completely disappeared, but a non-measurable component (i.e., ascites) is still present but not progressing. As well as persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., every 8 weeks; up to data cut off 30 June 2012|Percent of Participants With Stable Disease (SD) for ≥ 16 Weeks, or Confirmed Complete or Partial Response (i.e., Disease Control) Based on a Blinded Radiology Assessment of Response, Disease control is stable disease (SD) for \>=16 weeks + complete response (CR) + partial response (PR). See Outcome #4 for definitions of CR and PR.

RECIST defines SD for target lesions as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease, no occurrence of progression disease for non-target lesions, and no new lesions., Response assessment completed every 8 weeks until disease progression; up to data cut-off 30 June 2012|Duration of Response (DOR) in Responding Participants, Duration of response (DOR) as measured by PFS based on radiological review for participants who achieved an objective confirmed response of CR or PR. DOR was defined as progression-free survival in responders, i.e. as the time between the start of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and the start of progressive disease (PD) or participants death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Participants that did not have progression or had not died were censored at the last known time the participant was progression free. Participants that had initiated other anticancer therapy prior to progression were censored at the time when new anticancer therapy was initiated. Complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) are defined in outcome #4. Progressive disease was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions; or the appearance of one or more new lesions; or the unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion., up to data cut off 30 June 2012
The main purpose of this research study is to compare the safety, tolerability, and anti tumor activity of an investigational drug, ABI-007 versus Dacarbazine in patients with metastatic melanoma who have not previously received chemotherapy. ABI-007 is a new preparation of the active drug paclitaxel. It contains the same medication as the prescription chemotherapy drug Abraxane®. Abraxane® is approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer after failure of combination chemotherapy for metastatic disease or relapse within 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. Dacarbazine is approved by the FDA for the treatment of melanoma. In this study, ABI-007 and Dacarbazine will be tested as therapy for people who have not yet had any cancer treatment for the diagnosis of metastatic melanoma.