Topical Cryotherapy in Reducing Pain in Patients With Chemotherapy Induced Peripheral Neuropathy or Paclitaxel Induced Acute Pain Syndrome
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies topical cryotherapy (cooling hands and feet with ice bags) in reducing pain in patients with chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy or paclitaxel induced acute pain syndrome. Peripheral neuropathy is a nerve problem that causes pain, numbness, tingling, swelling, or muscle weakness in different parts of the body. Paclitaxel produces a disabling syndrome of acute aches and pains. Topical cryotherapy is being studied to see if it can help relieve pain from peripheral neuropathy or acute pain syndrome caused by chemotherapy.
Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Cryotherapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Sensory Neuropathy Subscale Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Sensory Neuropathy Subscale adjusting for baseline. The EORTC CIPN20 scoring algorithm was used for the sensory (items 31-36, 39, 40 and 48) subscale scores on a 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the subscale is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline Sensory Neuropathy subscale score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Tingling Fingers or Hands Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Tingling Fingers or Hands over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have tingling fingers or hands?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Tingling Toes or Feet Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Tingling Toes or Feet over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have tingling toes or feet?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Numbness Fingers or Hands Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Numbness Fingers or Hands over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have numbness in your fingers or hands?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Numbness Toes or Feet Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Numbness Toes or Feet over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have numbness in your toes or feet?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Shooting/Burning Pain in Fingers or Hands Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Shooting/Burning Pain in Fingers or Hands over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have shooting or burning pain in your fingers or hands?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks|Area Under the Curve (AUC) EORTC CIPN20 Shooting/Burning Pain in Toes or Feet Item Adjusting for Baseline, Average Area Under the Curve per assessment (aAUCpa) of EORTC Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy Module (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20) Shooting/Burning Pain in Toes or Feet over 12 weeks adjusting for baseline (item 1; "During the past week, did you have shooting or burning pain in your Toes or Feet?"; 1=Not at all, 2=A little, 3=Quite a bit; and 4=Very much). The reported score was transform into 0-100 scale, with higher scores represent fewer symptoms (better QOL). The aAUCpa for the individual item is calculated as the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from pre-treatment-initiation to the week-12 assessment then subtract the corresponding baseline score, with positive scores represent symptoms has improved from baseline and negative scores represent symptoms has worsen from baseline., Up to 12 weeks
Area Under the Curve (AUC) Per Assessment (aAUCpa) of Worst Pain (Item 1 on the Daily Post-Paclitaxel Questionnaire), Average Area Under the Curve (AUC) per assessment (aAUCpa) of worst pain (item 1 on the Daily Post-Paclitaxel Questionnaire; "Please rate any aches/pain that are new since your last dose of paclitaxel, and that you think might be related to your chemotherapy treatment, by circling ONE number that best describes your aches/pain at its WORST in the last 24 hours.") over 1 week. Scores are reported on a 0-100 scale, where 100=better outcome quality of life (QOL). The aAUCpa is the average of each AUC between each sequential assessment from day 2 through 7 following paclitaxel., 1 week
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate whether topical cryotherapy can alleviate paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy.

II. To estimate whether topical cryotherapy can alleviate paclitaxel-induced acute pain syndrome (P-APS).

III. To examine the possible relative toxicities related to topical cryotherapy in this study situation.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients apply bags filled with crushed ice to hands and feet for 15 minutes before, for 60 minutes during administration, and for 15 minutes after finishing administration of paclitaxel.

ARM II: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on weeks 1-12.

In both arms, courses repeat once a week for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 30 days for 6 months.