The Effect of Digital Technology-Supported Education on Patients Undergoing Breast Reconstruction After Mastectomy: A Randomized Controlled Study
The goal of this randomized, controlled study is to test the effectiveness of digital technology-supported education on patients undergoing breast reconstruction after mastectomy.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: digital technology-supported education
Anxiety, The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be used. It is a valid and reliable scale in Turkish. The higher score the higher risk for depression or anxiety. (Change from baseline to 5th, 15th and 30th days will be assessed)., Baseline and 30th days|Surgical pain, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS): It is used to evaluate the subjective discomfort states of patients. It consists of a horizontal line 10 cm long. It is a ruler with the left side stating "no pain" and the right side stating "the worst pain" (unbearable pain). Values range from 0 to 10, with higher values indicating increased discomfort. It is easy to apply. It has been shown to be sensitive to pain and discomfort., (Change from baseline to 5th, 15th and 30th days will be assessed).|Sleep quality, Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index: It is valid and reliable scale. in Turkish language.The scale consists of 24 questions, 19 of which are feedback questions and 5 of which are to be answered by the spouse or roommate. When calculating the index score, questions answered by the individual's spouse or roommate are not included in the calculation. Self-assessment questions include various items related to sleep quality. These are to determine sleep duration, sleep latency, and the frequency and severity of specific sleep-related problems. The 18 items scored are grouped into 7 component scores. Some of the components consist of a single substance, while others are obtained by grouping several substances. Each item is evaluated with a score between 0-3. The sum of these seven component scores gives the total index score. Total score is between 0-21. A high total score indicates poor sleep quality., (Change from baseline to 5th, 15th and 30th days will be assessed).|Quality of life after surgery, SF-12 Quality of Life Scale (SF-12), is a scale that evaluates the quality of life for the last four weeks without focusing on a specific age group or disease group. High scores indicate good health status., (Change from baseline to 5th, 15th and 30th days will be assessed).
Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer in our country and all over the world, and there are surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, hormonal and targeted treatment options in the treatment of patients diagnosed with breast cancer. Surgery is an important option for the majority of patients diagnosed with breast cancer, and breast-conserving surgery and mastectomy are frequently performed. Patients who undergo mastectomy can also choose breast reconstruction surgeries, which enable the reconstruction of breast tissue through various methods, because they feel better both psychologically and physiologically.

Breast reconstruction can be performed in two periods: early and late. Patients who undergo breast reconstruction simultaneously with mastectomy may experience psychological problems such as anxiety, depression and fear in the preoperative period, and patients may experience surgery-related bleeding, hematoma, seroma, wound infection, tissue necrosis, fat necrosis, capsule contraction, implant loss and pain. Complications may develop and individuals' quality of life may be negatively affected. Patients need support care, treatment and preventive health interventions, and education on late effects/long-term physical and psychosocial problems in order to maintain their independence in daily activities and improve their quality of life.

In addition to written, visual and audio materials in patient education, mobile applications and wearable technologies come to the fore with developing and advancing technology. Mobile health service offered starting from the pre-operative period; In addition to heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, blood glucose level, daily drainage monitoring, spirometry results and medication compliance; Pain level, sleep quality, daily living activities and exercise level can be evaluated, and the quality of care is increased with nursing care practices and continuity of education.

This study aims to determine the effect of mobile technology-supported education and monitoring on care outcomes in patients who underwent breast reconstruction simultaneously with mastectomy due to breast cancer.