Cu64-DOTA-trastuzumab PET and Markers Predicting Response to Neoadjuvant Trastuzumab + Pertuzum in HER2+ Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well copper Cu64-DOTA-trastuzumab positron emission tomography (PET) works in predicting response to treatment with trastuzumab and pertuzumab before surgery in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) positive breast cancer that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Diagnostic procedures, such as copper Cu 64 DOTA-trastuzumab PET, may help predict a patient's response to trastuzumab and pertuzumab before surgery in patients with locally advanced HER2 positive breast cancer.
HER2 Positive Breast Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Copper Cu 64-DOTA-Trastuzumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pertuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery|BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab
Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Determined at Surgery (Lumpectomy or Mastectomy)., The response assessment is performed at the time of definitive surgery. Patients' disease will be staged in the conventional manner according to the AJCC. The primary endpoint is complete pathologic response defined as no evidence of residual invasive cancer in either the breast or regional lymph nodes., Up to 1 year
SUV Measurement by 64Cu-DOTA Trastuzumab PET, First Scan SUV Maximum, measurement by 64Cu-DOTA trastuzumab PET SUV is "Standard Uptake Value". SUV = tumor activity concentration x patient body weight/injected activity decay-corrected to time of scan., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the standardized uptake value maximum (SUVmax) in patients with previously untreated HER2+ breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate if the uptake of copper 64 Cu-64-DOTA-trastuzumab, a proposed indicator of responsiveness to HER2-directed therapy, correlates with serpin peptidase inhibitor alpha-1 antiproteinase, antitrypsin, member 1 gene (SERPINA1) expression, which has been shown to be associated with estrogen receptor positive (ER+)/ HER2+ patient survival, both in the HER2+/ER+ patients and in all patients.

II. To compare uptake of copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab in the patients with complete pathologic response (pCR) versus (vs) non-pCR patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive trastuzumab intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes immediately before receiving copper Cu 64-DOTA-trastuzumab IV on day 0. Patients undergo PET scans at 18-24 and 42-48 hours, on day 1 and 2. Within 4 days after completion of PET scans, patients then receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes weekly or every 3 weeks and pertuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo surgery after 6 cycles of trastuzumab and pertuzumab.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.