To Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of Parsaclisib and Ruxolitinib in Participants With Myelofibrosis Who Have Suboptimal Response to Ruxolitinib (LIMBER-304)
The purpose of the study is to compare the efficacy and safety of parsaclisib when combined with ruxolitinb versus placebo combined with ruxolitinib in participants with myelofibrosis who have suboptimal response while receiving ruxolitinib monotherapy.
Myelofibrosis|Primary Myelofibrosis|Post Essential Thrombocythemia Myelofibrosis|Post Polycythemia Vera Myelofibrosis
DRUG: parsaclisib|DRUG: ruxolitinib|DRUG: placebo
Percentage of Participants Achieving ≥25% Reduction in Spleen Volume From Baseline to Week 24 as Measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (or Computed Tomography [CT] Scan in Applicable Participants), Participants had an MRI of the upper and lower abdomen and pelvis to determine the spleen volume. A CT scan was substituted for participants who were not candidates for MRI or when MRI was not readily available., Baseline; Week 24
Percentage of Participants Who Have a ≥50% Reduction in Total Symptom Score (TSS) From Baseline to Week 24 as Measured by the Myelofibrosis Symptom Assessment Form v.4.0 (MFSAF v4.0) Diary, Symptoms of myelofibrosis were assessed using the MFSAF v4.0 diary. The MFSAF v4.0 is composed of 7 individual symptom scores (fatigue, night sweats, itchiness, abdominal discomfort, pain under left ribs, early satiety, bone pain), each collected daily using a 0- (no symptoms) to 10-point (worst imaginable symptoms) scale. The daily TSS (0 to 70) is the sum of the 7 individual symptom scores collected in a day. A higher TSS corresponds to more severe symptoms. The TSS was marked as missing if there were any missing individual scores. Observations with missing dates were excluded from the analysis. The Baseline/Week 24 total score was defined as the average of the daily total scores from the last 7 days before the first dose of parsaclisib, placebo, or ruxolitinib/the Week 24 visit. The Baseline/Week 24 total score was marked as missing if there were ≥4 out of the 7 daily TSSs missing., Baseline; Week 24|Change in TSS From Baseline to Week 24 as Measured by the MFSAF v4.0 Diary, Symptoms of myelofibrosis were assessed using the MFSAF v4.0 diary. The MFSAF v4.0 is composed of 7 individual symptom scores (fatigue, night sweats, itchiness, abdominal discomfort, pain under left ribs, early satiety, bone pain), each collected daily using a 0- (no symptoms) to 10-point (worst imaginable symptoms) scale. The daily TSS (0 to 70) is the sum of the 7 individual symptom scores collected in a day. A higher TSS corresponds to more severe symptoms. The TSS was marked as missing if there were any missing individual scores. Observations with missing dates were excluded from the analysis. The Baseline/Week 24 total score was defined as the average of the daily total scores from the last 7 days before the first dose of parsaclisib, placebo, or ruxolitinib/the Week 24 visit. The Baseline/Week 24 total score was marked as missing if there were ≥4 out of the 7 daily TSSs missing. Change from Baseline was calculated as the Week 24 value minus the Baseline value., Baseline; Week 24|Time to the First ≥50% Reduction in TSS as Measured by the MFSAF v4.0 Diary, Symptoms were assessed using the MFSAF v4.0 diary. The MFSAF v4.0 is composed of 7 individual symptom scores (fatigue, night sweats, itchiness, abdominal discomfort, pain under left ribs, early satiety, bone pain), each collected daily using a 0- (no symptoms) to 10-point (worst imaginable symptoms) scale. The daily TSS (0 to 70) is the sum of the 7 individual symptom scores collected in a day. A higher TSS corresponds to more severe symptoms. The TSS was marked as missing if there were any missing individual scores. Observations with missing dates were excluded from the analysis. The Baseline/Week 24 total score was defined as the average of the daily total scores from the last 7 days before the first dose of parsaclisib, placebo, or ruxolitinib/the Week 24 visit. The Baseline/Week 24 total scores was marked as missing if there were ≥4 out of the 7 daily TSSs missing. The 95% confidence interval was calculated using the Brookmeyer and Crowley's method with log-log transformation., Baseline; up to Week 24|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the interval between the randomization date and the date of death due to any cause., up to 879 days|Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it is considered drug related. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable or unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of study treatment. A TEAE is defined as an AE reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment., up to 879 days|Number of Participants With Any Grade 3 or Higher TEAE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans, whether or not it is considered drug related. A TEAE is defined as an AE reported for the first time or the worsening of a pre-existing event after the first dose of study treatment. The severity of AEs was assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 Grades 1 through 5. Grade 1: mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2: moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting instrumental activities of daily living (ADL). Grade 3: severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4: life-threatening urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5: death related to AE., up to 879 days|Time to the First ≥25% Reduction in Spleen Volume, The time to the first ≥25% reduction in spleen volume is defined as the time from randomization to the first time participants had ≥25% reduction in spleen volume. Participants with a Baseline and post-Baseline MRI or CT scan who did not have ≥25% reduction in spleen volume at the time of analysis were censored at the time of the last MRI or CT scan. If the participants had no Baseline or post-Baseline MRI or CT scan, they were censored at the date of randomization., up to 879 days|Duration of Maintenance of a ≥25% Reduction in Spleen Volume, The duration of ≥25% reduction from Baseline in spleen volume was defined as the interval between the first spleen volume measurement that was a ≥25% reduction from Baseline and the date of the first measurement that was no longer a ≥25% reduction from Baseline. If the end date was not observed before the database cutoff, the duration was censored at the last, up to 879 days
Prospective participants must be on stable doses of ruxolitinib ranging from 5 mg BID to 25 mg BID and will have been on that dose for at least the last 8 weeks prior to Day 1. At least 3 months duration of prior ruxolitinib is required. Participants must meet Protocol-defined criteria for suboptimal response to ruxolitinib monotherapy. After participants have been determined to be eligible for the study and completed the baseline symptom diary assessment for 7 days, they will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment groups, with stratification for platelet count (≥ 100 × 10\^9/L vs 50 to \< 100 × 10\^9/L inclusive) and DIPSS risk category (high vs intermediate-2 vs intermediate-1).

Once a participant has completed the week 24 assessments, the participant's treatment assignment will then be unblinded and if found to be placebo, the participant will have the opportunity to crossover to begin receiving parsaclisib, together with continued ruxolitinib, as long as hematology parameters are adequate.