Vaccination-Dendritic Cells With Peptides for Recurrent Malignant Gliomas
This is a single-institution Phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety and induction of an immune response, and preliminary clinical response of vaccinations with Type-1 alpha-DCs (alpha-DC1) loaded with glioma-associated antigen (GAA) epitopes and administration of poly-ICLC in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. Approximately 30 subjects will be enrolled in this study at UPMC/UPCI Hillman Cancer Center. The study participants in this trial will be HLA-A2 positive male or female adults over 18 years of age. The primary objective is to establish the safety of this approach. The endpoints will be to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of alpha-DC1 vaccines in combination with a fixed dose of poly-ICLC, using standard criteria and close clinical followups. The secondary objectives are 1) to assess the immunological response against GAAs in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas immunized with DCs loaded with GAA-derived peptides using enzyme-linked immuno-spot (ELISPOT), delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and tetramer assays; and 2) to assess the preliminary anti-tumor clinical activity of the vaccines as measured by radiological response (MRI), overall survival, and 4- and 6-month progression-free survival (PFS).
Malignant Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Dendritic vaccine pulsed with multiple peptides|BIOLOGICAL: The first booster vaccine phase:|BIOLOGICAL: The second booster vaccine phase:
Number of Participants Who Experienced Treatment-related Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT), Number of participants who experienced treatment-related Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) at any dose level., up to 8 weeks|Median Time To Progression, Median number of months until disease progression. Tumor size was assessed using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans with contrast enhancement to detect change from baseline., At baseline, 9, 17, 25, and 33 weeks, and every 3 months; up to 23 months
12-month- Progression Free Survival (PFS), Number of patients with progression-free status lasting at least 12 months, Up to 12 months|Overall Survival (OS), Time interval from start of treatment until date of death., Up to 102 months
This is a single-institution Phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety, the induction of an immune response, and the preliminary clinical response of vaccinations with Type-1 αDCs (αDC1) loaded with glioma-associated antigen (GAA) epitopes and administration of poly-ICLC in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas. The hypothesis is that this form of vaccines in combination with poly-ICLC treatment will prove to be safe, and will induce potent anti-glioma immune responses.

The primary objective is to establish the safety of the approach.

The secondary objectives are to 1) assess the immunological response against GAAs in patients with recurrent malignant gliomas immunized with DCs loaded with GAA-derived peptides using enzyme-linked immuno-spot (ELISPOT), delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) and tetramer assays and 2) assess the preliminary anti-tumor clinical activity of the vaccines as measured by radiological response (MRI), overall survival, and four- and six-month progression-free survival (PFS).