Pembrolizumab in Intermediate Risk Recurrent Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC)
A parallel group, open label, multi-centre, phase I/II marker-lesion study of intravesical or intravenous pembrolizumab in recurrent intermediate risk NMIBC. Thirty patients (fifteen in each of two arms) will be randomised 1:1 to treatment with either intravesical pembrolizumab (Arm A) or intravenous pembrolizumab (Arm B). The main study will be preceded by a single institution safety run-in phase involving intra-patient dose escalation in six patients to confirm the safety and tolerability of intravesical pembrolizumab and the dose to be used in the randomised phase.
Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC)
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Number of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) to Assess the Safety, Tolerability and Toxicities of Intravesical Pembrolizumab After Transurethral Resection of Bladder Tumour (TURBT)., Adverse events are categorised according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03. Patients with intermediate risk Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC) were assessed for dose limiting toxicity (DLT) and tolerability.

Administration of at least 5 out of 6 treatments was required for the regime to be defined as tolerable., Adverse event monitoring starts on the day of the TURBT procedure (Day -14) until 90 days post treatment, or 30 days following administration of the last dose of study medication if the subject initiates a new anticancer therapy.
Correlation Between Expression of Programmed Death Ligand 1 (PD-L1) and Programmed Cell Death 1 (PD-1+) Infiltrating Lymphocytes and Efficacy of Pembrolizumab Therapy After TURBT., Pre treatment, during treatment (optional), and post treatment tumour samples Immunohistochemistry and Fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis to measure. Additionally, collection of an optional tumour sample at the time of recurrence or progression for research purposes will be performed if the patient provides consent for this. The optional tumour sample would be collected at the time of a standard care surveillance cystoscopy or resection if the patient had a repeat TURBT in standard care., Day -14 TURBT, optional Day 50 TURBT, Day 85 TURBT and where applicable optional follow-up period ≤ 24 months|Definition of Gene Expression Signatures and Genetic Profiles Capable of Predicting Efficacy of Pembrolizumab Treatment in NMIBC Patients., Gene expression profiling and DNA sequencing on pre-treatment blood and tumour samples to predict efficacy of pembrolizumab treatment in NMIBC patients., Day 1 pre-treatment|Analysis of T-cell Receptor (TCR) Repertoire and Clonality of Infiltrating T-cells in Resected Tumour Specimens, Urine and Normal Bladder Tissue., Evaluating the effects of pembrolizumab treatment on the immunological profile and tumour specific immune responses in patients with intermediate risk NMIBC., Day 1 to 92|Analysis of TCR Repertoire and Clonality of Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC) Before, During and After Treatment., Identification of myeloid or T cell responses in the tumour microenvironment associated with the response to treatment with pembrolizumab., Day 1 to 92|Analysis of Cytokines in Blood and Urine., Identification of myeloid or T cell responses in the tumour microenvironment associated with response to treatment, Day 1 to 92
Bladder cancer is the seventh most common cancer in the United Kingdom (UK) and ninth most common cancer worldwide. New strategies for treating this disease are urgently required to reduce recurrence and progression rates. Pembrolizumab is a type of immunotherapy drug that has been approved for use in certain types of melanoma and lung cancer. It is thought to work by helping the body's immune system to recognise and attack cancer. Drugs that work in a similar way have shown some encouraging results in studies treating patients with bladder cancer that has spread to other parts of the body, although they are not currently approved for treating either advanced or localised bladder cancer.

This trial is being performed to assess the safety and tolerability of giving pembrolizumab to patients with localised bladder cancer and to study what effects the drug has on the tumour; Participants will have all but one tumour (referred to as the marker lesion) removed during their transurethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT) procedure at the start of the trial. After trial treatment, a further TURBT procedure will be carried out to remove the marker lesion, or if the marker lesion is no longer visible, a biopsy will be taken of the area where the growth was before.

After a safety run in with intra-patient dose escalation of intravesical pembrolizumab performed in paired patient cohorts, the trial will test two different ways of giving the pembrolizumab; directly into the bladder (intravesical) with 6 doses being received over 6 weeks and with a further dose approximately 3 weeks later, or into the blood stream via the veins (intravenous) with a dose being received every 3 weeks for a maximum of 4 doses.

36 eligible participants from across 3 UK centres will be randomly allocated to receive treatment by one of these ways. Following the end of treatment visit, patients will return to receiving standard care but receive follow-up for up to 2 years.