Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Combined With PD-1 Blockers for Locally Advanced or Locally Recurrent Pancreatic Cancer
The goal of this observational study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of stereotactic body radiotherapy combined with PD-1 blockers for LAPC and LRPC. The patients, diagnosed with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) or locally recurrent pancreatic cancer (LRPC). LRPC or LAPC, undergoing SABT and PD-1 blockers in our hospital from December 2020 to April 2023 were reviewed consecutively. All patients provided written informed consent before treatment. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and it was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of Peking University Third Hospital.
Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy|PD-1 Inhibitors|Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT)|DRUG: PD-1 blocking antibody
progression-free survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from SBRT to disease progression, 12 months
local progression-free survival (LPFS), LPFS was defined as the time from SBRT to local progression., 12 months|Overall survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from SBRT to death from any cause., 18 months|Adverse Events (AEs), All kinds of side effects., 18 months|Pain relief rate (PRR）, The numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to evaluate the pain levels before and after treatment and the pain relief rate was calculated from the patients achieving pain The numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to evaluate the pain levels before and after treatment and the pain relief rate was calculated from the patients achieving pain The numeric rating scale (NRS) was used to evaluate the pain levels before and after treatment and the pain relief rate was calculated from the patients achieving pain relief after SBRT., 18 months
The goal of this observational study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) combined with PD-1 blockers for LAPC and LRPC. The patients, diagnosed with locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) or locally recurrent pancreatic cancer (LRPC). LRPC or LAPC, undergoing SBRT and PD-1 blockers in our hospital from December 2020 to April 2023 were reviewed consecutively. The schedule of SBRT is 25 to 50 Gy in 5 fractions and the PD-1 blockers are monoclonal antibodies targeted to PD-1 molecules on the T lymphocytes.

All patients provided written informed consent before treatment. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki, and it was approved by the Institutional Ethics Committee of Peking University Third Hospital.