Follow up for Patients With Thyroid Cancer Planed for Radioiodine Scan or Treatment
The prevalence of thyroid cancer has increased in recent decades. Patients with thyroid cancer need to choose between Thyrogen® injection and Eltroxin® withdrawal before radioiodine therapy or scan. This is a prospective, observational study, aiming to observe the difference of metabolic profiles between patients choose Thyrogen® injection and Eltroxin® withdrawal.
Thyroid Cancer
RADIATION: radioiodine
Zung's Self-reported depression scale, Depression symtpoms, 1 month
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, 1 month|orexin, An associated factor for depression, 1 month|Body composition, Fat component percentage to lean mass percentage ratio, 1 months|VCAM-1, adhesion molecules, 1 months|CRP, inflammation marker, 1 months|Metabolic syndrome, The number of conponents for metabolic syndrome, 1 months
1. Objective： To observe the difference between Thyogen® injection or Eltroxin® withdrawal on metabolic profile.
2. Background and method:： The prevalence of thyroid cancer has increased in recent decades. Patients with thyroid cancer need to choose between Thyrogen® injection and Eltroxin® withdrawal before radioiodine therapy or scan. This is a prospective, observational study, aiming to observe the difference of metabolic profiles between patients choose Thyrogen® injection and Eltroxin® withdrawal.

Inclusion ： Patient number: 500人

Inclusion criteria :

1. Patients with diagnosis of thyroid cancer。
2. Patients who need radioiodine therapy or scan。

Exclusion criteria:

1. Patients cannot cooperate with blood test.。
2. Patients cannot cooperate with radioiodine therapy。 Study design： Prospective, observational study。

Method： We will collect 20cc blood and 20 cc urine before and after radioiodine therapy during each visit (total 3 visits) and check lipid profiles, glucose profiles and inflammation markers. We will compare the difference between results of patients undergoing Thyrogen® injection and Eltroxin® withdrawal.