Assessment of Remnant Liver Function in ALPPS by Gd-EOB-DTPA Enhanced MRI
Insufficient future liver remnant (FLR), which may render post-hepatectomy liver failure, is one of the major obstacles for performing liver resection for patients with liver malignants. Associating liver partition and portal vein ligation (ALPPS) was introduced to induce rapid and extensive liver hypertrophy, which offers the opportunity for removing the liver malignancy in the second stage operation for patients with insufficient FLR at their first stage operation. Feasibility of the second stage of ALPPS has been assessed mostly on the basis of laboratory parameters and volumetry by the 3D reconstruction of CT. Meanwhile, part of the patients who underwent the second stage ALPPS still experienced postoperative liver failure, even in patients with sufficient FLR volume. In other words, this volumetric increase may not reflect the increase of liver function. And the laboratory parameters can only partly reflect the global liver function but not the regional liver function. Therefore, the combination of volumetric and global liver function tests might be unsuitable for predicting FLR function after first stage ALPPS because function is distributed unequally between left and right liver lobe. The Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced liver MRI, which has remarkable potential to evaluate regional liver function and could therefore be an ideal diagnostic test for performing volumetric and functional measurement after the first stage ALPPS in one examination. Thus we performed this clinical trial in order to evaluate the efficacy of Gd-EOB-DTPA-enhanced liver MRI in evaluating the FLR liver function after the first stage ALPPS.
Liver Function Failure|Liver Malignant Tumors
Postoperative liver function failure, The "50-50 criteria" was applied to assess post-treatment liver failure, which considers the increased total bilirubin level (\>50 umol/L) and decreased PTA (\<50%) on postoperative day 5., Within 90 days after the operation
Postoperative morbidities and mortalities, Postoperative morbidities and mortalities were graded according to the Clavien classification., Within 90 days after the operation
The clinical data and follow up information of the patients who underwent laparoscopic ALPPS in Department of General Surgery, Peking University Third Hospital were collected. The indication for the performance of the first and second ALPPS was evaluated by multi-disciplinary team (MDT). The liver function evaluation indexes of Gd-EOB-DTPA Enhanced liver MRI such as RE (Relative enhancement of the liver)=（SI20min-SIunenhanced）/ SIunenhanced and other related indexes were calculated. SI referred to signal intensity. SI20 min referred to the signal intensity in the hepatocyte phase (20 min after the injection). The relationship between the indexes and postoperative liver failure as well as other complications were analyzed.