Gemcitabine and Cisplatin for Advanced or Recurrent Endometrial Cancer
Primary Objective:

* To estimate the antitumor activity of the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin in patients with advanced (stage III or IV) or recurrent endometrial cancer.

Secondary Objective:

* To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin in this cohort of patients.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Participant Responses, Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST): Complete Response (CR): disappearance all target \& nontarget lesions, absence new lesions, documented by 2 disease assessments 4 weeks apart; Partial response (PR): 30% decrease in sum longest diameter (LD) all measurable target lesions (baseline sum LDs as reference) \& absence of progression of nontarget lesions or development of new, documented by 2 disease assessments 4 weeks apart. When only target lesion solitary pelvic mass measurable by physical examination but not radiography, a 50% decrease in LD required to be PR; Progressive disease (PD): 20% increase in sum LDs of target lesions (reference smallest sum of LDs at any assessment) or appearance of new lesions within 9 weeks of study entry, and unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions, other than pleural effusions without cytological proof of neoplastic origin within 9 weeks of enrollment; Stable disease (SD): any condition not meeting above CR, PR, or PD., Responses required confirmation by imaging after 4-week+ interval following 3 week (21 day) therapy course.|Overall Objective Response Rate (CR + PR), Objective response (OR) defined as percentage of participants with RECIST Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR), defined as CR: Disappearance all target and non-target lesions, no evidence of new lesions documented by 2 disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Normalization of CA-125, if elevated at baseline, is required; PR: 30% decrease in sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions reference baseline sum of LD, no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions; no new lesions documented by 2 disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical examination, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. 21-day cycle assessments or until either disease progression or adverse effects prohibit further treatment., Responses required confirmation by imaging after 4-week+ interval following 3 week (21 day) therapy course.
Gemcitabine and cisplatin are drugs that are used in the treatment of many types of cancer. Each acts to kill cancer cells throughout the body.

Before treatment starts, you will have a complete physical exam, pelvic exam, blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons), a chest x-ray, and a CT scan or MRI. Women able to have children must have a negative blood pregnancy test.

On Day 1 and Day 8, you will receive gemcitabine chemotherapy through a small tube placed in a vein over 1 hour. This will be followed by cisplatin chemotherapy given by vein over 1 hour. Before chemotherapy is given, you will receive medications to prevent nausea. You will not receive any therapy on Day 15. One course of therapy is 3 weeks long.

Routine blood tests (about 1 teaspoon) will be done weekly during treatment and before each course of therapy (every 3 weeks). A complete checkup, including a history and physical exam, pelvic exam, and routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons) will also be done before each course of therapy and a month after treatment ends. CT or MRI scans will be repeated every 2 to 3 cycles and at the end of treatment. Participants who have a partial or complete response (the tumor shrinks by more than 50% or disappears completely) will have the CT or MRI repeated at least 4 weeks later to confirm the response.

You may continue to receive treatment as long as your disease remains stable or improves. Participants who experience significant side effects may be allowed to drop to a lower dose if their disease is not worse. If the disease gets worse or if intolerable side effects occur, you will be taken off study.

When you are taken off the study, a complete medical history and physical exam will be performed. Routine blood tests (about 2-3 teaspoons) will be performed. Any side effects will be monitored until they go away.

This is an investigational study. Both of the study drugs are FDA approved and commercially available, though their use together in this study is investigational. Up to 35 patients will take part in this study. Patients will be enrolled at M.D. Anderson, St. Lukes Episcopal Hospital and The Woman's Hospital of Texas.