Bevacizumab, Paclitaxel, Carboplatin, and Radiation Therapy to the Chest in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase I trial studies how well giving bevacizumab together with paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiation therapy to the chest works in treating patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving bevacizumab together with paclitaxel, carboplatin, and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Adenocarcinoma of the Lung|Bronchoalveolar Cell Lung Cancer|Large Cell Lung Cancer|Stage II Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy|DRUG: paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: carboplatin|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Safety and feasibility, Up to 36 months|In-field toxicity, defined as bleeding or perforation of the tracheobronchial or gastrointestinal structures within the radiation field, Up to 36 months|Clinical response, Up to 36 months|Correlation of levels of angiopoietin-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 with clinical response, Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the feasibility of administering bevacizumab, paclitaxel, carboplatin, and chest radiotherapy in patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer.

II. Characterize the toxicity of this treatment regimen. III. Assess the clinical response to this treatment regimen. IV. Correlate circulating levels of angiopoietin-2 and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 with clinical response to this treatment regimen.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.Induction therapy.

Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1, 15, 29, and 43. Patients also undergo chest radiotherapy 5 days a week for 7 weeks beginning on day 1.

Consolidation therapy: Beginning 4-5 weeks after completion chemoradiotherapy, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour followed by carboplatin IV over 1 hour followed by bevacizumab IV over 30 minutes. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After study completion, patients are followed periodically for 36 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.