An Open-label Study of Encorafenib + Binimetinib in Patients With BRAFV600-mutant Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This is an open-label, multicenter, non-randomized, Phase 2 study to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of encorafenib given in combination with binimetinib in patients with BRAFV600E-mutant metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Patients who are either treatment-naïve, OR who have received 1) first-line treatment with standard platinum-based chemotherapy, OR 2) first-line treatment with an anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death protein ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor given alone or in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy will be enrolled.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: encorafenib|DRUG: binimetinib
Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response (OR) as Determined by Independent Radiology Review (IRR), Objective Response Rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved a confirmed best overall response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Both CR and PR must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met. CR was defined by the disappearance of all non-lymph node target lesions (where all target lesions were recorded with a length of 0 mm, and any pathological lymph nodes \[recorded as target lesion\] must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) and complete disappearance of all non-target lesions (where all non-target lesions were marked "Absent", and all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size \[\<10 mm in short axis\]). PR was defined by a 30% or more decrease in sum of diameters (SOD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD. ORR was calculated with the exact 2-sided Clopper-Pearson 95% CI., From date of the first dose of study intervention until documented progressive disease (PD) or start of new anticancer therapy (up to 36 months)
Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Objective Response (OR) by Investigator Assessment, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved a confirmed best overall response (CR or PR) per RECIST version 1.1. Both CR and PR must be confirmed by repeat assessments performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response were first met. CR was defined by the disappearance of all non-lymph node target lesions (where all target lesions were recorded with a length of 0 mm, and any pathological lymph nodes \[recorded as target lesion\] must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm) and the complete disappearance of all non-target lesions (where all non-target lesions were marked "Absent", and all lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size \[\<10 mm in short axis\]). PR was defined by a 30% or more decrease in SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD. ORR according to derived investigator assessment was calculated with the exact 2-sided Clopper-Pearson 95% CI., From date of the first dose of study intervention until documented PD or start of new anticancer therapy (up to 36 months)|Duration of Response (DoR) by IRR and Investigator Assessments, DoR, based on IRR and Investigator assessments was defined as the time from the date of the first documented confirmed response (CR or PR) (by IRR and by Investigator, respectively) to the earliest date of disease progression, as determined by Investigator review of radiographic disease assessments and IRR per RECIST version 1.1, or death due to any cause. If a participant with a CR or PR had neither progressed nor died at the time of the analysis cutoff or at the start of any new anticancer therapy, the participant was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. CR was defined by the disappearance of all non-lymph node target lesions and complete disappearance of all non-target lesions. PR was defined by a 30% or more decrease in SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD. DoR was calculated for participants who had achieved a confirmed overall response (CR or PR). The estimate of the DoR survival function was constructed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of the first confirmed documented response (CR or PR) to the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause (up to 36 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) by IRR and Investigator Assessments, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved a confirmed overall response of CR, PR or stable disease (SD), as determined by Investigator review of radiographic disease assessments and IRR per RECIST version 1.1 after 24 weeks (≥168 days) from the date of first dose of study intervention. CR was defined by the disappearance of all non-lymph node target lesions and complete disappearance of all non-target lesions. PR was defined by a 30% or more decrease in SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline SOD. SD was assigned when neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for CR or PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD was observed, taking as reference the nadir. DCR was calculated along with the exact 2-sided Clopper-Pearson 95% CI., After 24 Weeks (≥168 days) from the date of first dose of study intervention|Progression-free Survival (PFS) by IRR and Investigator Assessments, PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study intervention to the earliest date of disease progression, as determined by IRR and Investigator review of radiographic disease assessments per RECIST version 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD was defined by a 20% or more increase in the SOD of target lesions relative to nadir (smallest SOD considering baseline and all assessments prior to the time point under evaluation), with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm relative to nadir; PD was assigned if any non-target lesion was marked "unequivocal progression". If a participant had not had a PFS event at the time of the analysis cutoff or at the start of any new anticancer therapy, PFS was censored at the date of last adequate tumor assessment. PFS (months) = \[(date of event or censoring - date of first dose) +1\]/30.4375. The survival distribution function for PFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of first dose of study drug to the earliest date of disease progression, or death due to any cause (up to 36 months)|Time to Response (TTR) by IRR and Investigator Assessments, TTR based on IRR and Investigator assessments was defined, for participants with an objective response, as the time, in months, from the date of first dose to the first documentation of objective response (CR or PR) which was subsequently confirmed (by IRR and by Investigator, respectively). TTR was calculated for the subgroup of participants with a confirmed objective tumor response., From the date of first dose to the first documentation of confirmed objective response (CR or PR) (up to 36 months)|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study intervention to the date of death due to any cause. If a death had not been observed by the date of the analysis cutoff, OS was censored at the date of last contact. The survival distribution function for OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., The time from the date of first dose of study intervention to the date of death due to any cause (up to 36 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), TEAE was a treatment-emergent adverse event that occurred during the on-treatment period. The on-treatment period was defined as the time from the first dose date of study intervention to the last dose of study drug administration date (when both drugs were permanently discontinued) +30 days or the earliest date of subsequent anti-cancer drug therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first. Relatedness to study intervention was determined by the investigator. The investigator made an assessment of intensity for each AE reported during the study according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03: Grade 3 events = severe AEs; Grade 4 events = life-threatening consequences, urgent intervention indicated; Grade 5 events = death related to AEs., From the time the participant provided informed consent, through and including a minimum of 30 calendar days, after the last administration of the study intervention, and the safety follow-up visit (30 days [±7 days] after the EOT visit) (up to 36 months)|Number of Participants With Shifts From Grade ≤2 at Baseline to Grade 3 or 4 at Post-baseline in Hematology Laboratory Test Values Based on CTCAE Grade, Blood and urine samples for the laboratory tests. A central laboratory will perform all clinical laboratory assessments. Baseline was the last available assessment performed prior to the study intervention start date/time.

Grade 4 was not applicable for the parameters of anemia, hemoglobin increased, leukocytosis and lymphocyte count increased as Grade 4 was not defined for these 4 parameters per CTCAE version 4.03., Screening, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1 ±3 Days, Day 1 ±3 Days in Subsequent Cycles, End of Treatment (EOT) ±3 Days and Safety Follow-up Visit (30 Days [±7 Days] After the EOT Visit) (Up to 36 Months)|Number of Participants With Shifts From Grade ≤2 at Baseline to Grade 3 or 4 at Post-baseline in Chemistry Laboratory Test Values Based on CTCAE Grade, Blood and urine samples for the laboratory tests. A central laboratory will perform all clinical laboratory assessments. Baseline was the last available assessment performed prior to the study intervention start date/time.

Grade 4 was not applicable for the parameters of hyperglycemia and hypoalbuminemia as Grade 4 was not defined for these 2 parameters per CTCAE version 4.03., Screening, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1 ±3 Days, Day 1 ±3 Days in Subsequent Cycles, EOT ±3 Days and Safety Follow-up Visit (30 Days [±7 Days] After the EOT Visit) (Up to 36 Months)|Number of Participants With Notable Abnormal Vital Signs, Vital sign measurements were taken before blood collection for laboratory tests or at least 30 minutes after blood collection for laboratory tests, and were measured per institutional standards. Vital sign assessments included temperature, pulse rate, respiratory rate, and blood pressure (assessed in a recumbent, semi recumbent, or sitting position).

The criteria of notably abnormal vital signs are listed below:

Systolic blood pressure (mmHg): high: ≥160 mmHg with increase from baseline of ≥20 mmHg; low: ≤90 mmHg with decrease from baseline of ≥20 mmHg.

Diastolic blood pressure (mmHg): high: ≥100 mmHg with increase from baseline of ≥15 mmHg; low: ≤50 mmHg with decrease from baseline of ≥15 mmHg.

Pulse rate (bpm): high: ≥120 bpm with increase from baseline of ≥15 bpm; low: ≤50 bpm with decrease from baseline of ≥15 bpm.

Weight (kg): high: ≥10% increase from baseline; low: ≥20% decrease from baseline.

Temperature (°C): high: ≥37.5 °C; low: ≤36 °C., Screening, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1 ±3 Days, Day 1 ±3 Days of Subsequent Cycles, EOT ±3 Days, and Safety Follow-up Visit (30 Days [±7 Days] After the EOT Visit) (Up to 36 Months)|Number of Participants With Notable ECG (QTcF) Values, The QTcF increase from baseline \>30/60 msec and new QTcF \>450/480/500 msec were defined as clinically notable ECG criteria. Triplicate ECG measurements were obtained. For new abnormal post-baseline values, the table below presents the number of participants with both non-missing baseline and post-baseline values, and baseline values not meeting the criteria. For abnormal changes from baseline, the table below presents the number of participants with both non-missing baseline and post-baseline evaluations. Baseline was defined as the average of the machine-read triplicate ECG measurements taken pre-dose on Day 1. Change from baseline was post-baseline - baseline values., Screening, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 2 Day 1 ±3 Days, Every 12 Weeks ±7 Days, and EOT ±3 Days (Up to 36 Months)|Number of Participants With the Worst Post-baseline Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) Values Based on CTCAE Grade, Cardiac ejection fraction was assessed by transthoracic echocardiogram (ECHO) or multigated acquisition (MUGA). Participants who developed signs/symptoms of congestive heart failure (CHF) at any point during the study were required to have an evaluation of LVEF measurements by ECHO or MUGA and were monitored per institutional guidelines.

Participants were considered as having a LVEF abnormality if the worst post-value was CTCAE Grade 2, 3 or 4 according to the following classification:

Grade 0: Non-missing value below Grade 2. Grade 2: LVEF between 40% and 50%, inclusive, or absolute change from baseline between -10% and \< -20%.

Grade 3: LVEF between 20% and 39%, inclusive, or absolute change from baseline ≤ -20%.

Grade 4: LVEF lower than 20%. Baseline was defined as the last available and valid assessment before or on the start date of study intervention., Screening, Cycle 2 Day 1 ±3 Days, Every 12 Weeks ±7 Days, and EOT ±3 Days (Up to 36 Months)
This is an open-label, multicenter, non-randomized, Phase 2 study to determine the safety, tolerability and efficacy of encorafenib given in combination with binimetinib in patients with BRAFV600E-mutant metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Patients who are either treatment-naïve, OR who have received 1) first-line treatment with standard platinum-based chemotherapy, OR 2) first-line treatment with an anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed cell death protein ligand 1 (PD-L1) inhibitor given alone or in combination with platinum-based chemotherapy will be enrolled.