Cediranib Maleate With or Without Lenalidomide for the Treatment of Thyroid Cancer
This partially randomized phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of cediranib maleate when given together with or without lenalidomide and to see how well they work in treating patients with thyroid cancer. Cediranib maleate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Lenalidomide may stop the growth of thyroid cancer by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether cediranib maleate is more effective when given together with lenalidomide in treating thyroid cancer.
Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Gland Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Follicular Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Hurthle Cell Carcinoma|Refractory Thyroid Gland Papillary Carcinoma|Unresectable Thyroid Gland Carcinoma
DRUG: Cediranib|DRUG: Cediranib Maleate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicity was defined as any of the following occurring during the first cycle (28 days) of therapy:

Hematological toxicities:

* Any grade 4 neutropenia (ANC \< 500) lasting more than 5 days
* Any grade 4 neutropenia with concomitant fever (temperature \> 38.5)
* Any grade 4 neutropenia and sepsis or other severe infection
* Any grade 4 thrombocytopenia

Any other grade 3-4 non-hematological adverse drug reactions, except untreated nausea/vomiting, or hypersensitivity reactions.

Grade 4 hypertension

Grade 4 proteinuria Delay in the administration of a subsequent dose of cediranib and lenalidomide exceeding 2 weeks, due to an adverse drug reaction, 28 days|Progression-free Survival (Phase II Futility Analysis), Time from enrollment on study to disease progression or death from any cause. Surviving patients without progression are censored as of the date of the last negative examination. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. This analysis corresponds to the planned futility analysis after 40 events., Assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (Final Results After Crossover), Time from study enrollment until disease progression or death from any cause. Surviving patients without progression are censored as of the date of the last negative examination. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Assessed up to 3 years
Objective Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT or MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (Final Results After Crossover), Time from randomization to death from any cause. Patients who have not died are censored as of the date last known alive., 24 months|Percent Change in Tumor Size (Phase II), The percent change in tumor size from baseline to the end of cycle 2 (two months). The post-treatment total sum of lengths for a patient with a new lesion at cycle 2 will be scored as 1.2\*max(pre-sum, post-sum) to ensure that the appearance of new lesions corresponds to a disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria. In the event of any early deaths prior to cycle 2, a nonparametric rank sum test will be used with deaths ranked at the extreme end of the distribution., From baseline to 2 months|Serial Measurements of Thyroid Stimulating Hormone and Thyroglobulin, Thyroid stimulating hormone and thyroglobulin levels, Up to 3 years|Presence or Absence of B-RAF and RAS Mutations and Outcomes, Presence or absence of B-RAF and RAS mutations at baseline--to be correlated with response rates, progression-free survival, and overall survival., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of cediranib maleate (cediranib) plus lenalidomide. (Phase I) II. Determine the progression-free survival rates of single agent cediranib in patients with iodine refractory, unresectable differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) who have evidence of disease progression within 12 months of study enrollment. (Phase II) III. Determine the progression-free survival rates of cediranib in combination with lenalidomide in patients with iodine refractory, unresectable DTC who have evidence of disease progression within 12 months of study enrollment. (Phase II) IV. Compare the progression-free survival curves of single agent cediranib to combination therapy with cediranib with lenalidomide. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate of cediranib in combination with lenalidomide in patients with iodine refractory, unresectable DTC who have evidence of disease progression within 12 months of study enrollment. (Phase I) II. Determine the toxicity, duration of response, progression free survival, and overall survival in patients with DTC treated with cediranib plus lenalidomide. (Phase I) III. Determine response rates and duration of response, early tumor size changes, the toxicity, and overall survival in patients with DTC treated with cediranib or cediranib plus lenalidomide. (Phase II) IV. Determine whether the presence of v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B1 (B-RAF) or V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma (K-RAS) mutations in patients with DTC predict response to cediranib or cediranib plus lenalidomide. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Phase I: Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28 and lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21 or 1-28. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Phase II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO QD on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM B: Patients receive cediranib maleate PO and lenalidomide PO as in Phase I. NOTE: As of April 10, 2015, patients assigned to this arm are to discontinue lenalidomide and may continue on cediranib alone.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.