Safety/Efficacy Study of LDE225 (Sonidegib) Plus Bortezomib in Patients With Relapsed or Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of the study is to determine whether the combination of LDE225 (sonidegib) plus bortezomib is safe and effective in the treatment of relapsed or relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: LDE225|DRUG: Bortezomib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of LDE225 Plus Bortezomib, During the safety lead-in, a standard 3+3 dose escalation design was used to establish the MTD for LDE225 in combination with bortezomib. The MTD would be determined by the highest dose at which ≤1 of 6 patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) during one cycle (21 days) of therapy. If 2 of 6 patients within a dose level experienced a DLT, that dose level would be defined as exceeding MTD and no further dose escalation would occur. The previous dose level would be considered the MTD., every 3 weeks up to 48 weeks|Time to Disease Progression, Time to progression (TTP) is measured from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression using International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria., every 3 weeks up to 48 weeks, then every 3 months thereafter up to 3 years from initiation of study treatment.
Overall Response, Number of patients with confirmed Complete Response (CR), Very Good Partial Response (VGPR), Partial Response (PR), Progressive Disease (PD) or Stable Disease (SD) according to International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria. CR=5% or less plasma cells in bone marrow, disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytoma, negative immunofixation on serum and urine. VGPR=Serum and urine M-protein detectable by immunofixation but not by electrophoresis, disappearance of any soft tissue plasmacytomas that were present at baseline. PR= at least 50% reduction from baseline in serum M-protein and at least 90% reduction from baseline in 24hr urinary M-protein. PD=Increase of 25% or more from nadir in serum or urine proteins. SD= not meeting criteria for CR, VGPR, PR or PD., Every 3 weeks up to 48 weeks
Although multiple myeloma (MM) is considered fatal, survival has dramatically improved with the introduction of more effective treatment options. Despite these advances, all patients eventually relapse and MM is generally considered incurable. LDE225 (Sonidegib) is an oral, investigational smoothened (SMO) inhibitor that has shown anti-tumor activity in certain cancers. Bortezomib is a highly active drug for the treatment of MM and has produced response rates in relapsed and/or refractory patients. This study will investigate the tolerability and feasibility of combining LDE225 with bortezomib in patients with bortezomib-sensitive relapsed or relapsed/refractory MM.