Role of18F-FDG PET-CT for Assessing and Predicting Response to Daratumumab and for Prognosis With Multiple Myeloma
Positron Emission Tomography - Computed Tomography (PET-CT) using fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose is a functional imaging diagnostic tool which is widely used In several neoplastic conditions, at initial staging, for restaging in suspected disease relapse and for assessing the response to treatment. Most patients with multiple myeloma (MM) exhibit a high-glycolytic activity rate and therefore they are FOG-avid, especially at the disease relapse. The priceless value of 18F-FOG PET-CT in the therapeutic assessment for several treatment schemes, including aSCT, has been highlighted by several studies: particularly, the occurrence of negative PET-CT after a double aSCT in MM patients with clinical complete response or very good partial response positively correlates with favourable PFS and overall survival (OS). likewise, persistence of 18F-FDG avid disease in MM patients achieving a clinical complete response constitutes a poor prognostic factor. Primary objective of this prospective, observational, non-pharmacological, multicentric study is to evaluate the role of 18F-FDG PET-CT for assessing early response after 6 months of treatment with daratumumab in patients with .relapsed/refractory MM.
Multiple Myeloma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Diagnostic accuracy
18F-FDG PET-CT to predicting response to treatment and to predicting prognosis in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma., Positron Emission Tomography - Computed Tomography (PET-CT) using fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose to assess early response after 6 months of treatment with daratumumab in 10 patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma., 1 year
Positron Emission Tomography - Computed Tomography (PET-CT) using fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose is a functional imaging diagnostic tool which is widely used In several neoplastic conditions, at initial staging, for restaging in suspected disease relapse and for assessing the response to treatment. Most patients with multiple myeloma (MM) exhibit a high-glycolytic activity rate and therefore they are FOG-avid, especially at the disease relapse. The priceless value of 18F-FOG PET-CT in the therapeutic assessment for several treatment schemes, including aSCT, has been highlighted by several studies: particularly, the occurrence of negative PET-CT after a double aSCT in MM patients with clinical complete response or very good partial response positively correlates with favourable PFS and overall survival (OS). likewise, persistence of 18F-FDG avid disease in MM patients achieving a clinical complete response constitutes a poor prognostic factor. Primary objective of this prospective, observational, non-pharmacological, multicentric study is to evaluate the role of 18F-FDG PET-CT for assessing early response after 6 months of treatment with daratumumab in patients with .relapsed/refractory MM.