Surgery in Treating Patients With Early Stage Anal Canal or Perianal Cancer and HIV Infection
This phase II trial studies surgery in treating patients with anal canal or perianal cancer that is small and has not spread deeply into the tissues and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Local surgery may be a safer treatment with fewer side effects than bigger surgery or radiation and chemotherapy.
Anal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HIV Infection|Stage 0 Anal Canal Cancer|Stage I Anal Canal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
To determine if the proportion of participants who develop treatment failure by 3 years is less than 25%., Treatment failure is specifically defined as the occurrence of distant or any nodal metastases or recurrence of cancer that no longer meets the definition of SISCCA and that cannot be excised with a clear margin or preservation of sphincter function and requires CMT, or those who develop SISCCA recurrence but elect to undergo CMT rather than repeat excision in patients originally treated with excision of anal canal and perianal SISCCA., 3 years after surgery to remove SISCCA
The cumulative proportion of study participants who have experienced treatment failure by 3 years will be estimated using the product-limit estimate and its 95% confidence interval using Greenwood's formula., To determine morbidities associated with local excision of SISCCA and treatment of concomitant HSIL, 3 years after surgery to remove SISCCA|The rate of treatment related adverse events including non-healing ulcer, fissure, persistent pain and bleeding, stricture, incontinence, and colostomy 6 months after excision of SISCCA., To determine morbidities associated with local excision of SISCCA and treatment of concomitant HSIL, 6 months after surgery to remove SISCCA
Collection of clinical specimens (composite), Clinical specimens, specifically the index SISCCA and the overlying or adjacent HSIL, and HSIL that did not progress to SISCCA and other clinical data will be collected to create a bank of well-annotated specimens that will enable correlative science: to assess viral factors in HSIL progression to cancer and to identify host factors in HSIL progression to cancer., Up to 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of participants who develop treatment failure by 3 years is less than 25%, defined as the occurrence of distant or any nodal metastases or recurrence of cancer requiring chemotherapy (CMT), defined as a cancer that no longer meets the definition of superficially invasive squamous cell carcinoma (SISCCA) or a cancer that cannot be excised with a clear margin or preservation of sphincter function, or those who develop SISCCA recurrence but elect to undergo CMT rather than repeat excision in patients originally treated with excision of anal canal and perianal SISCCA.

II. To define the 1-year proportion of participants who develop incident anal squamous cancers at sites other than the location of the index SISCCA in patients treated with excision of anal canal and perianal SISCCA.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine morbidities associated with local excision of SISCCA and treatment of concomitant HSIL, including non-healing ulcer, fissure, persistent pain and bleeding, stricture, incontinence, and colostomy at 3 years after enrollment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the human papillomavirus (HPV) type in cancer and compare to that of overlying high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) and HSIL biopsies collected concurrently that did not progress to cancer.

II. To determine and compare the HPV integration site in the anal cancer as well as in HSIL overlying or contiguous with the cancer and HSIL biopsies collected concurrently that did not progress to cancer.

III. Perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in anal cancer with HSIL overlying or contiguous with the cancer.

IV. Perform gene expression array analysis comparing expression in HSIL biopsies that progressed to cancer with non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations.

V. Characterize genetic changes in anal cancers compared with HSIL overlying or contiguous with the cancer.

VI. Characterize genetic changes in HSIL biopsies that progressed to cancer compared with non-progressing HSIL biopsies at other locations.

VII. Perform gene expression array analysis and characterize genetic changes of SISCCAs that were cured with wide local excision for comparison with SISCCAs that progressed after wide local excision.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo surgery to remove anal or perianal cancer. Any HSIL remaining is treated with the goal for complete eradication in accordance with clinician and participant preference.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 36 months.