A Study to Evaluate Rozanolixizumab in Study Participants With Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of additional 6-week treatment cycles with rozanolixizumab in study participants with generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG).
Generalized Myasthenia Gravis
DRUG: Rozanolixizumab
Percentage of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, which did not necessarily had a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product. TEAE was defined as any event that was not present prior to first dose of investigational medicinal product (IMP), or any unresolved event already present that worsened in intensity following treatment, up to 8 weeks after end of Treatment Period or after last dose of IMP in participants who discontinued study or IMP., From Baseline (Day 1) to End of Study (up to 34 months)|Percentage of Participants With TEAEs Leading to Withdrawal of Investigational Medicinal Product (IMP), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. AEs leading to permanent withdrawal of study medication., From Baseline (Day 1) to End of Study (up to 34 months)
Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in Myasthenia Gravis-Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), The MG-ADL is an 8-item PRO instrument developed on basis of QMG. The MG-ADL targeted symptoms and disability across ocular, bulbar, respiratory, and axial symptoms. The total MG-ADL score was obtained by summing responses to each individual item (8 items; Grades: 0, 1, 2, 3), where 0= no symptoms or impaired performance and 3= most severe symptoms or impaired performance. The total score ranges from 0 to 24, with higher score indicating more disability. A positive change in score indicates worsening and negative change indicates improvement. For analyses done by study cycle, Baseline values were last available values prior to or on the same date of first administration of IMP at each cycle (Baseline \[Day 1\]) value for that cycle., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), The QMG is a validated assessment and the scale tested 13 items, including ocular and facial involvement, swallowing, speech, limb strength, and forced vital capacity. The total QMG score was obtained by summing the responses to each individual item (13 items; Responses: None=0, Mild=1, Moderate=2, Severe=3) and the score ranges from 0 to 39, with lower scores indicating lower disease activity. A positive change in the score indicates worsening and a negative change indicates improvement. For the analyses done by study cycle, Baseline values were the last available values prior to or on the same date (and same time if time was collected for the individual assessment) of first administration of IMP at each cycle (ie, Baseline \[Day 1\]) value for that cycle., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in Myasthenia Gravis-Composite (MG-C) Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), MG-C scale consists of 10 items which included ptosis (score range=0 to 3), double vision on lateral gaze left/right/both (score range=0 to 4), eye closure (score range=0 to 2), talking (score range=0 to 6), chewing (score range=0 to 6), swallowing (score range=0 to 6), breathing (score range=0 to 9), neck flexion or extension (score range=0 to 4), shoulder abduction (score range=0 to 5) and hip flexion (score range= 0 to 5), lower scores= lower disease activity. Total MG-C score obtained by summing responses to each individual item and score ranges from 0 - 50, (lower scores indicating lower disease activity). Positive change = worsening, and negative change = improvement. For analyses done by study cycle, Baseline values were last available values prior to or on the same date of first administration of IMP at each cycle (Baseline \[Day 1\]) value for that cycle., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in Myasthenia Gravis (MG) Symptoms Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) 'Muscle Weakness Fatigability' Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), The MG symptoms PRO instrument consisted of 42 items across 5 scales: ocular symptoms (1-5); bulbar muscle weakness (6-15); respiratory muscle weakness (16-18); physical fatigue (19-33) and muscle weakness fatigability (34-42). Study participants had to choose response option that best described severity of ocular, bulbar, and respiratory symptoms over past 7 days using a 4-point Likert scale ("none" to "severe") and frequency of experiencing physical fatigue and muscle weakness fatigability over past 7 days using a 5-point Likert scale (1="none of the time" - 5= "all of the time"), for each item. Sum of each item score is linearly transformed to have all domain scores ranging from 0 to 100, higher scores indicates more severe symptoms. For analyses done by study cycle, Baseline values were last available values prior to or on the same date of first administration of IMP at each cycle (Baseline \[Day 1\]) value for that cycle., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in MG Symptoms PRO 'Physical Fatigue' Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), The MG symptoms PRO instrument consisted of 42 items across 5 scales: ocular muscle weakness (1-5); bulbar muscle weakness (6-15); respiratory muscle weakness (16-18); physical fatigue (19-33) and muscle weakness fatigability (34-42). Study participants had to choose response option based on frequency of experiencing physical fatigue (19-33) over past 7 days using a 5-point Likert scale (1="none of time" - 5="all of time") for each item. Sum of each item score is linearly transformed to have all domain scores ranging from 0 to 100, higher scores indicated severe symptoms., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Change From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 in MG Symptoms PRO 'Bulbar Muscle Weakness' Score Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), The MG symptoms PRO instrument consisted of 42 items across 5 scales: ocular muscle weakness (1-5); bulbar muscle weakness (6-15); respiratory muscle weakness (16-18); physical fatigue (19-33) and muscle weakness fatigability (34-42). Bulbar symptoms are now recognised as bulbar muscle weakness. Study participants were asked to choose response option that best described severity of bulbar muscle weakness (6-15) symptoms over past 7 days using a 4-point Likert scale (1="none" to 4="severe") for each item. Sum of each item score is linearly transformed to have all domain scores ranging from 0 to 100, higher scores indicated severe symptoms., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|MG-ADL Responder Rate (>=2.0-point Improvement From Baseline [Day 1]) Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3 [Day 43]), The MG-ADL is an 8-item PRO instrument developed on the basis of the Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG). The MG-ADL targeted symptoms and disability across ocular, bulbar, respiratory, and axial symptoms. The total MG-ADL score was obtained by summing the responses to each individual item (8 items; Grades: 0, 1, 2, 3), where 0 represents no symptoms or impaired performance and 3 represents the most severe symptoms or impaired performance. The total score ranges from 0 to 24, with a higher score indicating more disability. A MG-ADL responder was defined as achieving at least 2.0-point improvement (decrease) in the MG-ADL score from Baseline., Day 43 of Cycle 1, 2, and 3|Time to MG-ADL Response (>=2.0-point Improvement From Baseline [Day 1]) Within One Treatment Cycle (Cycle 1, 2, and 3), Time to achieve MG-ADL response, defined as at least 2.0-point improvement from Baseline. Time to first MG-ADL response (in days) by study cycle was defined as date of first MG-ADL Response within study cycle - date of MG-ADL Baseline within study cycle + 1., From Baseline (Day 1) to Day 43 of each cycle (Cycles 1, 2, and 3)|Time Between Consecutive Treatment Cycles, Time between consecutive treatment cycles: Study participants were assessed for MG worsening prior to repeated cycles. In case of symptom worsening (eg, an increase of 2.0 points on MG-ADL or 3.0 points on QMG scale) between assessments, resulted additional treatment, study participants undergone another 6-week treatment cycle followed by an Observation Period, based on Investigator's discretion. Time between treatment cycles was calculated as: date of first sc infusion in consecutive cycle - date of last sc infusion before new cycle + 1 (or date of censoring - date of last sc infusion before potential new cycle + 1)., From end of the 6-week treatment cycle (Day 43) to the next 6-week treatment cycle (Day 1), assessed up to 2.5 years
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability and efficacy of additional 6-week treatment cycles with rozanolixizumab in study participants with generalized myasthenia gravis (gMG).