Lymphocytic B-Leukemia (B-CLL) w/Human IL-2 Gene Modified & Human CD40 Ligand-Expressing Autologous Tumor Cells
In the laboratory, we will put a special gene into cancer cells that have been taken from the subject. This gene will make the cells produce interleukin 2 (IL-2), which may help the patient's immune system kill cancer cells. Also, we will use CD40 ligand (CD40L) with the IL-2. Studies of cancers in animals and in cancer cells that are grown in laboratories have suggested adding the CD40L helps the IL-2 work better. Some of these new cells will then be given back to the subject as a vaccine shot.

We believe that a part of the subject's immune system (cells called T-reg cells) might try to kill off these special cells. If the T-reg cells do that, the vaccine would not work as well or last as long. To try to avoid this, before the special cells are put back into the subject's body, we will give them an intravenous (IV) dose of IL-2 immunotoxin (called denileuk diftitox or ONTAK). ONTAK should get rid of some of the T-reg cells in the subject's body which should help the special cells work better and longer.

The purpose of this study is to learn the safety and cancer-fighting effects of using IL-2 with the vaccine.
CHRONIC LYMPHOCYTIC B-LEUKEMIA
BIOLOGICAL: IL-2 secreting and hCL4OL-expressing autologous B-CLL cells|BIOLOGICAL: IL-2|BIOLOGICAL: CD40L|DRUG: ONTAK|BIOLOGICAL: immunotoxin dose
Safety of (Treg) cells using interleukin-2 immunotoxin directed to the CD25 antigen in(B-CLL) patients, then six (SC) injections of autologous leukemic cells modified to secrete (hIL-2) and to express (hCD40L)., 15 years|To obtain preliminary data on the anti-tumor effects of this treatment regimen., 15 years
determine whether MHC-restricted or unrestricted anti-tumor immune responses are induced and sustained by the combination of Treg cell depletion and SC injections of B-CLL cells, which have been modified ex vivo to secrete hIL-2 and to express hCD40L, 15 years
This is a phase I trial to assess the safety of depleting regulatory T (Treg) cells using 1-3 doses of an interleukin-2 immunotoxin directed to the CD25 antigen (denileukin diftitox, ONTAK) in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) patients, followed by six subcutaneous (SC) injections of autologous leukemic cells modified ex vivo to secrete human interleukin-2 (hIL-2) and to express human CD40 ligand (hCD40L). Patients will receive a fixed dose (2 x 10e7) of IL-2 secreting B-cells together with 2 x 10e7 hCD40L expressing B-cells, representing a safe, well tolerated and immunogenic dose in our previous dose escalation study.

All eligible patients will be treated with six injections. Any patient whose disease regresses after the administration of 6 injections may be offered further injections of tumor vaccine if sufficient vaccine is available. There will be no use of placebo or control subjects.