T-Cell Therapy (ECT204) in Adults With Advanced HCC
This is an open-label, dose escalation, multi-center, Phase I/II clinical trial aimed at assessing the safety and preliminary efficacy of an investigational ARTEMIS® ECT204 T-cell therapy. The trial is suitable for adult subjects (≥ 18 years of age) diagnosed with GPC3-positive HCC, who have failed or not tolerated at least two (2) different anti-HCC systemic agents.

Phase I has concluded and a Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) has been determined. We are now conducting Phase II to further confirm the safety profile of ECT204 and evaluate its efficacy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Liver Cancer, Adult|Liver Neoplasm|Metastatic Liver Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: ECT204 T cells|DRUG: Regorafenib (STIVARGA®, BAY73-4506)
To assess the safety and tolerability of ECT204 in adult subjects with advanced HCC, The incidence rates of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and the type, frequency, and severity of adverse events (AEs) and laboratory abnormalities will be assessed by the number and severity rates after infusion of ECT204., 28 days|To determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of ECT204 (Concluded During Phase 1 of the study), The RP2D was determined by the study Dose Escalation Committee (DEC) and chosen based on the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) that did not exceed the MTD and the maximum administered dose (MAD). The RP2D was also based on the manufacturing capability., 21 months - This outcome was completed on December 20, 2023
To assess the efficacy of ECT204 in adult subjects with advanced HCC using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as the primary criterion., The response rate will be assessed by radiographic scans and assessed according to RECIST version 1.1. based upon the following:

* Overall Response Rate (ORR), defined as the proportion of subjects with a best overall response (BOR) of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR).
* Disease Control Rate (DCR), defined as the proportion of subjects with BOR of either CR, PR, or stable disease (SD).
* Duration of Response (DOR), defined as the time from first response to progressive disease (PD) or death.
* Progression-Free Survival (PFS), defined as the time from ECT204 infusion to PD or death.
* Overall Survival (OS), defined as the time from ECT204 T-cell infusion to the date of death., Up to 2 years|To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of ECT204, including the expansion and persistence of ECT204, in our study subject population, The peak exposure (Cmax), time to reach peak exposure (Tmax), partial area under the curve (pAUC) and other relevant PK parameters of ECT204 in peripheral blood (PB) will be measured., Up to 2 years
This is an open-label, dose escalation, multi-center, Phase I/II clinical trial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate an investigational ARTEMIS® ECT204 T-cell therapy in adult patients with GPC3-positive advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). In this study, a patient's T cells are collected and genetically modified to express Eureka's proprietary anti-GPC3 ARTEMIS T cell receptors (AbTCR). These modified T cells are then reintroduced into the patient to specifically seek out and destroy GPC3-expressing cancer cells.

Phase 1 (Dose Escalation Phase): Completed; RP2D of ECT204 was determined.

Phase 2 (Expansion Phase): The expansion phase includes 2 study arms.

Arm A: Subjects will receive ECT204 as monotherapy

Arm B: Subjects will receive pre-treatment with regorafenib (STIVARGA®) before ECT204 administration.

The active assessment period of the study will continue for 2 years. Subjects will be followed for assessment of treatment safety and overall survival during Long Term Follow-Up (LTFU; year 2 -15).