Lenvatinib Plus Nivolumab Versus Lenvatinib for Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma With Hepatitis B Virus Infection
The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib plus nivolumab compared with lenvatinib monotherapy for patients with advanced hepatitis B virus infection-related hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Nivolumab
Overall survival (OS), OS is the length of time from the date of randomization until death from any cause. The date survival was last confirmed will be used to censor surviving patients. In the absence of confirmation of death, the survival time will be censored at the last date the patient was known to be alive or at the cutoff date, whichever comes first. Unfollowable patients will be censored by the date survival was last confirmed before they became unfollowable., 18 months
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR, as determined based on tumor response according to RECIST 1.1, is defined as the proportion of all randomized subjects whose best overall response (BOR) is either a CR or PR. BOR is determined by the best response designation recorded between the date of randomization and the date of first objectively documented progression or the date of subsequent anti-cancer therapy, whichever occurs first. For subjects without documented progression or subsequent anti-cancer therapy, all available response designations will contribute to the BOR determination. For a BOR of CR or PR, the initial response assessment must be confirmed by a consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks (28 days) later., 18 months|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be determined from assessments based on RECIST 1.1. PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first objectively documented tumor progression or death due to any cause. Subjects who die without a reported prior progression and without initiation of subsequent anti-cancer therapy will be considered to have progressed on the date of their death. Subjects who did not progress or die will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment. Subjects who did not have baseline tumor assessment will be censored on the date they were randomized. Subjects who did not have any on-study tumor assessments and did not die will be censored on the date they were randomized. Subjects who started any subsequent anti-cancer therapy without a prior reported progression will be censored at the last tumor assessment prior to subsequent anti-cancer therapy., 18 months|Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be determined based on RECIST 1.1. DOR is time from documentation of tumor response to disease progression. Disease progression as assessed according to RECIST 1.1., 18 months|Adverse event, Safety will be evaluated according to the NCI CTCAE Version 4.03. All observations pertinent to the safety of the study medication will be recorded on the CRF and included in the final report. All adverse events, whether considered treatment-related or not, will be reported on the CRF with diagnosis, start/stop dates, action taken, whether treatment was discontinued, any corrective measures taken, outcome and other possible causes., 18 months|OS stratified according to degree of PVTT (Vp0-3 vs Vp4), To compare the OS of nivolumab plus lenvatinib to lenvatinib stratified according to degree of PVTT (Vp0-3 vs Vp4), 18 months
Disease control rate (DCR), DCR will be determined based on RECIST 1.1. DCR is defined as the rate of complete response (CR) plus partial response (PR) plus stable disease (SD). Tumor response includes assessment of target lesions, nontarget lesions and new lesions. CR and PR will be confirmed at least 4 weeks after the first observation., 18 months|Time to progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression based on RECIST 1.1., 18 months|Time to response (TTR), TTR is time from the date of randomization to the date of tumor response., 18 months|Rates and degrees of HBV DNA breakthrough, To evaluate rates and degrees of HBV DNA breakthrough of patients that receive nivolumab plus lenvatinib and patients that receive lenvatinib. HBV DNA breakthrough is that HBV-infected patients had \>1 log increase in HBV DNA., 18 months|Cancer-related QoL, To assess the subject's cancer-related QoL using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) questionnaire, 18 months|Surgical conversion rate, To assess surgical conversion rate of patients that receive nivolumab plus lenvatinib and patients that receive lenvatinib. Surgical conversion rate is that incidence rate of patients that receive surgical resection., 18 months|PD-L1 biomarker, To assess the PD-L1 biomarker of patients that receive nivolumab plus lenvatinib and patients that receive lenvatinib., 18 months|OS stratified according to presence or absence of extrahepatic metastasis, HBV DNA level, AFP level, or ECOG score, To compare the OS of nivolumab plus lenvatinib to lenvatinib stratified according to presence or absence of extrahepatic metastasis, HBV DNA level (no more than 500 IU/ml vs more than 500 IU/ml), AFP level (no more than 400 ng/ml vs more than 400 ng/ml), or ECOG score (0 vs 1), respectively., 18 months|AFP level change, To asess AFP level change of patients that receive nivolumab plus lenvatinib and patients that receive lenvatinib., 18 months
Lenvatinib was non-inferior to sorafenib in overall survival in untreated advanced hepatocellular carcinoma, and nivolumab was effective and tolerable in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma. No study has evaluated the efficacy and safety of lenvatinib plus nivolumab compared with lenvatinib monotherapy. Thus, the investigators carried out this prospective, randomized, phase IIb study to find out it.