Predictive Nomogram of CRPC
This is an observational, prospective (study following participants forward in time), multi-center (study conducted in more than 1 center) study to identify the risk factors, then develop and validate the predictive Nomogram of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) that will effectively predict the early onset mCRPC in patients receiving androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT). The entire duration of study will be approximately 3 year. Participants will primarily be evaluated for achieving biochemical or radiological progression after receiving ADT based on EAU 2017 practice guideline criteria. Serum testosterone, prostate specific antigen (PSA), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and blood routine will be monitored throughout the study.
Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer|Metastatic Cancer
Time to castration resistant, The definition mCRPC is that the castrated androgen \< 50 ng/dL or 1.7 nmol/L plus either;

1. Biochemical progression: Three consecutive rises in PSA one week apart resulting in two 50% increases over the nadir, and a PSA \> 2 ng/mL or,
2. Radiological progression: The appearance of new lesions: either two or more new bone lesions on bone scan or a soft tissue lesion using RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours) \[736\].

Symptomatic progression alone must be questioned and subject to further investigation., 3 YEARS
This is an observational, prospective (study following participants forward in time), multi-center (study conducted in more than 1 center) study to identify the risk factors, then develop and validate the predictive Nomogram of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) that will effectively predict the early onset mCRPC in patients receiving androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT). The entire duration of study will be approximately 3 year. Participants will primarily be evaluated for achieving biochemical or radiological progression after receiving ADT based on EAU 2017 practice guideline criteria. Serum testosterone, prostate specific antigen (PSA), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and blood routine will be monitored throughout the study.