Obeticholic Acid for Prevention in Barrett's Esophagus
This phase II trial studies the effect of obeticholic acid in treating patients with Barrett's esophagus. Bile acids present in duodenogastroesophageal reflux contribute to neoplastic progression in Barrett's esophagus. Obeticholic acid has shown anti-cholestatic, anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrotic effects mediated by FXR activation. It down regulates bile acid availability and decreases proinflammatory cytokine production including IL-1beta and TNFalpha in human enterocytes and immune cells. This chain of events reduces the bile acid exposure in esophagus tissue thereby limiting bile acid induced damage and dysplastic progression.
Barrett Esophagus|Esophageal Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Esophageal Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy|PROCEDURE: Liver Ultrasonographic Elastography|BIOLOGICAL: Obeticholic Acid|DRUG: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Mean change Leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (LGR) 5+ cells, The mean difference in this percentage is compared across the two study arms by means of a two-sample t-test. As a further sensitivity analysis, the outcome of change will be analyzed under a linear regression model framework, controlling for factors such as age, sex, body mass index, and grade of dysplasia., Baseline up to 6 months
Measurement of obeticholic acid (OCA) and OCA metabolites in blood, These experiments will be performed in the consortium's pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Core Laboratory at the University of Michigan LAO using a specific, sensitive and reliable tandem mass spectrometry (ultraperformance liquid chromatography- tandem mass spectrometry \[UPLC-MS/MS\]) method. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is linear mixed models (LMM) with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|Measurement of bile acid levels in plasma, gastric juice and in Barrett's tissue, These experiments will be performed in the consortium's pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Core Laboratory at the University of Michigan LAO using a specific, sensitive and reliable UPLC-MS/MS method to quantify the bile acid and conjugated metabolite concentration in human plasma and tissue samples. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|Measurement of C4 in blood, This experiment will be performed in the consortium's pharmacokinetics/Pharmacodynamics Core Laboratory at the University of Michigan LAO using UPLC-MS/MS. The blood based markers will be analyzed using a linear mixed model with study group as the primary between-subjects factor, and time (3-levels) along with the group-by-time interaction as the primary within-subjects factor. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|FGF-19 analysis, FGF19 concentrations will be assayed using the solid-phase enzyme-linked immunoabsorbant assay Quantikine FGF19 Immunoassay (R\&D Systems, Minneapolis, Minnesota) in the Immunology Core facility at the University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|FXR expression, Performed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|Changes in markers, Will include markers in proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (cleaved caspase 3), oxidative damage (8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine), glandular differentiation - CDX2/SOX2 as well as baseline p53 staining performed by multiplex immunofluorescence. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Baseline up to 6 months|Presence of dysplasia, The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|CDX2/SOX2 and p53 staining, Performed in the Molecular Pathology Core Resource at University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., Up to 6 months|Safety profile of treatment with OCA, Includes incidence and severity of pruritus and changes in serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein, high-density lipoprotein, very low-density lipoprotein and triglycerides. The exploratory outcomes are continuous, measured at either two or three time points. The most common framework for analyzing such longitudinal data is LMM with time, group, and time-by-group interaction as primary covariates., During study visits
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the mean change from baseline in the leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 (LGR5) + cells in the crypts of esophageal tissue among patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE) receiving 25 mg of obeticholic acid (OCA), once daily from 0 to 180 days as compared to placebo.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine OCA concentrations and concentrations of the two major active metabolites, taurine, and glycine conjugates, in plasma after dosing with OCA 25 mg to determine the concentrations reached.

II. To assess the effects of treatment with OCA versus placebo on total and individual bile acid composition in Barrett's tissue, gastric aspirate, and serum.

III. To assess the effects of treatment with OCA versus placebo on serum levels of 7alpha-hydroxy-4- cholesten-3-one (C4), a key precursor in bile acid synthesis, and fibroblast growth factor-19 (FGF-19), a fibroblast growth factor which downregulates bile acid synthesis.

IV. To assess the effect of OCA on FXR expression in Barrett's tissue. V. To assess the effects of treatment with OCA versus placebo on biomarkers of the carcinogenic process - proliferation (Ki-67), apoptosis (cleaved caspase 3), and oxidative damage (8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine) as determined from Barrett's mucosal biopsies.

VI. To assess the effects of treatment with OCA versus placebo on histologic changes in Barrett's samples pre and post-intervention for development/ resolution of dysplasia.

VII. To assess the effects of treatment with OCA versus placebo on markers of differentiation- CDX2/SOX2/p53 expression in Barrett's tissue.

VIII. To assess the safety profile of treatment with OCA versus placebo which includes incidence and severity of pruritus and changes in serum total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), high-density lipoprotein (HDL), very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) and triglycerides.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive OCA orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD for 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo liver ultrasound with elastography during screening, esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) with biopsies, brushings and gastric aspirate at end of treatment visit and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of the study treatment, patients are followed up at 14-21 days.