A Study of Ixazomib and Ibrutinib in Relapsed/Refractory Mantle Cell Lymphoma
Patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) that has relapsed (come back) or refractory (progressed on treatment) will receive ixazomib and ibrutinib.

Ibrutinib has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as treatment for patients with mantle cell lymphoma who have received at least one prior therapy.

Ixazomib is in a class of medications called proteasome inhibitors. Cancer cells depend on proteasome to provide this protein metabolism (turnover) function to regulate their growth and survival. Ixazomib disrupts a cancer cells' ability to survive by blocking the proteasome and disrupting protein metabolism. This may help to slow down the growth of cancer or may cause cancer cells to die.

The purpose of this study is to see whether the addition of ixazomib to ibrutinib chemotherapy is effective in treating people who have relapsed or refractory MCL and to examine the side effects associated with ixazomib in combination with ibrutinib.
Mantle-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: Ibrutinib
Phase I: Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) Rate, To determine the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of ixazomib (mg) in combination with ibrutinib (mg) in patients with relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) using DLT endpoint., 1 month|Phase II: Complete Response Rate, CR rate will be the defined as the percentage of patients achieving CR as confirmed by bone marrow biopsy within the first 12 months of initiating treatment. Response to treatment was assessed using the Lugano classification criteria. Patients completed a PET/CT at the time of study enrollment and were restaged at cycles 3, 6, 9, and 12, and then every 6 months while on study therapy.

All patients with suspected CR who had bone marrow involvement at screening underwent a bone marrow biopsy to confirm response., 12 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, Number of patients with abnormal laboratory values and/or adverse events (defined as a new untoward medical occurrence or worsening of a pre-existing medical condition) related to study treatment. Grades refer to the severity of the adverse event, where grade 1 through 5 signifies mild, moderate, severe, life-threatening, and death respectively., Phase I: 12 months; Phase II: 36 months|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR assessed in accordance with Lugano classification, Phase I: 12 months; Phase II: 12 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS assessed in accordance with Lugano classification, Phase I & II: 48 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS assessed during clinic visit or by reaching out to patients to confirm vital status., Phase I & II: 48 months
MCL is a rare subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that is considered incurable with conventional therapy. For relapsed patients, Ibrutinib, lenalidomide, and bortezomib are all approved by the FDA but are not curative. Novel approaches are required to improve outcomes for patients with relapsed/refractory MCL.

This is an open-label study that will be done in 2 phases. Phase I will test different doses of ixazomib and ibrutinib to determine the maximum safe and tolerated dose. In Phase I, patients who have already received ibrutinib, may participate if they meet certain criteria (i.e., have not received ibrutinib for at least 3 months).

Phase II will find out the effects, good and/or bad, of ixazomib in combination with ibrutinib. In Phase II, patients will be separated into 2 groups, patients who have never received a Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase (BTK) inhibitor and patients who have received a BTK inhibitor. This study is designed to examine the effectiveness of this drug in treating patients with MCL.

Patients will be treated until progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Tumor assessments will be performed approximately every 3 months for the first year of treatment, then every 6 months until progression.

Mandatory bone marrow and tumor tissue samples (i.e., obtained during a previous procedure or biopsy) are required at baseline. Mandatory research blood samples will also be collected.