Addition of Loncastuximab Tesirine to Acalbrutinib , Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
Study is a phase I study to determine the maximum tolerated dose of adding Loncastuximab Tesirine to Aclabrutinib in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Loncastuximab Tesirine and Acalabrutinib
Primary Objective, Recommended phase 2 dose of loncastuximab tesirine in combination with acalabrutinib, 12 months
Secondary Objective 1, undetectable measurable residual disease rate (uMRD) at 6 months of combination therapy in peripheral blood by NGS based clonoseq test, 6 months|Secondary Objective 2, Undetectable measurable residual disease rate (uMRD) at 12 months of combination therapy by NGS based clonoseq test., 12 months|Secondary Objective 3, Best Overall response rate (ORR = CR+CRi+PR) of loncastuximab tesirine in combination with acalabrutinib, 12 months|Secondary Objective 4, Complete response rate (CRR= CR + CRi) of loncastuximab tesirine in combination with acalabrutinib in achieving a complete response., 12 months|Secondary Objective 5, Progression free survival (PFS) at 12 months after completion of all treatment., 12 months|Secondary Objective 6, Incidence of adverse events (AE) of loncastuximab tesirine in combination with acalabrutinib., 12 months|Secondary Objective 7, Duration of response (DOR) of loncastuximab tesirine in combination with acalabrutinib, 12 months
The study is a phase I study which will employ the Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design to find the maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

Approximately 24 Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT) evaluable participants will be treated to find MTD with a target DLT rate of 25%, and 4 pre-specified doses. The total number of participants enrolled will depend on the frequency of DLTs and when the MTD is determined. The maximum number of patients at a given dose level is 12.

The dose of acalabrutinib will be fixed and loncastuximab tesirine will be titrated as in dose level table 1 below.

Table 1. Dose levels Dose Level Schedule

1. 45 µg/kg Loncastuximab Tesirine + Acalabrutinib 100 mg BID
2. 60 µg/kg Loncastuximab Tesirine + Acalabrutinib 100 mg BID
3. 75 µg/kg Loncastuximab Tesirine + Acalabrutinib 100 mg BID
4. 90 µg /kg Loncastuximab Tesirine (for first 2 cycles followed by 75µg/kg for subsequent cycles) + Acalabrutinib 100 mg BID

The DLT evaluation period is two cycles (42 days).

Loncastuximab Tesirine will be given as an IV infusion, each cycle is a 21 day cycle, with Loncastuximab Tesirine given day 1 of each cycle.