Adjuvant Paclitaxel and Trastuzumab for Node-Negative HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out what effect the postoperative combination of therapies: trastuzumab (herceptin) and paclitaxel (taxol) will have on breast cancer recurrence. A combination of trastuzuamb and chemotherapy has been used in women with node positive and high risk node negative disease. This tests utilizes a well tolerated regimen of weekly paclitaxel and trastuzumab in women with T1, node negative tumors that are HER2 positive. We would like to determine how effective this drug combination is when used in women with early stage breast cancer, as well as to better define the side effects of this treatment.
Breast Cancer|Carcinoma of the Breast
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab
3-year Disease Free Survival (DFS) Rate, Disease-free survival (DFS) is the proportion of participants ramaing disease free at 3 years based on the Kaplan-Meier method. DFS is defined to end at the time of the first of the following events: local/regional ipsilateral invasive recurrence (or ipsilateral invasive new primary), contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence, or death from any cause., at 3 years
Disease Free Survival (DFS) in Patients With Tumors Measuring ≤1 cm or > 1 cm, DFS is defined as the time from registration to the first of the following events: local/regional ipsilateral invasive recurrence (or ipsilateral invasive new primary), contralateral invasive breast cancer, distant recurrence, or death from any cause. Patients without an event are censored at the date of last evaluation., at 3 years|Number of Patients With Grade III/IV Cardiac Left Ventricular Dysfunction, cardiac left ventricular dysfunction related adverse events (AE) with any attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv3 as reported on case report forms were counted., AE evaluated on treatment every week during paclitaxel and every 9 weeks during trastuzumab monotheryapy, and at progression, and observation years 2-10. Median treatment duration was 11.4 months (range 0 - 23.5 months).|Number of Patients With Grade III/IV Neurotoxicity, Nervous system disorders related adverse events (AE) with any attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv3 as reported on case report forms were counted., AE evaluated on treatment every week during paclitaxel and every 9 weeks during trastuzumab monotheryapy, and at progression, and observation years 2-10. Median treatment duration was 11.4 months (range 0 - 23.5 months).|Number of Patients With Amenorrhea, Patients that eligible for amenorrhea assessment and data collecting will be evaluated by standard method defined per protocol 3.9, through menses assessment survey., Menses Assessment survey on Q6 months x 1 year, then q6months for year 2 and at progression, and observation years 2-10 or until progression.
* Participants will enroll in this study at the time they are starting their adjuvant therapy for breast cancer. Participants will receive chemotherapy with paclitaxel every week for 12 weeks. They will begin to receive trastuzumab at the same time they begin paclitaxel. Once they have completed the 12 weeks of paclitaxel and trastuzumab, they will receive trastuzumab every 3 weeks or weekly for 40 weeks.
* Participants will be followed with routine assessments such as physical exam and vital signs every 3 months for the first year, and then every 6 months for years 2-5. Then we would like to keep track of the participants medical condition by calling them on the telephone once per year.