To Compare the Efficacy of Microwave Ablation and Laparoscopic Hepatectomy for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The study was a prospective multicenter cohort control study, which was divided into 1:1 groups to compare the clinical efficacy of percutaneous microwave ablation and laparoscopic hepatocellular carcinoma resection (tumor diameter 3.1-5.0cm).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Percutaneous microwave ablation, Laparoscopic hepatectomy
Overall survival, Defined as the length of time from the beginning of treatment to death or the last follow-up (if no death)., 60 months
Progression-free survival, Defined as the period of time between the time the patient is treated and the time the disease progresses or death from any cause is observed, 60 months|Intrahepatic recurrence rate, Defined as the proportion of patients with intrahepatic recurrence from the beginning of the study to the end of the study or the death of the patients, 60 months|Rate of extrahepatic metastasis, Defined as the proportion of cases with extrahepatic metastasis from the beginning of the study to the end of the study or the death of the patient, 60 months|Local rate of progression, Defined as the proportion of patients with active tumor at the edge of the treatment area during follow-up after the tumor was completely treated, 60 months
Research objectives:

To compare the clinical efficacy of percutaneous microwave ablation and laparoscopic resection for hepatocellular carcinoma (tumor diameter 3.1-5.0cm).

Research background:

Liver cancer is the sixth most common tumor in the world and the second leading cause of death. Due to the hepatitis B epidemic, the incidence of liver cancer in China is very high, accounting for about half of the global statistics on the number of new liver cancer cases and deaths each year. Current treatment guidelines recommend surgical resection or transplantation as the gold standard for the treatment of very early or early HCC patients. Meanwhile, local ablation is gradually accepted by clinicians for its minimally invasive nature, safety and efficacy, and it is recommended as an alternative treatment for tumors within 3cm. However, the choice of treatment for 3.1-5cm HCC based on a number of current retrospective studies is controversial. Therefore, we designed this study to provide reliable prospective data to support the selection of therapeutic modalities for HCC.

Technical introduction:

Microwave ablation (MWA) is an ultrasound guided ablation electrode implanted in the target tissue, in the form of electromagnetic waves to generate microwave energy, microwave can make the surrounding tissue in the water molecules oscillate against the friction of heat, high temperature heat causes rapid coagulation necrosis of the tissue, so as to achieve the purpose of local tumor treatment. Compared with other ablation techniques, MWA in the treatment of solid tumors can achieve higher tumor internal temperature in a shorter period of time, with strong penetration, synergistic effect of multi-needle combined ablation, and little influence by carbonization and blood perfusion. Therefore, MWA has fast heat production, high intracellular temperature, short ablation time and large ablation range.

Laparoscopic liver resection (Laparoscopic hepatectomy) reported for the first time in 1991 by the professor Reich. Laparoscopic techniques in the application in benign (malignant) liver disease is widespread. In China, since professor Weiping Zhou and others completed the first laparoscopic liver resection in mainland China in 1994, there have been continuous literature reports, and the scope and difficulty of surgical resection have been increasing.The 2008 Louisville declaration states that laparoscopic liver surgery is safe and effective for surgeons with extensive experience in hepatobiliary surgery and laparoscopic surgery.

Research methods In this study, 1134 patients were expected to be enrolled according to the 1:1 grouping of the experimental group and the control group. The efficacy of the two treatment methods was evaluated by comparing the overall survival of the two groups and other indicators.