Nivolumab and Ipilimumab Plus Chemotherapy for Patients With Stage IV Lung Cancer With Brain Metastases
This is an open-label, non-randomised, phase II, multicenter clinical trial.

71 stage IV or recurrent, non-small cell lung cancer patients with synchronous brain metastases will be enrolled in this trial to evaluate the efficacy of Nivolumab plus Ipilimumab plus two cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy as first line treatment.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Brain Metastases, Adult|Lung Cancer
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Pemetrexed
Rate of intracranial clinical benefit, Defined as the percentage of patients who had lack of radiological or clinical progression for at least 6 months according to RANO-BM assessment criteria, From the date of the end of treatment until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months
To assess the efficacy of the treatment in terms of the Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as systemic PFS (excluding CNS) as per RECIST version 1.1 and PFS in the CNS as per RANO-BM criteria, From the date of the end of treatment until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months|To evaluate the Overall Response Rate (ORR) of the treatment, Intracranial ORR, defined as a complete response or partial response as determined by the investigator according to RANO for brain disease. Systemic ORR, defined as a complete response or partial response as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1. criteria for systemic disease., From the date of the end of treatment until the date of last follow up, assessed up to 24 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Occurrence and severity of adverse events, with severity determined by NCI CTCAE v5.0 criteria., From the subject's written consent to participate in the study through 100 days after the final administration of the drug
This is an open-label, non-randomised, phase II, multicenter clinical trial. The total sample size is 71 patients. The population to be included are stage IV or recurrent, non-small cell lung cancer patients with synchronous brain metastases.

Patients randomised will receive induction treatment with two cycles of platinum-based chemotherapy plus Nivolumab and Ipilimumab. At the end of induction treatment the patient with start maintenance with Nivolumab and Ipilimumab until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, loss of clinical benefit as judged by the investigator or up to a maximum of 2 years of treatment

The primary objective of this trial is to determine the rate of intracranial clinical benefit, defined as the percentage of patients who had lack of radiological or clinical progression for at least 6 months according to RANO-BM assessment criteria.

Patient accrual is expected to be completed within 1.5 years, treatment is planned to extend for 1 year and the patients will be followed up for 2 years. The study will end once survival follow-up has concluded.