Study of Physical and Mental Health of Older Patients With Newly Diagnosed Cancer
RATIONALE: Gathering information from older patients with newly diagnosed cancer may help doctors learn more about the risks of functional decline.

PURPOSE: This studying is looking at the physical and mental health of older patients with newly diagnosed cancer.
Cognitive/Functional Effects|Depression|Hematopoietic/Lymphoid Cancer|Malnutrition|Pain|Psychosocial Effects of Cancer and Its Treatment|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific|Weight Changes
OTHER: medical chart review|OTHER: questionnaire administration|PROCEDURE: cognitive assessment|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Creation of a Geriatric-Oncology database, Data will be obtained from patients medical records at baseline, 6 months, 1 year, and 3 years.|Enhancement of the Geriatric-Oncology database by linking it to the Central Medicare Services Database and the Ohio Death Files, At completion of 1 and 3 years of follow up, the Geriatric-Oncology Database will be linked to the Central Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Database and the Ohio Death Files.
OBJECTIVES:

* To create a Geriatric-Oncology database of patients 65 years of age and older with newly diagnosed cancer who have been identified as being at increased risk of functional decline and mortality within a year.
* To enhance the Geriatric-Oncology Database by linking it to the Central Medicare Services (CMS) Database and the Ohio Death Files.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients undergo a 1-hour comprehensive geriatric assessment at baseline and periodically during the study as part of routine care. The assessments include the Lawton's nine-item Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL); the Katz's Activity of Daily Living (ADL); the Timed Up and Go Test; the Karnofsky Physician-Rated Performance Rating Scale (KPS); the number of falls in the past 6 months; the Mini Nutritional Assessment (MNA); the Body Mass Index; the percent of unintentional weight loss in the past 6 months; the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Social Support Subscale (emotional/information and tangible subscales); the MOS Social Activity Limitations Measures; the Charlson Comorbidity Index; the Cumulative Index Rating Scale Geriatrics (CIRS-G); the ACE-27; the Folstein's Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE); the Geriatric Depression Scale (GDS); the Functional Pain Scale; and a list of medications.

Data will be obtained from patients medical records at baseline, 6 months, 1 year, and 3 years. At completion of 1 and 3 years of follow up, the Geriatric-Oncology Database will be linked to the Central Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Database and the Ohio Death Files.