Phase 1 Trial of IMAB027 in Patients With Recurrent Advanced Ovarian Cancer (OVAR)
Advanced ovarian cancer is a high medical need indication. Cure is not available to these patients and treatment has palliative intent. A proportion of advanced stage ovarian cancer expresses substantial levels of Claudin 6 (CLDN6), a carcino-embryonic transmembrane protein, which is absent from normal adult human tissue. IMAB027 is a monoclonal antibody that binds to CLDN6. Preclinically IMAB027 was shown to inhibit tumor growth and to kill cancer cells by antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity. This trial is a first-in-human dose escalation and dose finding Phase 1 trial of IMAB027 in patients with recurrent advanced ovarian cancer to assess the safety and tolerability, the pharmacokinetics, the antitumoral activity and the immunogenicity of IMAB027.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: IMAB027
Safety and tolerability, Safety profile including type, frequency, severity, relationship of adverse events to investigational medicinal product, dose limiting toxicities, maximum tolerated dose, 24 month
to assess pharmacokinetics, Cmax, AUC, terminal half-life and related pharmacokinetic parameters of IMAB027, 24 month|to assess antitumoral activity, Disease control rates (CR, PR, SD), ratio previous/current remission time intervals and overall survival, up to 3 years|to assess immunogenicity, Frequency of anti-IMAB027 antibodies, 24 month
Advanced ovarian cancer is a high medical need indication. Cure is not available to these patients and treatment has palliative intent. A proportion of advanced stage ovarian cancer expresses substantial levels of Claudin 6 (CLDN6), a carcino-embryonic transmembrane protein, which is absent from normal adult human tissue. IMAB027 is a monoclonal antibody that binds to CLDN6. Preclinically IMAB027 was shown to inhibit tumor growth and to kill cancer cells by antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and complement-dependent cytotoxicity. This trial is a first-in-human dose escalation and dose finding Phase 1 trial of IMAB027 in patients with recurrent advanced ovarian cancer to assess the safety and tolerability, the pharmacokinetics, the antitumoral activity and the immunogenicity of IMAB027.