Safety and Tolerability of MSI-1436C in Metastatic Breast Cancer
This is a Phase I, open-label, dose escalation study. MSI-1436 will be administered as a single intravenous infusion twice a week for 3 weeks on a 4-week cycle.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: MSI-1436C
Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) of MSI-1436, Subjects will be enrolled according to a standard Phase I Fibonacci design to receive MSI-1436C. If a subject has a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at any time during the study, MSI-1436C will be held and either re-started or discontinued in that subject as per the Dose Adjustments and Toxicities Guidelines., one year
Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), The area under the plasma drug concentration-time curve (AUC) reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration of a dose of MSI-1436C., one year|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, All adverse events and dose-limiting toxicities will be recorded and tabulated. A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any grade 3 or higher NCI Common Toxicity Criteria adverse event (CTCAE) that is deemed related to the study drug MSI-1436C, any infusion reaction necessitating drug discontinuation, or any other drug related adverse event leading to the study drug discontinuation.

Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize adverse events and dose-limiting toxicities. The proportion of AEs and DLTs will be calculated along with their corresponding exact 95% confidence intervals., one year|response rates, To assess the response rates of MSI-1436C in metastatic breast cancer patients the outcome variable of interest is time-to-progression. Patients who have not progressed (or who have not died) as of their last known follow-up, will be considered 'censored' for the time-to-progression analysis.

Time-to-progression will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier Product-Limit Method. Any post- hoc group comparisons will be carried out using the log-rank test. Patients who have not progressed (or who have not died) as of their last known follow-up, will be considered 'censored' for the time-to-progression analysis., one year|Peak plasma concentration of the drug after administration (cmax), The maximum (or peak) serum concentration that MSI-1436C achieves in the plasma after the drug has been administrated and prior to the administration of a second dose., one year|Time to reach cmax, The amount of time for MSI-1436C to reach Cmax, one year|Time required for the concentration of MSI-1436C to reach half of its original value, or half life (t1/2), The time required for the concentration of MSI-1436C to reach half of its original value., one year
This is a Phase I, open-label, dose escalation study. MSI-1436 will be administered as a single intravenous infusion twice a week for 3 weeks on a 4-week cycle. Subjects will be enrolled according to a standard Phase I Fibonacci design to receive MSI-1436. Drug infusions will last approximately 2 hours. If a subject has a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) at any time during the study, MSI-1436 will be held and either re-started or discontinued in that subject as per the Dose Adjustments and Toxicities Guidelines.