Efineptakin Alfa and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase II trial tests the safety and side effects of efineptakin alfa and pembrolizumab in treating patients with glioblastoma that has come back (recurrent). Efineptakin alfa is an immunotherapy drug that works by helping the immune system fight tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving efineptakin alfa and pembrolizumab may kill more tumor cells in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.
High Grade Astrocytic Tumor|Recurrent Glioblastoma, IDH-Wildtype|Recurrent Gliosarcoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Efineptakin alfa|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Overall survival rate, 9-month overall survival rate (OS9) rate is defined as the number of "successes" (patients who are alive at least 9 months after beginning study therapy) divided by the total evaluable patients. All patients who have signed a consent form, are eligible, and have begun treatment in Cycle 1 (first cycle of neo-adjuvant pembrolizumab + efineptakin alfa \[NT-I7\]) will be considered evaluable for the primary endpoint., Up to 9 months
Progression free survival time, Progression is defined according to Immunotherapy Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (iRANO) criteria. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., From the date of starting study treatment to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the number of responses achieved during treatment with pembrolizumab + NT-I7 in combination with surgery divided by the total number of evaluable patients. A patient will be deemed to have a response if complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) is achieved. Only patients with measurable disease documented on the post-operative baseline scan (prior to initiation of Cycle 2) will be considered evaluable for ORR. Point estimates will be generated for response rate with corresponding 95% binomial confidence intervals (Duffy and Santner)., Up to 5 years|Changes in absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC), Point estimates will be generated for the difference (at the magnitude of a fold-change) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals. All other changes in ALC over time will be exploratory and hypothesis generating. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., From baseline up to 12 weeks|Incidence of adverse events, The number and severity of all adverse events will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. Specifically, the overall percentages for Grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment will also be calculated and reported. All other adverse event analysis will be exploratory and hypothesis generating. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the efficacy of pembrolizumab + efineptakin alfa (NT-I7) in combination with surgery in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) using the rate of overall survival at 9 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression-free survival in recurrent GBM patients treated with pembrolizumab + NT-I7 in combination with surgery.

II. To determine the objective response rate in recurrent GBM patients treated with pembrolizumab + NT-I7 in combination with surgery.

III. To assess changes in absolute lymphocyte counts (ALC) over time in recurrent GBM patients treated with pembrolizumab + NT-I7 in combination with surgery.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the adverse event (AE) and toxicity profile of pembrolizumab + NT-I7 in combination with surgery in patients with recurrent GBM.

II. To assess the anti-glioma immune response in patients with recurrent GBM, before and after pembrolizumab and NT-I7 treatment, including assessment of cytokine profiling, immune cell phenotyping, function, and activation in the pre/post-treatment blood and tumor tissue when available.

III. To test tumor mutation burden on tumor/immune cells by validated comprehensive genomic profiling.

IV. To evaluate the changes for tumor microenvironment (TME) post pembrolizumab and NT-I7 and their correlations with treatment response and survival.

V. To evaluate tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (CD4, CD8, Treg, etc) in the tumor tissue pre- and post-treatment (when available).

VI. To assess changes in repertoire breadth and clonality by T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing.

VII. To explore potential tissue and blood biomarkers that may predict response.

OUTLINE:

BEFORE SURGERY: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and efineptakin alfa intramuscularly (IM) on day 1. Patients then undergo surgery 1 week later.

AFTER SURGERY: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes and efineptakin alfa IM on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT) at baseline and on study. Patients also undergo tumor biopsy at baseline and blood sample collection on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 2-3 months until disease progression (if applicable), and then every 6 months for up to 5 years from study registration.