Phase I Study to Assess the Tolerability and Efficacy of Nivolumab in Patients With Hematologic Malignancies
This is an open-label, dose escalation Phase I study to evaluate the tolerability and efficacy of single agent of Nivolumab as maintenance treatment to prevent relapse in patients with hematologic malignancies after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Approximately 29 patients will be enrolled, where about 6-12 patients will be included on the dose escalation phase and 20 patients will be on the expansion cohort at maximal tolerated dose.
Hematologic Malignancies
DRUG: Nivolumab
Maximum tolerated dose of Nivolumab, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Nivolumab in patients with hematologic malignancies after allo-SCT., 24 months
Number of type of adverse events, To evaluate the toxicities of Nivolumab as maintenance treatment after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT)., 24 months|Incidence of non-relapse mortality, From the date of therapy to the date of non-relapse death, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Time until progression free survival, From start date of therapy to the first documented disease relapse or death from any cause, whichever may come first, assessed up to 100 months|Time until overall survival, From start date of therapy to death from any cause, whichever may come first, assessed up to 100 months
Differences in pre- and post treatment levels of T cell subsets and T cell activation status, To perform an exploratory analysis on the frequencies, absolute numbers and subsets of T cells (including regulatory T cells) in Nivolumab treated patients., 24 months|Differences in pre- and post treatment levels for inspection of changes in "clonality" of T cell repertoire between blood samples, To perform deep sequencing of TCR-alpha and TCR-beta chains on polyclonal T cells at baseline and at subsequent time points during nivolumab treatment. Changes in levels of responders versus nonresponders will be analyzed using a non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test., 24 months|Quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR) results in peripheral blood and bone marrow samples, To monitor MRD by WT1 PCR during Nivolumab treatment in AML/MDS patients. The differences will be assessed using a conventional T-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test., 24 months
Nivolumab will be administrated intravenously. Standard dose escalation will be used for the intensification phase with starting dose at 1m/kg every 2 weeks for 4 doses. The DLT observation period is 29 days starting with the first dose taken on Day 1, The study treatment will continue until one of the discontinuation criteria is met. Each dose level (1-2) will be tested using the 3+3 design. If level 2 of 3mg/kg is reached without DLTs, 3mg/kg will be used for the dose expansion cohort. After the intensification phase, patients will start Nivolumab every 12 weeks maintenance phase till 2 years post allo-SCT. Patients will also receive best supportive care (BSC), including blood product transfusions, antimicrobials, and (as appropriate) granulocyte colony stimulating factors for neutropenic infection or poor graft function.