Study to Evaluate Amifampridine Phosphate in Patients With MuSK-MG
Efficacy and safety of amifampridine phosphate in improving the activities of daily living for patients with antibody positive MuSK myasthenia gravis.
Myasthenia Gravis, Generalized
DRUG: Amifampridine Phosphate|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Myasthenia Gravis-Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) Summary by Time Point and Myasthenia Gravis Type: Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test Results, Myasthenia Gravis-Activities of Daily Living (MG-ADL) is a self-report scale to assess the patient's MG symptoms and functional performance of activities of daily living. The eight items are scored on a scale of 0-3 with 3 representing the most severe symptoms or impaired performance and 0 representing no symptoms or impaired performance. Each item was assessed by the patient at the last day (Day 0) of the Run-in period and at the post-treatment visit. The post-treatment result will be the result obtained on Day 10. If the patient discontinued treatment early, the post-treatment result may be obtained at an earlier time point. The total MG-ADL score was calculated as the sum of each item score, with a maximum score of 24 (most severe symptoms/impairment) and minimum score of 0 (least severe symptoms/impairment). The change from baseline (CFB) at Day 10 was assessed. A Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test of equality of change from baseline distributions between subjects diagnos, Last day (Day 0) of the Run-in period and at the post-treatment visit (i.e., day 10 or the time point at which a patient discontinued treatment early).
Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Total Score Summary Statistics by Time Point and MG Type: Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test Results, Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) assesses the patient's general body strength and fatigability. Each test item is scored on a scale of 0-3 with 3 representing the most severe symptom results and 0 representing no symptom results. Each item was assessed by the patient at Screening, the first (Day 1) and last day (Day 0) of the Run-in period and at the post-treatment visit. The post-treatment result will be the result obtained on Day 10. If the patient discontinued treatment early, the post-treatment result may be obtained at an earlier time point. The total QMG score was calculated as the sum of each item score, with a maximum score of 39 (most severe symptoms) and minimum score of 0 (least severe symptoms). The change from baseline (CFB) at Day 10 was assessed. A Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney Rank Sum Test of equality of change from baseline distributions between subjects diagnosed with MuSK-MG treated with amifampridine and placebo was conducted., Last day (Day 0) of the Run-in period and at the post-treatment visit (i.e., day 10 or the time at which a patient discontinued treatment early).
Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of amifampridine phosphate in patients with MuSK-MG. In addition, a sample of AChR-MG patients will be assess for efficacy and safety of amifampridine phosphate. Planned duration of participation for each patient is at least 38 days, excluding the screening period. Eligible patients will be titrated to an efficacious dose of amifampridine phosphate and those who demonstrate improvement will be randomized to either placebo or amifampridine, in a double-blind fashion, for 10 days.