FOLFOX +/- Ziv-Aflibercept for Esophageal and Gastric Cancer
Anti-angiogenic therapy is a proven therapeutic target in refractory gastric and gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. This trial assessed whether the addition of a high affinity angiogenesis inhibitor, ziv-aflibercept, could improve the efficacy of first-line mFOLFOX6 (oxaliplatin, leucovorin, and bolus plus infusional 5- fluorouracil) chemotherapy in metastatic esophagogastric adenocarcinoma.

In this study (ZAMEGA), patients with treatment-naïve esophagogastric adenocarcinoma were randomly assigned 2:1 in a multicenter, placebo-controlled double-blind trial to receive first-line mFOLFOX6 with or without ziv-aflibercept 4mg/kg every 2 weeks. Randomization was stratified by ECOG performance status (0-1 vs. 2) and primary site of disease (esophagus or GE junction vs stomach).
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Ziv-aflibercept
6-month Progression-free Survival (PFS), 6-month PFS is the percent probability of patients remaining alive and progression-free at 6-months from randomization estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods. PFS was measured as the time from randomization to 1st documented disease progression (PD) or death. Patients alive without PD were censored at the earliest of the date of last progression-free disease assessment or start of non-protocol therapy. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions., Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks and evaluated by independent, blinded radiologists. Patient follow-up was 6 months.
Grade 4 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, The percentage of patients who experienced maximum grade 4 treatment-related adverse event based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms., Adverse events were collected each cycle on treatment. Patients received a median (range) treatment duration (months) of 6.9 (0-23.3) and 6.4 (0-43.9) for mFOLFOX6/ziv-aflibercept and mFOLFOX6/placebo, respectively.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of patients achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks and evaluated by independent, blinded radiologists. Patients received a median (range) treatment duration (m) of 6.9 (0-23.3) and 6.4 (0-43.9) for mFOLFOX6/ziv-aflibercept and mFOLFOX6/placebo, respectively.|Duration of Objective Response, Duration of response is the time from date of first documented confirmed objective response to date of first documented progressive disease. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks and evaluated by independent, blinded radiologists. Patient follow-up (months) median (range) was 14.5 (1.1-49.8) and 18.8 (0.6-49.8) for mFOLFOX6/ziv-aflibercept and mFOLFOX6/placebo, respectively.
In patients with esophagogastric cancer, mFOLFOX6 is considered standard of care. Every person has molecules in their bloodstream called vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs). These molecules help grow and sustain new blood vessels needed by the human body. Cancer tumors hijack this mechanism because they need new blood vessels and oxygen to grow. Ziv-aflibercept is an antibody, a "targeted therapy" called a "VEGF Trap", that "traps" (binds) these VEGFs and prevents the cancer from using them to grow. Ziv-aflibercept has recently been approved by the FDA for patients with treatment-resistant colorectal cancer. Patients who received standard 5-fluoruracil based chemotherapy pus ziv-aflibercept lived significantly longer than those patients who received standard 5-fluoruracil alone.

The study was designed to have an 80% power, at a 0.20 significance level, to detect a difference in 6-month progression-free survival of 15%, between 65% and 50%. A one-sided log rank test was utilized and all patients treated with at least one dose of mFOLFOX6 and ziv-aflibercept/placebo were included in the statistical analysis.