A Trial of Systemic Chemotherapy in Combination With Conventional Transarterial Chemoembolization in Patients With Advanced Intra-Hepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
The study will be a single-center, single-arm, Phase II study of gemcitabine and cisplatin in combination with conventional trans-arterial chemoembolization therapy in adult patients with advanced ICC. 25 patients will be enrolled over the course of 2 years, with an additional 1.5 years for patient follow-up.
Unresectable Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Conventional TACE (transarterial chemoembolization) with Doxorubicin/Mitomycin-C
Progression-free Survival, The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the 12-month progression-free survival (PFS) rate in adult patients with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) after treatment with gemcitabine and cisplatin in combination with conventional TACE. This is the percentage of patients alive and free of progression at 12-months from enrollment on study. Radiographic assessment of disease burden will be evaluated by mRECIST and qEASL using an MRI scan obtained at the IR clinic visit., 12 months
Overall Survival, Evaluation of overall survival (OS) of adult patients with advanced ICC treated with gemcitabine and cisplatin in combination with conventional TACE. Overall survival is the time from enrollment on study until death of the patient from any cause., 18 months|Overall Time to Progression (TTP), Overall TTP is the time from enrollment on study until radiographic evidence of overall disease progression. Radiographic assessment will be evaluated by mRECIST using MRI every 2 cycles after intra-arterial therapy., up to 18 months|Time to Untreatable Progression (TTUP), TTUP in liver lesions is measured from the time of initiation on cTACE therapy until radiographic evidence of disease progression in targeted lesions. Radiographic assessment will be evaluated by mRECIST using MRI every 2 cycles after intra-arterial therapy., up to 18 months|Toxicities of the Gemcitabine and Cisplatin Regimen in Combination With cTACE Therapy Using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0., To evaluate the toxicities of the gemcitabine and cisplatin regimen in combination with cTACE therapy in adult patients with advanced ICC. Safety will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 18 months|Correlation Between Changes in Dynamic Contrast-enhanced MRI of Liver Lesions and Progression Free Survival, early changes in dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) will correlate with long term PFS or OS, specifically as they relate to lesions targeted with cTACE therapy, 18 months|Correlation Between Changes in Dynamic Contrast-enhanced MRI of Liver Lesions and Overall Survival, early changes in dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) will correlate with long term OS, specifically as they relate to lesions targeted with cTACE therapy, 18 months
Eligible patients enrolled on study will receive a chemotherapy regimen of gemcitabine and cisplatin administered intravenously on Days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle. After every 2 cycles of systemic chemotherapy, patients will receive contrast-enhanced MRI to assess liver disease; conventional trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE) will be performed as indicated based on this assessment. Patients will receive a maximum of 8 cycles of the gemcitabine/cisplatin combination. Up to 3 TACE treatments may be delivered in this same time frame, with the first TACE taking place after 2 cycles of systemic chemotherapy. Following the treatment period, patients will continue clinical follow-up at 3 month intervals until study exit at 18 months post the start of treatment.

It is hypothesized that the addition of conventional transarterial chemoembolization to standard chemotherapy will result in an improvement in PFS in patients with advanced, unresectable ICC, including patients with extra-hepatic disease.