Study of Dabrafenib +/- Trametinib in Combination With Ipilimumab for V600E/K Mutation Positive Metastatic or Unresectable Melanoma
This is an open-label, multi-center, dose-finding Phase 1 study that will enroll subjects at least 18 years old with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and BRAF V600 mutations. The primary objective of the study is to describe the safety for the doublet therapy (dabrafenib and ipilimumab) and the triplet therapy (dabrafenib/trametinib and ipilimumab). Preliminary efficacy data will also be collected. Subjects will be assigned to receive either the doublet combination (dabrafenib and ipilimumab) or the triplet combination (dabrafenib, trametinib, and ipilimumab). Subjects will be enrolled to dose-finding cohorts in the doublet combination (dabrafenib + ipilimumab) in a sequential 3+3 fashion. Following establishment of a dose for the doublet combination, an expansion cohort will be opened. At the same time, enrollment to dose finding cohorts for the triplet combination (dabrafenib + trametinib + ipilimumab) will begin in a sequential 6+6 fashion. Enrollment into triplet cohorts will take priority when both the doublet expansion arm and the triplet dose-finding arm are open for enrollment at the same time. Approximately 9-24 subjects will be enrolled to the dose finding portion of the study. Approximately 30 subjects will be enrolled to doublet expansion cohort and 30 subjects will be enrolled in the triplet expansion cohort. A two-week run-in period without ipilimumab will be followed by 4 intravenous doses of ipilimumab at the recommended dose and schedule. Oral daily dosing of dabrafenib or dabrafenib + trametinib will continue from the two-week run-in, through combination with ipilimumab, and post-ipilimumab until no longer of clinical benefit, in the opinion of the treating physician, or until unacceptable AE or death
Solid Tumours
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Number of subjects with Adverse Events (AEs) to assess the safety of dabrafenib +/- trametinib when administered in combination with ipilimumab, AEs will be collected from the time the first dose of study treatment is administered until 30 days following discontinuation of study treatment, Follow-up up to 6 months after last subject last dose|Changes in laboratory values, vital signs, and physical examinations as a measure of safety of dabrafenib +/- trametinib when administered in combination with ipilimumab, Hematology, clinical chemistry, and urinalysis parameters to be tested. Vital sign measurements will include systolic and diastolic blood pressure, temperature, respiration rate and pulse rate. A complete physical examination will be performed at screening and every 12 months thereafter, as well as whenever clinically indicated.A brief physical examination will be performed every 3 or 4 weeks, Follow-up up to 6 months after last subject last dose
Number of subjects with AEs and changes in laboratory values, vital signs, and physical examinations to determine a recommended dose for dabrafenib +/- trametinib when administered in combination with ipilimumab, All subjects will be evaluated for dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) from the first dose of ipilimumab until 1 week after the third dose of ipilimumab to determine a recommended dose for dabrafenib +/- trametinib when administered in combination with ipilimumab, Up to approximately Week 9 in doublet and triplet arm|Overall response rate, Overall Response will be determined using Modified immune-related response criteria (irRC), Follow-up up to 6 months after last subject last dose|Concentrations of trametinib, dabrafenib and its metabolites (GSK2285403, GSK2298683, and GSK2167542) in the triplet arm and dabrafenib and its metabolites in the doublet arm, Four blood samples will be collected on the day of first dose of ipilimumab (Cycle 1) - Study Day 15. One blood sample will be obtained on the day of the second and third dose of ipilimumab (Cycles 2 and 3) - Study Days 36 and 57. Subjects will be instructed to withhold their morning dose until after they arrive at the clinic. Ipilimumab infusion should start as soon as possible after oral dosing of dabrafenib/trametinib. PK samples have a +/-30 minute window for collection., Day 15 (pre-dose,1, 2, and 4 hours post-dose); Day 36 and Day 57 (pre-dose only) for doublet and triplet arms
This is an open-label, multi-center, dose-finding Phase 1 study that will enroll subjects at least 18 years old with unresectable or metastatic melanoma and BRAF V600 mutations. The primary objective of the study is to describe the safety for the doublet therapy (dabrafenib and ipilimumab) and the triplet therapy (dabrafenib/trametinib and ipilimumab). Preliminary efficacy data will also be collected. Subjects will be assigned to receive either the doublet combination (dabrafenib and ipilimumab) or the triplet combination (dabrafenib, trametinib, and ipilimumab). Subjects will be enrolled to dose-finding cohorts in the doublet combination (dabrafenib + ipilimumab) in a sequential 3+3 fashion. Following establishment of a dose for the doublet combination, an expansion cohort will be opened. At the same time, enrollment to dose finding cohorts for the triplet combination (dabrafenib + trametinib + ipilimumab) will begin in a sequential 6+6 fashion. Enrollment into triplet cohorts will take priority when both the doublet expansion arm and the triplet dose-finding arm are open for enrollment at the same time. Approximately 9-24 subjects will be enrolled to the dose finding portion of the study. Approximately 30 subjects will be enrolled to doublet expansion cohort and 30 subjects will be enrolled in the triplet expansion cohort. A two-week run-in period without ipilimumab will be followed by 4 intravenous doses of ipilimumab at the recommended dose and schedule. Oral daily dosing of dabrafenib or dabrafenib + trametinib will continue from the two-week run-in, through combination with ipilimumab, and post-ipilimumab until no longer of clinical benefit, in the opinion of the treating physician, or until unacceptable AE or death