Anorexia iN Cancer Patients: ANCHOR
The rationale for this study is to prospectively investigate the outcomes of patients undergoing standard dietetic interventions alongside treatment for their advanced gastrointestinal cancers, and to further characterise the relationship with body composition.

A number of patients will be enrolled in a sub-study investigating the neuronal-enteroendocrine-hypothalamic axis.

Gut hormone study. Our hypothesis is that proinflammatory cytokines produced by the tumour can not only affect appetite directly through the vagal and the central melanocortin system but also indirectly though the enhanced EEC activity; either through increased number or increased function.

In this study, the investigators will explore and compare the pattern and levels (pre-prandial and post prandial) of the pro-inflammatory cytokines and gut hormones between stage-standardised anorexic and non-anorexic cancer patients and age-matched healthy controls.
Gastric Cancer|Oesophageal Cancer
Survival outcomes in patients with advanced upper gastrointestinal cancers receiving dietetic interventions., Progression free and overall survival from diagnosis., Through study completion, median expected overall survival < 1 year.|Differences in patterns of plasma gut hormone and cytokine levels as measured by ELISA between study participants., Plasma gut hormones and cytokine levels as measured via ELISA including, ghrelin, insulin, GLP-1, PYY, pancreatic polypeptide, GIP, CHromogranin A, CCK. The following cytokines will be included. IL-1, IL-6, TNF-α, 3 months from completion of data collection
Correlation between hormonal and cytokine profile and body composition as measured by bioelectrical impedance analysis and CT measured muscle mass (for patients only) and density., Within 6 months of completion of data collection|Correlation between nutritional status, body composition and physical fitness, Within 6 months of completion of data collection
Poor nutritional status contributes significantly to poor outcomes in patients with upper GI cancers, in some patients, directly leading to death. Poor fitness, in terms of reduced muscle mass (sarcopenia) or physical performance, is associated with higher treatment toxicity and poor treatment outcomes.

However the relationship between different markers of nutritional status and body composition with fitness is not fully understood. It is also not known what impact dietetic interventions have on the reduced survival seen in patients with weight loss at baseline.

Finally, the underlying interaction between the neuronal-enteroendocrine-hypothalamic axis that regulates appetite is poorly understood but believed to be impaired in patients with upper GI cancers because of a number of altered mechanisms.

Therefore the rationale for this study is to prospectively investigate the outcomes of patients undergoing standard dietetic interventions alongside treatment for their advanced gastrointestinal cancers, and to further characterise the relationship with body composition.

A number of patients will be enrolled in a sub-study investigating the neuronal-enteroendocrine-hypothalamic axis.

The hypothesis is that proinflammatory cytokines produced by the tumour can not only affect appetite directly through the vagal and the central melanocortin system but also indirectly though the enhanced EEC activity; either through increased number or increased function.

In this study, the investigators will explore and compare the pattern and levels (pre-prandial and post prandial) of the pro-inflammatory cytokines and gut hormones between stage-standardised anorexic and non-anorexic cancer patients and age-matched healthy controls.