Temozolomide, Memantine Hydrochloride, Mefloquine, and Metformin Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Glioblastoma Multiforme After Radiation Therapy
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of combination chemotherapy in treating patients with glioblastoma multiforme after radiation therapy. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, memantine hydrochloride, and metformin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing them or stopping them from dividing. Mefloquine may help temozolomide, memantine hydrochloride, and metformin hydrochloride kill more cancer cells by making tumor cells more sensitive to the drug. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma|Supratentorial Glioblastoma
DRUG: Mefloquine|DRUG: Memantine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Temozolomide
Incidence of toxicities graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, During first 28 days
Median progression free survival (PFS), Up to 4 years|PFS, Up to 18 months|Median overall survival (OS), Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of temozolomide (TMZ) in combination with metformin (metformin hydrochloride) (MFRMN) and/or mefloquine (MFLOQ) and/or memantine (memantine hydrochloride) (MEMTN) in patients receiving adjuvant therapy after completing external beam radiotherapy (XRT) in combination with chemotherapy for newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the median progression free survival (PFS); 6, 12, and 18 month PFS; and median overall survival (OS) in patients treated with temozolomide and a combination of metformin and/or mefloquine and/or memantine.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 8 different treatment arms.

ARM 1: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5.

ARM 2: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and memantine hydrochloride PO twice daily (BID).

ARM 3: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and 30 mg mefloquine PO QD on days 1-3 of week 1 and then days 2, 4, and 6 every other week.

ARM 4: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1 and metformin hydrochloride PO BID.

ARM 5: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2, and mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3.

ARM 6: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2, and metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4.

ARM 7: Patients receive temozolomide PO as in Arm 1, mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3, and metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4.

ARM 8: Patients receive temozolomide PO and memantine hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 2, metformin hydrochloride PO BID as in Arm 4, and mefloquine PO QD as in Arm 3.

In all arms, courses repeat every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.