Multimodality Risk Adapted Tx Including Induction Chemo for SCCHN Amenable to Transoral Surgery
The purpose of this study is to see if a three method risk adapted design using induction chemotherapy, transoral surgery and radiation chemotherapy will lessen toxic effects and make treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) better.
Head and Neck Cancer|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Lapatinib|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Ipsilateral Radiation|RADIATION: Bilateral Radiation|PROCEDURE: Transoral Surgery
Overall Response Rate, Evaluation of target lesions through tumor imaging (CT scan, MRI, and/or chest x-ray) at 3-5 weeks post induction chemotherapy. Overall response rate will be based on RECIST criteria. Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the number of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 11 weeks
Feasibility of 3 Part Therapy, Percentage of patients successfully completing 3 part therapy will be used to assess the feasibility of 3 part therapy consisting of induction chemotherapy, surgery, and risk-adapted use of chemoradiation., 2 years|Number of Patients Who Decreased in Risk Level Post Induction Chemotherapy., Number of patients who no longer need radiation (have decreases in risk level post induction therapy). Estimations of Risk level pre-induction will be based on physical examination and imaging, post-induction risk level will be determined based on pathologic evaluation or surgical specimen., 11 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival is measured from the time the patient goes on treatment until death., 15 years|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-free survival associated with 3 part therapy consisting of induction chemotherapy, surgery and risk-adapted use of chemoradiation. Defined as per RECIST criteria. Physical examination, imaging of target lesions by CT scan or MRI and chest imaging (CT or Chest x-ray, if clinically indicated) every 3 months (+/- 30 days) for 18 months following end of treatment. "Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 15 years|Voice and Swallowing Function- MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), The MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) is a 20 item assessment designed to measure voice and swallowing function. Participants were asked 13 symptom questions and 6 interference items (walking, working) and asked id the 1- strongly agree to 5 strongly disagree. Scores were summed for a range of 20-100. The lower the score the worse the outcomes., Pre-treatment up to 1 year post surgery|Voice and Swallowing Function - Voice-Related Quality of Life Assessment (VRQOL), The Voice-Related Quality of Life Tool is a 10 item list of possible voice-related problems. The participant answers 1-5 with 1 being none, not a problem to 5, problem is as bad as it can be. An algorithm is used to calculate the scores, so that sum scores range from 0 to 100, where 0 indicates poor V-RQOL and 100 indicates good V-RQOL, Pre-treatment up to 1 year post surgery|Estimate the Pathologic Complete Response Rate at the Primary Site and in the Neck Following Induction Chemotherapy, Pathologic complete response (pCR) is the disappearance of all signs of cancer in tissue samples removed during surgery or biopsy (pT0). Also called pathologic complete remission. Pathologic Partial Response (pPR), is the presence of only non-invasive cancer in tissue samples (\<pT2), 11 weeks|Response Rates at the Primary Site, Evaluation of target lesions through tumor imaging (CT scan, MRI, and/or chest x-ray) at 3-5 weeks post induction chemotherapy. Overall response rate will be based on RECIST criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 11 weeks|Number of Subjects Who Experience Grade 3/4 Adverse Events According to CTCAE 4.0, The NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events is a descriptive terminology which can be utilized for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each AE term. Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental Activities of Daily Living (ADL). Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., 18 weeks|the Kinome Response to Induction Chemotherapy, Describe the kinome response to induction chemotherapy (lapatinib, paclitaxel, and carboplatin) in patients who consent to this optional evaluation via co-enrollment in LCCC0121, 11 weeks|Response Rates at the Neck., Evaluation of target lesions through tumor imaging (CT scan, MRI, and/or chest x-ray) at 3-5 weeks post induction chemotherapy. Overall response rate will be based on RECIST criteria. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for neck lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 11 weeks
This is a single-arm non-randomized two-stage phase II trial in previously untreated patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) arising in the oral cavity, oropharynx, or supraglottic larynx amenable to a transoral surgical approach. Treatment will consist of 3 parts: neoadjuvant induction with weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel in combination with daily lapatinib for 6 weeks (PART 1) prior to transoral surgery (PART 2). Post-operative treatment (PART 3) will vary depending on the risk category assigned to the patient following surgery as follows: no further treatment or treatment limited to involved field radiation (low risk), ipsilateral radiation concurrent with weekly chemotherapy ( medium risk); or cisplatin every 3 weeks and daily lapatinib concurrent with bilateral radiation (high risk).