Phase 1b Study of AEVI-007 in Subjects With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is a multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation Phase 1b study of AEVI-007 in subjects with relapsed or refractory Multiple Myeloma.

The objectives of the study are to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AEVI-007.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: AEVI-007
Recommended Phase 2 Dose, Identify the recommended Phase 2 dose based on safety, pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics observed in this Phase 1b study., Cohorts 1-3 will take approximately 4-5 months
Incidence of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Approximately 9 months|Incidence of Clinically Significant Changes in Clinical Laboratory Results, Approximately 9 months|Incidence of Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Signs, Approximately 9 months|Incidence of Clinically Significant Changes in Electrocardiogram Recordings, Approximately 9 months|Incidence of Clinically Significant Changes to Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG PS) Score, Approximately 9 months|Incidence of Clinically Significant Changes in Physical Examination Findings, Approximately 9 months|Maximum Observed Concentration of AEVI-007, Approximately 9 months|Apparent Terminal Half-Life of AEVI-007, Approximately 9 months|Clearance of AEVI-007, Approximately 9 months|Volume of Distribution of AEVI-007, Approximately 9 months|Area Under the Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to Time t of AEVI-007, Approximately 9 months|Anti-myeloma activity, To assess the anti-myeloma activity of AEVI-007 based on International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria for response, Approximately 9 months|Determination of ADAs, To determine the incidence of anti-drug antibodies to AEVI-007., Approximately 9 months|Time to Response (TTR), Defined as the time from start of the treatment to the first observation of PR or better. TTR is restricted to only subjects with confirmed responses., Approximately 9 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the duration from start of the treatment to disease progression or death (regardless of cause of death), whichever comes first, Approximately 9 months|Duration of Response, Defined as the duration from the first observation of PR to the time of disease progression, with deaths from causes other than progression censored, Approximately 9 months
This was a multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation, sequential groups Phase 1b clinical study in subjects with R/R multiple myeloma. The study utilized a "3+3" design. Three subjects were enrolled at each dose, starting with the initial dose of 4 mg/kg. If there were no DLTs, escalation to the next cohort took place. If there was 1 DLT, then the cohort was to be expanded to 6. If there were no further DLTs, then escalation to the next dose took place. If there were 2 DLTs in the initial 3 subjects, or 2 in the expanded cohort of 6 subjects, then the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) had been exceeded and dose escalation stopped. The dose prior to the dose where DLT was observed was then the RP2D. To allow safety assessment, the dosing of subjects within each dose level was staggered, with at least 24 hours between each subject.