Prospective Randomized Trial of Incisionless Versus Conventional Laparoscopic Colectomy for Left-sided Colonic Tumors
To compare the two surgical options in their short-term and long term outcomes in the management of early left-sided colorectal cancers. The hypothesis is that the incisionless approach will result in less postoperative pain and wound related complications.
Pain,|Postoperative Wound Complication
PROCEDURE: incisionless laparoscopic colectomy|PROCEDURE: conventional laparoscopic colectomy
pain score, participants will be followed for the pain score during the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 1 week, average of 1 week
wound complication, The patient will be followed for up to 30 days after the operation or till occurrence of event, up to 30 days after the operation
intraoperative blood loss, From the start of operation till operation finished, From the start of operation till operation finished|operative time, From the start of operation till operation finished, From the start of operation till operation finished|length of hospital stay, From the date after operation to date of discharge,an expected average of within 1 week, From the date after operation to date of discharge,an expected average of within 1 week
For the left-sided colorectal cancer, the investigators performed colectomy with primary anatomosis. Currently the investigators have two methods of minimal access approach to the abdominal cavity in order to complete this operation:

1. Conventional Laparoscopic colectomy The operation is completed by laparoscopic instruments using video laparoscopy. At the end of the procedure, pneumoperitoneum is abolished and a small wound was created for the delivery of bowel and insertion of anvil of the circular stapler. Finally, pneumoperitoneum is re-created for intra-corporeal anastomosis
2. Incisionless Laparoscopic Colectomy Laparoscopic colectomy is being performed in the same manner as conventional laparoscopic colectomy, except that at the end of procedure, the Transanal Endoscopic Operation (TEO) device with the outer diameter of 4cm is inserted into the anus for the delivery of specimen and insertion of anvil instead of creating a small wound as in the conventional laparoscopic colectomy. Finally, intra-corporeal anastomosis is performed in the same manner with the TEO device removed.

These two operations are essentially identical except for the surgical access for the delivery of specimen and insertion of anvil. Laparoscopic colectomy and the use of Transanal Endoscopic Operation(TEO)device have been practiced in the United States and Europe for over 10 years. Large scale studies in the literature have demonstrated the safety and benefits of laparoscopic colectomy for colonic tumors and the oncological outcomes have not shown to be inferior to open approach. With the use of TEO device, the investigators can perform laparoscopic colectomy without abdominal incision for those early left-sided colonic tumors and thus it can eliminate the wound-related complications theoretically. In order to find out which one is a better procedure, the investigators are carrying out a clinical trial to compare the two surgical options in their short-term and long term outcomes.The results of this study may have an impact on the care of similar patients in the future.