Improving Survivorship Among Minority Cancer Dyads
This proposed intervention centers on improving survivorship outcomes among African American and Latinx cancer survivor and caregiver dyads. As a result, there will be four major outcomes. First, as a result of partnership with minority social institutions (e.g. faith leaders), we will develop an in-depth culturally sensitive curriculum and survivorship care plan for Cancer Survivorship and Caregiver Leaders Aimed for Minority Populations (CSC LAMPs). Second, we will increase knowledge and skills by evaluating a comprehensive cancer survivorship training program designed for underserved health professional students. Third, the implementation of this program will improve survivorship outcomes among African American and Latinx cancer survivors with advanced stage cancer and their caregivers. Lastly, this study will build sustainability for underserved minorities with the training of 30 future healthcare providers as a valuable community resource for improving cancer survivorship outcomes. The long-term outcomes of the CSC LAMPs program will generate workforce capacity and diversity in cancer-based clinical practice, research, and community advocacy for underserved minority cancer survivors and caregivers.
Cancer|Breast Cancer|Colon Cancer|Caregiver Burnout|Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Change in knowledge, motivation, skills, and resources
Increase in psychosocial well-being using the Quality of Life: Short Form Health Survey and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale, By comparison from baseline to post-intervention, there will be a 25% increase in the psychosocial well-being among study participants., 3 months|Reduction of barriers to symptom management Using the Symptom Distress Scale survey, By comparison from baseline to post-intervention, there will be a 25% decrease in the barriers to symptom management among study participants., 3 months|3. Decrease in unmet needs Using the Barriers to Follow-Up Care Survey and Cancer Survivors Unmet Needs instrument, By comparison from baseline to post-intervention, there will be a 25% decrease in the unmet needs among study participants., 3 months|Reduction in caregiver burden using the Caregiver reaction assessment (CRA) survey, By comparison from baseline to post-intervention, there will be a 25% decrease in the caregiver burden among study participants., 3 months|5. Increase knowledge and utilization of supportive services using the Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey, By comparison from baseline to post-intervention, there will be a 25% increase in the knowledge and utilization of supportive services among study participants., 3 months
This proposed intervention centers on improving survivorship outcomes among African American and Latinx cancer survivor and caregiver dyads. As a result, there will be four major outcomes. First, as a result of partnership with minority social institutions (e.g. faith leaders), we will develop an in-depth culturally sensitive curriculum and survivorship care plan for Cancer Survivorship and Caregiver Leaders Aimed for Minority Populations (CSC LAMPs). Second, we will increase knowledge and skills by evaluating a comprehensive cancer survivorship training program designed for underserved health professional students. Third, the implementation of this program will improve survivorship outcomes among African American and Latinx cancer survivors with advanced stage cancer and their caregivers. Lastly, this study will build sustainability for underserved minorities with the training of 30 future healthcare providers as a valuable community resource for improving cancer survivorship outcomes. The long-term outcomes of the CSC LAMPs program will generate workforce capacity and diversity in cancer-based clinical practice, research, and community advocacy for underserved minority cancer survivors and caregivers.