Esophageal Atresia: Metaplasia, Barrett
The frequency of Barrett's esophagus (BE) has increased in adults in the last decades, but BE is rare in children. Esophageal atresia (EA), the most common congenital anomaly affecting the esophagus, predisposes the patient to severe and prolonged gastroesophageal reflux disease. Because gastroesophageal reflux disease plays a major role in the development of BE by causing repeated mucosal damage, development of BE is a concern even in children and young adults in this specific population. The aim of this study is to assess the prevalence of BE (gastric and/or intestinal metaplasia) in a population of adolescents/young adults who had been treated for EA in early infancy. All eligible patients received upper gastrointestinal endoscopy under general anesthesia with standardized esophageal staged biopsies. Histological suspicion of metaplasia was confirmed centrally.
Gastroesophageal Reflux|Esophagus, Barrett
PROCEDURE: esophageal biopsies
presence of gastric and / or intestinal metaplasia diagnosed at histology, Prevalence of Barrett's esophagus (gastric and/or intestinal metaplasia) in adolescents treated for esophageal atresia, during 2 hours of the endoscopy exam
presence of esophagitis or anomalies at the anastomotic stage diagnosed at histology, during 2 hours of the endoscopy exam|evaluation of the nutritional status, during the single visit scheduled, the day of endoscopy. This periode is corresponding at a day hospitalization (less than 12 hours in the day)|evaluation of actual symptoms and treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, during the single visit scheduled, the day of endoscopy. This periode is corresponding at a day hospitalization (less than 12 hours in the day)|evaluation of actual other symptoms (respiratory, dysphagia), during the single visit scheduled, the day of endoscopy. This periode is corresponding at a day hospitalization (less than 12 hours in the day)
The frequency of Barrett's esophagus (BE) has increased in adults in the last decades, but BE is rare in children. Esophageal atresia (EA), the most common congenital anomaly affecting the esophagus, predisposes the patient to severe and prolonged gastroesophageal reflux disease. Because gastroesophageal reflux disease plays a major role in the development of BE by causing repeated mucosal damage, development of BE is a concern even in children and young adults in this specific population. The aim of this study is to assess the prevalence of BE (gastric and/or intestinal metaplasia) in a population of adolescents/young adults who had been treated for EA in early infancy. All eligible patients received upper gastrointestinal endoscopy under general anesthesia with standardized esophageal staged biopsies. Histological suspicion of metaplasia was confirmed centrally.