Nerve Mobilization Techniques After Breast Cancer Surgery
Objective: to determine nerve mobilization techniques effectiveness at improving shoulder disability in the early breast cancer postsurgical period, and whether the effect was maintained at 24-month follow up. Design: prospective randomized and single blind trial where participants will be randomly allocated into two groups by EPIDAT 3.1 software. Follow-up will be conducted through seven physical therapy assessments: one before surgery, the second one after surgery, the third one post-physical therapy intervention, the fourth one after three months, the fifth after six months and, the sixth one after twelve months, and the seven one after 24 months. Participants: one hundred and forty women, who are undergoing a unilateral breast cancer surgery with axillary lymph node dissection in the Breast Cancer Unit from "Príncipe de Asturias" Hospital. Intervention: Early physical therapy to control group and Early physical therapy plus nerve mobilization to intervention group during the three following weeks from surgery. Hypothesis: nerve mobilization helps brachial plexus sliding among its interface which improves shoulder disability the inner arm.

Key outcomes: pain, functional impairment, physical therapy, quality of life. Data analysis: quantitative variables through t-student test and qualitative variable though Chi test through by Statistical Package for the Social Sciences software.
Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Neural mobilization group|OTHER: Control group
Change of shoulder disability, It will be measured by SPADI spanish validated version., 7 physical therapy assessments to evaluate change from surgery: At baseline, 7 days from baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months from baseline|Change of shoulder range of motion, It will be measured by an inclinometer under the universal instructions and validated of the goniometry., 7 physical therapy assessments to evaluate change from surgery: At baseline, 7 days from baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months from baseline 7th after 24 months after intervention.|Change of strenght, It will be measured by a dynamometer under the universal instructions., 7 physical therapy assessments to evaluate change from surgery: At baseline, 7 days from baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months from baseline|Change of pain intensity, To measure the intensity and get the information on the characteristics (type of feeling, duration, aggravating factors and mitigating, irritability, nocturnal behavior and activities with the UL ...) will be used a validated questionnaire shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI). Contains a numerical scale to collect each answer. The possible answers are 0 to 10, with 0 being no distress and 10 present such difficulty that needs help. The result of the questionnaire is between 0 (no pain) and 80 (the most pain possible)., 7 physical therapy assessments to evaluate change from surgery: At baseline, 7 days from baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months from baseline|Change of health related quality of life, It will be measured by FACTB spanish validated version., 7 physical therapy assessments to evaluate change from surgery: At baseline, 7 days from baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months from baseline
After giving their written informed consent, the participants will be summoned to perform the first assessment prior to surgery. Once participants will be discharged from hospital, approximately 3-5 days following the surgery, will be summoned to perform the second assessment. Those who will fulfil the selection criteria will be randomly allocated into two groups by an independent physical therapist. The experimental group will receive Early Physical Therapy plus neural mobilization and the control group will receive Early Physical Therapy. The same physical therapist will carry out all interventions for both groups. The physical therapist who will carry out the randomization process as well as the one who will perform the interventions will be the only two study members aware of group allocation. A third independent and blinded physical therapist will perform the assessments for all participants. Both physical therapists have more than fifteen years' experience in the treatment of breast cancer side effects. The ULNT1 will be perform to detect mechanosenstiviy-induced pain at presurgical and postsurgical assessments. The test sequence and the criteria will be followed to identify a positive test will reproduce from de study of de la Rosa.

In both groups, those women who will develop axillary web syndrome symptoms will receive an approach that aim at improving vascular tissue flexibility. If secondary lymphoedema will diagnose then complex decongestive physiotherapy will carry out.