A Surgical Procedure (Total Pancreatectomy) With a Transplant Procedure (Islet Cell Autotransplantation) for the Treatment of Chronic Pancreatitis and Benign Pancreatic Tumors
This phase I/II trial assesses the safety and effectiveness of total pancreatectomy with islet cell autotransplantation for the treatment of patients with long-term pancreatic inflammation (chronic pancreatitis) and non-cancerous (benign) pancreatic tumors. Total removal of the pancreas (pancreatectomy) can be used to treat chronic pancreatitis, but it may result in diabetes. An islet cell autotransplantation involves removing cells from a patient's pancreas (the islet cells) and infusing them into the liver. Islet cells are responsible for producing hormones like insulin, reducing the occurrence of diabetes in patients undergoing total pancreatectomy. Total pancreatectomy with autologous islet cell transplant is an accepted and Food and Drug Administration-approved treatment for patients with chronic pancreatitis. However, patients with chronic pancreatitis and pancreatic tumors have historically not been candidates for this procedure due to concerns of spreading potentially cancerous cells to other parts of the body. This clinical trial evaluates the safety and effectiveness of this treatment in patients with chronic pancreatitis and benign pancreatic tumors.
Benign Pancreatic Neoplasm|Chronic Pancreatitis|Recurrent Acute Pancreatitis
PROCEDURE: Pancreatectomy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Treatment Planning
Proportion of patients that are free of metastatic disease to the liver from a pancreatic primary, The 95% confidence interval (CI) will be analyzed using the Clopper-Pearson exact interval method., From date of surgery to time of identification of metastatic disease from a pancreatic primary, assessed up to 2 years post-surgery or date of death due to metastatic disease of a pancreatic origin
Insulin free rate, Defined as proportion not requiring insulin for blood glucose control for at least 14 days prior to the assessment date at 2 years. The 95% CI will be analyzed using Clopper-Pearson exact interval method., From date of surgery to 2 years post-surgery or death by any cause|Opiates free rate, Defined as proportion not receiving opiates for at least 14 days prior to the assessment date at 2 years.The 95% CI will be analyzed using Clopper-Pearson exact interval method., From date of surgery to 2 years post-surgery or death by any cause|Time to overall survival (OS), The time to OS distribution will be characterized using the Kaplan-Meier method. Kaplan-Meier curves of OS rate at 2 years will be estimated from the survival curve along with the 95% CI., From date of surgery to 2 years post-surgery or death by any cause
Quality of life (QOL), QOL scores will be collected over time using the Short Form 12. Summary of QOL and its change over time will be presented graphically using box plot and spaghetti plots, in addition to a summary table of QOL over time., Up to 2 years|Pain-related outcomes, Subjective pain-related outcomes will be collected using Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Bank Pain Interference Survey, version 1.1 and will be analyzed similar to the QOL survey., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs of grade 3 or greater will be collected and tabulated by the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities version 21.1. By-patient listings will also be provided for the following: patient deaths, serious adverse events, and AEs leading to withdrawal., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the oncologic safety of total pancreatectomy with islet cell autotransplantation (TPIAT) in chronic pancreatitis patients with benign pancreatic neoplasms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate postoperative insulin requirements in patients with presumed benign pancreatic neoplasms undergoing TPIAT.

II. To evaluate postoperative opiate requirements in patients with presumed benign pancreatic neoplasms undergoing TPIAT.

III. To evaluate the postoperative survival of patients with presumed benign pancreatic neoplasms undergoing TPIAT.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate quality of life outcomes in patients undergoing TPIAT with presumed benign pancreatic neoplasms.

II. To evaluate subjective pain-related outcomes in patients undergoing TPIAT with presumed benign pancreatic neoplasms.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo total pancreatectomy and autologous islet cell transplant intravenously (IV) over 15-60 minutes on day 1.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.