Electrotherapy in the Management of Myofascial Syndrome
Myofascial syndrome is defined as "musculoskeletal pain characterized by local and referred pain perceived to be deep and constant, and by the presence of myofascial trigger points in any part of the body" Post-breast surgery myofascial syndrome affects up to 44.7% of operated women, mainly on the muscles of the greater shoulder girdle. The repercussions are significant, functional, somatic, psychological and socio-professional affecting the quality of life. The treatments offered may or may not be medicinal. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a therapy that uses low voltage electrical current to provide pain relief. A TENS unit consists of a battery-powered device that delivers electrical impulses through electrodes placed on the surface of your skin. The electrodes are placed at or near nerves where the pain is located or at trigger points.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation)|DEVICE: TENS (transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation) ECOMODYN
The main objective is to evaluate the effectiveness of TENS and TENS ECOMODYN® on the management of chronic breast pain after surgery., Chronic pain is assessed using the Digital Pain Rating Scale (0 worse outcome to 10 better outcome) before and after using the method (TENS and TENS ECOMODYN®) at M0, M2, M2.5 and M4.5., 16,5 months
Evaluate the changes made by the treatment felt by the patient, The intensity of The patient's feelings will be evaluated by the Patient Global Impression of Change questionnaire: at M2 and M4.5, 16.5 months
Myofascial syndrome is defined as "musculoskeletal pain characterized by local and referred pain perceived to be deep and constant, and by the presence of myofascial trigger points in any part of the body" Post-breast surgery myofascial syndrome affects up to 44.7% of operated women, mainly on the muscles of the greater shoulder girdle. The repercussions are significant, functional, somatic, psychological and socio-professional affecting the quality of life. The treatments offered may or may not be medicinal. Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is a therapy that uses low voltage electrical current to provide pain relief. A TENS unit consists of a battery-powered device that delivers electrical impulses through electrodes placed on the surface of your skin. The electrodes are placed at or near nerves where the pain is located or at trigger points.