Local Hyperthermia for the Treatment of Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasias
Human papillomavirus(HPV) infect epithelial cells and have the capacity to stimulate cell abnormal hyperplasia, especially by those high-risk HPV types. HPV vaccine primarily targeting HPV6/11/16/18 has been available and makes it possible to prevent cervical cancer. However, a large population was left unvaccinated, specifically for those aged ones. In clinic, patients harboring high-risk HPV is quite prevalent in China or other developing nations. Removing the virus and prevention of malignant transformation is required.

Mild local Hyperthermia with a certain temperature range has been successfully used in the treatment of some diseases. It has been utilised in the treatment of some neoplasm, fungal and HPV infections. Investigators' study found that local hyperthermia at 44°C could cleared HPV in more than half of the patients with plantar warts. Investigators also note the fact that in patients with multiple lesions, the clearance of the target lesion is commonly followed by clearance of other distant lesions, a phenomenon suggesting that local hyperthermia could aid in establishing a specific immune response to eliminate HPV.So the purpose of the study is to evaluation local hyperthermia in the treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasias grade I and II after 3 months, with positive high-risk type HPVs, and patients with positive testing for high risk HPVs. Appropriate control arms were designed for different conditions.
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|Human Papilloma Virus
DEVICE: Local Hyperthermia at 37℃|DEVICE: LEEP or cold knife|DEVICE: Local Hyperthermia at 44℃
clearance rates of HPV, to evaluate the clearance rates in different treatment groups 3 month after treatment., 3 months after the last time of treatment.|scoring atypia by cytology/pathology, to evaluate atypia severity score of cervical cells 3 month after treatment., 3 months after the last time of treatment.
viral load measurement, to measure the HPV 16 viral load after 3 month of treatment, 3 months after the last time of treatment.
Mild local Hyperthermia with a certain temperature range has been successfully used in the treatment of some diseases. It has been utilised in the treatment of some neoplasm, fungal and HPV infections. Investigators' study found that local hyperthermia at 44°C could cleared HPV in more than half of the patients with plantar warts. Investigators also note the fact that in patients with multiple lesions, the clearance of the target lesion is commonly followed by clearance of other distant lesions, a phenomenon suggesting that local hyperthermia could aid in establishing a specific immune response to eliminate HPV.So the purpose of the study is to evaluation local hyperthermia in the treatment of cervical intraepithelial neoplasias grade I and II after 3 months, with positive high-risk type HPVs, and patients with positive testing for high risk HPVs. Appropriate control arms were designed for different conditions. One control arm is local hyperthermia at 37°C for 30 mins targeted for CINⅠ, the other control arm is LEEP targeted for CINⅡ. After 3 months, to evaluate the effectivity of local hyperthermia.