Gastrectomy With or Without Drainage (ADiGe)?
Prophylactic use of anastomotic drain in upper gastrointestinal surgery has been questioned in the last 15 years but only small studies have been conducted. In 2015 a Cochrane meta analysis on four Randomized Controlled Trials (RCT) concluded that there was no convincing evidence to the routine drain placement in gastrectomy. Nevertheless the Authors evidenced the moderate/low methodological quality of the included studies and highlighted how 3 out of four came from Eastern countries. Despite the above mentioned limits, Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) society published the guidelines for gastrectomy that strongly recommend, with high evidence level, to avoid routine use of drain in gastric surgery. After 2015 some other retrospective studies have been published, all with inconsistent results. Our objective is to perform a multicentre prospective trial in a large western cohort of patients to establish wether avoid routine use of anastomotic drain does not led to an increasing of postoperative invasive procedure.
Gastric Cancer
DEVICE: Avoid drain placement|DEVICE: Drain placement
30 day reoperation AND/OR additional drain placement, Incidence of reoperation AND/OR percutaneous placement of an additional drain within postoperative day 30 (composite outcome), 30 days after the operation
Overall mortality, 90 days after the operation|Overall morbidity, Complications are classified according to International consensus on a complications list after gastrectomy for cancer - Baiocchi et Al, Gastric Cancer, 2019 and stratified according to Clavien-Dindo classification., 30 days after the operation OR in hospital if hospitalization is longer than 30 days, up to 90 days of hospitalization|Length of hospital stay, From the day of operation until discharge (home or other facilities) or death for any cause whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months.|Drain related complications, Only in Drain Group complications related to drain placement (e.g. bleeding from drain site) will be recorded, From the day of operation until drain removal up to 90 days after the operation
Prophylactic use of anastomotic drain in upper gastrointestinal surgery has been questioned in the last 15 years but only small studies have been conducted. In 2015 a Cochrane meta analysis on four Randomized Controlled Trials (RCT) concluded that there was no convincing evidence to the routine drain placement in gastrectomy. Nevertheless the Authors evidenced the moderate/low methodological quality of the included studies and highlighted how 3 out of four came from Eastern countries. Despite the above mentioned limits, Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) society published the guidelines for gastrectomy that strongly recommend, with high evidence level, to avoid routine use of drain in gastric surgery. After 2015 some other retrospective studies have been published, all with inconsistent results. Our objective is to perform a multicentre prospective trial in a large western cohort of patients to establish wether avoid routine use of anastomotic drain does not led to an increasing of postoperative invasive procedure.