Deep Learning Signature for Predicting Complete Pathological Response to Neoadjuvant Chemoimmunotherapy in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of a CT/PET/ WSI-based deep learning signature for predicting complete pathological response to neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Neoadjuvant Chemoimmunotherapy|Complete Pathological Response
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: CT/PET/WSI-based Deep Learning Signature
Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve, The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response (CPR). CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
Sensitivity, The sensitivity of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response. CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
Specificity, The specificity of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response. CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Positive predictive value, The positive predictive value of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response. CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Negative predictive value, The negative predictive value of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response. CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31|Accuracy, The accuracy of the deep learning model in predicting complete pathological response. CPR was defined as no residual tumor in both resected primary tumor and lymph nodes. Patients with non-small cell lung cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy will achieve either CPR or non-CPR, which can be confirmed by pathological examination after surgical resection. And the model will output the predictive value (CPR/non-CPR) for each patient receiving neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy., 2023.5.1-2023.10.31
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of a CT/PET/ WSI-based deep learning signature for predicting complete pathological response to neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer