Nelfinavir Mesylate in Treating Patients With Kaposi Sarcoma
This pilot phase II trial studies how well nelfinavir mesylate works in treating patients with kaposi sarcoma. Nelfinavir mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Recurrent Kaposi Sarcoma|Skin Kaposi Sarcoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Nelfinavir Mesylate
Efficacy of Therapeutic Escalation of Standard Dose Nelfinavir, Followed by High Dose Nelfinavir, for Treatment of Kaposi Sarcoma Lesions for HIV Positive Participants, The binomial proportion and its exact 95% confidence interval will be used to estimate the overall response rate in the study. Overall response is defined as Complete response or partial response. Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the AIDS Clinical Trials Groups (ACTG) response criteria for Kaposi sarcoma.

Complete response (CR) is defined as the absence of any detectable residual disease, including tumor-associated edema, persisting for at least 4 weeks. Partial response (PR) is defined as no new lesions (skin or oral), or new visceral sites of involvement (or the appearance or worsening of tumor-associated edema or effusions); 50% or greater decrease in the number of all previously existing lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks; OR Complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised lesions; OR 50% decrease in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the marker lesions., Baseline up to 16 weeks|Efficacy of Therapeutic Escalation of Standard Dose Nelfinavir, Followed by High Dose Nelfinavir, for Treatment of Kaposi Sarcoma Lesions for HIV Negative Participants, The binomial proportion and its exact 95% confidence interval will be used to estimate the response rate in the study. Response rate will be estimated using the binomial proportion and it's exact 95% confidence interval for HIV negative participants., Baseline up to 16 weeks
Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events in HIV-positive Participants as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Frequency of adverse events and their severity will be tabulated to evaluate tolerance of high dose nelfinavir in the treatment of KS in participant who are HIV-positive, Baseline to up to 16 weeks|Frequency and Severity of Adverse Events in HIV-negative Participants as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Frequency of adverse events and their severity will be tabulated to evaluate tolerance of high dose nelfinavir in the treatment of KS in participant who are HIV-negative, Baseline to up to 16 weeks|Assess the Effect of Nelfinavir on KSHV Gene Expression in Tumor Tissue, Descriptive statistics will be used for changes in the relative abundance of all latent and lytic viral mRNA relative to cellular mRNA by expression array, and changes in the percentage of cells staining for K8.1 (lytic) and LANA (latent) antigens by immunohistochemistry. Generalized estimating equations will be used to evaluate these changes over time. Normalizing transformations will be used as needed., Baseline to up to 16 weeks|Correlate Nelfinavir and the Primary Active Metabolite, M8, Concentrations With Tumor Response, Antiviral Response, and Adverse Effects in Participants With KS., Trough nelfinavir/M8 concentrations will be summarized using descriptive statistics and 95% confidence intervals. This outcome will also be displayed graphically as a trend in drug levels over time. The relationship between dose and drug exposure of nelfinavir/M8 and the pharmacodynamic (PD) effects will be determined using Pearson's correlation coefficient (r2) or appropriate non-parametric statistics for dichotomous and categorical variables (e.g., Mann-Whitney U-test or Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance by ranks)., Baseline to up to 16 weeks|Assess the Effect of Nelfinavir on KSHV Copy Number in Saliva, Pre-treatment oral samples and oral samples during treatment will be collected from each participant. The sampling frequency is irrelevant as long as the quantity is sufficient. With 36 participants, a decrease in the proportion of participants with detectable KSHV DNA from 50% at baseline to 1% on treatment can be detected at the one-sided 0.05 significance level with 0.99 power using McNemar's test., Up to 16 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy of a therapeutic escalation strategy consisting of standard dose nelfinavir (nelfinavir mesylate), followed by high dose nelfinavir, for the treatment of Kaposi sarcoma (KS) tumor lesions. With 36 evaluable participants, the null hypothesis will be rejected if 11 or more participants respond.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of high dose nelfinavir among participants with KS. II. To assess the effect of nelfinavir on Kaposi sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) lytic gene expression in tumor tissue.

III. To correlate nelfinavir and the primary active metabolite, M8, concentrations with tumor response, antiviral response, and adverse effects in participants with KS.

IV. To assess the effect of nelfinavir on KSHV copy number in saliva.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of nelfinavir on KSHV copy number in PBMC and plasma. II. To assess the effect of nelfinavir on herpes simplex virus (HSV), cytomegalovirus (CMV) and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) copy number in saliva.

OUTLINE:

STANDARD DOSE NELFINAVIR MESYLATE: Patients receive standard dose nelfinavir mesylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 4 weeks in the absence of progressive disease (PD). Patients with PD at 4 weeks proceed to high-dose nelfinavir mesylate. At week 8, if there is stable disease (SD) or partial response (PR), patients advance to high-dose nelfinavir mesylate. Patients discontinue standard dose nelfinavir mesylate 4 weeks after documentation of complete response (CR).

HIGH DOSE NELFINAVIR MESYLATE: Patients with PD continue to receive high-dose nelfinavir mesylate PO BID for 4 more weeks. If there is PD documented after 4 weeks at the high dose level, nelfinavir mesylate is discontinued. If there is SD or PR, patients continue receiving nelfinavir mesylate for 16 weeks. If there is CR, patients discontinue high-dose nelfinavir mesylate 4 weeks after documentation of CR.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 8 weeks.