68Ga PSMA PET for Patients With Biochemical Recurrence of Prostate Cancer
This study investigates if a new prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) drug makes prostate cancer easier to identify in positron-emission tomography (PET) imaging. If this works, prostate cancer treatments can be prescribed that match the location of the disease. PSMA is radiolabeled with Gallium-68 (Ga-68). This means a participant receives a small dose of radiation from the drug - less than the annual radiation limit for a medical worker.

To test this new drug, participants will receive an injection of Ga-68 PSMA and then have a PET scan. This PET scan, and the reported results, will be entered into the medical record and shared with the treating oncologists.
Prostate Cancer|Prostatic Neoplasm|Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant|Prostatic Cancer Recurrent|Prostatic Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Ga-68 PSMA-HBED-CC PET
Sensitivity of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection on a Per Patient Basis, Sensitivity will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan
Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection of Tumor Location on a Per Patient Basis, Positive predictive value will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection of Prostate Bed Lesions on a Per Patient Basis, Positive predictive value will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection of Regional Pelvic Nodal Metastases on a Per Patient Basis, Positive predictive value will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection of Extra-pelvic/Visceral Nodal Metastases on a Per Patient Basis, Positive predictive value will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan|Positive Predictive Value (PPV) of Ga 68-labeled PSMA-11 Positron Emission Tomography/Computed Tomography (PET/CT) for the Detection of Osseous Metastases on a Per Patient Basis, Positive predictive value will be determined on a per-subject basis of 68Ga PSMA PET scan for detection of tumor sites, confirming against imaging, clinical follow-up, and histopathology when available., Up to 12 months after 68Ga PSMA PET scan
This study evaluates PSMA-HBED-CC labelled with Gallium-68, abbreviated 68Ga PSMA. This is a radiotracer that attaches to receptors in the membrane of prostate cancer cells. The 68Ga PSMA is identified using a positron emission tomography (PET) scanner. It is believed that 68Ga PSMA will identify prostate cancer more precisely than normal imaging methods (MRI, CT, or ultrasound). Imaging is key to successful treatment - disease must be identified to be treated.

Men who have biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer are invited to test 68Ga PSMA. Participants undergo the 68Ga PSMA PET scan before further treatment. Clinical information, including any MRI, CT, or ultrasound imaging and biopsy/surgery information, will be used to determine if the 68Ga PSMA PET imaging was better than the standard imaging. The study team will collect this information for about 1 year after the PSMA scan.

Depending on findings, participants may be invited back for a second 68Ga PSMA scan. This is done if the first scan showed positive lymph nodes or soft tissue metastases but a surgery or biopsy result does not.

The results from these scans will be shared with the participant. Results will also be entered into the participant's medical record and shared with the treating oncologists.