CAR T Cells After Lymphodepletion for the Treatment of IL13Rα2 Positive Recurrent or Refractory Brain Tumors in Children
This phase I trial investigates the side effects of chemotherapy and cellular immunotherapy in treating children with IL13Ralpha2 positive brain tumors that have come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) or do not respond to treatment (refractory). Cellular immunotherapy (IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells) are brain-tumor specific cells that may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as as cyclophosphamide and fludarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Many patients with brain tumor respond to treatment, but then the tumor starts to grow again. Giving chemotherapy in combination with cellular immunotherapy may kill more tumor cells and improve the outcome of treatment.
Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Brain Neoplasm
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: IL13Ralpha2-specific Hinge-optimized 41BB-co-stimulatory CAR Truncated CD19-expressing Autologous T-Lymphocytes
Incidence of adverse events, Will assess the incidence of grade 3 toxicities, dose limiting toxicities, and all other toxicities. Toxicity and adverse events will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 and the revised cytokine release syndrome (CRS) grading system. Symptoms and toxicities will be evaluated by physical exam and blood chemistry/hematology results and adverse event reporting. Rate and associated 90% Clopper and Pearson binomial confidence limits (90% CI) will be estimated for participants experiencing dose limiting toxicities. Tables will be created to summarize all toxicities and side effects by time post treatment, organ, severity and disease subgroup., Up to 1 year after the last chimeric antigen response (CAR) T cell infusion
Persistence and expansion of CAR T cells, Will assess CAR T cells detected in peripheral blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Descriptive statistical and graphical methods will be used to describe persistence and expansion of the CAR T cells (peripheral blood \[PB\] and CSF)., Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|Peripheral blood and CSF cytokine levels, Descriptive statistical and graphical methods will be used to describe cytokine levels (PB and CSF)., Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|Peripheral blood and CSF immune cell characterization, Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|Progression free survival, From time of lymphodepletion to the event date (progressionor death), assessed at 6 months|Overall survival, From time of lymphodepletion to date of death, assessed at 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|Disease response, Will estimate the rate (90% confidence interval \[CI\]) of disease response Disease status will be assessed by the grading of the tumor responses performed according to the Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology Criteria (RANO) criteria., Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|CAR T cells detected in tumor tissue, Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|IL13Ralpha2 antigen expression levels in tumor tissue, Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion|Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) assessments, Descriptive statistical and graphical methods will be used to describe ctDNA., Up to 1 year after the last CAR T cell infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility and safety of lymphodepleting chemotherapy followed by cellular immunotherapy utilizing IL13Ralpha2-specific hinge-optimized 41BB-co-stimulatory chimeric antigen receptor \[CAR\] truncated CD19-expressing autologous T-lymphocytes (IL13\[EQ\]BBzeta/CD19t+ Tn/mem cells) administered by intraventricular (ICV) delivery for pediatric participants with IL13Ralpha2+ recurrent/refractory brain tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe persistence and expansion of CAR T cells in peripheral blood (PB) and cerebrospinal (CSF).

II. To describe cytokine levels (PB, and CSF) over the study period.

III. In research participants who receive the full schedule of 4 CAR T cell cycles:

IIIa. To estimate 6-month progression free survival (PFS) rate per disease. IIIb. To estimate disease response rates per disease. IIIc. To estimate 1-year overall survival rate per disease. IV. To evaluate the use of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) to evaluate tumor burden.

V. For study participants who undergo an additional biopsy/resection or autopsy:

Va. To evaluate CAR T cell persistence in the tumor tissue and the location of the CAR T cells with respect to the infusion site. Vb. To evaluate IL13Ralpha2 antigen expression levels on tumor tissue pre and post CAR T cell therapy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells.

Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -5 and -4, and fludarabine IV on days -5 to -2. Patients then receive autologous IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells intraventricularly over 5 minutes once a week (QW) on day 0. Treatment with autologous IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells repeats every 7 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive additional cycles of IL13(EQ)BBzeta/CD19t+ T cells as long as they continue to meet eligibility criteria and have doses available for infusion.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up at 30 days, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months, and then yearly for 15 years.