A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy and Safety of Anamorelin HCl for the Treatment of Malignancy Associated Weight Loss and Anorexia in Adult Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The goal of this clinical trial was to compare the efficacy and safety of anamorelin HCl (the investigational drug) to that of placebo (tablet with no drug) in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer and cachexia (cancer-related weight loss). The main question it aimed to answer was as follows: Do patients who receive anamorelin HCl gain more body weight and show more improvement in anorexia symptoms than those who receive placebo.

Approximately 316 patients were to be enrolled in the study. Of these patients, an equal number were to be assigned to each treatment group (anamorelin HCl or placebo). Participants were to take their assigned study drug by mouth once daily for a total of 24 weeks. During this treatment period, the patients were to visit the clinical study site every 3 weeks for health and other study-related assessments. Two weeks after the last treatment, patients were to receive a follow-up phone call.
Cachexia; Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anamorelin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Placebo Oral Tablet
Mean Change From Baseline in Body Weight Over 12 Weeks, This co-primary efficacy endpoint was mean change from baseline in body weight (kg) over 12 weeks in the anamorelin HCl group versus placebo group. Mean change was computed as sum of the changes from baseline over 12 weeks by the time of the last assessment (either week 12 or before in case of death), and then divided by the number of assessments (observed or imputed) from baseline up to the time of the last assessment., Mean change from baseline over 12 weeks.|Mean Change From Baseline in 5-item Anorexia Symptom Subscale (5-IASS) Over 12 Weeks, This co-primary efficacy endpoint was mean change from baseline in 5-IASS (points) over 12 weeks in the anamorelin HCl group versus placebo group. Mean change was computed as sum of the changes from baseline over 12 weeks by the time of the last assessment (either week 12 or before in case of death), and then divided by the number of assessments (observed or imputed) from baseline up to the time of the last assessment.

FAACT-A/CS (Functional Assessment Anorexia Cachexia Therapy) is a 12-item measure of patients' perceptions of anorexia/cachexia symptoms and concerns. From this questionnaire, the 5-item section referring to anorexia symptoms (i.e., "good appetite," "interest in food drops," "food tastes unpleasant," "get full quickly," and "difficulty eating rich/heavy foods") was used to assess 5-IASS. The range of possible scores is 0-20. Higher scores indicate lower levels of symptom burden., Mean change from baseline over 12 weeks.
Duration of Treatment Benefit (Weeks) From Baseline Over 12 Weeks in Body Weight (≥0 kg), The duration of treatment benefit over 12 weeks was measured as the period, or the sum of the periods, over 12 weeks (or less in case of death), in which the patient observed a change from baseline in body weight of ≥0 kg., Duration of treatment benefit from baseline over 12 weeks.|Duration of Treatment Benefit (Weeks) From Baseline Over 12 Weeks in Body Weight (≥1.5 kg), The duration of treatment benefit over 12 weeks was measured as the period, or the sum of the periods, over 12 weeks (or less in case of death), in which the patient observed a change from baseline in body weight of ≥1.5 kg., Duration of treatment benefit from baseline over 12 weeks.|Duration of Treatment Benefit (Weeks) From Baseline Over 12 Weeks in 5-IASS (≥0 Points), The duration of treatment benefit over 12 weeks was measured as the period, or the sum of the periods, over 12 weeks (or less in case of death), in which the patient observed a change from baseline in 5-IASS of ≥0 points., Duration of treatment benefit from baseline over 12 weeks.|Duration of Treatment Benefit (Weeks) From Baseline Over 12 Weeks in 5-IASS (≥3 Points), The duration of treatment benefit over 12 weeks was measured as the period, or the sum of the periods, over 12 weeks (or less in case of death), in which the patient observed a change from baseline in 5-IASS of ≥3 points., Duration of treatment benefit from baseline over 12 weeks.
The study was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo controlled study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anamorelin HCl. It was planned that approximately 316 patients with advanced NSCLC with cachexia were to be randomized 1:1 to anamorelin HCl 100 mg or placebo (158 patients per treatment group). The study treatment was to be taken orally once daily for a total of 24 weeks. Patients were instructed to take the study drug at least 1 hour before their first meal of the day.

Central randomization was stratified by line of systemic anti-cancer treatment (first line vs second line vs third line or higher), by type of anti-cancer therapy (immunotherapy vs non-immunotherapy), and by baseline score of the 5-item Anorexia Symptom Subscale (5-IASS) (≤10 vs \>10).

Patients who had never received anti-cancer treatment prior to entering the study but who met all eligibility criteria were eligible to enter the study and were assigned to receive first line treatment in the Interactive Web Response System (IWRS).

Patients were to visit the site every 3 weeks for the study Treatment Period of 24 weeks. A follow-up telephone visit was to be scheduled at Week 26. Thus, patients were enrolled in the study for a maximum duration of 27 weeks (including a 1-week Screening Period, a 24-week Treatment Period, and a 2-week Follow-up Period). Each patient was scheduled to have a total of 10 planned visits plus 1 telephone contact for the Follow-up Visit.