Sintilimab Combined With LDRT for Neoadjuvant Treatment of Locally Advanced dMMR/MSI-H Gastric Cancer
Recently, growing evidences have suggested that immunotherapy represents a promising treatment option for the neoadjuvant treatment of locally advanced mismatch repair-deficient (dMMR)/microsatellite instability-high (MSI-H) gastric cancer. In this study, we will explore the efficacy and safety of sintilimab and LDRT in the neoadjuvant treatment for locally advanced dMMR/MSI-H G/GEJ cancer.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: sintiliman plus LDRT
pCR rate, defined as the absence of viable tumor cells assessed by histological evaluation criteria after neoadjuvant therapy, 5 months after the last subject participating in
R0 resection rate, defined as the rate of the complete surgical removal of any residual cancer cells in the tumor bed, 5 months after the last subject participating in|MPR rate, defined as tumor residual cells ≤10% in the surgical specimen, 5 months after the last subject participating in|3-year event-free survival (DFS), defined as the proportion of patients without event 23 years after enrolment, every 3 month postoperation up to 36 months|2-year OS rate, defined as the proportion of patients survived 3 years after enrolment, every 3 month postoperation up to 36 months
This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, phase Ib/II trial. In the phase Ib, 4 cases will be enrolled in each treatment group. In the phase II study, a total of 33 patients will be enrolled. Eligible patients will be registered and receive four cycles of sintilimab. Simultaneously, LDRT will be planned and administered. Radical D2 gastric cancer resection will be performed 4-6 weeks after the last administration of sintilimab. The primary endpoint of phase Ib is to determine the optimal radiation dose for phase II study. The primary endpoint of phase II is the pathological complete response (pCR) rate. Secondary endpoints include R0 resection rate, major pathological response (MPR), objective response rate (ORR), 3-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, 3-year overall survival (OS) rate and safety profile of the neoadjuvant regimen.