AMG 706 in Treating Patients With Persistent or Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer, Fallopian Tube Cancer, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
RATIONALE: AMG 706 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well AMG 706 works in treating patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: motesanib diphosphate
Number of Patients With Objective Tumor Response Rate (Complete Response [CR] or Partial Response [PR]) Using RECIST Version 1.0, RECIST 1.0 defines complete response as the disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions and no evidence of new lesions documented by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart. Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest dimensions (LD) of all target measurable lesions taking as reference the baseline sum of LD. There can be no unequivocal progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions. Documentation by two disease assessments at least 4 weeks apart is required. In the case where the ONLY target lesion is a solitary pelvic mass measured by physical exam, which is not radiographically measurable, a 50% decrease in the LD is required. These patients will have their response classified according to the definitions stated above. Complete and partial responses are included in the objective tumor response rate., CT scan or MRI every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months thereafter; and at any other time if clinically indicated up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. In this study, time of progression could not be validly collected due to the study being prematurely closed secondary to severe neurological adverse events seen in 4 patients,, CT scan or MRI every other cycle for the first 6 months
Duration of Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the duration of time from study entry to time of death or the date of last contact., Every cycle during treatment, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every six months for the next three years and then annually for the next 5 years.|Incidence of Adverse Effects (Grade 3 or Higher) as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0, Number of participants with a maximum grade of 3 or higher during the treatment period., Assessed every cycle while on treatment, 30 days after the last cycle of treatment|Duration of Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) was defined as the period from study entry until disease progression, death, or the last date of contact. Progression is defined according to RECIST v1.0 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of LD target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since study entry, the appearance of one or more new lesions, death due to disease without prior objective documentation of progression, global deterioration in health status attributable to the disease requiring a change in therapy without objective evidence of progression, or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. In this study time of progression could not be validly collected due to the study being prematurely closed, secondary to severe neurological adverse events seen in 4 patients, and thus progression-free survival (PFS) cannot be presented. For safety reasons, most patients (16/22) were taken off study drug prior to progression (or AE),, CT scan or MRI if used to follow lesion for measurable disease every other cycle for the first 6 months; then every 3 months thereafter; and at any other time if clinically indicated, up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To assess the activity of AMG 706, in terms of the frequency of patients with progression-free survival for at least 6 months after initiating therapy or with an objective tumor response, in patients with persistent or recurrent ovarian epithelial, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma.

Secondary

* To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v3.0.
* To characterize the distribution of the progression-free and overall survival of these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral AMG 706 once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.