Study of ProTmune for Allogeneic HCT in Adult Patients With Hematologic Malignancies
This study is a Phase 1, non-randomized, open-label/Phase 2 randomized, blinded study of ProTmune (ex vivo programmed mobilized peripheral blood cells) versus non-programmed mobilized peripheral blood cells for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in adult subjects aged 18 years and older with hematologic malignancies. A total of 88 study subjects were treated in the trial at approximately 15 centers in the US.
Hematologic Malignancies|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Acute Graft-versus-host Disease
BIOLOGICAL: ProTmune|BIOLOGICAL: Control Arm
Percentage of Participants With Cumulative Incidence of Grade II to IV aGvHD Through Day +100 Based on Investigator Assessment, Acute GvHD (aGvHD) is assessed by assigning the clinical stage for the target organs (skin, liver, and gut) along with assigning an overall grade based on the minimum degree of organ involvement required to confer that grade. Grade II is defined as Stage 1 skin, Stage 1 liver, or Stage 1 GI; Grade III is defined as any Stage 1-3 skin, and Stage 2-3 liver, or Stage 2-4 GI; Grade IV is defined as Stage 4 skin, or Stage 4 liver and any Stage GI. A higher overall grade indicates a more severe outcome. The cumulative incidence of CIBMTR Grade II to IV aGVHD through approximately 100 days following HCT is measured by the percentage of participants who experienced grade II to IV aGVHD. The cumulative incidence and the associated 95% confidence interval are estimated using a competing risk analysis with death and relapse without grade II-IV aGvHD as a competing risk., 100 days post-HCT
1-year GvHD-free, Relapse-free Survival (GRFS), 1-year GvHD-free, relapse-free survival (GRFS) is a composite endpoint in which events included Grade III to IV aGvHD, cGvHD requiring systemic immunosuppressive therapy, relapse, or death from any cause. GRFS is defined as the time from HCT to the earlier of the dates of the first documented CIBMTR Grade III-IV aGvHD, first use of systemic immunosuppressive therapy for cGvHD, first documented relapse of the underlying malignancy, or death from any cause. Subjects who are alive with no documented events for Grade III-IV aGvHD, use of systemic immunosuppressive therapy for cGvHD, relapse, or death at the data cutoff will be censored at their last visit date or follow-up on or prior to the date of one-year study completion/early discontinuation. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of the median GRFS and the 95% CI are presented, 365 days post-HCT|Percentage of Subjects Alive Without Relapse and Without Moderate or Severe cGvHD at Day +365 - mITT Population, Percentage of subjects alive without relapse and without moderate or severe cGvHD per NIH Consensus Criteria at Day +365, 365 days post-HCT
This study is a Phase 1, non-randomized, open-label/Phase 2 randomized, blinded study of ProTmune (ex vivo programmed mobilized peripheral blood cells) versus non-programmed mobilized peripheral blood cells for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) in adult subjects aged 18 years and older with hematologic malignancies. A total of 88 study subjects were treated in the trial at approximately 15 centers in the US.