Loncastuximab Tesirine and Mosunetuzumab for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies the safety and how well of loncastuximab tesirine when given together with mosunetuzumab works in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Loncastuximab tesirine is a monoclonal antibody, loncastuximab, linked to a toxic agent called tesirine. Loncastuximab attaches to anti-CD19 cancer cells in a targeted way and delivers tesirine to kill them. Mosunetuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving loncastuximab tesirine with mosunetuzumab may help treat patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Transformed Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Grade 3b Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Primary Mediastinal (Thymic) Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Transformed Indolent B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|BIOLOGICAL: Loncastuximab Tesirine|BIOLOGICAL: Mosunetuzumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Unacceptable toxicity (Safety Lead-in), Defined as any toxicity occurring during the first cycle of treatment for patients enrolled on DL 1, or during the first two cycles of treatment for patients enrolled on DL -1, within at most one out of six patients treated. Will be conducted per the rolling six design., Up to 30 days post-last dose of protocol therapy|Overall response rate (ORR) (Phase 2), Defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of either CR or PR. Will use a Simon's 2-stage Minimax design, occur within at most 26 responders. Will be estimated along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 2 years post-last dose
Incidence of adverse events, Will be graded by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 and cytokine-release syndrome (CRS) will be graded according to the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) CRS Consensus Grading Criteria., Up to 30 days post-last dose of protocol therapy|Complete response rate (CR) rate, Defined as the proportion of response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of CR. Will be estimated along with the 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 2 years post-last dose|Duration of response (DOR), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., Up to 2 years post-last dose|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., From start of protocol treatment to time of disease relapse/progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier, assessed up to 2 years post-last dose|Overall Survival (OS), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% confidence interval will be constructed based on log-log transformation., From start of protocol treatment to time of disease relapse/progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier, assessed up to 2 years post-last dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of loncastuximab tesirine plus mosunetuzumab in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). (Safety Lead-In) II. Estimate the overall response rate (ORR) in R/R DLBCL patients treated with loncastuximab tesirine plus mosunetuzumab. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the complete response (CR) rate, duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in R/R DLBCL patients treated with loncastuximab tesirine plus mosunetuzumab.

II. Evaluate the toxicity of loncastuximab tesirine plus mosunetuzumab for R/R DLBCL.

EXPLORATROY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate genomic and immune biomarkers of response and resistance to loncastuximab tesirine combined with mosunetuzumab

OUTLINE:

Patients receive loncastuximab tesirine intravenously (IV) and mosunetuzumab IV on study. Patients also undergo positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan, biopsy, and collection of blood samples on study.