Trastuzumab and Gefitinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving trastuzumab together with gefitinib works in treating patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. The monoclonal antibody trastuzumab can locate breast cancer cells that have HER2 on their surface and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Biological therapies such as gefitinib may also interfere with the growth of tumor cells and may enhance the effects of trastuzumab. Combining trastuzumab with gefitinib may be an effective treatment for metastatic breast cancers with high amounts of HER2
Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|DRUG: gefitinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
MTD and DLT in patients treated with Herceptin and ZD1839 graded using the NCI CTC (Phase I), 4 weeks
Median time to progression (Phase II), 6 months|Progression-free survival (Phase II), 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate, duration of response, and time to progression in patients with metastatic breast cancer that overexpresses HER2-neu treated with trastuzumab (Herceptin) and gefitinib.

II. Determine the phase II dose of gefitinib when given in combination with trastuzumab in these patients.

III. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. IV. Determine the 3- and 6-month progression-free survival of patients treated with this regimen.

V. Correlate response rates with plasma levels of circulating HER2 and tumor levels of epidermal growth factor receptor, activated HER2, and HER2 receptors, as measured by immunohistochemistry and/or fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH), in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of gefitinib. The phase I portion of this study was open in only 5 ECOG institutions. The phase I portion has been completed, and the study is being opened in all ECOG-affiliated institutions.

Phase I (completed): Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin) IV over 30-90 minutes once weekly and oral gefitinib once daily beginning on day 1.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gefitinib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is established, additional patients are accrued to the phase II portion of the study and are treated at that dose.

Phase II: Patients receive oral gefitinib once daily (at the MTD established in phase I) and trastuzumab IV weekly until week 24, at which time trastuzumab is given every 3 weeks (with daily gefitinib) until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until 2 years from study entry.