A Study of LY573636-Sodium in the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma
The primary purpose of the study is to estimate the time from the first dose of LY573636-sodium (hereafter referred to as LY573636) to the date your physician determines that your disease has progressed or worsened.
Sarcoma, Soft Tissue
DRUG: LY573636-sodium
Progression-Free Survival, Defined as the time from date of first dose to the first observation of progression of disease (PD) or death due to any cause. PD was determined using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria (version 1.0). PD is ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions and/or a new lesion., First treatment dose to measured progressive disease or death from any cause up to 15.57 months
Percentage of Participants With Complete Response or Partial Response (Objective Response Rate), Objective response rate is the percentage of participants with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines (version 1.0). CR is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Objective response rate is calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR divided by the total number of participants treated multiplied by 100., First treatment dose to measured progressive disease or death due to any cause up to 15.57 months|Percentage of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) (Clinical Benefit Rate), Clinical Benefit Rate = (CR + PR + SD)/N as classified according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines (version 1.0), where N = total number of participants with at least one dose of study drug. CR is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., First treatment dose to measured progressive disease or death due to any cause up to 15.57 months|Pharmacokinetics: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of LY573636, Predose up to 2 hours postdose in Cycles 1 and 2 (21- or 28-day cycle)|Overall Survival Time, Defined as the time from date of first dose to the date of death due to any cause., First treatment dose to death due to any cause up to 26.51 months|Duration of Overall Objective Response, The duration of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression of disease or death due to any cause. CR or PR is classified according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines (version 1.0). CR is disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., Time of response to progressive disease or death up to 15.57 months|Duration of Stable Disease (SD), Duration of SD is defined from date of documented SD or better to first date of progression of disease (PD) (assessed every other cycle during study therapy, or every 2 months during post-therapy until PD). SD is neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for partial response (PR) nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. PR is ≥30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions. PD is ≥20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions and/or a new lesion., Time from documented SD or better to first date of progressive disease up to 15.57 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Safety), Data are presented as number of participants who experienced serious adverse events or all other nonserious adverse events during the study. A summary of serious adverse events and other nonserious adverse events is located in the Reported Adverse Event section., First treatment dose up to 26.51 months
Patients will receive a 2-hour intravenous infusion of study drug (LY573636) once every 21 days or 28 days depending on their target dose. Radiological imaging scans will be performed before the first dose of study drug and then after every other treatment. Patients will be assessed for clinical progression at every visit and for response approximately every 42 days or 56 days (every other cycle).