Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Young Patients With Recurrent or Resistant Malignant Germ Cell Tumors
This phase II trial is studying how well giving combination chemotherapy works in treating young patients with recurrent or resistant malignant germ cell tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Childhood Extracranial Germ Cell Tumor|Childhood Extragonadal Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Childhood Malignant Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Childhood Malignant Testicular Germ Cell Tumor|Ovarian Choriocarcinoma|Ovarian Embryonal Carcinoma|Ovarian Yolk Sac Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Testicular Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Testicular Choriocarcinoma|Testicular Embryonal Carcinoma|Testicular Mixed Choriocarcinoma and Embryonal Carcinoma|Testicular Mixed Choriocarcinoma and Yolk Sac Tumor|Testicular Mixed Embryonal Carcinoma and Yolk Sac Tumor|Testicular Yolk Sac Tumor
DRUG: Carboplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|DRUG: Ifosfamide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Response Rate as Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Criteria, Patients who demonstrate a PR or CR, as defined below, will be considered as responders. RECIST criteria: CR (complete response) = disappearance of all target lesions, PR (partial response) = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, PD (progressive disease) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and SD (stable disease) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., At baseline (day 1) and after completion of protocol therapy (2 cycles or 42 days)
The Number of Patients Who Experience at Least One Grade 3 or Higher CTC Version 4 Toxicity., Two cycles of chemotherapy; expected to be 42 days of treatment.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the response rate in pediatric patients with recurrent or resistant malignant germ cell tumors (GCT) treated with paclitaxel, ifosfamide, and carboplatin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. II. To Collect tissue for the tumor bank that will aid in the identification of the biological characteristics of recurrent GCT.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1 and ifosfamide IV over 1 hour on days 1-5. Beginning on day 6, patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously or IV once daily until blood count returns to normal. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 5 years.