The Efficacy of WVI in Patients With Localized Basal Ganglia Intracranial Germ Cell Tumors
Primary endpoint

1. three-year disease-free survival of patients with localized basal ganglia germ cell tumors receiving whole-ventricle irradiation
2. Health-related quality of life measured by PedsQL 4.0 and SF-36

Second endpoint

1. three-year overall survival of patients with localized basal ganglia germ cell tumors receiving whole-ventricle irradiation
2. Adverse effects of chemoradiotherapy measured by NCI CTCAE 5.0
Intracranial Germ Cell CNS Tumor, Childhood
RADIATION: Whole-ventricle irradiation|DRUG: Carboplatin/etoposide|DRUG: Ifosfamide/cisplatin/etoposide|PROCEDURE: Second-look surgery
3-year event-free survival, Event-free survival (DFS) is calculated from the date of enrollment to the date of an event (relapse or death of any cause)., From the enrollment to the event (relapse or death of any cause), approximately 3 years. The patients will receive long-term follow-up including MRI and serum tumor markers examination every 3 months until 36 months.|Change of score of the QoL questionnaire (PedsQL 4.0 : Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory Version 4.0 Generic Core Scales, Chinese edition), The PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core Scale contains 23 items that measures physical (eight items), emotional (five items), social (five items), and school (five items) functions. The Scale comprises parallel patient self-report and parent proxy-report formats. The items are reverse-scored and trans- formed to a 0-100 scale according to the instructions, and higher scores indicate a better HRQOL. (age ≤18 years), Score will be obtained at baseline, 6 months posttreatment, yearly through 3 years posttreatment|Change of score of the QoL questionnaire (Short form-36), Altogether, 36 questions with standardized response choices were organized into eight scales, including physical functioning (PF), role limitations as a result of physical health problems (RP), body pain (BP), general health perceptions (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role limitations as a result of emotional problems (RE), and general mental health (MH). Additionally, reported health transition (HT) was used to evaluate general health changes during the previous year. The raw scores were converted to a 0-100 scale according to the instructions, and higher scores indicated a better HRQOL. Physical component score (PCS) and mental component score (MCS) were also calculated. (Age \>15 years), Evaluation will be conducted at baseline, 6 months posttreatment, yearly through 3 years posttreatment|Change of score of Chinese Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children, The intelligence of the child was tested by the China-Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (C-WISC), which was revised by Gong and Cai at Hunan Medical University. The C-WISC consists of 11 individual tests that include six verbal tests \[Information (I), Comprehend (C), Sorting (S), Arithmetic (A), Vocabulary (V), and Digit symbol (D)\] and five performance tests \[Picture Completing (PC), Picture Arrangement (PA), Block Pattern (BP), Object Assembly (OA), and Coding (CD)\]. Based on individual testing, vocabulary scores (V), procedure scores (P), and full scores (F) were obtained. Furthermore, the VIQ, PIQ, and full intelligence quotient (FIQ) were calculated progressively ., Score will be obtained at baseline, 6 months posttreatment, yearly through 3 years posttreatment
3-year overall survival, Overall survival is determined from the date of diagnosis to the date of death of any cause or the last follow-up visit, From the enrollment to the death of any cause or last follow-up, approximately 3 years.The patients will receive long-term follow-up including MRI and serum tumor markers examination every 3 months until 36 months.|Short-term adverse effects of treatments, NCI CTCAE 5.0 will be used for adverse effects evaluation, From the beginning to the completion of chemoradiotherapy, approximately 6 months. Grade 3/4 toxicities will be documented
Intracranial germ cell tumors originating from the basal ganglia area are rare, accounting for less than 20% of patients. Radiotherapy played a vital role in the treatment of this malignancy. However, the optimal target volume is still undetermined.

Our study regarding relapse patterns of different radiation volumes showed that the ventricular system and ipsilateral frontal lobe were at risk of relapse after focal radiotherapy. Although craniospinal irradiation (CSI) and whole-brain irradiation (WBI) could significantly reduce the relapse in the above areas, the adverse effect on the quality of life is still a concern. As a result, the investigators proposed whole-ventricular irradiation (WVI) in patients with localized basal ganglia germ cell tumors. In order to evaluate its efficacy and safety, the investigators designed this phase II study.