Helicobacter Pylori Eradication to Prevent Gastric Cancer
Gastric cancer is the fourth most common type of cancer and the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the world. In China, more than 390,000 new patients are diagnosed with gastric cancer and more than 300,000 patients are killed by the terrible disease annually. Although gastric cancer has a multifactorial etiology, infection with H. pylori is highly associated with gastric carcinogenesis. Therefore, eradication of H. pylori infection appears to reduce the risk of gastric cancer. However, several recent controlled interventional trials by H. pylori eradication to prevent gastric cancer have yielded disappointing results. The exact effect of H.pylori eradication on prevention of gastric cancer is unclear up to now. To clarify this problem, the investigators conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, population-based study to determine whether H pylori eradication would reduce the incidence of gastric cancer in a high-risk population in China.
Helicobacter Infections|Stomach Neoplasms
DRUG: OAC triple therapy|DRUG: Placebo
Gastric cancer incidence, The incidence of gastric cancer in the two groups, 10 years
Histopathological changes, The histopathological changes of atrophic gastritis or intestinal metaplasia in the two groups, 10 years
Gastric cancer is the fourth most common type of cancer and the second leading cause of cancer-related death in the world. In China, more than 390,000 new patients are diagnosed with gastric cancer and more than 300,000 patients are killed by the terrible disease annually. Although gastric cancer has a multifactorial etiology, infection with H. pylori is highly associated with gastric carcinogenesis. Therefore, eradication of H. pylori infection appears to reduce the risk of gastric cancer. However, several recent controlled interventional trials by H. pylori eradication to prevent gastric cancer have yielded disappointing results. The exact effect of H.pylori eradication on prevention of gastric cancer is unclear up to now. To clarify this problem, the investigators conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, population-based study to determine whether H pylori eradication would reduce the incidence of gastric cancer in a high-risk population in China.