Cobimetinib (Targeted Therapy) Plus Atezolizumab (Immunotherapy) in Participants With Advanced Melanoma Whose Cancer Has Worsened During or After Treatment With Previous Immunotherapy and Atezolizumab Monotherapy in Participants With Previously Untreated Advanced Melanoma
This study will evaluate the preliminary efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of cobimetinib and atezolizumab in participants with advanced BRAF V600-wild type (WT), metastatic, or unresectable locally advanced melanoma who have progressed on prior anti-PD-1 therapy. In addition, this study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of atezolizumab monotherapy in participants with BRAFV600-WT metastatic or unresectable locally advanced melanoma, who have not been previously treated.
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|DRUG: Cobimetinib|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab
Investigator-Assessed Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed objective response (OR). Confirmed OR is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on two consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart, as determined by the investigator according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Up to approximately 2 years|Investigator-Assessed Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) at 16 weeks. Per RECIST v1.1, CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Week 16
Investigator-Assessed Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from the first occurrence of documented OR to disease progression, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to approximately 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from Cycle 1, Day 1 to death from any cause., Up to approximately 2 years|Investigator-Assessed Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from Cycle 1, Day 1 to the first occurrence of disease progression, as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to approximately 2 years|Serum Concentration of Atezolizumab, Cycle 1, Day 15; Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 8|Plasma Concentration of Cobimetinib, Cycle 1, Day 15|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Baseline through follow up|Change From Baseline in Percentage of Participants With Anti-drug Antibodies (ADAs) to Atezolizumab, To evaluate the immune response to atezolizumab the percentage of participants with ADAs to atezolizumab will be determined at baseline and during the study., Cycle 1 Day 1 pre-dose to 120 days after the last dose of study medication|Cohort C: Independent-Review-Committee-Assessed (IRC) ORR, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with confirmed objective response (OR), as determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to RECIST v1.1. Confirmed OR is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on two consecutive occasions ≥ 4 weeks apart, as determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Approximately 2 years for Cohorts A and B and 19 months for Cohort C|Cohort C: IRC-Assessed DCR, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants with CR, PR, or stable disease (SD), as determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to RECIST v1.1. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. SD is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for disease progression, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 21 months|Cohort C: IRC-Assessed DOR, DOR is defined as the time from the first occurrence of documented OR to disease progression, as determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 21 months|Cohort C: IRC-Assessed PFS, PFS is defined as the time from Cycle 1, Day 1 to the first occurrence of disease progression, as determined by an independent review committee (IRC) according to RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Disease progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study including baseline; or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Approximately 21 months
This study will evaluate the preliminary efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of cobimetinib and atezolizumab in participants with advanced BRAF V600-wild type (WT), metastatic, or unresectable locally advanced melanoma who have progressed on prior anti-PD-1 therapy. In addition, this study will evaluate the efficacy, safety, and pharmacokinetics of atezolizumab monotherapy in participants with BRAFV600-WT metastatic or unresectable locally advanced melanoma, who have not been previously treated.