Mezigdomide, Carfilzomib, and Dexamethasone for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma in Patients With Extramedullary Disease
This phase II trial studies how well mezigdomide/carfilzomib/dexamethasone (MeziKD) works in treating patients with multiple myeloma (MM) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory) and have tumors from myeloma cells outside the bone marrow in the soft tissues or organs of the body (extramedullary disease \[EMD\]). Mezigdomide blocks important processes in myeloma cells and may lead to modulation of the immune system, including activation of T-lymphocytes, and downregulation of the activity of other proteins, some of which play key roles in the proliferation of certain cancer cell types. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Dexamethasone is a type of corticosteroid and is used to kill myeloma cells. It is used with other drugs to treat multiple myeloma. Giving MeziKD may kill more cancer cells in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) with EMD.
Extramedullary Disease in Multiple Myeloma|Recurrent Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Mezigdomide|DRUG: Carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography Assisted Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Overall Response Rate, Will be assessed in patients with serologically measurable disease. Will be defined as the percentage of patients with an objective response of partial response (PWR) or better by International Myeloma Working Group criteria on 2 consecutive evaluations among the eligible patients who began protocol treatment. Will be evaluated using a one-sided Binomial test and a 90% credible region for the overall response rate will be constructed using Jeffrey's prior method, At the end of cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days).|Clinical benefit rate, Will be assessed in patients with non- or oligo-secretory disease. Clinical benefit rate is the percentage of patients who remain progression-free and on protocol treatment for at least 6 months among the eligible patients who began protocol treatment. A 90% binomial credible region will be constructed for the clinical benefit rate using Jeffrey's prior method., At the end of cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)
Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), As per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0: type, frequency, seriousness, severity and relationship of AEs to mezigdomide and carfilzomib/dexamethasone. For each patient cohort, the AEs reported will be graded and an attribution assigned using CTCAE v5.0. For each patient, the maximum grade of each AE will be determined and the frequency of each AE by max grade will be tabulated for each cohort., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Duration of response, For those with and without serologically measurable disease, the DOR will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. Estimates of the median will be obtained with 90% confidence intervals, From the first documentation of response (≥ PR) to the first documentation of progressive disease or death, assessed up to 3 years|Progression Free survival, At screening, after 3 cycles of treatment (or progression, whichever occurs first), after 6 cycles of treatment, and then every 6 months for 3 years or until progression, start of a new therapy, or death (whichever occurs first), Time from first dose of mezigdomide to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival, At screening, after 3 cycles of treatment (or progression, whichever occurs first), after 6 cycles of treatment, and then every 6 months for 3 years or until progression, start of a new therapy, or death (whichever occurs first), Time from first dose of mezigdomide to death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Imaging Response, Will be assessed in those without serologically measurable disease using positron emission tomography/computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging. Will be assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors v1.1 and Deauville criteria., At screening, after 3 cycles of treatment (or progression, whichever occurs first), after 6 cycles of treatment, and then every 6 months for 3 years or until progression, start of a new therapy, or death (whichever occurs first)
This phase II trial studies how well mezigdomide/carfilzomib/dexamethasone (MeziKD) works in treating patients with multiple myeloma (MM) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that does not respond to treatment (refractory) and have tumors from myeloma cells outside the bone marrow in the soft tissues or organs of the body (extramedullary disease \[EMD\]). Mezigdomide blocks important processes in myeloma cells and may lead to modulation of the immune system, including activation of T-lymphocytes, and downregulation of the activity of other proteins, some of which play key roles in the proliferation of certain cancer cell types. Carfilzomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Dexamethasone is a type of corticosteroid and is used to kill myeloma cells. It is used with other drugs to treat multiple myeloma. Giving MeziKD may kill more cancer cells in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) with EMD.