Radiation Therapy With Sorafenib for TACE-Resistant Hepatocellular Carcinoma
To determine the maximum tolerated radiation dose with concurrent sorafenib for unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma that has not responded to transarterial chemoembolization.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hepatocellular Cancer|Hepatoma|Liver Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib|RADIATION: Conventional fractionation (2 Gy per day) external beam radiation therapy
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be determined by dose limiting toxicity (DLT) that is observed in either the acute (during treatment) or subacute (up to 3 months after treatment) setting. Acute DLT will be defined by grade 3-5 hepatic, gastrointestinal, dermatologic, hematologic, or pulmonary toxicity per Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects (CTCAE), v4.0. Subacute DLT will be defined by radiation induced liver disease (RILD) or grade 3-5 gastrointestinal, hematologic, or pulmonary toxicity per CTCAE, v4.0., From date of enrollment until 3 months after completion of treatment.
Radiographic Response, Evaluated by either contrast enhanced MRI (preferred) or CT., 1 & 3 months post-treatment.|Patterns of Failure, Classified as local (in-field), regional (intrahepatic out-of-field), or distant (extrahepatic, which includes porta hepatic lymph nodes)., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, last known folow-up, or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 years.|Progression Free Survival, From date of enrollment until first local, regional, or distant failure following RT, last follow-up, or death from any cause., From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, last known folow-up, or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 years.|Overall Survival, From date of enrollment until last follow-up or death., From date of enrollment until the date of last known folow-up or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 10 years.|Health Related Quality of Life, FACT-Hep survey will be utilized to establish pre-treatment baseline and then compared to post-treatment evaluations at months 1, 2, and 3., 1, 2, & 3 months post-treatment.
In patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is first line therapy. Non-responders to TACE (i.e. stable or progressive disease) represent a poor prognosis population with limited options. Sorafenib is indicated for first line salvage therapy, however it only improves survival 2-3 months and just has a 2-3% response rate. Thus, sorafenib is merely a cytostatic agent that delays progression and does not cytoreduce disease.

Radiation therapy (RT) is a non-invasive treatment that can cytoreduce HCC with minimal morbidity using modern techniques. A meta-analysis and multiple retrospective series suggest TACE + RT improve survival when compared to TACE alone. Higher RT doses are similarly associated with increased survival due to improved local control. Paradoxically, some series suggest that RT can induce vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression which may stimulate HCC.

Pre-clinical data suggest that combining RT with concurrent sorafenib (a VEGF inhibitor) improves tumor control. However, clinical data is limited to case reports and safety has not been well characterized. Prior to determining if this combination can improve control of HCC in this poor prognosis population, the optimal radiation dose with concurrent sorafenib must be determined by a phase I dose escalation trial.