Evaluation of an Integrated Imaging System For In Vivo Detection of Fluorescently Labeled Lesions
This is a pilot study to test and characterize the ability of the Smart Goggles system to detect fluorescently labeled sentinel lymph nodes (SLNs). Specifically, this study will test the sensitivity and specificity of the Smart Goggles to detect indocyanine green (ICG) accumulation in sentinel lymph nodes of breast cancer patients after peritumoral injection of ICG (Cardio-GreenTM), under standard-of-care application conditions.
Invasive Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Smart Goggle|OTHER: Cardio-Green|DEVICE: SPY Elite Imaging system|DEVICE: Quest near-infrared (NIR) Imaging system|DEVICE: PDE Imaging system|DEVICE: Gamma probe|OTHER: Blue Dyes
Binary response of the number of participants in which the Smart Goggles identifies the same Sentinel Lymph Nodes (SLN) within each participant as those identified by the gamma probe and blue dyes gold standard., Agreement on 6 consecutive participants would occur less than 2% of the time by random chance (p = 0.56 = 0.016). If the two methods agree on all 6 participants, the current protocol will end successfully. However, if the two methods fail to agree on the SLN once among the first 6 participants, enrollment will continue to 25 participants or until a second failed agreement occurs., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes
Binary response of the number of participants in which the Smart Goggles identifies the same Sentinel Lymph Nodes (SLN) within each participant as those identified by the SPY/Quest/PDE imaging systems., A commercial imaging system that measures fluorescence output of ICG will be used to measure the near infrared fluorescence in vivo. Measurements are painless and involve no risk to the participant. The measurements are non-contact and recorded by a computer; each measurement is painless and takes 10 seconds. The signal is calibrated against known fluorescence standards, and the relative amount of ICG in a given measurement is interpolated from the standard curve., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Number of samples with ICG detected in biopsy tissue, Confirmation of ICG within lesions per histologic tissue exam by SLN biopsy., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Number of samples with lymph node detected in biopsy tissue, Confirmation of lymph node tissue within lesions per histologic tissue exam by SLN biopsy., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Fluorescence intensity, Fluorescence intensity will be compared for the removed lymph nodes between the Smart Goggles and the standard used fluorescent imaging technology. Intensity will be reported in Arbitrary units

·, Typically no more than 30 minutes|Number of removed lymph nodes with cancer cells, Standard histological analyses will be performed on the biopsy specimens. Presence of absence of cancer cells in the removed lymph nodes will serve as the source of specificity., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Sensitivity as measured via the ICG accumulation curve, The ICG accumulation curve generated from each device (Smart Goggles vs previously validated fluorescence imaging systems), measured on the same SLN, will be used to characterize the relative sensitivity of the Smart Goggles for ICG detection in vivo., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Specificity as measured via the ICG accumulation curve, The ICG accumulation curve generated from each device (Smart Goggles vs previously validated fluorescence imaging systems), measured on the same SLN, will be used to characterize the relative specificity of the Smart Goggles for ICG detection in vivo., At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes|Number of surgeons who prefer interventional device vs current near-infrared (NIR) cameras, Surgeons preference for using the Googles for ICG detection versus the current near-infrared NIR cameras, At the end of the procedure, about 50 minutes
Primary Objective -Positive fluorescence signal in SLNs imaged by the Smart Goggles system.

Secondary Objectives

* Confirmation of ICG within lesions per histologic tissue exam by SLN biopsy.
* Comparison of lesions detected by the Smart Goggles vs. lesions detected using SPY/Quest/PDE vs. gold standard of gamma probe and blue dyes.

Exploratory Objectives

-Collection of preliminary data for a future, powered study for lymphatic mapping in breast cancer

Study Design This is an unpowered pilot study to determine the sensitivity of the new Smart Goggles device, for detection of ICG fluorescence in SLNs of breast cancers in a clinical setting. The investigators have chosen to examine ICG as the contrast agent and breast cancer as the clinical target, because this agent is FDA-approved and is regularly used for lymphatic mapping (skin cancers). The study team will be applying ICG for the same length of time as the standard-of-care procedures including radiotracers and blue dyes. The study involves a single visit, lasting \~3-4 hours total. Multiple SLN biopsies will be performed if multiple SLNs are identified.