Xanthohumol and Prevention of DNA Damage
The purpose of this research study is to learn if and in what amount a compound from hops, called xanthohumol (ZAN-tho-HUE-mol), prevents damage to DNA and oxidative stress. The human body is constantly exposed to oxidative stress from environmental compounds (e.g. air pollution) which may cause damage to DNA. The human body can repair some DNA damage, but too much DNA damage is harmful and may lead to cancer. Research done at OSU and around the world has shown that xanthohumol can stop or slow processes that lead to cancer.
Oxidative Stress
DRUG: 6 mg xanthohumol per day|DRUG: 12 mg xanthohumol per day|DRUG: 24 mg xanthohumol per day|DRUG: Placebo
Comparison of the change in markers of DNA damage and oxidative stress during XN treatment vs. the change during placebo, Plasma and urine levels of 8-oxo-dG will be measured at the beginning and end of each 3-week cycle. DNA strand breaks in blood cells and plasma levels of reduced and oxidized glutathione will be measured at the beginning and end of each 3-week cycle. Between the two cycles, there will be a 3-week washout. One cycle is XN treatment, and one cycle is the placebo., Prior to first dose on day 1 to day 63.
Comparison of the change in metabolic profile during XN treatment vs. the change during placebo, Metabolome measurements in plasma at beginning and end of first 3-week cycle with 3-week. Between the two cycles, there will be a 3-week washout period between cycles. One cycle is XN treatment, and one cycle is the placebo., Prior to first dose on day 1 to day 63.
The purpose of this research study is to learn if and in what amount a compound from hops, called xanthohumol (ZAN-tho-HUE-mol), prevents damage to DNA and oxidative stress. The human body is constantly exposed to oxidative stress from environmental compounds (e.g. air pollution) which may cause damage to DNA. The human body can repair some DNA damage, but too much DNA damage is harmful and may lead to cancer. Research done at OSU and around the world has shown that xanthohumol can stop or slow processes that lead to cancer.

Participants will consume a non-alcoholic beverage containing xanthohumol with breakfast, lunch and dinner for 3 weeks. Then they will go through a washout period of 3 weeks. And then they will consume the same beverage without the xanthohumol compound (placebo) for another 3 weeks. Participants will be randomly assigned into groups and will vary whether they will consume the xanthohumol product during the first or second 3-week period. Xanthohumol doses will be 0, 6, 12 or 24 mg/day.

The study includes donation of blood and urine samples and one-month food frequency questionnaires.