Utilizing Technology to Promote Cancer Prevention
The goal of the program is to develop an online module/a health application for cell phones which will share didactic information regarding cancer prevention and early detection measures. These module/application will be developed, and be tested among volunteers for feedback. In the future, these module/application will be disseminated widely to address cancer health disparity particularly in Arkansas.
Health Knowledge, Attitudes, Practice
BEHAVIORAL: Mobile App/Online Module
Percentage of Participants to Learn New Information, Percentage of participants that indicated they learned something new about cancer prevention measures., up to 6 Months|Percentage of Participants to Identify Needed Interventions, Percentage of participants that identified interventions that they have not yet adopted from the use of the health application., up to 6 months
The application or the online module will play a short didactic explanation video that will provide information about cancers and benefits of uptake of cancer prevention and early detection measures. It is currently unknown which method will be used, the online module or the application for the purpose. The study participants will be subjected to only one method (once the method have been finalized and created). The video content will engulf information about cervical, breast, colorectal and lung cancer prevention and early detection. After the video, the application or the module will capture information on gender, age, smoking status, body mass index and positive cancer history in family. Watching the video and answering the questions will take approximately 5 minutes. The study participants will download the application on their personal cell phones and the data collected will be linked to identifying information in case they choose to receive the compensation and opt for the 6-month follow-up. Based on the responses provided, and the age and the gender, the participants will be provided with a list of cancer prevention and early detection measure(s). A subset of the study participants from ARResearch (only those who have agreed for the 6-month follow-up) will be asked if they are willing to be contacted by the study staff after 6 ±1 months (from the date of enrollment in the study) to enquire if they received/adopted the screening measures(s) that were suggested based on their age, gender and family history. They will be asked whether it is OK to call and/or e-mail them for more information to better describe barriers to obtaining cancer prevention and screening measures.