Randomized Trial of ATN-224 and Temozolomide in Advanced Melanoma
This is a multicenter, randomized, phase II study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of oral ATN-224 plus temozolomide in patients with advanced melanoma. Patients will be randomized (1:1) between temozolomide and ATN-224 and temozolomide followed by ATN-224. Patients assigned to the sequential treatment group will receive temozolomide until progression of disease is documented and then receive ATN-224 as a single agent until documentation of progression of disease using the last tumor assessment on temozolomide therapy as the baseline assessment.
Melanoma
DRUG: ATN-224|DRUG: Temozolomide
24-week progression-free survival of the combination of temozolomide with ATN 224 and of temozolomide alone|Evaluate the safety of ATN-224 in combination with or following temozolomide
Response rate (complete and partial response), rate of stable disease for ≥24 weeks, and progression-free survival for treatment with the combination of ATN 224 and temozolomide|Response rate (complete and partial response), rate of stable disease for ≥24 weeks, and progression-free survival for treatment with temozolomide alone|Response rate (complete and partial response), rate of stable disease for ≥24 weeks, and progression-free survival for treatment with ATN 224 alone after progression of disease on temozolomide|Time to treatment failure by progression of disease or death for patients receiving ATN 224 plus temozolomide and for patients receiving temozolomide followed by ATN 224|Explore blood and tumor biomarkers with the potential to correlate with activity
According to the National Cancer Institute PDQ database, advanced melanoma is refractory to most standard systemic therapy, and all newly diagnosed patients should be considered candidates for clinical trials. Although advanced melanoma is relatively resistant to therapy, several biologic response modifiers and cytotoxic agents have been reported to produce objective responses. Once melanoma is metastatic, treatments are palliative rather than curative. In spite of many attempts at multimodality therapy, the prognosis in this disease remains poor. Further agents are needed if progress is to be made with melanoma treatment.

ATN-224 is an orally active, small molecule that has been shown in cellular and animal models to be antiangiogenic and to have activity against melanoma cell lines. Clinical studies with a similar agent (ammonium tetrathiomolybdate) indicate that the agent can be administered continuously on a daily basis for years in some patients. ATN-224 has the potential to affect the progression of melanoma by mechanisms that include both antiangiogenic and antitumor pathways. Temozolomide, a commonly used agent for melanoma, also has a tolerable profile.