EMDR Psychotherapy for Anxious-depressive Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patient
The study will consist in an evaluation of the EMDR (Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing) psychotherapy in the context on invasive primitive breast cancer. EMDR could then allow the affected patients to readjust their point of view on the pathology and thus promote more adapted behaviors or additional resources to cope with the disease. 190 Patients are going to be randomized in two groups : one group with EMDR psychotherapists and one group with support psychotherapists. Patients will receive 8 sessions. We expect that patient in EMDR psychotherapists group will have an higher decrease of anxiety score, depressive score (CES-D) and PTSD score, and a higher increase in quality of life.
Breast Cancer Female
BEHAVIORAL: EMDR psychotherapy|BEHAVIORAL: support psychotherapy
State Anxiety, STAI-Y-A (State-Trait Anxiety Inventory) This questionnaire consists of a 20-items. The state version (STAI Y-A) indicate for 20 items and on 4-point Likert-Scale (not at all, somewhat, moderately so, and very much so) the extent to which they are currently experiencing each symptoms of anxiety. The total score ranges from 20 to 80. A higher total score indicate a higher level of anxiety., Month 9
quality of life of cancer patients, EORTC QLQ-C30 Questionnaire The European Organization for research and Treatment of Cancer 30-item Quality of life (QoL) questionnaire is a well-validated health-related QoL instrument., Month 9|depression, CES-D (The Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression) Questionnaire, Month 9|posttraumatic symptoms, PTGI (The Posttraumatic Growth Inventory) Questionnaire, Month 9
The study will consist in an evaluation of the EMDR psychotherapy in the context on invasive primitive breast cancer. EMDR could then allow the affected patients to readjust their point of view on the pathology and thus promote more adapted behaviors or additional resources to cope with the disease. 190 Patients are going to be randomized in two groups : one group with EMDR psychotherapists and one group with support psychotherapists. Patients will receive 8 sessions. We expect that patient in EMDR psychotherapists group will have an higher decrease of anxiety score, depressive score and PTSD score, and a higher increase in quality of life (QLQ)