A Study of Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) in Combination With Epacadostat (INCB024360) in Subjects With Previously Treated Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer and Previously Treated Stage IV Urothelial Carcinoma (ECHO-110)
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of epacadostat (INCB024360) administered in combination with atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that have been previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and Stage IV urothelial carcinoma who have failed a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. The study will be conducted in two phases. The dose escalation phase will utilize a 3 + 3 design to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or a Pharmacologically Active Dose (PAD) of the combination. This will be followed by a dose expansion phase, which will be comprised of three cohorts. Expansion Cohorts 1 \& 2 will further evaluate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics at the dose identified in phase one. Expansion Cohort 3 will evaluate the change in biomarker expression following treatment with epacadostat as monotherapy followed by epacadostat and atezolizumab administered in combination.
NSCLC (Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma)|UC (Urothelial Cancer)
DRUG: atezolizumab|DRUG: epacadostat
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Continuously for duration of study participation and up to 42 days after the last dose [approximately 8 months|Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), 21 days following the first administration of atezolizumab and epacadostat
Objective response rate (ORR), ORR determined by radiographic disease assessments per modified RECIST v1.1, Measured every 6 weeks for duration of study participation [approximately 8 months]|Durability of response, Time from the earliest date of disease response until earliest date of disease progression based on modified RECIST v1.1, Measured every 6 weeks for duration of study participation [approximately 8 months]|Progression-free survival, Time from date of enrollment until the earliest date of disease progression per modified RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause, whichever is earlier., Measured every 6 weeks for duration of study participation [approximately 8 months]|Duration of disease control, Time from first dose until report of disease progression for subjects who reported stable disease or better based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, Measured every 6 weeks for duration of study participation [approximately 8 months]
This study will evaluate the safety and tolerability of epacadostat (INCB024360) administered in combination with atezolizumab (MPDL3280A) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that have been previously treated with platinum-based chemotherapy and Stage IV urothelial carcinoma who have failed a platinum-based chemotherapy regimen. The study will be conducted in two phases. The dose escalation phase will utilize a 3 + 3 design to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or a Pharmacologically Active Dose (PAD) of the combination. This will be followed by a dose expansion phase, which will be comprised of three cohorts. Expansion Cohorts 1 \& 2 will further evaluate the safety, tolerability, efficacy, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics at the dose identified in phase one. Expansion Cohort 3 will evaluate the change in biomarker expression following treatment with epacadostat as monotherapy followed by epacadostat and atezolizumab administered in combination.