Facebook-based Physical Activity Intervention for Young Adult Cancer Survivors: the FITNET Randomized Pilot Study
The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and efficacy of a behavioral intervention, delivered through an existing social networking website (Facebook), on physical activity (moderate-intensity minutes per week) among young adult cancer survivors compared to a self-help education condition. For this research study, investigators will conduct a 12-week randomized trial. After a baseline survey, weekly messages, a pedometer, goal-setting tool, physical activity log and discussion prompts will be delivered to the intervention group. Comparison group participants will receive links to websites with self-help education materials. After 12 weeks, a follow-up survey will be given to both groups. Changes in physical activity, quality of life and psychosocial factors will be examined. The investigators hypothesize that those receiving the intervention will have improved physical activity behaviors at 12-week follow-up relative to those in the comparison group.
Physical Activity
BEHAVIORAL: Facebook-based Messages/Website|BEHAVIORAL: Facebook-based Self-help Comparison
Primary study outcome measures at the participant level will be minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity per week and exercise in MET-hrs/week., Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.
Quality of life, Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.|Psychosocial factors, Examine potential mediators of the effect of the intervention, including changes in self-efficacy, social support and self-monitoring behaviors, Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.|Utilization of program components/activities, Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.|Perceptions of program components/activities, Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.|Communication factors, Examine potential mediators of the effect of the intervention, including message trust, relevance and recall, Participants will be assessed at baseline (before 12-week study period) and after 12 weeks.
The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and efficacy of a behavioral intervention, delivered through an existing social networking website (Facebook), on physical activity (moderate-intensity minutes per week) among young adult cancer survivors compared to a self-help education condition. For this research study, investigators will conduct a 12-week randomized trial. After a baseline survey, weekly messages, a pedometer, goal-setting tool, physical activity log and discussion prompts will be delivered to the intervention group. Comparison group participants will receive links to websites with self-help education materials. After 12 weeks, a follow-up survey will be given to both groups. Changes in physical activity, quality of life and psychosocial factors will be examined. The investigators hypothesize that those receiving the intervention will have improved physical activity behaviors at 12-week follow-up relative to those in the comparison group.