Pilot Feasibility of the Pediatric Cancer Resource Equity (PediCARE) Intervention
The goal of this new intervention is to make it easier for families to meet their basic household needs during childhood cancer treatment. The investigators want to learn how to best use PediCARE to help care for families.
Other Cancer
OTHER: PediCARE|OTHER: Usual Care
Percentage of Participants Recruited, At least 75 percent consent to randomization (e.g. recruitment)., 6-months|Percentage of Attrition, At most 20 percent attrition per arm., 6-months
Change in Household Material Hardship (HMH) in PediCARE vs Usual Care, Change in HMH score (0-4) at intervention completion (6-months) compared to baseline. For each family, the difference between 6-month and baseline HMH scores will be categorized as 1) stabilized or decreased or 2) increased HMH exposure. For each arm, the proportion of families with stabilized or decreased HMH at the completion of the intervention (6-months) will be estimated., 6-months|Proportion of Patients With at Least One Emergency Department (ED) Visit or Intensive Care Unit (ICU) for Each Arm, The proportion of patients with at least one ED and/or ICU visit will be estimated for PediCARE and Usual Care groups., 6 Months
The investigators know from previous studies that in addition to the basic worries about a child's cancer therapy, many families experience financial stress during their child's treatment. Financial stress may include difficulty paying the rent or mortgage, keeping the electricity or heat on, or putting food on the table. One of the investigators' research goals is to find ways to decrease the financial impact of treatment on each family, and make sure that financial stress does not impact a child's experience during treatment.

The investigators have developed a new supportive care intervention called PediCARE (which stands for Pediatric Cancer Resource Equity) which provides support for groceries (using an online grocery delivery service called Instacart) and transportation to and from the hospital (using rides through services such as Uber and Lyft). The investigators have evaluated the PediCARE support program in a small group of parents and used feedback from these parents to improve PediCARE. The investigators are now ready to do a feasibility study to find out whether the investigators can reliably deliver the PediCARE intervention to families.

This type of study is called a feasibility study. The goal of this research study is to learn whether the investigators can successfully give the PediCARE support program to families-in other words, whether most families are interested in participating in a randomized study about the PediCARE support program and whether they use the PediCARE support program during the study. The investigators will also begin to understand whether the PediCARE support program reduces financial stress for families during therapy. Long-term, the investigators plan to test the PediCARE support program in a larger group of randomized families to answer the question of whether PediCARE reduces financial stress for families and improves outcomes during cancer treatment