Implementation of Physical Cancer Rehabilitation Programmes in a European Healthcare System.
The aim of this study is to develop and identify the most effective strategy to implement PCRPs into daily care. We want to assess the added value of a multi-faceted strategy compared with a single-faceted patient-directed strategy.
Cancer|Fatigue
OTHER: The patient-directed (PD) strategy|OTHER: The multi-faceted (MF) strategy
The percentage of screened patients with the screening tool recommended by the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'., A pre- and post measurement of 'the percentage of screened patients with the screening tool recommended by the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'' will be done. The differences between the pre- and post measurement will be measured., baseline and at follow-up|The percentage of referrals to PCRPs where needed, according to the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'., A pre- and post measurement of 'The percentage of referrals to PCRPs where needed, according to the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'' will be done. The differences between the pre- and post measurement will be measured., baseline and at follow-up
Quality of life, A pre- and post measurement of 'QoL' will be done. The differences between the pre- and post measurement will be measured., baseline and at follow-up|Patientempowerment, A pre- and post measurement of 'patientempowerment' will be done. The differences between the pre- and post measurement will be measured., baseline and at follow-up|Remaining quality indicators of the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'., A pre- and post measurement of ' the Remaining quality indicators of the Dutch guideline 'Cancer Rehabilitation'' will be done. The differences between the pre- and post measurement will be measured., baseline and at follow-up
Process-evaluation, The experiences and exposure of patients and professionals with the PD- and MF strategy will be evaluated by interviews., at follow-up|Cost, incremental costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), at follow-up
The aim of this study is to develop and identify the most effective strategy to implement PCRPs into daily care. We want to assess the added value of a multi-faceted strategy compared with a single-faceted patient-directed strategy.

We will conduct a clustered controlled before and after study (CBA) in the Netherlands that compares two strategies to implement PCRPs. The patient-directed (PD) strategy (five hospitals) will focus on change at the patient level. The multi-faceted (MF) strategy (five hospitals) will focus on change at the patient, professional and organizational levels. Eligibility criteria are as follows: (A) patients: adults; preferably (history of) cancer in the gastro-intestinal, reproductive and/or urological system; successful primary treatment; and without recurrence/metastases. (B) Healthcare professionals: involved in cancer care.

A stepwise approach will be followed:

Step 1: Analysis of the current implementation of PCRPs and the examination of barriers and facilitators for implementation, via a qualitative study with patients (four focus groups n = 10-12) and their healthcare workers (four focus groups n = 10-12 and individual interviews n = 30-40) and collecting data on adherence to quality indicators (n = 500 patients, 50 per hospital).

Step 2: Selection and development of interventions to create a PD and MF strategy during expert's roundtable discussions, using the knowledge gained in step 1 and a literature search of the effect of strategies for implementing PCRPs.

Step 3: Test and compare both strategies with a clustered CBA (effectiveness, process evaluation and costs), by data extraction from existing registration systems, questionnaires and interviews. For the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, n = 500 patients, 50 per hospital. For the process evaluation, n=50 patients, 5 per hospital, and n = 40 healthcare professionals, 4 per hospital.