Exercise in Lessening Fatigue Caused by Cancer in Patients Undergoing Chemotherapy
RATIONALE: Physical activity may help lessen fatigue caused by cancer in patients receiving chemotherapy. It is not yet known whether a home-based walking and resistance-band exercise program is effective in lessening fatigue.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying how well exercise works in lessening fatigue caused by cancer in patients undergoing chemotherapy.
Fatigue|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
BEHAVIORAL: exercise
Change of Cancer-related Fatigue as Assessed by the Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) Total Score at Day 41 (After Exercise Intervention) Minus BFI Total Score at Day 0 (Before Exercise Intervention), BFI has nine items. Three items ask patients to rate the severity of their fatigue at its "worst," "usual," and "now" during normal waking hours, with 0 being "no fatigue" and 10 being "fatigue as bad as you can imagine." Six items assess the amount that fatigue has interfered with different aspects of the patient's life during the past 24 hours. The interference items include general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work (includes both work outside the home and housework), relations with other people, and enjoyment of life. The interference items are measured on a 0-10 scale, with 0 being "does not interfere" and 10 being "completely interferes." BFI Total Score is the average of the nine items, ranging from 0 (no fatigue) to 10 (high fatigue).

The outcome measure is the change in the Brief Fatigue Inventory Total Score at day 41 (after exercise intervention) minus Brief Fatigue Inventory Total Score at day 0 (before exercise intervention)., 41 days: Day 0 (before intervention) Day 41 (post intervention)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the efficacy of a home-based walking and progressive-resistance exercise program in reducing cancer-related fatigue (CRF) in patients undergoing chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to participating site, chemotherapy course length (2 weeks vs 3 weeks), gender, and degree of fatigue reported on the study assessment questionnaire (≤ 5 vs \> 5). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive standard chemotherapy.
* Arm II: Patients receive a home-based walking kit comprising an Exercise for Cancer Patients Manual, a pedometer, and therapeutic resistance bands. Patients undergo moderately intense aerobic exercise (walking) monitored by a pedometer, and low to moderately intense progressive-resistance exercise using therapeutic resistance bands for 6 weeks. Patients also receive standard chemotherapy.

Patients in both arms undergo assessment of their aerobic capacity and strength by the 6-minute walk test and handgrip dynamometry at baseline and at day 41. They also have a fasting blood draw and wear an actigraph for one week at baseline and week 6. Patients complete Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue and -Cognitive Subscales, Brief Fatigue Inventory, Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory, Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression Scale State Trait Anxiety Inventory, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Inventory, Profile of Mood States, Aerobic Center Longitudinal Study Physical Activity, and Symptom Inventory questionnaires at baseline and at day 41 and keep a daily exercise diary during study intervention.