A Study of CDX-011 (CR011-vcMMAE) in Patients With Advanced GPNMB-expressing Breast Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to see whether CDX-011 is effective in treating patients who have advanced breast cancer that makes a protein called glycoprotein NMB (GPNMB), and who have already received (or were not candidates for) all available approved therapies for their breast cancer. This study will also further characterize the safety of CDX-011 treatment in this patient population.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: CDX-011|DRUG: "Investigator's Choice" chemotherapy
Objective response rate, The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients who achieve radiographic partial or complete response (PR or CR) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 guideline., 6 or more weeks following treatment initiation
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the earlier of disease progression or death due to any cause., At least 18 months following treatment initiation|Adverse Events, The number and percentage of patients experiencing one or more adverse events will be summarized by treatment arm, relationship to study drug, and severity., Usually following at least 1 cycle of study treatment (1 dose of CDX-011 or "Investigator's Choice" chemotherapy and 3 to 4 weeks of follow-up)
CDX-011 consists of an antibody attached to a drug, monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), that can kill cancer cells. The antibody delivers the drug to cancer cells by attaching to a protein called glycoprotein NMB (GPNMB) that is expressed on the cancer cell. The MMAE is then released inside of the cell, where it interferes with cell growth and may lead to cell death.

This study will examine the effectiveness and safety of CDX-011 in patients with advanced breast cancer that makes the GPNMB protein. To better assess this, the effect of CDX-011 will be compared to treatment with currently available cancer chemotherapy.

Eligible patients who enroll in the study will be randomly assigned by chance to receive treatment with CDX-011 or with a chemotherapy chosen by their study doctor from a list of currently available drugs ("Investigator's Choice" chemotherapy). For each three patients enrolled, two will receive CDX-011 and one will receive treatment with "Investigator's Choice". Patients initially assigned to "Investigator's Choice" chemotherapy may be offered treatment with CDX-011 if their cancer worsens during this initial treatment.

All patients enrolled in the study will be closely monitored to determine if their cancer is responding to treatment, and for any side effects that may occur.