A Study of Carfilzomib Plus Dexamethasone in Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma at US Community Oncology Centers
The primary objective was to describe the safety profile of carfilzomib plus dexamethasone regimen in adults with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) with 1 to 3 prior lines of therapy at study entry.
Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Carfilzomib
Number of Participants Who Completed 12 Cycles of Treatment, 12 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)|Percentage of Expected Dose of Carfilzomib Received in Cycles 1 to 12, Percentage of expected dose of carfilzomib is defined as the percentage of actual cumulative dose (mg/m²) received by the participant relative to the full intended cumulative dose (mg/m²)., Up to 12 cycles (each cycle is 28 days)|Relative Dose Intensity of Carfilzomib in Cycles 1 to 12, Relative dose intensity = actual dose intensity / planned dose intensity \* 100, where dose intensity is the cumulative dose (mg) divided by the duration of the study drug administration (weeks)., Up to 12 Cycles (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants With Carfilzomib Dose Modifications During Cycles 1 to 12, Dose modification includes dosage adjustments, delays or discontinuations. A participant is counted only once for a reason category if there were multiple occurrences for the same reason. Participants may be counted in more than one category., Cycles 1 - 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Treatment-emergent adverse events are defined as any adverse event with an onset date from the first dose through 30 days after the last dose of any study drug.

Treatment-emergent related adverse events are adverse events considered related to at least one study drug by the investigator.

Adverse events were graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03, where Grade 1: Mild (asymptomatic or mild symptoms) Grade 2: Moderate (minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated) Grade 3: Severe (severe) or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated) Grade 4: Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5: Death related to AE., From the first dose of study drug until 30 days after the last dose (12 months)
Percentage of Expected Dose of Carfilzomib Received in Cycles 1 to 6 and 7 to 12, Percentage of expected dose of carfilzomib is defined as the percentage of actual cumulative dose (mg/m²) received by the participant relative to the full intended cumulative dose (mg/m²)., Cycles 1-6 and 7-12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Relative Dose Intensity of Carfilzomib in Cycles 1 to 6 and 7 to 12, Relative dose intensity = actual dose intensity / planned dose intensity \* 100, where dose intensity is the cumulative dose (mg) divided by the duration of the study drug administration (weeks)., Cycles 1 - 6 and 7 - 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants With Carfilzomib Dose Modifications During Cycles 1 to 6, Dose modification includes dosage adjustments, delays or discontinuations. A participant is counted only once for a reason category if there were multiple occurrences for the same reason. Participants may be counted in more than one category., Cycles 1 - 6 (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants With Carfilzomib Dose Modifications During Cycles 7 to 12, Dose modification includes dosage adjustments, delays or discontinuations. A participant is counted only once for a reason category if there were multiple occurrences for the same reason. Participants may be counted in more than one category., Cycles 7 - 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Carfilzomib in Cycles 1 to 6 and 7 to 12, Treatment discontinuation for all reasons in cycles 1 - 6 and cycles 7 - 12, Cycles 1 - 6 and 7 - 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Change From Baseline to Last Cycle of Treatment in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ)-Core 30 (C30), The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) is a 30-item questionnaire used to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. EORTC QLQ-C30 was administered on day 1 of each treatment cycle. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Insomnia, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact).

For each of these scales, scores range from 0 to 100. For the GHS and 5 functional scales a high score indicates better global health status/functioning and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For the 9 symptom scales, a high score indicates a higher level of symptoms, and a negative change from Baseline indicates an improvement in symptoms., Baseline (cycle 1 day 1) to cycle 12 day 1|Change From Baseline in Average EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores During Cycles 2 to 6 in Participants Who Completed 12 Cycles of Treatment, EORTC QLQ-C30 was administered on day 1 of each treatment cycle. EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire used to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Insomnia, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact).

For each of these scales, scores range from 0 to 100. For the GHS and 5 functional scales a high score indicates better global health status/functioning and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For the 9 symptom scales, a high score indicates a higher level of symptoms, and a negative change from Baseline indicates an improvement in symptoms.

Change from baseline is the difference in the average score from cycles 2 to 6 and the score on cycle 1 day 1., Baseline (cycle 1 day 1) and cycles 2 - 6|Change From Cycle 7 Day 1 in Average EORTC QLQ-C30 Scores During Cycles 8 to 12 in Participants Who Completed 12 Cycles of Treatment, EORTC QLQ-C30 was administered on day 1 of each treatment cycle. EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire used to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global health status (GHS) scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Insomnia, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact).

For each of these scales, scores range from 0 to 100. For the GHS and 5 functional scales a high score indicates better global health status/functioning and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement. For the 9 symptom scales, a high score indicates a higher level of symptoms, and a negative change from baseline indicates an improvement in symptoms.

Change was calculated as the difference in the average score from cycles 8 to 12 and the score on cycle 7 day 1., Cycle 7 day 1 and cycles 8 - 12|Change From Baseline to Last Cycle of Treatment in EORTC QLQ Multiple Myeloma Module (MY-20) Scores, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a 20-item questionnaire used in clinical research to assess health-related quality of life in multiple myeloma patients. Questions are answered on a 4-point scale from 1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'.

The QLQ-MY20 includes four domains (Disease Symptoms, Side-Effects of Treatment, Body Image and Future Perspective).

Domain scores are calculated as averages and transformed to range from 0 to 100.

For the Disease symptoms and side-effects of treatments scales a higher score represents a higher level of symptoms/problems and a negative change from baseline value indicates reduction (i.e. improvement) in symptoms. For the body image and future perspectives scales a higher score represents a higher level of functioning, and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement., Baseline (cycle 1 day 1) and cycle 12 day 1|Change From Baseline in Average EORTC QLQ-MY20 Scores During Cycles 2 to 6 in Participants Who Completed 12 Cycles of Treatment, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a 20-item questionnaire used in clinical research to assess health-related quality of life in multiple myeloma patients. Questions are answered on a 4-point scale from 1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'.

The QLQ-MY20 includes four domains (Disease Symptoms, Side-effects of Treatment, Body Image and Future Perspective).

Domain scores are calculated as averages and transformed to range from 0 to 100.

For the disease symptoms and side-effects of treatment scales a higher score represents a higher level of symptoms/problems and a negative change from baseline value indicates reduction (i.e. improvement) in symptoms. For the body image and future perspectives scales a higher score represents a higher level of functioning, and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement.

Change from baseline is the difference in the average score from cycles 2 to 6 and the score on cycle 1 day 1., Baseline (cycle 1 day 1) and cycles 2 - 6|Change From Cycle 7 Day 1 in Average EORTC QLQ-MY20 Scores Over Cycles 8 to 12 in Participants Who Completed 12 Cycles of Treatment, EORTC QLQ-MY20 is a 20-item questionnaire used in clinical research to assess health-related quality of life in multiple myeloma patients. Questions are answered on a 4-point scale from 1 'Not at All' to 4 'Very Much'.

The QLQ-MY20 includes four domains (Disease Symptoms, Side- Effects of Treatment, Body Image and Future Perspective).

Domain scores are calculated as averages and transformed to range from 0 to 100.

For the disease symptoms and side effects of treatments scales a higher score represents a higher level of symptoms/problems and a negative change from baseline value indicates reduction (i.e. improvement) in symptoms. For the body image and future perspectives scales a higher score represents a higher level of functioning, and a positive change from baseline indicates improvement.

Change was calculated as the difference in the average score from cycles 8 to 12 and the score on cycle 7 day 1., Cycle 7 day 1 and cycles 8 - 12|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Disease response and progression were determined using International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC) 2016, assessed by the Investigator. Per IMWG, determination of disease response requires: serum free light chain (SFLC), serum and urine protein electrophoresis (SPEP, UPEP, respectively), serum and urine immunofixation (SIFE, UIFE, respectively), bone marrow aspirate (for complete response confirmation), corrected calcium (cCa), and plasmacytoma evaluation, if present at screening.

Best overall response is defined as a participant's best response during the study. Overall response rate is defined as the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR)., Disease assessments were performed every 28 days up to 12 months from enrollment.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) After 6 Cycles, Disease response and progression were determined using International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC) 2016, assessed by the Investigator. Per IMWG, determination of disease response requires: serum free light chain (SFLC), serum and urine protein electrophoresis (SPEP, UPEP, respectively), serum and urine immunofixation (SIFE, UIFE, respectively), bone marrow aspirate (for CR confirmation), corrected calcium, and plasmacytoma evaluation, if present at screening.

Overall response rate after 6 cycles is defined as the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response during the first 6 treatment cycles of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR)., Disease assessments were performed every 28 days up to 6 cycles of treatment (each cycle was 28 days)|Overall Response Rate (ORR) by Prior Lines of Therapy, Disease response and progression were determined using International Myeloma Working Group Uniform Response Criteria (IMWG-URC) 2016, assessed by the Investigator. Per IMWG, determination of disease response requires: serum free light chain (SFLC), serum and urine protein electrophoresis (SPEP, UPEP, respectively), serum and urine immunofixation (SIFE, UIFE, respectively), bone marrow aspirate (for CR confirmation), corrected calcium, and plasmacytoma evaluation, if present at screening.

Best overall response is defined as a participant's best response during the study. Overall response rate is defined as the percentage of participants achieving a best overall response of stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR)., Disease assessments were performed every 28 days up to 12 months from enrollment.|Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) Events at 12 Months, Progression-free survival events include disease progression or death due to any cause.

Disease progression was determined by the Investigator according to IMWG criteria., 12 months|Percentage of Participants With PFS Events by Prior Lines of Therapy, Progression-free survival (PFS) events include disease progression or death due to any cause.

Disease progression was determined by the Investigator according to IMWG criteria., Disease assessments were performed every 28 days up to 12 months from enrollment.
This is a phase 2, multicenter, open-label study in adults with RRMM in US community oncology centers. Adults with 1-3 prior lines of therapy at study entry are eligible to be screened for participation. Patients refractory to their last line of treatment are eligible to participate as long as their last line of treatment did not include a proteasome inhibitor (PI). The study will consist of a screening period of up to 28 days for bone marrow assessments and up to 21 days for all other assessments, up to 12 cycles of treatment, and a 30-day safety follow-up period following the last dose of study drug.