Study of High Dose Carfilzomib in Multiple Myeloma Patients Who Have Progressed On Standard Dose Carfilzomib
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and activity of the investigational drug known as carfilzomib in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) when it is given at doses above the usual dose after the standard dosing has become ineffective. The other purpose of this study is to understand what causes the multiple myeloma to become resistant to carfilzomib and whether this can be overcome in the laboratory.
Relapse Multiple Myeloma|Refractory Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib
Safety and Efficacy of High Dose Carfilzomib, The safety and efficacy of high dose carfilzomib who developed disease progression on the standard dosing and schedule of carfilzomib as measured by number of participants with adverse events, up to 4 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), up to 4 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall Response Rate defined in categories, up to 4 years|Duration of Response to High Dose Carfilzomib, up to 4 years|Markers of ER Stress, The markers of ER stress signaling (both apoptotic and prosurvival) in MM cells from patients in this study and to determine if the balance of apoptotic versus prosurvival signaling changes upon recapture of response with carfilzomib dose escalation relative to the time of study entry., up to 4 years
This is an open label, single center, phase II study of high dose carfilzomib. Patients with relapsed or relapsed/refractory myeloma and with progression of disease on standard dosing (20/27 mg/m2) and schedule of carfilzomib will be initially treated at dose level 1, carfilzomib 20/56 mg/m2. During Cycle 1, patients will receive either 20 mg/m2 on days 1,2 (if the subject has not received carfilzomib as part another clinical trial within the last 4 weeks) or 56 mg/m2 (if the subject is enrolling in the present study after progression of disease on carfilzomib within the last month - for example subjects enrolled in CMAP compassionate use carfilzomib). Thereafter, all subjects will receive 56 mg/m2 for the remaining doses given Cycle 1 Day 8 onwards. If a minimal response or better is achieved (and therefore disease response is recaptured) a bone marrow biopsy will be repeated.

If 56 mg/m2 is not tolerated, the dose of carfilzomib will be reduced to dose level -1 i.e. 45 mg/m2. If a subject does not tolerate 45 mg/m2 then the dose would be further reduced to dose level -2 i.e. 36 mg/m2. If the subject does not tolerate 36 mg/m2, then this subject would have to come off study.

Dexamethasone 8 mg po/IV will be administered prior to all carfilzomib doses.

Once a patient develops disease progression on this study, the patient may return to receiving the maximum tolerated dose of carfilzomib by that patient with the addition of a therapeutic dosing of dexamethasone (a total of 20-40 mg weekly). An IMId (e.g. thalidomide or lenalidomide) and/or an alkylator can also be added to carfilzomib 27 or 36 mg/m2 per investigator discretion either concurrent with the addition of dexamethasone or subsequent to disease progression on carfilzomib with concurrent therapeutic dexamethasone.