Lipiodol as an Imaging Biomarker in Patients With Primary and Metastatic Liver Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the whether Lipiodol can be used as an imaging biomarker, predicting tumor response to therapy in patients with primary and metastatic liver cancer. Lipiodol-based transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) has been an accepted standard of care procedure for unresectable liver lesions for several decades. Lipiodol is used as a carrier for chemotherapy agents and also as an occlusion agent. In TACE procedures, Lipiodol is mixed with the chemotherapy agent(s) and delivered to the tumor via the hepatic artery, causing necrosis of the targeted tumor(s). Response to therapy will be evaluated every 1, 3 and 6 months by clinic visits, MRI/CT/PET scans and blood tests (to include assessment of liver function and tumor markers).
Liver Cancer
DRUG: Lipiodol
Tumor Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Lipiodol deposition in the tumor will be measured using non contrast CT. The images from the non contrast CT will also be correlated with RECIST response separately using contrast CT, MRI and PET imaging. Response rates taken at 30 days, 90 days, 180 days. Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI:

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions Partial Response (PR): \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions

Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 30 days, 90 days, and 180 days|Baseline Enhancing Tumor and Response by RECIST Criteria, Analysis of enhancing tumor (% of tumor that arterially enhances on MRI imaging) to correlate with responders/nonresponders by RECIST criteria. Responders are subjects that demonstrated Complete Response or Partial Response by RECIST criteria. Nonresponders are all other subjects., 30 days, 90 days, 180 days
Tumor Response by Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST), Lipiodol deposition in the tumor will be measured using non contrast CT. The images from the non contrast CT will also be correlated with mRECIST response separately using contrast CT, MRI and PET imaging. Response rates taken at 30 days, 90 days, 180 days. Per modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST):

Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all intratumoral arterial enhancement in target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of viable (enhancement in the arterial phase) target lesions Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, 30 days, 90 days, and 180 days|Baseline Enhancing Tumor and Response by mRECIST Criteria, Analysis of enhancing tumor (% of tumor that arterially enhances on MRI imaging) to correlate with responders/nonresponders by mRECIST criteria. Responders are subjects that demonstrated Complete Response or Partial Response by mRECIST criteria. Nonresponders are all other subjects., 30 days, 90 days, 180 days|Tumor Response by World Health Organization (WHO) Criteria, Lipiodol deposition in the tumor will be measured using non contrast CT. The images from the non contrast CT will also be correlated with WHO response separately using contrast CT, MRI and PET imaging. Response rates taken at 30 days, 90 days, 180 days. Per WHO criteria:

Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all lesions for \>= 4 weeks. Partial Response (PR): At least 50% decrease in sum of the products of diameters of target lesions.

Overall Response: CR + PR., 6 months|Baseline Enhancing Tumor and Response by WHO Criteria, Analysis of enhancing tumor (% of tumor that arterially enhances on MRI imaging) to correlate with responders/nonresponders by WHO criteria. Responders are subjects that demonstrated Complete Response or Partial Response by WHO criteria. Nonresponders are all other subjects., 30 days, 90 days, 180 days|Tumor Response by European Association for the Study of the Liver (EASL) Criteria, Lipiodol deposition in the tumor will be measured using non contrast CT. The images from the non contrast CT will also be correlated with EASL response separately using contrast CT, MRI and PET imaging. Response rates taken at 30 days, 90 days, 180 days. Per EASL response:

Complete Response (CR): complete disappearance of enhancing tissue in target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least 50% decrease in area of enhancing tissue in target lesions.

Overall Response: CR+PR, 6 months|Baseline Enhancing Tumor and Response by EASL Criteria, Analysis of enhancing tumor (% of tumor that arterially enhances on MRI imaging) to correlate with responders/nonresponders by EASL criteria. Responders are subjects that demonstrated Complete Response or Partial Response by EASL criteria. Nonresponders are all other subjects., 30 days, 90 days, 180 days|Tumor Response by Quantitative European Association for the Study of the Liver (qEASL) Criteria, Lipiodol deposition in the tumor will be measured using non contrast CT. The images from the non contrast CT will also be correlated with qEASL response separately using contrast CT, MRI and PET imaging. Response rates taken at 30 days, 90 days, 180 days. Per qEASL criteria:

Complete Response (CR): Total disappearance of enhancing tumor volume in target lesions Partial Response (PR): At least 65% decrease in enhanced tumor volume after treatment.

Overall Response: CR + PR, 6 months|Baseline Enhancing Tumor and Response by qEASL Criteria, Analysis of enhancing tumor (% of tumor that arterially enhances on MRI imaging) to correlate with responders/nonresponders by qEASL criteria. Responders are subjects that demonstrated Complete Response or Partial Response by qEASL criteria. Nonresponders are all other subjects., 30 days, 90 days, 180 days|6-month Survival Rate of Patients With HCC and Liver Metastases Treated With Conventional TACE, Measure the association between baseline Lipiodol deposition and the 6-month survival rate by estimating median survival for each stratum, and by testing for homogeneity using a logrank test if hazards are proportional., 6 months
The purpose of this study is to determine the whether Lipiodol can be used as an imaging biomarker, predicting tumor response to therapy in patients with primary and metastatic liver cancer. Lipiodol-based transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) has been an accepted standard of care procedure for unresectable liver lesions for several decades. Lipiodol is used as a carrier for chemotherapy agents and also as an occlusion agent. In TACE procedures, Lipiodol is mixed with the chemotherapy agent(s) and delivered to the tumor via the hepatic artery, causing necrosis of the targeted tumor(s). Response to therapy will be evaluated every 1, 3 and 6 months by clinic visits, MRI/CT/PET scans and blood tests (to include assessment of liver function and tumor markers).