QM-B and QM-C Hysterectomy for Early Cervical Cancer
The goal of this clinical research study is to compare the long-term outcomes and safety of Querleu-Morrow-B(QM-B) and Querleu-Morrow-C(QM-C) hysterectomy for early cervical cancer. In this study, the surgical approach for QM-B and QM-C hysterectomy will be abdominal.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: QM-C Hysterectomy|PROCEDURE: QM-B Hysterectomy
Rate of overall survival, Compare treatment equivalence, 5 years from surgery|Rate of disease-free survival, Compare treatment equivalence, 5 years from surgery
Operation time, Compare operation time between groups by timer, Intra-operatively|Volume of blood loss, Compare blood loss between groups by assessment, Intra-operatively|Rate of blood transfusion, Compare rate of blood transfusion between groups, Intra-operatively|Rate of intraoperative complications, Compare intraoperative complications between groups, Intra-operatively|Rate of postoperative complications, Compare postoperative complications between groups, 6 months from surgery|Quality of life Questionnaires, Compare quality of lifes between groups by questionnaire: EORTC CX24. EORTC CX24 for symptom experience, body imageand sexual/vaginal functioning. The scores of EORTC CX24 range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., 6 months from surgery|Pelvic Floor Distress Inventory Questionnaire, Compare PFDI between groups by questionnaire PFDI-20. The calculation of the total scores of PFDI-20 range from 0 to 300; the higher the score the greater the perceived impact that pelvic floor dysfuntion has on a patient's life., 5 years from surgery|Costs, Compare costs between groups, 6 months from surgery
Primary Objective:

To compare 5-year overall survival and 5-year disease-free survival amongst patients who undergo a QM-B hysterectomy versus those who undergo a QM-C hysterectomy for early stage cervical cancer.

Secondary Objectives:

Compare operation time between arms. Compare blood loss between arms. Compare blood transfusion between arms. Compare intraoperative complications between arms. Compare postoperative complications between arms. Compare quality of lifes between arms.