Technology-Based Well-Being Process Program (WEBEPROP) for Children and Adolescents in Palliative Care
Objective: The research was planned to evaluate the effectiveness of the 8-week technology-based Well-Being Process program for children and adolescents in the palliative care period. Methods: This study was planned as a randomized controlled experimental study. The research will be carried out with children aged 12-20 years with a diagnosis of cancer, in the pediatric oncology and hematology clinics of two hospitals in Turkey. Data collection will consist of the children and adolescent's and parents' descriptive characteristic form Adolescent Spiritual Well-Being Scale, Beck Anxiety Scale, Pediatric Cancer Coping Scale and Technology-Based Spiritual Care Program Process Evaluation Forms. The program will be implemented for the intervention group. In the 8-week program; a) 4 web-based modules, b) 8 online individual interviews after each module (8 total interviews with each child) c) simultaneous mobile messages with the modules, and d) 24/7 counseling. Animation videos, breathing and progressive relaxation exercises, and imagination methods will be included in the modules. This research is based on the "Watson Model of Human Care".
Childhood Cancer
OTHER: Well-Being Process Program (WEBEPROP)
The Scale of Spiritual Well-Being in Adolescents (SSWA), The scale developed by Törüner et al. assesses the spiritual well-being of adolescents aged 14-18 years. The scale, which is thought to help health professionals provide holistic care for adolescents, consists of a total of 34 items. Adolescents receive a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 136 points from the scale. As the score obtained from the scale increases, the spiritual well-being scores of adolescents increase. As the score obtained from the scale decreases, the spiritual well-being of the adolescents decreases. The Cronbach alpha value of the scale is 90., The Scale of Spiritual Well-Beingscores will be checked at the beginning of the program "baseline"|Beck Anxiety Scale, The scale, which was developed by Beck et al. in 1988 to determine the level of anxiety (anxiety) of adult and adolescent individuals, consists of 21 items of the four-likert type. The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Ulusoy et al. in 1993. Individuals are expected to be marked by their intensity of experiencing substances that are composed of symptoms and emotions commonly associated with anxiety. The sum of the scores was evaluated as 0-7: Minimal level of anxiety, 8-15: Mild level of anxiety, 16-25: Moderate level of anxiety, 26-63: Severe level of anxiety, Anxiety scores will be checked at the beginning of the program "baselıne|Pediatric Cancer Coping Scale (PCCS), The scale developed by Wu et al. for children with cancer between the ages of 7 and 18 years. The Turkish validity and reliability of the scale was conducted by Sengul and Törüner (2019). There are a total of 33 items in the scale. There are three sub-dimensions of cognitive coping, problem-oriented coping and defensive coping. A minimum of 0 and a maximum of 99 points is obtained from the scale. High scores obtained from the scale indicate high levels of coping strategies. A low score means that coping skills are insufficient.In the original study of the scale, the Cronbach Alpha value was determined as 0.91, Coping scores will be checked at the beginning of the program "baseline"
The Scale of Spiritual Well-Being in Adolescents (SSWA), The scale developed by Törüner et al. assesses the spiritual well-being of adolescents aged 14-18 years. The scale, which is thought to help health professionals provide holistic care for adolescents, consists of a total of 34 items. Adolescents receive a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 136 points from the scale. As the score obtained from the scale increases, the spiritual well-being scores of adolescents increase. As the score obtained from the scale decreases, the spiritual well-being of the adolescents decreases. The Cronbach alpha value of the scale is 90., The Scale of Spiritual Well-Being scores will be checked completed"through study completion, an average of 1 week"|Beck Anxiety Scale, The scale, which was developed by Beck et al. in 1988 to determine the level of anxiety (anxiety) of adult and adolescent individuals, consists of 21 items of the four-likert type. The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Ulusoy et al. in 1993. Individuals are expected to be marked by their intensity of experiencing substances that are composed of symptoms and emotions commonly associated with anxiety. The sum of the scores was evaluated as 0-7: Minimal level of anxiety, 8-15: Mild level of anxiety, 16-25: Moderate level of anxiety, 26-63: Severe level of anxiety, Anxiety scores will be checked completed"through study completion, an average of 1 week"|Pediatric Cancer Coping Scale (PCCS), The scale developed by Wu et al. for children with cancer between the ages of 7 and 18 years. The Turkish validity and reliability of the scale was conducted by Sengul and Törüner (2019). There are a total of 33 items in the scale. There are three sub-dimensions of cognitive coping, problem-oriented coping and defensive coping. A minimum of 0 and a maximum of 99 points is obtained from the scale. High scores obtained from the scale indicate high levels of coping strategies. A low score means that coping skills are insufficient. In the original study of the scale, the Cronbach Alpha value was determined as 0.91, Coping scores will be checked completed "through study completion, an average of 1 week"
The Scale of Spiritual Well-Being in Adolescents (SSWA), The scale developed by Törüner et al. assesses the spiritual well-being of adolescents aged 14-18 years. The scale, which is thought to help health professionals provide holistic care for adolescents, consists of a total of 34 items. Adolescents receive a minimum of 0 and a maximum of 136 points from the scale. As the score obtained from the scale increases, the spiritual well-being scores of adolescents increase. As the score obtained from the scale decreases, the spiritual well-being of the adolescents decreases. The Cronbach alpha value of the scale is 90., The Scale of Spiritual Well-Beingscores will be checked completed, "through study completion, one month"|Beck Anxiety Scale, The scale, which was developed by Beck et al. in 1988 to determine the level of anxiety (anxiety) of adult and adolescent individuals, consists of 21 items of the four-likert type. The Turkish validity and reliability study of the scale was conducted by Ulusoy et al. in 1993. Individuals are expected to be marked by their intensity of experiencing substances that are composed of symptoms and emotions commonly associated with anxiety. The sum of the scores was evaluated as 0-7: Minimal level of anxiety, 8-15: Mild level of anxiety, 16-25: Moderate level of anxiety, 26-63: Severe level of anxiety, Anxiety scores will be checked completed, "through study completion, one month"|Pediatric Cancer Coping Scale (PCCS), The scale developed by Wu et al. for children with cancer between the ages of 7 and 18 years. The Turkish validity and reliability of the scale was conducted by Sengul and Törüner (2019). There are a total of 33 items in the scale. There are three sub-dimensions of cognitive coping, problem-oriented coping and defensive coping. A minimum of 0 and a maximum of 99 points is obtained from the scale. High scores obtained from the scale indicate high levels of coping strategies. A low score means that coping skills are insufficient. In the original study of the scale, the Cronbach Alpha value was determined as 0.91, Coping scores will be checked completed, "through study completion, one month
Hypothesis:

H1: There is a significant difference between the spiritual well being score averages of children and adolescents who have been administered and have not been administered WEBEPROP.

H2: There is a significant difference between the anxiety scores of children and adolescents who have been administered and have not been administered WEBEPROP.

H3: There is a significant difference between the coping scores of children and adolescents who have been administered and have not been administered WEBEPROP.