Phase I Intratumoral Pbi-shRNA STMN1 LP in Advanced and/or Metastatic Cancer
This is a Phase I safety trial of bifunctional shRNA-STMN1 (pbi-shRNA™STMN1) BIV (bilamellar invaginated vesicle) lipoplex (LP), pbi-shRNA™ STMN1 LP administered by a single intratumoral (IT) injection. Patients with superficially accessible advanced cancer following prior therapies will be entered into the study following a modified dose escalation design based on the demonstrated safety of our previous clinical experience (BB-IND 13744) with the same liposome and vector DNA backbone expressing a different transgene (of which doses up to 7 mg DNA IV/single dose have been administered). Patients will accrue in 4-patient escalation cohorts using a modified Fibronacci escalation schema (100%-50%-33%-33%) at a starting intratumoral dose of 0.010 mg/kg of DNA through a dose of 0.053 mg/kg DNA intratumoral / single dose. Should a single, but not more than two (2), ≥ Grade 3 Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) occur in any cohort, following mandated review (see below) an additional two (2) patients will be accrued at that dose (total of six). If more than one ≥ Grade 3 toxicity occurs in any cohort, the preceding dose cohort will be expanded to six (from four) and if \< 2/6 patients experience ≥ Grade 3 toxicity, that dose will be the Phase II recommended dose. Should no ≥ Grade 3 toxicity occur in any cohort (other than Grade 3 local injection site reaction), an additional two (2) patients will be treated at 0.053 mg/kg DNA intratumoral / single dose.
Advanced Cancer|Metastatic Cancer|Solid Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: pbi-shRNA STMN1 LP
To determine the safety of intratumoral administration of pbi-shRNA™ STMN1 LP, To determine the safety of intratumoral administration of pbi-shRNA™ STMN1 LP in patients with superficial advanced and/or metastatic cancer who have no acceptable form of standard therapy., 1 month
This is a Phase I safety trial of bifunctional shRNA-STMN1 (pbi-shRNA™STMN1) BIV (bilamellar invaginated vesicle) lipoplex (LP), pbi-shRNA™ STMN1 LP administered by a single intratumoral (IT) injection. Patients with superficially accessible advanced cancer following prior therapies will be entered into the study following a modified dose escalation design based on the demonstrated safety of our previous clinical experience (BB-IND 13744) with the same liposome and vector DNA backbone expressing a different transgene (of which doses up to 7 mg DNA IV/single dose have been administered). Patients will accrue in 4-patient escalation cohorts using a modified Fibronacci escalation schema (100%-50%-33%-33%) at a starting intratumoral dose of 0.010 mg/kg of DNA through a dose of 0.053 mg/kg DNA intratumoral / single dose. Should a single, but not more than two (2), ≥ Grade 3 Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) occur in any cohort, following mandated review (see below) an additional two (2) patients will be accrued at that dose (total of six). If more than one ≥ Grade 3 toxicity occurs in any cohort, the preceding dose cohort will be expanded to six (from four) and if \< 2/6 patients experience ≥ Grade 3 toxicity, that dose will be the Phase II recommended dose. Should no ≥ Grade 3 toxicity occur in any cohort (other than Grade 3 local injection site reaction), an additional two (2) patients will be treated at 0.053 mg/kg DNA intratumoral / single dose.