Evaluating AGuIX® Nanoparticles in Combination With Stereotactic Radiation for Brain Metastases
This study evaluates the clinical impact of AGuIX® nanoparticles in combination with Fractionated Stereotactic Radiation in oligo brain metastases.
Brain Metastases
DRUG: AGuIX
Rate of local control, The primary endpoint is the rate of local control defined as the proportion of patients with a complete response, a partial response or a stable disease. Response of Brain lesion will be evaluated using the RECIST classifications with partial response (PR, \> 30% decrease in longest diameter), stable disease (SD \<30% decrease and \<20% increase in longest diameter), progressive disease (PD \> 20% increase in longest diameter) and Complete response (CR) (complete disappearance of the brain lesion)., 1 year
Distant Brain failure, Distant Brain failure is defined as the presence of new brain metastases or leptomeningeal enhancement outside the irradiated volume., 6 month and at 1 year|Time to brain relapse, The event of interest will be the local progression on any irradiated lesion., 6 month and 1 year|Tumor target volume, The Tumor target volume agreement is the comparison between both the MRI images with AGuIX® and Gd-chelates. It is defined as the correlation between the irradiation volume calculated based on the MRI before nanoparticles injection and the volume calculated after nanoparticles injection., 4 days|Brain lesion 3-D volume variation, Brain lesion 3-D volume variation will be analysed using volumetric T1 post-gadolinium MRI., 45 days and 3 month|Adverse events, The assessment of safety will be based mainly on the frequency of adverse events based on the common toxicity criteria (CTCAE-V5.0) grade., From Day 1 to Day 45|FACT-Br, The FACT-Br consists of a general version (FACT-G) and a brain subscale (BRCS). The FACT-G consist of 27 questions with 4 domains assessing physical well-being (score range: 0-28), social/family well-being (score range: 0-28), emotional well-being (score range: 0-24) and functional well-being (score range: 0-28). The BRCs is a 23-item questionnaire related to neurological concerns that provides an additional set of disease-specific questions pertaining to brain neoplasms (score range: 0-92). The FACT-Br total score is the sum of the FACT-G total score and the BrCS score. Positive change scores indicate improved quality of life., 45 days, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month and 12 month|MMSE, The MMSE is an 11-item measure that tests five areas of cognitive function: orientation, registration, attention and calculation, recall and language. The minimum score is 0 and the maximum score is 30 with higher MMSE scores indicating better cognition., 45 days, 3 month, 6 month, 9 month and 12 month
AGuIX® (Activation and Guidance of Irradiation by X-ray, NH TherAguix) are Gadolinium chelated polysiloxane based nanoparticles with Magnetic Resonance contrast properties, able to accumulate in the tumor through the enhanced permeability and retention effect and sufficiently small (sub-5 nm diameter) to allow for renal clearance.

AGuIX® nanomedicine can be used as:

* Positive contrast agent for Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). It displays higher efficacy than commercial contrast agents and so it can be used to delineate precisely the tumors.
* A booster of Radiotherapy during the radiotherapy protocol, after the localization of the tumor.

This is permitted by the high radiosensitizing potential of AGuIX® that allows a local increase of efficacy of X-ray damages. French and international groups have demonstrated the radiosensitizer effect of AGuIX® to improve the efficacy of radiotherapy.

Thanks to a difference in porosity between the vascular networks, AGuIX® penetrates and resides in tumor tissues, but not in healthy tissues.