Childhood B-acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia and Role of CD9 Gene Regulation in Relapse
B-acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) is the most common cancer in children, with 20% of patients relapsing. CD9, a transmembrane protein, is linked to the migratory and adhesion capacities of leukaemia cells and could be associated with relapses. The aim of this project is to understand how CD9 regulation can be a marker of potential relapses, using bone and blood sampling of newly diagnosed patients at 3 crucial moments of therapy.
Leukemia, Lymphoblastic, Acute, Pediatric
OTHER: Sampling bone tissue and blood
Non coding RNA network in CD9 regulation, description of the network of lncRNAs (circRNAs/miRNAs) involved in the regulation of CD9 present on the surface of blasts at the time of diagnosis of B-ALL (nature of the lncRNAs, level of expression, etc.), 5 years
Non coding RNA network in CD9 regulation as a prognosis factor of disease follow-up, Activity of the ncRNA (circRNA/miRNA) network regulating CD9 gene expression as a follow-up marker in CD9+ pediatric B-ALL., 5 years|Non coding RNA network in CD9 regulation as a predictive factor of relapse, Activity of the ncRNA (circRNA/miRNA) network regulating CD9 gene expression as a predictive marker of relapse in CD9+ pediatric B-ALL., 5 years
B-acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (B-ALL) is the most common cancer in children, with 20% of patients relapsing despite major therapeutic advances. A research team of the Development and Genetic Institute in Rennes has identified that the expression of CD9, a transmembrane protein, is linked to the migratory and adhesion capacities of leukaemia cells, enabling them to persist in niches such as the testis. CD9-associated relapses often arise from these niches. Understanding the regulation of CD9 expression is therefore essential.

The hypothesis on which this project is based is that CD9 expression could be orchestrated by ncRNAs. Due to the complexity of deciphering circRNA-miRNA-mRNA networks, an exploration of patient blasts is envisaged in order to delineate a specific non-coding RNA network regulating CD9 expression from bone marrow and blood samples of paediatric-aged patients with B-ALL. If this hypothesis is confirmed, the ncRNAs identified could constitute new specific diagnostic and prognostic markers, or even therapeutic targets.

To confirm this hypothesis, bone and blood sampling of newly diagnosed patients will be collected at the diagnosis, after first phase of treatment and at the relapse, if it occurs.