Randomized Trial of Chlorambucil Versus Chlorambucil Plus Rituximab Versus Rituximab in MALT Lymphoma
Assess the therapeutic activity and safety of the combination of Chlorambucil and Rituximab in MALT lymphomas and determine whether the addition of Rituximab to Chlorambucil will improve the outcome of MALT lymphoma in comparison to treatment with Chlorambucil alone.

In April 2006, a third arm of treatment was added to compare the antitumor activity and safety of rituximab alone vs chlorambucil alone
Lymphoma, Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue
DRUG: chlorambucil (drug)|DRUG: rituximab+chlorambucil|DRUG: rituximab
Event-free-survival (EFS), Percentage of patients without events (failure of treatment or Death from any cause) after 5 years from trial registration, 5 years
Complete and Partial Remission Rate - Percentage of Patients With Complete and Partial Response at the End of Treatment, Response criteria were defined according to the NCI standardized response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Complete response. Disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease, disappearance of all disease-related symptoms, if present before therapy, and normalization of those biochemical abnormalities definitely assignable to NHL. Regression of all lymph nodes and nodal masses to normal (≤ 1.5 cm in their greatest transverse diameter for nodes \> 1.5 cm before therapy and to ≤ 1 cm for nodes that were 1.1-1.5 cm. Regression by more than 75% in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters).

Partial response. Decrease by at least 50% in SPD of the six largest measurable lesions. It is not necessary for all lesions to have regressed to qualify for partial response, but no lesion should have progressed and no new lesion should appear.

For primary gastric sites, response was based on GELA histologic grading system., End of treatment (after 24 weeks of therapy)|Response Duration (Time to Relapse or Progression) - Percentage of Patients in Continuous Remission at Five Years From Trial Registration, Response criteria were defined according to the NCI standardized response criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Complete response (CR). Disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease, disappearance of all disease-related symptoms, if present before therapy, and normalization of those biochemical abnormalities definitely assignable to NHL. Regression of all lymph nodes and nodal masses to normal (≤ 1.5 cm in their greatest transverse diameter for nodes \> 1.5 cm before therapy and to ≤ 1 cm for nodes that were 1.1-1.5 cm. Regression by more than 75% in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters)., 5 years|Progression-free-survival (PFS), Percentage of patients without disease progression after 5 years from trial registration, 5 years|Overall Survival, Percentage of patients alive after 5 years from trial registration, 5 years
Assess the therapeutic activity and safety of the combination of Chlorambucil and Rituximab in MALT lymphomas and determine whether the addition of Rituximab to Chlorambucil will improve the outcome of MALT lymphoma in comparison to treatment with Chlorambucil alone.

In April 2006, a third arm of treatment was added to compare the antitumor activity and safety of rituximab alone vs chlorambucil alone