Toripalimab Plus Etoposide and Platinum-based Chemotherapy for Genitourinary Small Cell Carcinoma
This study is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, single-arm phase II clinical trial. A single-arm experimental group of toripalimab, etoposide, and cisplatin/carboplatin was designed to evaluate its efficacy and safety in small cell carcinoma of the urinary system.
Toripalimab|First-line Treatment
DRUG: EP/EC+PD-1
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the earlier of the dates of the first objective documentation of radiographic progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause., Within approximately 36 months
Complete Response Rate (CRR), Percentage of participants with response reported as complete response, Within approximately 36 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response was defined as the time interval between the date of first documentation of objective response (CR or PR) and the date of the first objective documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause., Within approximately 36 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The number of participants with objective response is assessed every six weeks from Cycle 1 Day 1 through discontinuation of treatment. Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants who achieved a best overall response of complete response or partial response based on local radiologists/investigators' tumor assessments., Within approximately 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause., Within approximately 36 months|Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events as assessed by the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, Version 5.0)., Within approximately 36 months
This study focuses on patients with locally advanced/metastatic genitourinary small cell carcinoma (small cell carcinoma originating in the kidney, ureter, bladder, urethra, and prostate), and it aims to explore the efficacy and safety of toripalimab combined with EP or EC.

After meeting the enrollment conditions, they received combination therapy: toripalimab 240 mg, administered on the first day of each cycle, and a cycle of administration every 3 weeks. Etoposide 100mg/m2, d1-3, cisplatin 25mg/m2, d1-3 or carboplatin AUC=5 d1, administered on the first day of each cycle, a cycle of administration every 3 weeks. Toripalimab combined with etoposide and cisplatin/carboplatin was used for 4 to 6 courses of treatment. Evaluate the curative effect with imaging every 2 courses. If there is an opportunity for local treatment after chemotherapy, participate in multidisciplinary discussions to decide the next step of treatment. For patients who can be treated with local treatment (surgery, radiotherapy) after treatment, the investigator will receive maintenance treatment with toripalimab 240 mg/time, every 21 days, until the disease progresses or unacceptable toxicity occurs. If the curative effect evaluation of the patient is complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) or stable disease (SD) after 4 to 6 courses of treatment, maintenance therapy with toripalimab 240mg/time, every 21 days, until the disease progression or intolerable toxicity. The maximum duration of maintenance treatment is 2 years. Subjects who finished treatment entered the follow-up period and received safety follow-up and survival follow-up.