Study of Pralatrexate to Treat Advanced or Metastatic Relapsed Transitional Cell Carcinoma of the Urinary Bladder
The purpose of this study is to determine whether pralatrexate, given with vitamin B12 and folic acid, is effective in the treatment of advanced or metastatic bladder cancer. The study will also investigate the safety of pralatrexate with vitamin B12 and folic acid in this patient population. Additionally, this study includes the collection of blood samples to investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of pralatrexate in this patient population (PK is the activity of a drug in the body over a period of time, including how the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, localized in the tissues, and excreted from the body).
Carcinoma, Transitional Cell|Bladder Cancer|Bladder Neoplasm
DRUG: Pralatrexate Injection|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin B12|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Folic Acid
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The number of patients with a best overall confirmed response of either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care but no more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended for up to 2 years after enrollment.
Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of time from when tumor measurement criteria were met for CR or PR (whichever status was recorded first) until the first date that recurrent disease or progressive disease (PD) or death was objectively documented. Progression is defined, using RECIST, as an increase in the smallest dimension of any target or non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, since baseline. Calculated for those patients with a best overall confirmed or unconfirmed response of CR or PR., Measured from the first day of documented response for up to 2 years after enrollment.|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), The number of patients with a best confirmed or unconfirmed response of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) for at least 24 weeks (approximately 5.5 months), Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks) or per standard of care, but no more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended, for up to 2 years after enrollment.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Length of time from study day 1 to the date of radiological evidence of PD (date of computed tomography \[CT\] or magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\] scan, whichever indicates PD) or death, regardless of cause., Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care but no more than every 12 weeks (+/- 1 week) if treatment has ended, for up to 2 years after enrollment.|Overall Survival (OS), The number of days from study day 1 to death. Patients who had not died (no record of death) or were lost to follow-up were censored at the date of last contact., Assessed at the end of each even-numbered cycle (every 8 weeks), or per standard of care if treatment has ended (at least every 12 weeks) for up to 2 years after enrollment. After PD or start of subsequent treatment, OS will be assessed every 4 months.
The purpose of this study is to determine whether pralatrexate, given with vitamin B12 and folic acid, is effective in the treatment of advanced or metastatic bladder cancer. The study will also investigate the safety of pralatrexate with vitamin B12 and folic acid in this patient population. Additionally, this study includes the collection of blood samples to investigate the pharmacokinetics (PK) of pralatrexate in this patient population (PK is the activity of a drug in the body over a period of time, including how the drug is absorbed, distributed in the body, localized in the tissues, and excreted from the body).