Study of Tivozanib (AV-951) Plus FOLFOX6 in Subjects With Advanced Colorectal Cancer and Other Gastrointestinal Cancers
The FOLFOX6 regimen is a standard chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of patients with colorectal cancer and other gastrointestinal cancers. Tivozanib (AV-951) is a targeted anti-angiogenesis agent that has demonstrated acceptable tolerability in a phase I clinical trial. This study is designed to test the hypothesis that tivozanib (AV-951) can be combined with standard FOLFOX6 chemotherapy for the treatment of patients with colorectal and other gastrointestinal cancers. The purpose of this study is to determine the maximum dose of tivozanib (AV-951) that can be safely combined with FOLFOX6 chemotherapy, and to evaluate the safety profile, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of this combination.
Colorectal Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
DRUG: Tivozanib (AV-951) plus FOLFOX6
To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of tivozanib (AV-951) in combination with FOLFOX6 chemotherapy., • Minimum of 4 weeks for assessment of tolerability, minimum of 8 weeks (2 consecutive dosing cycles) for assessment of anti-tumor activity. Extended therapy may continue for up to 1 year from the subject's start of Cycle 1.
To characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of tivozanib (AV-951) and FOLFOX6 chemotherapy when administered together, and to assess the antineoplastic activity of the combination of tivozanib (AV-951) and FOLFOX6 chemotherapy., • Minimum of 4 weeks for assessment of tolerability, minimum of 8 weeks (2 consecutive dosing cycles) for assessment of anti-tumor activity. Extended therapy may continue for up to 1 year from the subject's start of Cycle 1.
This is a Phase 1b, open-label, study design that will examine safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of tivozanib (AV-951) and FOLFOX6 in advanced colorectal cancer and other gastrointestinal cancers. In the study, only the doses of tivozanib (AV-951) will be escalated from 0.5 mg/day to 1.5 mg/day. All subjects will receive standard doses of FOLFOX6 chemotherapy every 2 weeks.