Cryotherapy in Treating Patients With Lung Cancer That Has Spread to the Other Lung or Parts of the Body
This pilot clinical trial studies the side effects of cryotherapy (cryoablation \[CA\]) in treating patients with lung cancer. Cryotherapy kills cancer cells by freezing them.
Advanced Malignant Mesothelioma|Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Lung Metastases|Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
PROCEDURE: cryotherapy|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Safety of interventional cryoablation to the lung, Unexpected toxiticities or Grade 4 or 5 toxicities will be recorded and graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., 6 months
Local control measured by imaging, Measure definitions:

* Complete Response(tumor disappearance or less than 25% of original size)
* Partial Response (greater than 30% decrease in the sum of the largest diameter of all targeted tumors)
* stable Disease (less than 30% decrease in the sum of the largest diameter of all targeted tumors)
* Local Failure (greater than 20% increase in the sum of the largest diameter of all targeted tumors)
* Distant Failure (the appearance of distant cancer deposits consistent with metastatic spread of cancer outside the intended treatment area), At 1 year|Changes in Physical function and quality of life, Measured by ECOG and KPS performance status, the Short Form - 12v2 questionnarie and shory physical performance battery, approximately 60 months|Changes in pulmonary function, Measure by pulmonary function test, At 3 months|Obtain pilot data useful for the design of a subsequent phase II or randomized phase II trial, approximately 60 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the initial safety of the CA for lung tumors less than or equal to 3.5 cm in size including acute toxicity (30 days).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate local control.

II. To assess physical function for this cohort of patients.

III. To evaluate the impact of treatment on generic and disease-specific quality of life.

IV. To obtain pilot data useful for the design of a subsequent phase II or randomized phase II trial.

V. Evaluate changes in pulmonary function at 3 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo computed tomography (CT)-guided CA

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 week and 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months.