A Mind-Body Intervention for Hot Flash Management
The long-term goal of this program of research is to determine safe and effective non-hormonal interventions for menopausal symptoms. The main goal of this study is to evaluate whether self-administered hypnosis can be used to significantly reduce hot flashes more than self-administered white noise hypnosis over 6 weeks of home practice. The investigators are also examining the impact of each hypnosis group on sleep, anxiety, perceived and measured stress, heart rate variability, and daily activities.
Hot Flashes|Postmenopausal Symptoms|Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Self-Administered Hypnosis|BEHAVIORAL: Self-Administered White Noise Hypnosis
Hot Flash Daily Diary, Participants completed the Hot Flash Daily Diary (Sloan et al., 2001) every day for 6 weeks to measure the daily frequency and severity (mild, moderate, severe, and very severe) of hot flashes. A total hot flash score was calculated for each participant (product of frequency x severity) after severity ratings were assigned a point value as follows:

* mild = 1
* moderate = 2
* severe = 3
* very severe = 4 The hot flash score was then calculated by multiplying the participants' frequency and severity ratings of hot flashes, divided by the total number of days. A lower score indicates less frequent and/or severe hot flashes., The hot flash daily diary was collected at baseline (week 0), endpoint (week 6) and follow-up (week 12).
Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale, This is a 10-item scale that measures hot flash interference. The Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale asks respondents to rate the degree on a 0 (not at all) - 10 (very much so) scale that the hot flashes interfere with various daily activities as well as overall enjoyment or quality of life. The total score will range from 0-100. The higher the total score, the more likely hot flashes are interfering with the daily activities.This measure has been shown to be valid and internally consistent with Cronbach's alpha of .96., The Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale was completed at Baseline (week 0), at endpoint (week 6) and at follow-up (week 12).|Emotional Distress Anxiety Scale, This 29-item scale measures 5 domains of anxiety: 1) affective, 2)cognitive, 3) somatic, 4) behavioral, and 5) need for treatment. Items are scored on a scale from 1 (never) - 5 (always) with higher scores reflecting more severe anxiety. The total range for this scale is 0-145. This scale has shown excellent convergent and discriminate validity with other measures with a Cronbach's alpha .95., Baseline, 6 & 12 Weeks|Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, This is a 19-item self-report inventory designed to measure sleep disturbance. The 19 items are grouped into 7 sub-scales: 1) sleep quality; 2) sleep efficiency; 3) daytime dysfunction; 4) sleep latency; 5) sleep disturbances; 6) sleep duration; and 7) use of sleep medication.These seven sub-scales are scored on a scale of 0 (better) - 3 (worse) with higher scores indicating greater sleep pathology. The sub-scales are then added for a combined total score ranging from 0 (better) - 21 (worse). Alphas for the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index range from .70 to .80., Baseline, 6, & 12 weeks.|Subject Global Impression of Change, Participants were asked to fill out the Subject Global Impressions of Change at endpoint (week 6) to gauge participants' perceived benefit. The Subject Global Impression of Change is a single item in which the participant rates, from 0 to 4, the change in hot flashes since beginning the study. Response options range from "not at all" (0), "a little" (1), "somewhat" (2), "quite a bit" (3), "totally satisfied" (4). The question used was, "How satisfied are you with the impact of the study treatment on your hot flashes?". This question has been used extensively for determination of minimally clinically significant differences in numerous oncology clinical trials prior to this study., The Subject Global Impressions of Change will be completed only at 6 weeks.|Perceived Stress Scale, This is a 10-item scale that measures the degree to which situations in one's life are appraised as stressful. The scale provides the degree to which individuals find their lives to be unpredictable, uncontrollable, and overloaded, as well as measures the current levels of experienced stress. Items are scored on a scale from 0 (never) - 4(very often) for a total score ranging from 0-40. with higher scores reflecting more perceived stress. This measure has been shown to be valid and internally consistent, with an alpha of .83., Baseline, 6, & 12 weeks
Self-Hypnosis Practice Log, Participants in both groups were given the Self-Hypnosis Practice Log to record daily practice of self-hypnosis or sham hypnosis throughout the 6-week intervention period and at the week 12 follow-up as a measure of intervention adherence. Adherence scores (number of practices per week) were calculated as the total frequency of reported practices according to group assignment in a seven-day period with or without the aid of an audio recording. Average adherence was calculated by averaging the adherence scores of week 1(initiation of study), week 6 (end of intervention), and week 12 (follow-up)., The practice log was completed daily by the participants and submitted to the interventionists at the end of each week throughout the study's duration (weeks one through six) and at follow-up (week 12)."
This randomized, two arm clinical trial will evaluate the efficacy of self-administered hypnosis for the treatment of hot flashes in postmenopausal women using a 1:1 randomization schedule.

Primary Objective

To evaluate the efficacy of the self-administered hypnosis intervention for hot flashes compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis.

Hypothesis 1: Self-administered hypnosis will significantly decrease vasomotor symptoms (hot flash score of frequency and severity) compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 6 weeks.

Secondary Objectives

To evaluate the efficacy of the self-administered hypnosis compared to self-administered white noise hypnosis for hot flash activity interference, sleep disturbance, anxiety and perception of benefit; with the expectation that there will be significant improvements among participants in the self-administered hypnosis group when compared with the self-administered white noise hypnosis group at 6 weeks. The investigators will also evaluate the effects of self-administered hypnosis compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 12 weeks for all secondary outcomes except perception of benefit. Additionally, mediators (perceived stress, cortisol, and heart rate variability (HRV)) and moderators (hypnotizability and practice adherence) of hot flash reduction will be explored.

Hypothesis 2.1: Compared to self-administered white noise hypnosis, the self-administered hypnosis intervention will result in significant improvements in hot flash activity interference, sleep disturbance, and anxiety at 6 and 12 weeks, and perception of benefit at 6 weeks.

Hypothesis 2.2 A decrease in perceived stress will be indicated in the self-administered hypnosis group due to the intervention, which will correspond and contribute to further decrease of the hot flash score at 6 and 12 weeks.

Hypothesis 2.3 Diurnal salivary cortisol will demonstrate better circadian rhythms (steeper slopes) in those with larger hot flash reductions and in the self-administered hypnosis group compared to participants in the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 6 weeks.

Hypothesis 2.4 Self-administration of hypnosis and greater hot flash reductions will result in higher resting and 24-hour parasympathetic activity, reflected as higher HRV at 6 weeks.

Hypothesis 2.5 Higher hypnotizability scores and better adherence rates will be associated with greater reductions in hot flash scores in the self-administered hypnosis group.

Hypothesis 2.6 Self-administered hypnosis will significantly decrease vasomotor symptoms (hot flash score of frequency and severity) compared to the self-administered white noise hypnosis at 12 weeks.

Recruitment Plan

Potential participants will be identified in three ways: postcard mailings and invitation letters; physician referrals and IRB approved chart screening; and flyers, advertisements and press releases. Physician referrals will come primarily from cancer centers at University of Michigan Cancer Center Breast Clinic in Ann Arbor, MI, and the Baylor Scott \& White Health Center in Waco, TX.

At Michigan, key eligibility criteria will be used to identify potential eligible women through the Honest Broker Office. Charts will be further screened, with IRB approval, for eligibility. If eligible, women will be sent an invitation letter where they can opt in or out of being contacted to learn more about the study.

In addition, at Michigan, outreach will occur through obstetrics and gynecology, mammography, and internal medicine clinics to enable recruitment of women without a history of breast cancer. Mass mailings and local advertisement may also be used.

At Baylor University, a successful and proven method of accrual has been the use of mass mailings and local advertisement (e.g. newspaper, magazines, flyers). Additionally, Dr. Elkins is a medical associate with Baylor Scott \& White Health Center, which provides a direct connection with physicians and medical staff who will provide potential referrals.

It is expected that each site (Baylor University and University of Michigan) will recruit approximately half of the participants. Accrual will be closely monitored and efforts to randomize an equal number at each site will be made.

The study coordinators will provide education about the trial and a consent form for review both by phone and at the baseline/consent session. All other education beyond the baseline data collection will be provided at the second session 7-30 days later. Both sessions will be between 45-60 minutes. Sessions will be held at Dr. Barton's and Dr. Elkin's research offices, which each provide privacy, a recliner, a relaxing environment, and convenient parking.