Comparing the Impact of Four Types of Meditation Practices for Relaxation in Cancer Survivors
This clinical trial compares the impact of four types of meditation practices, breathing only, focused attention only, mindfulness only, and breathing, focused attention and mindfulness combined, for relaxation in cancer survivors. Studies show that many patients with cancer experience stress and anxiety. Meditation therapy uses a variety of techniques, such as breathing, sound, or movement, that may help to decrease distress and anxiety and enhance the health and quality of life of patients with cancer. The trial is being done to find out how meditation can help cancer survivors feel relaxed and attain a peaceful state of mind.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Meditation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Meditation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Meditation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Meditation Therapy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Retention rate, Feasibility will be achieved if 70% of all enrolled participants attend at least 5 full visits within 6 weeks. Descriptive statistics will be generated., Up to 6 weeks|Adherence rate, Feasibility will be achieved if 70% of all enrolled participants complete all assessments of the program within 6 weeks. Descriptive statistics will be generated., Up to 6 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Assess the feasibility to attend and complete the meditation program as scheduled (combined arms) within six weeks.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the ability of breathing, mindfulness, focused attention, and a combination of all three meditation techniques to enhance relaxation in cancer survivors.

II. Determine which meditation technique improves the outcome measures the most.

III. Explore which meditation method is preferred by the subjects.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 arms.

ARM I: Patients learn breathing only meditation with an instructor over 60 minutes for 3 sessions within 6 weeks. Patients also practice meditation at home and undergo saliva sample collection on study.

ARM II: Patients learn focused attention only meditation with an instructor over 60 minutes for 3 sessions within 6 weeks. Patients also practice meditation at home and undergo saliva sample collection on study.

ARM III: Patients learn mindfulness only meditation with an instructor over 60 minutes for 3 sessions within 6 weeks. Patients also practice meditation at home and undergo saliva sample collection on study.

ARM IV: Patients learn breathing, focused attention, and mindfulness combined meditation with an instructor over 60 minutes for 3 sessions within 6 weeks. Patients also practice meditation at home and undergo saliva sample collection on study.