Phase II Study of 5-Day Hypofractionated Preoperative Radiation Therapy for Soft Tissue Sarcomas: Expansion Cohort
This phase II trial studies the side effects of hypofractionated radiation therapy in treating patients with soft tissue sarcomas prior to surgery. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects.
Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery|RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Grade >= 2 radiation morbidity (subcutaneous tissue fibrosis, joint stiffness, or edema), Interim reports will be prepared every six months until the results of the study are published. In general, the interim reports will contain information about patient accrual rate with projected completion dates, status of question-answer (QA) review and compliance rate of treatment per protocol, and the frequencies and severity of toxicity., Up to 2 years
Distant metastasis, Cumulative incidence approach (K-M plots and Cox proportional hazard modeling) will be used., Up to 3 years|Local failure, Cumulative incidence approach (Kaplan-Meier \[K-M\] plots and Cox proportional hazard modeling) will be used., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, Cumulative incidence approach (K-M plots and Cox proportional hazard modeling) will be used., Up to 3 years|Progression free survival, Cumulative incidence approach (K-M plots and Cox proportional hazard modeling) will be used., Up to 3 years|Regional failure, Cumulative incidence approach (K-M plots and Cox proportional hazard modeling) will be used., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJCETIVES:

I. Grade \>= 2 radiation morbidity (subcutaneous tissue fibrosis, joint stiffness, or edema) at 2 years.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate local control, regional control, distant metastasis, progression free survival, and overall survival.

II. Evaluate the functional outcomes as assessed using the musculoskeletal tumor rating scale (MSTS) and the Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS).

III. Collect germ-line deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and nucleic acids from cancer patients to further investigate the association and identify new germ-line mutations that impact cancer predisposition.

IV. Investigate the role of germ-line mutations in predicting cancer outcome and response to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy on Monday-Friday for 5 days. Beginning 2-12 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients undergo surgery.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 months and then every 6 months for 5 years.