Concurrent Chemoradiation With Concomitant Boost In Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
Neoadjuvant chemoradiation (CRT), is considered the standard treatment of locally advanced rectal cancer with a positive impact on locoregional control and survival.However, patients with T4 rectal cancer show high risk of local recurrence after conventional treatment. Therefore investigators designed a prospective Phase II study on patients with locally advanced rectal cancer or locally recurrences, to evaluate the efficacy in terms of pathological response and resectability of concomitant boost RT (55 Gy/5 weeks) with concurrent Raltitrexed and Oxaliplatin (Tom-Ox) chemotherapy.
Rectal Neoplasms
RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Tom-OX
Number of patients defined as good responders (G1 or G2) according to the Mandard regression grading system., Pathologic responses of the primary tumours were defined according to the Mandard regression grading system: grade 1 was recorded when no tumour cells remained in the primary tumour and lymph nodes (pCR); grade 2 was characterized by the presence of rare residual cancer cells scattered through the fibrosis; grade 3 was characterized by an increase in the number of residual cancer cells, but fibrosis still predominated; grade 4 showed residual cancer outgrowing fibrosis; and grade 5 was characterized by an absence of regressive changes. Good responders were defined those patients with a pathologic response with Mandard G1 or G2 and poor responder patients with Mandard G3, G4 or G5., 8 weeks after chemo-radiotherapy
Number of patients in which a surgical resection was feasible, 8 weeks after chemo-radiotherapy|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v3.0, CTCAE v 3.0 was used to score acute and late radiation toxicity., Up to 36 months. In details, follow-up examinations were performed 4 weeks after surgery and every 6 months until the established length of follow-up or death.|The number of patients without disease (i.e. rectal cancer) during the follow-up., The disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as the time from the diagnosis to the documented local or distant recurrence or last follow-up., Up to 36 months.|The number of patients still alive at the end of follow-up, The overall-survival (OS) was defined as the time from the diagnosis until death for any cause or the last follow-up., Up to 36 months
Neoadjuvant chemoradiation (CRT), is considered the standard treatment of locally advanced rectal cancer with a positive impact on locoregional control and survival. However, patients with T4 rectal cancer show high risk of local recurrence (LR) after conventional treatment. This was a prospective Phase II study on patients with locally advanced rectal cancer or locally recurrences, to evaluate the efficacy in terms of pathological response and resectability of concomitant boost RT (55 Gy/5 weeks) with concurrent Raltitrexed and Oxaliplatin (Tom-Ox) chemotherapy. The primary aim was to assess the pathological complete response rate. Key secondary aim was the resectability. Secondary aims were evaluation of treatment-related acute and late toxicity, local control, disease-free survival and overall survival (OS). The follow-up period of each subjects started after the radiochemotherapy treatment and ended after a maximum of 36 months of observation or until death.