CD22/CD19 CAR-T and Auto-HSCT Sandwich Strategy as Consolidation Therapy for B-ALL
Chimeric antigen receptor T-cell (CAR-T) therapy has achieved remarkable efficacy in B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). However, relapse after CAR-T has been a major issue. Multi-antigen CAR T and combination with other regimens may reduce the relapse rate. The investigators first conducted CD22/CD19 CAR T-cells and auto-HSCT "sandwich " strategy as consolidation therapy in patients with B-ALL. The main Purpose of this study was to observe the safety and efficacy of this new strategy.
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: CD22/CD19 CAR T and auto-HSCT "sandwich" strategy
Overall survival (OS), It is measured from the date of the first CAR-T (CAR-T 1) to the date of death from any cause; subjects not known to have died at last follow-up are censored on the date they were last known to be alive, 2 years
Leukemia-free survival (LFS), It is measured from the date of achievement of a remission after CAR-T 1 until the date of relapse from CR, or CRi, or death from any cause; subjects not known to have any of these events are censored on the date they were last examined., 2 years|Measurable residual disease (MRD) negative rate and duration, MRD is detected by flow cytometry (FC-MRD) and second-generation gene sequencing of IgH rearrangement (NGS-MRD) after the first CAR-T (CAR-T 1) . FC-MRD negative is defined as MRD\<10-4 and NGS-MRD negative is defined as MRD\<10-6., 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be assessed according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 5.0 (CTCAE5.0) after the first CAR-T (CAR-T 1) ., 2 years
Difference in 2-year LFS between the sandwich strategy treatment and external allo-HSCT control group, 2-year LFS and 95%CI will be calculated for the sandwich strategy treatment group and external allo-HSCT control group, Log-rank P value will be provided for group comparison result., 2 years|Difference in 2-year OS between the sandwich strategy treatment and external allo-HSCT control group, 2-year OS and 95%CI will be calculated for the sandwich strategy treatment group and external allo-HSCT control group, Log-rank P value will be provided for group comparison result., 2 years
The patients received sequential infusion of CD22 and CD19 CAR-T cells (co-stimulatory molecule was 4-1BB and infusion dose was 5\*10\^6/kg respectively,CAR-T1) after standard induction and consolidation chemotherapy. Autologous stem cells mobilization and collection were performed 6-8 weeks after CAR-T infusion. Standard BuCy as conditioning regimen for Auto-HSCT was used 4 weeks after successful stem cell collection. CD22 and CD19 CAR-T cells were re-infused 2 days after Auto-HSCT(CAR-T2). Patients were followed up and minimal residual diseases (MRD) was monitored by flow cytometry and second-generation gene sequencing of IgH rearrangement.