Impact of a Sensory Rehabilitation Program on Olfactory-gustatory Alterations in Patients Treated With Chemotherapy for Haematological Cancer
Proposition of a sensory rehabilitation program that could reduce the olfactory-gustatory alterations in patients who have been treated with chemotherapy for Haematological Cancer, and also improve their life quality, psychological well-being, and nutrition.
Multiple Myeloma|Olfactivo-gustatory Disorder|Lymphoma|Haematological Cancer
OTHER: Multifactorial sensory rehabilitation workshops|OTHER: Usual care|OTHER: Tests and Questionnaire
Assessment of the olfactometry, Evolution of the Score of the "Sniffin'sticks" test from the initial score (V0), which itself includes an olfactory discrimination, olfactory threshold and olfactory identification score (with a cut-off of ≤ 15 for anosmia, ≥ for normonosmia and hypoanosmia for a score between 15 and 30), 3 months
Assessment of the gustometry, Score in the "Taste Strips" test, Hypoageusia scores being for participants aged 18 to 40, \<19 for women and \<17 for men; for participants aged 41 to 60, score \<15 for women and 9 for men; for participants over 60, score \<10.2 for women and \<9 for men, up to 6 months|Variation of Taste and Smell Survey score, Variation of the taste and Smell Survey score, up to 6 months|Assessment of the Quality of life, Quality of life scores, obtained on the FACT-G scale. This is a 27-point self-administered questionnaire that measures the quality of life of patients with cancer. The FACT-G measures physical, functional, social / family factors, and emotional well-being as well as physician / patient relationship satisfaction and concerns. All items are rated on a 5-point Likert scale based on the week prior to the assessment., Up to 6 months|Assessment of the Psychological distress, The psychological distress score objectified by the Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS). This self-questionnaire, validated in French, contains 14 items. It is simple, sensitive and specific. It has been validated in cancer patients, that it is rapid (completion time around 5 minutes), and allows the calculation of 2 sub-scores for anxiety and depression in addition to an overall level. Finally, this tool is sensitive to changes both during the course of medical illnesses and in response to psychopharmacological interventions., u pto 6 months|Assessment of the physical activity, assessed by the score at GPAQ scale (Bull, Maslin, \& Armstrong, 2009), up to 6 months|Variation of the patient weight, assessed by BMI between the beginning and the end of the study, up to 6 months
Disturbances in taste and smell affect a considerable proportion of patients treated with chemotherapy. In hematology, dysgeusia depends on the type pathology and the treatments themselves. It impacts the quality of life, leads to significant emotional and social consequences, affects the intake, weight and nutritional status of patients.

Olfactory-taste disorders can be assessed using subjective and objective tests. There are no international clinical recommendations for the management of taste and olfactory disturbances associated with chemotherapy in hematological cancers. Also, this study proposes to evaluate a taste and olfaction rehabilitation program based on national standards and recent research. It will help fill gaps in the assessment and management of patients treated for Haematological cancer.

Hypothesis is that this sensory rehabilitation program should make it possible to reduce the olfactory-gustatory changes in patients who have been treated with Chemotherapy for Haematological cancer and significantly improve their quality of life, their psychological well-being and their nutrition.