Irinotecan Plus Lobaplatin Versus Irinotecan in the Second-line Treatment of Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II study compare survival outcomes and toxicity of two chemotherapy regimens (irinotecan plus lobaplatin or irinotecan) for the second-line treatment of recurrent small-cell lung cancer.
Small-cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: irinotecan plus lobaplatin|DRUG: irinotecan
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor Response will be evaluated using the RECIST 1.1 criteria.ORR is Partial response (PR) and complete response (CR)., >4 weeks post treatment
Treatment toxicities, To assess and record nausea, vomiting, hematologic toxicity,and other treantment complications by CTCAE v4.0, up to 12 months|Progression-free survival(PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., up to 12 months|Overall survival(OS), Overall survival is defined as the time interval from date of diagnosis to date of death from any cause, up to 12 months
The most widely applied first-line treatment mode for small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) patients was chemotherapy as initial treatment. Etoposide with cisplatin or carboplatin were considered the standard first-line regimen in SCLC. As for second-line chemotherapy, single regimen irinotecan or a combined regimen containing irinotecan were one of preferred regiems. While there still is no consensus on second-line therapy. Clinical studies have demonstrated that the combination of irinotecan and carboplatin or cisplatin did not improve outcome in recurrent SCLC patients compared with irinotecan alone. One of the main reasons is that carboplatin or cisplatin has been used in the first-line treatment, and SCLC showed cross-resistance to carboplatin and cisplatin.

Lobaplatin is a platinum complex with DNA alkylating activity that was developed by ASTA Medica (Degussa) for the treatment of cancer. Lobaplatin as the third-generation platinum antineoplastic agent, showed promising antineoplastic effects in variety of preclinical test tumor models, which overcomes some forms of cisplatin or carboplatin resistance in preclinical tumour models. Retrospective studies also have demonstrated the efficacy of Lobaplatin in patients with relapsed SCLC. Thus, we perform this randomized study to compare the efficacy and safety of irinotecan plus lobaplatin versus irinotecan in patients recurrent SCLC.