Pembrolizumab and EV With Radiation Therapy for MIBC Patients (PEVRAD)
This study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of induction therapy with MK-3475 and ASG-22CE and radiation therapy with MK-3475 in patients with cT2-4aN0M0 muscle invasive bladder cancer who are unfit for or refuse radical cystectomy.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: MK-3475|DRUG: ASG-22CE|PROCEDURE: maximal TURBT|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Bladder Intact Event-Free Survival (BI-EFS) rate, To evaluate bladder intact event-free survival (BI-EFS) rate at 2 year after study enrollment assessed by cystoscopy, cytology, biopsy results by central pathology review, and imaging evaluation., 2 years
Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) Rate at 38 weeks, The pathologic complete response rate is based on the central pathology review of tumor bed biopsies performed at 38 weeks and the results of imaging studies performed by each institution., 38 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from study enrollment to death from any cause., 2 years|Metastasis-Free Survival (MFS), Metastasis-free survival is defined as the time from study enrollment to the first documented evidence of nodal or distant metastases as assessed by CT of chest and CTU or MRU of the abdomen and pelvis and/or biopsy results assessed by central pathology review, or death from any cause. If biopsy is not feasible due to participant safety, the imaging alone will be sufficient., 2 years|Number of participants who experienced an adverse event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experience an AE will be presented., 2 years|Number of participants who discontinued study intervention due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., 2 years|Change from Baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome. The change from baseline in Global Health Status/Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2years|Change from Baseline in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a better quality of life. The change from baseline in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2years|Change from Baseline in Urinary, Bowel, and Sexual Domains of the Bladder Cancer Index (BCI), The BCI is a validated, condition-specific health questionnaire assessing quality of life among participants with bladder cancer. The BCI contains 36 items which assess 3 domains (urinary, bowel, and sexual) with function and bother subdomains. Scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores corresponding to better functioning and health-related quality of life. The change from baseline in the combined scores of the urinary, bowel, and sexual domains of the BCI will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2years|Change from Baseline in the Visual Analog Score (VAS) of the European Quality of Life (EuroQoL)-5 Dimensions, 5-level Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a 10 cm vertical, visual analogue scale. It is rated by the respondent on a scale 0 to 100, with 0 being "the worst health you can imagine" and 100 being "the best health you can imagine". The change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L VAS will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 2years|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). A higher score indicates a better overall outcome. TTD in Global Health Status/Quality of Life is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a 10 point or greater decrease from baseline in the Global Health Status/Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30) combined score, with or without subsequent confirmation., 2 years|TTD in Physical Functioning (Items 1-5) Combined Score on the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). A higher score indicates a better quality of life. TTD in Physical Functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) combined score is defined as the time from baseline (at randomization) to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease with confirmation by the subsequent visit of a ≥10-point decrease in physical functioning Items 1 to 5 scale scores., 2 years|TTD in Urinary, Bowel, and Sexual Domains of the BCI, The BCI is a validated, condition-specific health questionnaire assessing quality of life among participants with bladder cancer. The BCI contains 36 items which assess 3 domains (urinary, bowel, and sexual) with function and bother subdomains. Scores range from 0 to 100 with higher scores corresponding to better functioning and health-related quality of life. TTD in BCI is defined as a 6, 7, and 7 points or greater worsening from baseline for urinary, bowel, and sexual domains, respectively, with or without subsequent confirmation, under a right-censoring rule., 2 years|TTD in the VAS of the EQ-5D-5L, The EQ-5D-5L VAS records the respondent's self-rated health on a 10 cm vertical, visual analogue scale. It is rated by the respondent on a scale 0 to 100, with 0 being "the worst health you can imagine" and 100 being "the best health you can imagine". TTD in EQ-5D-5L VAS is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a 7 point or greater decrease from baseline in EQ-5D-5L VAS, with or without subsequent confirmation, under a right-censoring rule., 2 years
This study is designed to assess the efficacy and safety of induction therapy with MK-3475 and ASG-22CE and radiation therapy with MK-3475 in patients with cT2-4aN0M0 muscle invasive bladder cancer who are unfit for or refuse radical cystectomy.