A Phase I, Open-label, Study of Pazopanib in Combination With Gemcitabine and Gemcitabine Plus Cisplatin for Advanced Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, two-arm, Phase I, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine the optimal tolerated regimen(OTR) of pazopanib in combination with gemcitabine (Arm A) or pazopanib, gemcitabine, and cisplatin (Arm B) in patients with advanced solid tumors. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 to receive escalating doses of pazopanib and gemcitabine or pazopanib, gemcitabine and cisplatin. Dose escalation schemas for each study arm are described in the protocol. For each arm, the OTR will be defined as the highest dose combination of the agents where no more than one out of six patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity. Six to twelve additional patients in each arm will be studied with the OTR to evaluate toxicity and pharmacokinetics. This will allow an assessment of potential drug-drug interactions. Antitumor activity will be assessed using RECIST criteria.
Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell
DRUG: Pazopanib (GW786034)|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Optimum tolerated regimen (OTR) for each regimen in each arm of the study. OTR determined evaluation of AEs and change in lab values. OTR defined as the highest dosing regimen that results in dose limiting toxicity in no more than 1 of 6 subjects, Until disease progression
Anti-tumor activity evaluated using RECIST criteria (if subjects have measurable disease). Assessments of disease every 6 to 12 weeks, recorded as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) or progressive disease (PD)., Until Disease progression|Pharmacokinetic parameters AUC(0-24), Cmax, and tmax of pazopanib, gemcitabine, and ultrafilterable platinum., Dose Expansion - Cycle; Dose-Expansion Cycle 2|Levels of circulating cytokine and angiogenic factors (CAF) biomarkers (such as IL 2, IL-10, VEGF, sVEGFR2) in plasma will be determined, Day 1 of each cycle until disease progression|Genetic variants in select candidate genes in the host DNA will be evaluated, Day 1 of first cycle
This is an open-label, two-arm, Phase I, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine the optimal tolerated regimen(OTR) of pazopanib in combination with gemcitabine (Arm A) or pazopanib, gemcitabine, and cisplatin (Arm B) in patients with advanced solid tumors. Patients will be enrolled in cohorts of 3 to receive escalating doses of pazopanib and gemcitabine or pazopanib, gemcitabine and cisplatin. Dose escalation schemas for each study arm are described in the protocol. For each arm, the OTR will be defined as the highest dose combination of the agents where no more than one out of six patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity. Six to twelve additional patients in each arm will be studied with the OTR to evaluate toxicity and pharmacokinetics. This will allow an assessment of potential drug-drug interactions. Antitumor activity will be assessed using RECIST criteria.