Preclinical Validation of New Anti-melanoma Compounds
This research program is in keeping with the chemistry/biology/clinical interface and gathers 4 teams with complementary expertise in these respective fields. It will allow deciphering the mechanism(s) of action of new Thiazole-Benzenesulfonamide family (TZB) derivatives on metastatic melanoma sensitive and resistant to BRAF and MEK inhibitors. Investigators will use melanoma cell lines and primary cells from patients to validate these compounds in collaboration with clinical team 2 and 4. In conclusion, the investigators expect to establish the proof of concept that this new class of bioactive molecules (first in class) we developed in collaboration with Team 3 have the potential to go to the clinic for the treatment of highly aggressive cancers and particularly metastatic melanoma sensitive and resistant B-Raf and MEK inhibitors. Furthermore, the realization of this project can undoubtedly increase the knowledge of mechanisms and signaling pathways that are involved in resistant to BRAF and MEK inhibitors, and allow the selection of drug candidates capable of restoring the sensitivity of these melanoma cells.
Melanoma
BRAF mutation, The status of the BRAF mutation will be expressed through laboratory analysis of the samples collected, i.e. positive or negative., 24 months
This research program is in keeping with the chemistry/biology/clinical interface and gathers 4 teams with complementary expertise in these respective fields. It will allow deciphering the mechanism(s) of action of new Thiazole-Benzenesulfonamide family (TZB) derivatives on metastatic melanoma sensitive and resistant to BRAF and MEK inhibitors. Investigators will use melanoma cell lines and primary cells from patients to validate these compounds in collaboration with clinical team 2 and 4. In conclusion, the investigators expect to establish the proof of concept that this new class of bioactive molecules (first in class) we developed in collaboration with Team 3 have the potential to go to the clinic for the treatment of highly aggressive cancers and particularly metastatic melanoma sensitive and resistant B-Raf and MEK inhibitors. Furthermore, the realization of this project can undoubtedly increase the knowledge of mechanisms and signaling pathways that are involved in resistant to BRAF and MEK inhibitors, and allow the selection of drug candidates capable of restoring the sensitivity of these melanoma cells.