Peposertib and Radiation Therapy, Followed by Temozolomide for the Treatment of Patients With Newly Diagnosed MGMT Unmethylated Glioblastoma or Gliosarcoma
This phase I trial investigates the side effects and best dose of Peposertib, and to see how well it works in combination with radiation therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed MGMT unmethylated glioblastoma or gliosarcoma. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Peposertib may further stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Chemotherapy drugs, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving Peposertib with radiation therapy may work better than radiation therapy alone in treating patients with glioblastoma or gliosarcoma.
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
DRUG: Peposertib|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Resection|DRUG: Temozolomide
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (Stage I), Will employ the Bayesian optimal interval to find the MTD., Within the first 10 weeks of study treatment|Ability of Peposertib (M3814) to cross the blood brain barrier (Stage II), Ability of the investigational drug to cross the blood brain barrier will be tested by measuring concentration of the drug within the blood and the resected brain tumor tissue. This will be correlated with biomarkers of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage in brain tumor tissue, blood, and hair follicle., At 1, 2, and 4 hours after drug administration on fraction day 1 and at pre-dose and 1, 2, and 4 hours after drug administration on fraction day 10
Dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) (Stage I), A DLT is defined as a clinically significant adverse event considered at least possibly related to M3814 in combination with radiation during the first 10 weeks of study treatment (4 weeks after completion of radiation and DNA damage response \[DDR\] inhibitors) for both stage I and stage II patients., Within the first 10 weeks of study treatment|Overall response rate (Stage I), Up to 3 years|Median progression-free survival (Stage I), From study enrollment until time of first occurrence of disease progression, relapse, or death due to disease, assessed up to 3 years|Median overall survival (Stage I), Up to 3 years|Overall response rate (Stage II), Up to 3 years|Median progression-free survival (Stage II), Progression-free survival will be evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit survival curve methodology and will be compared to historical controls. Median progression free survival will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier estimates and associated two-sided 95% confidence intervals., From study enrollment until time of first occurrence of disease progression, relapse, or death due to disease, assessed up to 3 years|Median overall survival (Stage II), Overall survival will be evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier product-limit survival curve methodology and will be compared to historical controls., Up to 3 years
Pharmacodynamic properties of M3814, Blood and hair follicle will be obtained from stage I \& II patients during the screening period, on days 8-12 of concurrent radiation and M3814, and on the last day of radiation and at disease progression. Logistic regression will be used to explore the correlations between response rates and correlative markers. Changes in correlative markers over time will be analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank tests for pairs of times and linear mixed effects models more generally. Data graphs will be generated to visualize data distributions as well as relationships between variables., Up to 3 years|Alterations in tumor immune microenvironment, Will assess the alterations in tumor immune microenvironment as a result of deoxyribonucleic acid-dependent protein kinase inhibition. Logistic regression will be used to explore the correlations between response rates and correlative markers. Changes in correlative markers over time will be analyzed by Wilcoxon signed rank tests for pairs of times and linear mixed effects models more generally. Data graphs will be generated to visualize data distributions as well as relationships between variables., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Peposertib (M3814) in combination with standard of care radiation dose (60 Gy, 2 Gy/fraction over 6 weeks) in patients with newly diagnosed MGMT unmethylated glioblastoma (GBM). (Stage I) II. To determine the ability of M3814 to cross the blood brain barrier and to evaluate their pharmacodynamic properties in resected tissue. (Stage II)

SECONDARY AND EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the dose limiting toxicities (DLT). (Stage I) (Secondary Objective) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), median progression free survival (mPFS) and median overall survival (mOS) of M3814 in combination with radiation. (Stage I) (Secondary Objective) II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), median progression free survival (mPFS) and median overall survival (mOS) of M3814 in combination with radiation. (Stage II) (Exploratory Objective)

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pharmacodynamic properties of M3814. II. To assess the alterations in tumor immune microenvironment as a result of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) inhibition.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of Peposertib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 stages.

STAGE I (CONCURRENT): Patients undergo standard of care radiation therapy daily (Monday-Friday) for 30 fractions. Patients also receive Peposertib orally (PO) on each day of radiation therapy and given 1-2 hours before each treatment fraction. Treatment continues for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

STAGE I (ADJUVANT): Patients receive temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

STAGE II (CONCURRENT): Patients receive Peposertib and undergo standard of care radiation therapy as in Stage I. Within 1-14 days after the completion of radiation therapy, patients undergo surgical resection.

STAGE II (ADJUVANT): Patients receive temozolomide as in Stage I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.