Multicentre Placebo-controlled Double-blinded Phase II Study of Lenvatinib Efficacy in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic GIST (Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor) After Imatinib/Sunitinib Failure
The primary objective is to compare the efficacy of lenvatinib plus Best Supportive Care versus Placebo plus Best Supportive Care in the treatment of patients with advanced GIST, after failure of imatinib and sunitinib.
Gastro Intestinal Stromal Tumour
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo|OTHER: Best supportive care
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS, defined as the time from the date of randomisation to the date of the first documented radiological progression (RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause.

PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and will be described in terms of median PFS per arm, and hazard ratio for progression between the 2 arms. Associated 2-sided 95% CI for the estimates will be provided., Up to 30 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS, is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until the date of death due to any cause. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis will be censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive., Up to 30 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) for patient in the blinded part of the study, ORR, is the proportion of patients with a Complete Response or Partial Response as Best Overall Response., Up to 30 months|Best Overall Response (BOR) for patient in the blinded part of the study, BOR, is described as the proportion of patients with a best overall response of Complete Response, Partial Response, Stable Disease or Progressive Disease., Up to 30 months|Quality of Life (QoL) for patient in the blinded part of the study, QoL, will be assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30. Scores will be calculated at each time point according to the scoring manuals. Descriptive statistics will be used to evaluate baseline scores and evolution of scores from baseline to each time point. Data will be compared between arms using the Student's t-test., Up to 30 months|Patient's tolerance to treatment, The safety will be described mainly on the frequency of adverse events coded using the common toxicity criteria (NCI-CTCAE v5.0) grade. Descriptive statistics will be provided for characterizing and assessing patient tolerance to treatment. Adverse events will be coded according to the MedDRA®., Up to 30 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) In patients from the placebo arm who switched into the active treatment group, OS, is defined as the time from the date of randomisation until the date of death due to any cause. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis will be censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive., Up to 30 months
Mutation profile : KIT, Determined by immunohistochemistry (archival formalin fixed paraffin embedded tumor sample), Inclusion|Mutation profile: PDGFR, Determined by immunohistochemistry (archival formalin fixed paraffin embedded tumor sample), Inclusion|Pharmacokinetic properties of lenvatinib for patient in the blinded part of the study, Trough levels of lenvatinib, Inclusion, Day 1 of cycles 2, 3, 4, 5, up to 12 months (28 days cycle)
Even though the prognosis of advanced GIST has been tremendously improved by the introduction of tyrosine kinase inhibitors, the vast majority of patients will develop secondary resistance to these agents.

The therapeutic options of patients with advanced GIST with resistance (or intolerance) to imatinib and sunitinib remain then very limited and prognosis of patients are very poor.

Nilotinib has an inferior activity in first line setting as compared to imatinib. Sorafenib has been evaluated in off-label and compassionate use studies with a median PFS close to 3 to 4 months, and a median overall survival close to 9 months with few prolonged tumor control and limited availability.

Regorafenib was tested in a phase II and a randomized phase III trial (GRID) in this setting , and provided a significant PFS advantage with no significant improvement in OS.

There are no recognized standard options in patients whose tumors progress after 3 or more TKIs. The recently updated guidelines from ESMO in 2014, included the reintroduction of imatinib in an attempt to control the progression of the sensitive cell clones, and on the basis of the results of the RIGHT study.

This is therefore a situation with a clear unmet medical need.

Lenvatinib is a broad spectrum TKI targeting oncogenes KIT and RET and receptor tyrosine kinases, PDGFRA, VEGFR 1-3 and FGFR 1-4. It has demonstrated activity in iodine resistant metastatic thyroid cancers. Whether lenvatinib would be a useful agent in patients with GIST is not known but there is a rationale to investigate its activity in patients with advanced GIST.

In the present study, we propose to analyze the antitumor activity of lenvatinib in patients with GIST failing to at least imatinib and sunitinib in a randomized setting, vs placebo.