Ganetespib, Paclitaxel, Trastuzumab and Pertuzumab for Metastatic Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 Positive Breast Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ganetespib when given with paclitaxel, trastuzumab and pertuzumab in treating patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive (HER2+) metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: ganetespib|DRUG: paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: trastuzumab|BIOLOGICAL: pertuzumab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase II dose of ganetespib plus paclitaxel plus trastuzumab and pertuzumab, 28 days
Objective Response Rate, Defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response or partial response assessed based on Response evaluation criteria in solid tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., Up to 2 years|Clinical benefit rate, Defined as the percentage of patients who have achieved complete response, partial response, or stable disease for at least 24 weeks assessed based on RECIST 1.1., Up to 2 years|Duration of response, The duration of response is measured from the time of response to disease progression., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), The median time of progression-free survival will be calculated., Up to 2 years
PK parameters of paclitaxel (such as area under the curve and maximum concentration), Will be examined descriptively to evaluate the effect of ganetespib on the paclitaxel absorption., Pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2, 4, 7, 21, 24, 27, and 31 hours
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ganetespib when given with paclitaxel, trastuzumab, pertuzumab in treating patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 positive (HER2+) breast cancer that has spread to other places in the body and usually cannot be cured or controlled with treatment (advanced) or has returned after a period of improvement (metastatic). HER2+ describes cancer cells that have too much of a protein called HER2 on their surface. In normal cells, HER2 helps to control cell growth. When it is made in larger than normal amounts by cancer cells, the cells may grow more quickly and be more likely to spread to other parts of the body.

Ganetespib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab and pertuzumab, bind to HER2+ cancer cells and may kill them. Giving ganetespib with paclitaxel, trastuzumab, and pertuzumab may be a better treatment for patients with HER2+ breast cancer.

This phase I study has two parts. During the first part of this study, patients with HER2+ MBC receive trastuzumab in combination with ganetespib and paclitaxel to evaluate the safety, toxicity and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of this triplet regimen. There are dose escalations for ganetespib. Paclitaxel and trastuzumab are administered at standard doses without escalation. Part 1 is ongoing.

During the second part of this study, pertuzumab at standard dose will be added to the triplet regimen of ganetespib, paclitaxel and trastuzumab, using the MTD of ganetespib determined in part one. The MTD of ganetespib and the safety of the four-drug regimen will be evaluated. The MTD for ganetespib in combination with paclitaxel and trastuzumab is 150 mg/m2.