Tobacco Use Intervention Among Radiation Oncology Patients
Tobacco prevention and intervention strategies in the general population are ongoing and evolving. However, strategies to help cancer patients overcome tobacco dependence have been limited. Radiation oncology patients who continue to smoke despite their cancer diagnosis have a lower quality of life (QOL), increased frequency and severity of side effects during their cancer treatment, higher risks of developing a smoking-related primary cancer, and may have a poorer survival rate than their non-smoking counterparts. These are all compelling reasons to be more pro-active in helping cancer patients stop smoking. The overall objective of this project is to adapt a model of an effective tobacco use intervention that can be delivered by any trained radiation oncologist and their staff.
Tobacco Use Disorder
OTHER: Behavioral and pharmacologic tobacco use intervention
The primary aim is to pilot test the intervention in radiation oncology patients (N=30). The primary dependent measure is self-reported 7-day point prevalence tobacco abstinence confirmed with expired air carbon monoxide., 6 months
We will be collecting data on QOL and psychosocial measures. This data will be reported descriptively and will be collected on our future study with appropriate statistical analyses., 6 months
Tobacco prevention and intervention strategies in the general population are ongoing and evolving. However, strategies to help cancer patients overcome tobacco dependence have been limited. Radiation oncology patients who continue to smoke despite their cancer diagnosis have a lower quality of life (QOL), increased frequency and severity of side effects during their cancer treatment, higher risks of developing a smoking-related primary cancer, and may have a poorer survival rate than their non-smoking counterparts. These are all compelling reasons to be more pro-active in helping cancer patients stop smoking. The overall objective of this project is to adapt a model of an effective tobacco use intervention that can be delivered by any trained radiation oncologist and their staff.