Interpretability of the Quantra® Viscoelastic Test in Patients With Haematological Malignancies With Profound Thrombocytopenia Below 50x10 G/L.
The goal of this single-center, non-controlled, non-randomized exploratory clinical trial is to evaluate the interpretability of viscoelastic tests (Quantra® and ROTEM® type) in relation to platelet levels measured in standard biology in patients with haematological malignancies, hospitalized in day hospitals or full hematology wards, presenting thrombocytopenia strictly below 50 G/L.

Participants will undergo an additional blood sample to standard care. The total volume of blood drawn will be 12.1 mL. The following analyses will be performed: Quantra®, Rotem®, blood count, platelets, immature platelet count, plasma prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, International Normalized Ratio, fibrinogen.
Hematologic Malignancies|Thrombopenia
OTHER: Blood sample
Evaluate the correlation between Quantra® (Clot firmness) and conventional biology results in patients with hematologic malignancies with platelet counts strictly below 50 G/L., Correlation coefficient (r²) and its 95% confidence interval (IC95) between patients' platelet levels obtained by conventional biology and Clot firmness (CS) obtained with Quantra®., At baseline, before platelet transfusion|Evaluate the correlation between Quantra® (Platelet contribution to clot) and conventional biology results in patients with hematologic malignancies with platelet counts strictly below 50 G/L., Correlation coefficient (r²) and its 95% confidence interval (IC95) between patients' platelet levels obtained by conventional biology and Platelet contribution to clot (PCS) obtained with Quantra®., At baseline, before platelet transfusion
Evaluate the correlation between ROTEM® results and conventional biology results in patients with hematologic malignancies with platelet counts strictly below 50 G/L., Correlation coefficients (r²) and its 95% confidence interval (IC95) between patients' platelet levels obtained in conventional biology and the following measurements obtained in ROTEM® :

1. MCFextem
2. MCFfibtem
3. CTextem
4. MCEplatelets With MCEplatelets = \[(100 × MCFextem)/(100 - MCFextem)\] - \[(100 × MCFfibtem)/(100 - MCFfibtem)\], At baseline, before platelet transfusion|Evaluate the correlation between Quantra® or ROTEM® results and platelet levels in the subpopulations of interest: patients with 0 to 9 G/L, 10 to 19 G/L and 20 to 49 G/L platelets., Stratify correlation analyses and their r² coefficients (IC95) on thrombocytopenia depth into three groups:

1. 0 to 9 G/L
2. 10 to 19 G/L
3. 20 to 49 G/L, At baseline, before platelet transfusion|To assess the correlation between Quantra® or ROTEM® results and platelet levels in the subpopulations of interest: patients with bleeding and patients without bleeding., Stratify correlation analyses and their r² coefficients (IC95) on the presence or absence of bleeding at inclusion., At baseline, before platelet transfusion|Evaluate the correlation between Quantra® and ROTEM® results., Matrix of correlation coefficients (r²) and IC95 between Quantra® and ROTEM® values., At baseline, before platelet transfusion|Describe changes in Quantra®, ROTEM® and other hemostasis parameters after platelet transfusion in thrombocytopenic patients transfused as part of routine care., Quantitative evolution of Quantra® (CS and PCS), ROTEM® (MCFextem MCFfibtem, CTextem, MCEplatelets), plasma prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, International Normalized Ratio, fibrinogen, hemoglobinemia, hematocrit and platelet count, immature platelets, leukocytes, neutrophils before and 1 hour after platelet transfusion., Immediately after platelet transfusion
The goal of this single-center, non-controlled, non-randomized exploratory clinical trial is to evaluate the interpretability of viscoelastic tests (Quantra® and ROTEM® type) in relation to platelet levels measured in standard biology in patients with haematological malignancies, hospitalized in day hospitals or full hematology wards, presenting thrombocytopenia strictly below 50 G/L.

Participants will undergo an additional blood sample to standard care. The total volume of blood drawn will be 12.1 mL. The following analyses will be performed: Quantra®, Rotem®, blood count, platelets, immature platelet count, plasma prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, International Normalized Ratio, fibrinogen.