Feasibility of Hyivy Device Post-Radiation for Pelvic Malignancies
Vaginal dilator therapy (VDT) with static dilators is often prescribed to patients following vaginal or pelvic radiation therapy. This study seeks to evaluate the feasibility of a novel intravaginal device that delivers patient-controlled dilation (Hyivy device). The study is designed as a proof-of-concept single-arm pilot study. The primary objective is to assess safety and tolerability, while also evaluating changes in health-related quality of life and pelvic pain.
Vaginal Stenosis|Radiation Therapy|Cancer|Pelvic Pain|Pelvic Cancer
DEVICE: Hyivy Intravaginal Device
Safety and tolerability of the Hyivy device, Occurrence of adverse events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE)., Up to 12-weeks
Quality of Life (FACT-G), Changes in health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G)., Baseline, 6-weeks, 12-weeks|Pelvic pain (VAS), Changes in pelvic pain as assessed by a visual analog scale (VAS)., Baseline, 6-weeks, 12-weeks|Adherence to study protocol, Usage data collected by the Hyivy device will be used to assess participant adherence to the study regimen of 3 times/week device use., 6-weeks, 12-weeks
Device usability and patient satisfaction, Study-specific questionnaire to gather patient feedback, 12-weeks
Radiation therapy is a common treatment for cancer in the pelvic area and is considered a mainstay of treatment for cancers of the cervix, uterus, and anorectum. Patients with a vagina and vaginal canal who undergo vaginal or pelvic radiation therapy are at risk for developing vaginal stenosis, defined in part by a shortening and/or narrowing of the vaginal canal, which can lead to damaged tissue and pain with examination/vaginal penetration.

Vaginal dilator therapy (VDT) is prescribed to prevent vaginal stenosis. Adherence to VDT in the months following radiation is quite low. Reasons may include limited size options of static dilators, lack of time, general fatigue, emotional well-being, and associating dilator use with underlying malignancy and radiation treatment. Alternatives to static dilators that are safe and effective may improve adherence to VDT and improve patient quality of life.