TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337 and Cetuximab in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced, Recurrent, or Metastatic Squamous Cell Cancer of Head and Neck
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337 when given together with cetuximab in treating patients with locally advanced, recurrent, or metastatic squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (SCCHN). Biological therapies, such as TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337 may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337 together with cetuximab may kill more tumor cells.
Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer With Occult Primary|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Recurrent Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Recurrent Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Salivary Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Hypopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Nasopharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage III Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage III Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IV Salivary Gland Cancer|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVA Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVB Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVB Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Lip and Oral Cavity|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx|Stage IVC Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Larynx|Stage IVC Verrucous Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Tongue Cancer
DRUG: TLR8 agonist VTX-2337|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacogenomic studies
Maximum tolerated dose and the toxicities of TLR8 agonist VTX-2337 in combination with cetuximab, Frequency and severity of hematologic and non-hematologic adverse events will be compiled for each dose cohort. Assessment of adverse events will include type, incidence, severity (graded by the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Version 4.0), duration, seriousness, and relatedness; and clinically significant laboratory abnormalities., 28 days
Pharmacodynamic immune response to TLR8 agonist VTX-2337 in combination with cetuximab, Will be predominantly descriptive with graphical information where available., Day 1 of Course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability and to assess the dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of VTX-2337 (TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337) when given in conjunction with cetuximab in order to define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase II dose (RP2D).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacodynamic immune response to VTX-2337 in combination with cetuximab.

II. Correlative assessments of immunologic response and activity will be performed, including: Quantitative evaluation of baseline immune status via in-vitro assessment of cytokine and chemokine response to immunostimulatory agents; quantitative assessment of plasma cytokines, chemokines, and other inflammatory markers via protein array; quantitative assessment of natural killer (NK) cells via flow cytometry; quantitative assessment of antigen-specific responses in cytokine-producing cells to common prognostic SCCHN antigens via interferon (INF)gamma-enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot).

III. To assess whether subjects with functional genetic variations in the TLR8 and FC-gamma-R IIIA genes have altered biological and/or clinical responses to VTX-2337, genetic characterization of subjects will be performed via standard genotyping assays.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity for the combination of VTX-2337 and cetuximab, as measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of TLR8 Agonist VTX-2337.

Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes on days -28, -21, -14, -7 of weeks -4 to -1. Patients then receive cetuximab IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and TLR8 agonist VTX-2337 subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 8, 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days.