Dasatinib and Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Progressive High-Grade Glioma or Glioblastoma Multiforme
RATIONALE: Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also block the growth of the tumor by blocking blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether bevacizumab together with dasatinib are more effective than a placebo in treating patients with recurrent or progressive high-grade glioma or glioblastoma multiforme.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase I/II trial (Phase I completed) is studying the side effects and best dose of dasatinib when given together with bevacizumab and to see how well it works compared to placebo in treating patients with recurrent or progressive high-grade glioma or glioblastoma multiforme.
Glioblastoma Multiforme
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: dasatinib|OTHER: placebo
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities to Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Dasatinib in Combination With Bevacizumab (Phase I), The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) will be based on the assessment of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) during the first 4 weeks of treatment only (i.e., following the first 2 treatment cycles), and will be defined as the dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience a DLT to study treatment. The MTD is the dose level at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experience DLT with the next higher dose having at least 2 out of 3 or 2 out of 6 patients encountering DLT.\> Three patients will be treated at each dose level, and can be enrolled simultaneously. If one DLT is encountered, an additional 3 patients will be added to that dose level. If at any point two DLTs are encountered within a given dose level, then the MTD has been exceeded and if only three patients have been treated at the next lower dose three more patients are treated at the next lower dose. The number of patients who developed DLTs are reported here by dose level, with the MTD reported in the statistical analysis section., 14 days|Progression-free Survival at 6 Months (PFS6) (Phase II), The primary endpoint is the proportion of patients alive and progression-free 6 months after study treatment initiation (PFS6). All eligible consented patients that received treatment will be considered evaluable. Those who die will be considered to have had disease progression unless documented evidence clearly indicates no progression has occurred. PFS6 is defined as the time from start of study therapy to the date of first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. The PFS6 will be estimated as the number of evaluable patients progression free and still alive at 6 months divided by the total number of evaluable patients. The confidence interval will be calculated according to the Clopper-Pearson Method., 6 months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 3.0 (Phase II), Adverse events were collected systematically at the end of each cycle and graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 3.0. Events are scored as: 1="Mild symptoms", 2= "Moderate", 3="Severe", 4="Life-threatening", and 5="Death". The number of patients reporting a grade 3 or higher event regardless of attribution are summarized here. A complete list of all adverse events reported during treatment can be found in the Adverse Events Section., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival (Phase II), Survival time is defined to be the length of time from start of study therapy to death due to any cause. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria that have signed a consent form and begun treatment will be considered evaluable for estimation of the survival distribution. The distribution of overall survival for both arms of the study will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and be compared using log-rank tests., Up to 3 years|Time-to-disease Progression (Phase II), Time-to-disease progression is defined as the time from start of study therapy to documentation of disease progression. Patients who die without documentation of progression will be considered to have had tumor progression at the time of death unless there is documented evidence that no progression occurred before death. Patients who fail to return for evaluation after beginning therapy will be censored for progression on the last day of therapy or date last known to be alive, whichever is later. Patients who are still alive and have not progressed will be censored for progression at the time of the last tumor assessment. Patients who experience major treatment violations will be censored for progression on the date the treatment violation occurred. The time-to-progression distribution will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 3 years|Patient-reported QOL, as Measure by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Brain (FACT-Br) (Phase II), FACT-Br questionnaires were used to assess QOL at every other cycle of treatment (prior to cycles 3, 5, 7, etc.). FACT-Br includes 50 questions used to assess patients' self-assessment in 4 broad categories: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Function Well-being. Scores range from 0="Not at all", 1="A little bit", 2="Somewhat", 3="Quite a bit", 4="Very Much". Higher scores can be interpreted as having higher quality of life. The scores for all 50 questions were summed to give a total score per patient per cycle. Therefore the possible range is from 0 to 200. Below is the reported mean and standard deviation for patients at baseline and during cycles 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10., Baseline to cycle 10 (20 weeks).|Objective Response (Phase II), Objective response to treatment will be determined by the results of neurological exam and the MRI and/or CT measurement of the tumor at each evaluation as is used for all NCCTG neuro-oncology trials. The percentage of patients in each response category will be summarized, 95% confidence intervals calculated, and rates between the 2 arms will be compared using a Fisher's Exact test. For bi-dimensionally measurable disease, CR: total disappearance of all tumor and that patients be on no corticosteroids or on only adrenal replacement maintenance; PR: ≥ 50% reduction in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass with no new lesions, and stable or decreasing steroid dosing; PD: \>25% increase in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass or appearance of new lesions; REGR: unequivocal reduction in extent of contrast-enhancement, or a decrease in mass effect, no new lesions (for evaluable disease); SD: failure to qualify for CR, PR,REGR or PD., Up to 3 years
OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, dose-escalation study (Phase I completed) of dasatinib followed by a phase II randomized study. Patients are grouped according to study (1 vs 2). Patients in the phase II portion are stratified according to age (\> 70 years of age vs ≤ 70 years of age), and ECOG performance status (0 vs 1 or 2).

Phase I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive oral dasatinib once or twice daily on days 1-14 until the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (Phase I completed) Please see the Arms section for the Phase II treatment regimens.

OBJECTIVES:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

1. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of dasatinib in combination with bevacizumab in high grade glioma patients. (Phase I)
2. To assess the safety and adverse events of the dasatinib in combination with bevacizumab in this patient population. (Phase I)
3. To estimate the efficacy of the bevacizumab combination with dasatinib in recurrent glioblastoma multiforme as measured by progression free survival at six months and compare it with the efficacy of bevacizumab alone. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To describe the overall toxicity associated with the dasatinib/bevacizumab combination. (Phase I)
2. To describe any preliminary evidence of antitumor activity. (Phase I)
3. To assess the time to disease progression. (Phase II)
4. To assess the safety and toxicity of the bevacizumab combination with dasatinib in this patient population. (Phase II)
5. To estimate the efficacy of the bevacizumab combination with dasatinib in recurrent glioblastoma multiforme as measured by overall survival time and compare it with the efficacy of bevacizumab alone. (Phase II)
6. To assess the impact of the treatment on the patient's quality of life (QOL) using the overall score from the FACT-Br (Phase II)