SBRT Combined With PD-1 Inhibitor and Thoracic Hyperthermia for Advanced NSCLC
The aim of this trial is to investigate the primary efficacy of SBRT combined with PD-1 inhibitor and thoracic hyperthermia in patients with EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 negative stage IV NSCLC patients who progressed after first-line treatment. At least one lesion (primary or metastatic) was selected for SBRT treatment, and the radiotherapy dose of each lesion was 32Gy/4Fx. SBRT was combined with thoracic hyperthermia from the first fraction, and hyperthermia was performed 6 times, twice a week. PD-1 inhibitor was used on the second day after the completion of SBRT. The PD-1 inhibitor was administered at a dose of 200mg every time, every 3 weeks for 2 years (35 times total), or until the investigators deem that the patient need to discontinue the drug because of treatment-related toxicity or disease progression. During the period, the overall response rate and toxicities were regularly evaluated.
Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy; PD-1 Inhibitor; Hyperthermia; NSCLC
RADIATION: SBRT combined with PD-1 inhibitors and thoracic hyperthermia
Overall response rate, The proportion of patients evaluated as complete response or partial response, 2 years
Incidence of treatment-related toxic effects, The proportion of treatment-related toxicity cases to the total number of evaluable cases assessed according to CTCAE 5.0 criteria, 2 years|Objective response rate of non-irradiated lesions, The proportion of patients with non-irradiated lesions evaluated as complete response or partial response in the total enrolled patients, 2 years|Overall response, The time span from the first day of enrollment until death from any cause, 2 years|Progression free survival, The time span from the first day of enrollment until progression or death from any cause, 2 years
The aim of this trial is to investigate the primary efficacy of SBRT combined with PD-1 inhibitor and thoracic hyperthermia in patients with EGFR, ALK, and ROS1 negative stage IV NSCLC patients who progressed after first-line treatment. At least one lesion (primary or metastatic) was selected for SBRT treatment, and the radiotherapy dose of each lesion was 32Gy/4Fx. SBRT was combined with thoracic hyperthermia from the first fraction, and hyperthermia was performed 6 times, twice a week. PD-1 inhibitor was used on the second day after the completion of SBRT. The PD-1 inhibitor was administered at a dose of 200mg every time, every 3 weeks for 2 years (35 times total), or until the investigators deem that the patient need to discontinue the drug because of treatment-related toxicity or disease progression. During the period, the overall response rate and toxicities were regularly evaluated.