Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes Adjuvant Therapy of Melanoma
The objective of this multicentric Phase III study is to confirm the results of the phase I-II study (Dreno B \& Al. Cancer Immunol Immunother 2002; 51: 539-456) which demonstrated the preventive effect of a treatment by TIL (Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes) combined with IL2 (Interleukin 2; low dose injected subcutaneously) on the metastatic relapse in the stage III melanoma patients with only one invaded lymphnode.
Melanoma
DRUG: TIL + IL2
Determination of the duration of the relapse-free interval., 5 years|Physical examination, every 2 months until M18 then every 3 months until M36 then every 4 months up to 5 years, then once per year with a clinical examination only., every 2 months until M18then every 3 months until M36 then every 4 months up to 5 years|Abdominal echography will be performed at the screening visit, M4, M8, M12 and then every 6 months until 5ans., M4, M8, M12 and then every 6 months until 5ans.|CT-Scan will be performed before the first administration of study treatment (at the time of screening visit), every 6 months during 2 years and then every years up to 5 years., every 6 months during 2 years and then every years up to 5 years.
Determine of overall survival, 5 years|To define safety and toxicity of TIL/IL2 treatment, 5 years|Evaluation of immunological responses, M0, J56, M12|Analysis of the clinical, biological and histological factors on the survival of the patients, at inclusion and each month
In this open, multicentric (Grenoble, Montpellier, Nantes, Angers, Caen, Le Mans, Poitiers, Rennes, Tours) randomized study, selected patients with only one invaded lymphnode confirmed by anatomopathological exam will be randomized to one of the following arms: 1-Control group: patients of this group will not receive any treatment and will have the same clinical follow-up as the treated group. 2- TIL-IL2 group: treated patients will receive two injections of TIL combined with IL2. Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes will be obtained from a small piece of tumour tissue removed from the invaded lymphnode after surgery. TIL will be grown in larger number in laboratory during 6 weeks. Patients randomized in treatment arm will receive two injection of TIL (the first about 6 and the second about 10 weeks post-surgery). Administration of TIL will be combined with a low dose of IL2 (6 million U.I. per day) injected subcutaneously from J1 to J5 and J8 to J12 following the day of TIL infusion. The same dose and duration of IL2 treatment will be used for the second injection of TIL performed one month later. After 2 months adjuvant therapy, patients received no other treatment. Only a regular follow-up was performed.