Educational Intervention - Improving Knowledge and Screening Rates for Colorectal Cancer
This clinical trial studies how well educational intervention works in improving knowledge and screening rates of colorectal cancer. An educational intervention, such as viewing an inflatable colon, PowerPoint presentation, or flip books/flipcharts, may help improve knowledge about colorectal cancer and how often people get checked for colorectal cancers.
Colorectal Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Change in knowledge and degree to which reported intentions regarding colorectal cancer screening are related to the educational session, Change in knowledge will be examined as a function of the important covariates: race/ethnicity, sex, age, education and primary language. A paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to determine whether there is a statistically significant difference in pre and post session scores. The paired t-test provides a hypothesis test to determine whether pre and post session assessment mean scores differ from each other in a significant way under the assumptions that the paired differences are independent and identically normally distributed. The test statistic is t with n-1 degrees of f, Up to two years|Change in knowledge and strength of intention to be screened, Will be correlated with key outcomes, specifically actual screening and actions promoting colorectal cancer screening (e.g., encouraging colorectal screening with family/friends). Multivariable logistic regression analyses will be conducted to examine the impact of knowledge change and strength of intentions on these binary outcomes (screened/not screened and encouraged/did not encourage colorectal screening) controlling for important covariates such as sex, race/ethnicity, age, education and primary language. A paired t-test or Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be used to determine whether there, Up to two years|Frequency of reported family history of colorectal cancer, Will be described in total and as a function of specific racial/ethnic groups., Up to two years|Participants' plans for future screening, Will examine relationships between stated plans and key covariates., Up to two years|Reasons reported for not obtaining colorectal screening, Response categories will be examined by key covariates., Up to two years|Self-reported intentions to engage in behavior change to reduce risk of colorectal cancer, Will be examined by race/ethnicity, sex, education, and health insurance/healthcare coverage., Up to two years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To increase colorectal cancer (CRC) knowledge, attitudes, positive behavior change, intent for screening, and screening among at-risk groups.

OUTLINE:

Participants attend educational sessions comprising of an inflatable colon interactive exhibit that allows visitors to walk through a colon while seeing images, or a PowerPoint presentation that contains messages that are tailored to meet the cultural and linguistic needs of Black/African Americans, Appalachians, and Hispanics/Latinos, and flip books/flip charts. Participants also receive a copy of the study information sheet which contains the basic elements of informed consent and a pre-education session knowledge survey.