Transarterial Chemoembolization (TACE) With Radiation Therapy (RT) in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
The presence of portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most significant prognostic factors for poor prognosis, without treatment, their survival is less than 3 months. In the HCC patients who combined with PVTT, Radiation therapy (RT) showed 50% of local control and about 10 months survival duration. Despite the standard treatment of the HCC combined with PVTT is sorafenib, but Korean Liver Cancer Study Group (KLCSG) recommend RT as an alternative option in those patients. Investigators previously reported the retrospective study that the scheduled interval Trans-catheter Arterial Chemo-embolization (TACE) followed by RT for HCC combined with PVTT and 60% of the patients showed objective response without significant elevation of complication. However, the prospective outcomes of TACE followed by RT for HCC are scantly reported. Based on those background, we start this prospective study to evaluate the clinical outcomes and adverse event in the RT after TACE in the unresectable HCC patients who combined with PVTT.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Portal Vein Tumor Thrombosis
RADIATION: Scheduled interval TACE - RT
Overall survival rate after scheduled TACE-RT for HCC with PVTT, Overall survival rate will be evaluated at 1 year after treatment., One year after treatment|Adverse event assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 after scheduled TACE-RT for HCC with PVTT, Adverse event will be evaluated at 3 months after treatment., Three months after treatment
Radiologic response assessed by modified Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (mRECIST) after scheduled TACE-RT for HCC with PVTT, Radiologic response will be evaluated at 3 months after treatment., Three months after treatment
The presence of portal vein tumor thrombosis (PVTT) in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most significant prognostic factors for poor prognosis, without treatment, their survival is less than 3 months. In the HCC patients who combined with PVTT, Radiation therapy (RT) showed 50% of local control and about 10 months survival duration. Despite the standard treatment of the HCC combined with PVTT is sorafenib, but Korean Liver Cancer Study Group (KLCSG) recommend RT as an alternative option in those patients. Investigators previously reported the retrospective study that the scheduled interval Trans-catheter Arterial Chemo-embolization (TACE) followed by RT for HCC combined with PVTT and 60% of the patients showed objective response without significant elevation of complication. However, the prospective outcomes of TACE followed by RT for HCC are scantly reported. Based on those background, we start this prospective study to evaluate the clinical outcomes and adverse event in the RT after TACE in the unresectable HCC patients who combined with PVTT.