Short- and Long-term Outcomes of Robotic vs Laparoscopic Right Colon Cancer: a 10-year Single-center Retrospective Study
The goal of this observational study is to evaluate the short-term outcomes and long-term outcomes of robot-assisted right colon group for cancer compared to laparoscopic-assisted right colon group. This is a large sample study based on ten years of clinical data. The main question it aims to answer is: What are the advantages of da Vinci robot right hemicolectomy compared to laparoscopic right hemicolectomy, and is there a difference in long-term efficacy between the two methods.
Robotic|Laparoscopic|Colon Cancer|Long-term Outcomes|Short-term Outcomes
DEVICE: Da Vinci Robot Surgical System
overall survival, months, 5 years after surgery|disease-free survival, months, 5 years after surgery
the rate of postoperative complications, rate, 1 months after surgery|operative time, minutes, Intraoperative|estimation of blood loss, milliliters, Intraoperative|number of retrieved lymph nodes, numbers, Intraoperative|days after postoperative hospital stay, days, 1 months after surgery|time to first exhaust, hours, 1 weeks after surgery|time to liquid diet, hours, 1 weeks after surgery|the rate of intracorporeal anastomosis, rate, 1 months after surgery
Colorectal cancer (CRC) is highly prevalent worldwide. In China, CRC ranks high among the population of men and women with cancer. The incidence and mortality rates of CRC are rising quickly in developing countries, and it is the fourth most deadly cancer in the world. In particular, the right colon cancer (RCC) is continuously growing in China, and the early symptoms of RCC are not typical. one of the most useful ways for RCC is surgical is a surgical operation. Along with the development of minimally invasive surgery, the use of laparoscopy for colon cancer is widely accepted and has become one symbolic surgical technology. Studies have demonstrated that laparoscopic colonic surgery is related to reduced pain after operation, shorter rehabilitation time, shorter length of hospital stay, reduced the time of ileus after surgery, and reduced surgical site infection.

Nevertheless, laparoscopic surgery also has its shortcoming, including a limited range of motion, slow learning and growth, and physiological tremor cannot be eliminated.The emergence of robots has broken the inherent disadvantage of laparoscopy. It has achieved similar or better results in previous studies. Based on these advantages, robotic surgery has received much attention from the surgeons. With the first robotic surgery in the field of colon cancer was reported in 2002, there are some studies proved the safety and feasibility by using robot,However, most studies with small sample sizes and with cases at a relatively early stage.

Therefore, the purpose of this study is to compare the short-term and long-term outcomes between RARC and LARC in the treatment of right colon cancer in our center.