Pilot Usability and Feasibility Testing on Kinect-Enhanced Training System for Lymphatic Exercises
Correct performance of therapeutic lymphatic exercises has the potential to relieve lymphedema symptoms and optimize limb volume and lymph fluid level, in turn to improve breast cancer survivors' quality of life and reduce the risk of lymphedema. Kinect-TOLF (Kinect-Enhanced The-Optimal-Lymph-Flow Training System) is an innovative intelligent Kinect-enhanced training system to teach patients to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The Kinect-TOLF training system is not a medical device but a computer/mobile and motion-sensor program that helps patients to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The Kinect system can automatically detect whether a user is performing the set of lymphatic exercises correctly in real time and provide instantaneous feedback to the user, thus enhancing patients' self-efficacy to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The goal of the proposed project is to evaluate the usability and feasibility of Kinect-TOLF.
Breast Cancer|Lymphedema
BEHAVIORAL: Kinect-TOLF Training System
The Perceived Ease of Use and Usefulness, a tool to evaluate users' acceptance of a new information system with a strong reliability for perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use \[49-50\]. We used the modified eight-items with 5-point Likert Scales ranging from 2 (strongly agree) to -2 (strongly disagree) for this usability evaluation., 12 Months|The Post Study System Usability Questionnaire, originally is a 19-item survey instrument developed at IBM to assess user satisfaction with system usability on a scale ranging from 1 (strongly agree) to 7 (strongly disagree). We will use the modified 13-item tool from the original survey that focus on system usefulness and information quality (Lewis 1995). The survey consists of three subscales accounted for 87 percent of the total variance: system usefulness, information quality and interface quality. The overall reliability of the survey was 0.97, and ranged from 0.91 to 0.96 for the three subscales., 12 Months
Correct performance of therapeutic lymphatic exercises has the potential to relieve lymphedema symptoms and optimize limb volume and lymph fluid level, in turn to improve breast cancer survivors' quality of life and reduce the risk of lymphedema. Kinect-TOLF (Kinect-Enhanced The-Optimal-Lymph-Flow Training System) is an innovative intelligent Kinect-enhanced training system to teach patients to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The Kinect-TOLF training system is not a medical device but a computer/mobile and motion-sensor program that helps patients to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The Kinect system can automatically detect whether a user is performing the set of lymphatic exercises correctly in real time and provide instantaneous feedback to the user, thus enhancing patients' self-efficacy to perform the lymphatic exercises correctly. The goal of the proposed project is to evaluate the usability and feasibility of Kinect-TOLF.