Nivolumab in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Peripheral T-cell Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab works in treating patients with peripheral T-cell lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement or that does not respond to treatment. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may block cancer growth in different ways by targeting certain cells.
Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm|Hepatosplenic T-Cell Lymphoma|HTLV-1 Infection|NK-Cell Lymphoma, Unclassifiable|Primary Systemic Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, ALK-Negative|Recurrent Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Enteropathy-Associated T-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides|Refractory Adult T-Cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Refractory Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|Refractory Enteropathy-Associated T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Mycosis Fungoides|Refractory Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Response Rate for Participants Who Achieve a CR or PR [CT-based Response], The response rate for participants who achieve a CR or PR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a CR or PR assessed according to the revised Lugano Classification Response criteria. Complete response (CR): target nodes/nodal masses must regress to \<=1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter (LDi). Partial response (PR): \>= 50% decrease in sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites., Up to 390 days
Response Rate for Participants Who Achieve a CMR or PMR [PET-CT-based Response], The response rate for participants who achieve a CMR or PMR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve a CMR or PMR assessed according to the revised Lugano Classification Response criteria. Complete metabolic response (CMR): Score 1, 2, or 3 with/without a residual mass using the Lugano 5-Point Scale (5-PS). Partial metabolic response (PMR): Score 4 or 5 with reduced update from baseline. The Lugano 5-PS is a scale used for initial staging and assessment of treatment response in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). The scale ranges from 1 to 5, where 1 is best and 5 is the worst. Each FDG-avid (or previously FDG-avid) lesion is rated independently: 1. no uptake or no residual uptake 2. slight uptake, but equal to or below blood pool 3. uptake above mediastinal, but below or equal to uptake in the liver 4. uptake slightly to moderately higher than liver 5. markedly increased uptake or any new lesion (on response evaluation), Up to 390 days|Duration of Response (DOR), The distribution of duration of response (CR or PR) will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Complete response (CR): target nodes/nodal masses must regress to \<=1.5 cm in longest transverse diameter (LDi). Partial response (PR): \>= 50% decrease in sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of up to 6 target measurable nodes and extranodal sites., Up to 390 days|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. In addition, the progression-free survival rate will be reported. progressive disease (PD): a Lugano score of 4 to 5 with increasing intensity compared to baseline or any interim scan and/or any new FDG-avid focus consistent with malignant lymphoma.The Lugano 5-PS is a scale used for initial staging and assessment of treatment response in Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and certain types of non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL). The scale ranges from 1 to 5, where 1 is best and 5 is the worst. Each FDG-avid (or previously FDG-avid) lesion is rated independently: 1. no uptake or no residual uptake 2. slight uptake, but equal to or below blood pool 3. uptake above mediastinal, but below or equal to uptake in the liver 4. uptake slightly to moderately higher than liver 5. markedly increased uptake or any new lesion (on response evaluation), The time from registration to relapse or death due to any cause, an average of 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., The time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, The number of participants who experienced at least one grade 3 or higher adverse events are summarized below., Up to 390 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit of nivolumab in T-cell lymphomas, as measured by objective response rate (ORR) within 12 cycles according to the Lugano Classification Response Criteria (2014).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess safety and tolerability of the regimen in this patient population. II. To assess progression-free survival (PFS). III. To assess duration of response (DOR). IV. To assess overall survival (OS).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate T-cell/cytokine profile in the peripheral blood - peripheral blood specimens will be used to assess T-cell activation and cytokine up regulation as measures of treatment effect.

II. To evaluate intratumoral biomarkers- intratumoral cell populations and distribution, genetic variability, mutational burden and T-cell activation will be evaluated to identify potential biomarkers that correlate with response to therapy.

III. To assess the potential association between PD-L1/PD-1/PD-L2 expression on tumor and T-cells and/or PD-L1 soluble levels in plasma with clinical efficacy of PD-1 blockade.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving stable disease, complete response, or partial response receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 of course 9. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 35 days, 100-120 days, 230-250 days, and 330-390 days.