Randomized Controlled Trial of MRI Target Biopsy: Transrectal vs. Transperineal
This prospective study of comparing between Transrectal and transperineal prostate MRI targeted biopsy to provide evidence for clinicians to select the appropriate biopsy approach under different conditions.
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Trans-rectal MRI targeted Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Trans-perineal MRI targeted Biopsy
the rate of positive detections, the rate of positive detections (How many case are Prostate cancer positive), 1 year
the incidence rate of each complication, the Incidence of complication rate is the number of complications divided by the number of patients and the number of patients with complications. Complications were separated into those with major or minor sequelae and the proportion of each type that were due to medical error (avoidable)., 1 year
Pain level assessed by visual analogue scale (VAS), The pain VAS is a unidimensional measure of pain intensity used adult populations.

The pain VAS is a continuous scale comprised of a horizontal (HVAS) or vertical (VVAS) line, usually 10 centimeters (100 mm) in length, anchored by 2 verbal descriptors, one for each symptom extreme. Instructions, time period for reporting, and verbal descriptor anchors have varied widely in the literature depending on intended use of the scale.

Using a ruler, the score is determined by measuring the distance (mm) on the 10-cm line between the "no pain" anchor and the patient's mark, providing a range of scores from 0-100.

A higher score indicates greater pain intensity. Based on the distribution of pain VAS scores in postsurgical patients who described their postoperative pain intensity as none, mild, moderate, or severe, the following cut points on the pain VAS have been recommended: no pain (0-4 mm), mild pain (5-44 mm), moderate pain (45-74 mm), and severe pain (75- 100 mm)., 1 year
This prospective study of comparing transperineal (TP) prostate MRI targeted biopsy with transrectal (TR) prostate MRI targeted biopsy was aimed to provide evidence for clinicians to select the appropriate biopsy approach under different conditions. TP (n = 75) and TR (n = 75) will be performed randomly for 150 patients who are suspicious of prostate cancer (PCa). The cancer detection rate (CDR), complication rate, visual analog scale (VAS) score, most painful procedure, number of repeated biopsy and additional anesthesia, and operating time (starting from lying down on the operating table to getting up) will be recorded.