A Study of Molecular Subtyping-based Therapeutic Strategies for Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) is a group of diseases resulting from clonal hyperplasia of memory T cells in the skin. The increasing incidence and high treatment costs have posed significant challenges to public health and the economy. Current treatment guidelines only provide partial control, leading to varying remission times and recurrence rates. This study aims to use molecular subtyping and immunohistochemistry to guide treatment selection for CTCL patients, aiming to prolong clinical benefit, improve treatment safety, and reduce economic burden.
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma/Mycosis Fungoides|Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
OTHER: molecular subtype based treatment
time to next treatment (TTNT), The time to treatment failure (TTNT) is defined as the duration from the start of treatment to when the treatment is switched to the next systemic therapy or until the patient passes away. Introducing new skin-directed therapy (SDT) alongside topical therapy doesn't indicate treatment failure unless the systemic treatment is changed. If the skin lesion worsens and needs local radiotherapy, it's considered that the systemic therapy has failed. The date of discontinuation of systemic therapy is used when treatment is stopped due to disease progression without further treatment., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years
objective response rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) as per the Primary cutaneous lymphoma: recommendations for clinical trial design and staging update from the ISCL, USCLC, and EORTC (2022). The first CR or PR is achieved and repeated after 4 weeks for confirmation., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years|time to response (TTR), Time to response (TTR) is defined as the duration from the start of treatment to the first meeting of CR or PR criteria., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years|progression-free survival (PFS), The progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the period from the beginning of treatment until the first instance of disease progression or death from any cause. Disease progression is defined as advancement to a higher TNMB stage (excluding changes from T1a or T2a to T1b or T2b) or death due to the disease., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years|overall survival (OS), The overall survival (OS) is defined as the period from the beginning of treatment to the point of death from any cause., From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years
adverse events and adverse effects, Adverse events and adverse effects: The Preferred Term (PT) for adverse events and the Systemic Organ Classification (SOC) will be coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA). For the statistics of adverse event rates, each patient will be counted at most once per SOC and per PT. For the same adverse event that occurs multiple times in the same patient, the severity will be counted according to the severity of multiple occurrences. All adverse events (pre- and intra-treatment adverse events) are included in the list of adverse events, From enrollment to the end of treatment at 2 years
The study focuses on the impact of treatment strategy selection based on molecular typing for patients with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. The study aims to evaluate the effect on clinical benefit time and long-term prognosis, assess the safety of the treatment strategy, and explore the interaction between baseline factors and treatment regimens. This research could potentially provide valuable evidence for precision treatment in the context of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.