HPV Vaccination Study in Postpartum Women
The human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI) in the United States (U.S.) and is responsible for a wide range of conditions, including cancers within the anogenital tract and the oropharynx. In just the U.S. alone, it's estimated that HPV causes 330,000 cases of precancerous cervical dysplasia and 12,000 cases of cervical cancer. The investigators propose a 2-dose HPV vaccination study in women seeking postpartum care at Johns Hopkins University. The investigators will measure the immunogenicity and acceptability of the vaccine in the postpartum setting.
HPV|Immunization|Human Papilloma Virus
BIOLOGICAL: Gardasil9
Immunogenicity of a Two-dose 9-valent HPV Vaccination as Assessed by Antibody Titer, Measure the immunogenicity of a two-dose 9-valent HPV vaccination regimen in postpartum women previously unvaccinated against the HPV 16 virus. Immunogenicity will be assessed by the antibody responses. The Geometric mean titers will be measured using milli Merck units (mMU)/mL., Up to 23 months
Antibody Response to the Other 8 HPV Types, The antibody types that will be measured are HPV types 6, 11, 18, 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58.

The milli Merck units (mMU)/mL of measure will be used to determine antibody response., Up to 23 months|Seropositivity for HPV 16 After 1-dose, Calculate the percentage of participants that seroconverted., After the first dose, up to 7 months|Seropositivity for HPV 16 After 2-doses, Calculate the percentage of participants that seroconverted., After the second dose, up to 2 months|Percentage of Participants With Baseline Titers Suggestive of Natural Inoculation or Prior Vaccination to HPV 16, Running an assay to measure a participants natural inoculation or prior vaccination before administration of the 1st dose., Baseline|Percentage of Participants Who Complete 2-dose Vaccination, Calculate the amount of participants that complete 2-dose vaccination., At the end of the study, up to 2 years
This is a pilot, non-inferiority clinical trial using historical controls. Participants will have whole blood drawn at 0 months, 6 months, and 7 months and receive the HPV vaccine at 0 months, 6 months, and 12 months. Each blood draw will consist of one 15mL red top tube to measure HPV serologies and hormone levels. All blood samples collected will be analyzed at the end of the study.