Healthy Eating and Active Lifestyle After Bowel Cancer: HEAL ABC
Trial Design:

This is a feasibility randomised controlled trial.

Aim:

The study aims to test the Healthy Eating and Active Lifestyle After Bowel Cancer - HEAL ABC intervention and HEAL ABC resources for feasibility and will inform a future definitive randomised controlled trial (RCT).

Objectives:

1. Is it practical to run HEAL ABC study as a definitive randomised controlled trial?
2. Adherence to intervention, motivations, barriers and facilitators of CRC survivors to follow HEAL ABC.

Study Population:

Colorectal cancer survivors who completed surgery and/or active treatment.

Intervention:

The intervention group will use HEAL ABC resource with supportive telephone calls every two weeks during the intervention period and once a month during the follow up period.

Control:

Participants follow standard care recommendations.

Timing and duration:

3 months intervention with 6 months follow up period
Colorectal Cancer|Survivorship|Behavior, Health
BEHAVIORAL: HEAL ABC
Adherence to intervention, Assessed as adherence to WCRF/AICR guidelines by using a scoring system for nutrition and physical activity guideline adherence developed by McCullough and colleagues. Number of goals set and number of changes implemented in everyday life during the 3 months intervention., 3 months|Adherence to intervention, Assessed as adherence to WCRF/AICR guidelines by using a scoring system for nutrition and physical activity guideline adherence developed by McCullough and colleagues. Number of goals set and number of changes implemented in everyday life during the 6 months follow up., 6 months|Recruitment rates, Cumulative recruitment against target rate each month., 3 months|Recruitment rates, Cumulative recruitment against target rate each month., 6 months|Retention rates, Calculated as the number of participants who completed the study divided by the number of participants randomised., 3 months|Retention rates, Calculated as the number of participants who completed the study divided by the number of participants randomised., 6 months|Acceptability of the intervention, This will be qualitatively assessed through in depth interviews with a subset of the trial participants., 3 months|Acceptability of the intervention, This will be qualitatively assessed through in depth interviews with a subset of the trial participants., 6 months|Data completion rates, Completeness of collected data will be assessed for all time points (% missing)., 3 months|Data completion rates, Completeness of collected data will be assessed for all time points (% missing)., 6 months
Change in participants' experience, motivation, barriers and facilitators to use HEAL ABC resources and follow the intervention, Qualitatively assessed with in depth interviews., 3 months and 6 months|Change in behaviour, The health action process approach (HAPA) questionnaires, previously used in publications investigating changes in HAPA constructs in lifestyle interventions. A 5 point Likert scale will be used for each question. Minimum score is 15 and maximum score is 75. Higher score is better score., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in dietary intake, Three day dietary assessment. Participants will complete prospectively food diary during the day and enter all foods and drinks consumed into online system for dietary assessment - INTAKE24., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in BMI, Body weight \[kg\] and height \[m\] to calculate body mass index, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in waist to hip ratio, waist circumference \[cm\] and hip circumference \[cm\] to calculate waist to hip ratio, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in body composition (BIA), lean mass \[%\] and fat mass \[%\] using bio-impedance machine, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in body composition (CT scan), muscle mass \[cm2\] and fat mass \[cm2\]using CT scans body composition analysis, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in physical activity, Global Physical Activity Questionnaire is used to assess the metabolic equivalent (MET) based on Global Physical Activity Questionnaire Analysis Guide: https://www.who.int/ncds/surveillance/steps/resources/GPAQ_Analysis_Guide.pdf, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Change in step count, pedometer, Baseline, 3 months and 6 months|Patients' socio-demographic characteristics, age, gender, marital status, occupation, education, income, ethnicity, smoking status and number of supplements used, Baseline|Contact with primary and secondary healthcare services, The Healthcare Resource Use Questionnaire - questionnaire was developed by a health economist for the EU funded project 'PreventIT' (2016-2018, grant number 689238) responding to the Horizon 2020, Personalised Health and Care call PHC-21: Advancing active and healthy aging with ICT: Early risk detection and intervention. There is no set score - questionnaire is used to estimate the costs associated with different healthcare services used., 6 months|Mortality, Patient's medical records, 6 months|Morbidity, Patient's medical records, 6 months|Change in Quality of life, SF-12 questionnaire - 12 questions, total score can range from 0 to 100 (sore zero indicates the lowest level of health and 100 indicates the highest level of health)., Baseline, 3 months and 6 months
Background:

Investigators were awarded a grant to develop a lifestyle resource called HEAL ABC - the Healthy Eating and Active Lifestyle After Bowel Cancer. This resource is based on prevention guidelines of World Cancer Research Fund and American Institute of Cancer Research. The resource was developed in cooperation with a psychologist and so has incorporated behaviour change theory. Investigators organised focused groups with patients and healthcare professionals, and amended the resource based on their feedback.

In this study, investigators will test the HEAL ABC resource and the HEAL ABC intervention for its practicality before further studies will be conducted.

HEAL ABC consists of 10 booklets and supportive materials. The order for using the booklets is not specified. Participants will be assigned their first booklet based on the one they perceive to be the easiest for setting an incremental goal and achieving it. This means the participant starts with the booklet of the highest self-efficacy and after the participant achieves successful behaviour change, he or she can move more confidently to the next booklet. During the follow up period, participants will use the follow up booklet which helps them to continue with changes they have made and encourage them to set a new goals.

Participants in the intervention group will receive a supportive telephone call every two weeks during the intervention period (three months) and once a month during the six months follow up.

Participants allocated to the control group will given information about publicly available resources on healthy lifestyle recommendations. No additional support will be provided.

Primary Question/Objective:

Is it feasible to run a definitive RCT to determine the effectiveness of HEAL ABC? This study will address questions around suitability and practicality of using the HEAL ABC resource and the ability to run an intervention in relation to adherence, recruitment, retention rates and the ability to collect relevant data.

Secondary Question/Objective:

Adherence to intervention and the motivations, barriers and facilitators of CRC survivors to follow HEAL ABC.