This is a Two-cohort, Exploratory Clinical Study Assessing the Activity of Benmelstobart Combined With Chemotherapy With or Without Anlotinib in Resectable Limited-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
A total of 66 patients were enrolled in this exploratory study and randomly assigned to cohort 1 and cohort 2, with 33 patients in each group. Cohort 1: Neoadjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy and anlotinib, 3 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Surgery was performed 4-6 weeks after the final administration of benmelstobart as assessed by the investigator. Adjuvant therapy was evaluated by the investigator 4-6 weeks after surgery. Patients who achieved R0 resection received adjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with anlotinib, 12 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Cohort 2: Neoadjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy, 3 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Surgery was performed 4-6 weeks after the final administration of benmelstobart as assessed by the investigator. Adjuvant therapy was evaluated by the investigator 4-6 weeks after surgery. Patients who achieved R0 resection received adjuvant therapy (benmelstobart, every 21 days is a cycle) .
Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy and anlotinib|DRUG: benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy
event-free survival (EFS), The event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the duration from randomization to the occurrence of any event, which includes disease progression, postoperative recurrence, discontinuation of treatment for any reason, or death., up to 2 years
Major pathologic response rate (MPR), Major pathologic response rate (MPR) as assessed/estimated by the investigator, i.e. the proportion of residual surviving tumor cells in the tumor bed in the postoperative specimen ≤10%, 7 days after surgery|Complete pathological response (pCR), Complete pathological response (pCR): defined as no residual tumor cells in postoperative tumor tissue specimens (including no tumor residue in lymph nodes), based on pathological response, 7 days after surgery|Objective response rate (ORR), The proportion of patients who exhibit a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) to treatment is defined as follows., 7 days after surgery|overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) refers to the duration from the initiation of randomization until death occurs for any reason., up to 3 year|Treatment-related adverse events evaluated according to CTCAE v5.0, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0, up to 2 years|Surgical complications evaluated according to the Clavien-Dindo classification, Number of participants with surgical complications as assessed by Clavien-Dindo, up to 2 years
A total of 66 patients were enrolled in this exploratory study and randomly assigned to cohort 1 and cohort 2, with 33 patients in each group. Cohort 1: Neoadjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy and anlotinib, 3 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Surgery was performed 4-6 weeks after the final administration of benmelstobart as assessed by the investigator. Adjuvant therapy was evaluated by the investigator 4-6 weeks after surgery. Patients who achieved R0 resection received adjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with anlotinib, 12 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Cohort 2: Neoadjuvant therapy (benmelstobart combined with chemotherapy, 3 cycles, every 21 days is a cycle). Surgery was performed 4-6 weeks after the final administration of benmelstobart as assessed by the investigator. Adjuvant therapy was evaluated by the investigator 4-6 weeks after surgery. Patients who achieved R0 resection received adjuvant therapy (benmelstobart, every 21 days is a cycle) .