Mechanism and Immune Function Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Hematologic Tumors
The goal of this observational study is to compare the immune function and infection mechanism of patients with hematologic tumors and those people without underlying diseases after infection with SARS-CoV-2. Clinical characteristics, treatment options and responses will be collected. Peripheral blood will be collected from patients with hematologic tumors infected with SARS-CoV-2 and those people without underlying diseases infected with SARS-CoV-2.
SARS-CoV-2 Infection|Hematologic Malignancy
OTHER: None intervention
Mechanism and Immune Function Analysis of SARS-CoV-2 Infection in Hematologic Tumors, To compare the infection mechanism and immune function of patients with hematologic tumors infected with SARS-CoV-2 and people infected with SARS-CoV-2 without underlying diseases., 1 year
To establish a retrospective and prospective cohort of patients with hematologic tumors infected with SARS-CoV-2 and people without underlying diseases infected with SARS-CoV-2. Firstly, peripheral blood samples will be collected at infection time points and after SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid testing turns negative. Subsequently, the transcriptome sequencing and immunological experiments will be performed to analyze the differentially expressed genes, immune function of cells, etc.

Comparative analysis:

1. To compare the immune function of patients with hematologic tumors and those without underlying diseases after infection with SARS-CoV-2.
2. The transcriptomic and proteomic changes of patients with hematologic tumors are compared with those without underlying diseases after infection with SARS-CoV-2.
3. From the perspective of complex (human protein interaction subnetwork), the dynamic change process of SARS-CoV-2-targeted human protein complex (periodic complex) was deeply explored, in order to further analyze its potential dynamic infection mechanism and provide new clues for the discovery of drug targets.