A Prospective Feasibility Study Evaluating Extracellular Vesicles Obtained by Liquid Biopsy for Neoadjuvant Treatment Response Assessment in Rectal Cancer
Routine clinical and radiological assessment of response of patients with rectum cancer to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy does not allow accurate identification of complete pathological response, and leads to frequent false positive and negative results. Molecular markers reflecting the initial and post-nCRT status of the tumor would be ideal to select patients eligible for organ preservation. This project will test the detection of tumor extracellular vesicles (EVs) in liquid biopsy as a reliable marker for the identification of poor versus good responders to nCRT.
Rectal Cancer|Liquid Biopsy
PROCEDURE: Supplementary blood samples collection during the normal follow up of the patients
Positivity of the liquid biopsy, Presence of onco-exosomes and / or exoDNA according to the response to the neoadjuvant treatment by chemotherapy alone or followed by radiochemotherapy of rectal cancer, 6 months
Prediction of the response of rectal cancer to neoadjuvant treatment, To evaluate whether the kinetics of detection of oncoexosomes and exoDNA is a predictor of the response of rectal cancer to neoadjuvant treatment, 6 months|Genetic profile of the primary tumor predictive of the response to nCRT, To evaluate whether the initial mutational profile of the tumor is a predictor of the response of rectal cancer to chemotherapy and radiochemotherapy neoadjuvant treatment, 6 months
Neoadjuvant treatment (NT) followed by total mesorectum excision (TME) constitues the gold standard for locally advanced carcinoma of the low and middle rectum. When good clinical response to NT is obtain, strategies with organ preservation, including close surveillance without immediate surgery or transanal local excision, can spare patients with the highly morbid and functional cost of TME. Current assessment of good responders relies on the downstaging and/or downsizing of the tumor as evaluated by MRI imaging and clinical exam. This strategy is prone to errors in more than 1/3 cases. Better assessment of tumor response to NT would better select patients eligible for organ preservation strategies. This study will use the detection of tumor extracellular vesicles (EVs) in liquid biopsy to identify good response of rectum cancer to neoadjuvant treatment. Tumor EVs will be detected in the blood of the patients at different times of their regular management (before, during and after NT). Protein content or tumor DNA in EVs will be detected after tumor DNA sequencing in the primary biopsies. Response will be assessed according to tumor EV presence or absence in the blood. As EV quantification is possible, kinetics of their detection will help response assessment and patient follow-up.