Phase I BLASST-3 Trial
The aim of this research is to see whether using a drug that blocks a protein called FGFR (fibroblast growth factor receptor) prior to surgery is safe and effective in patients with bladder cancer that have mutations in FGFR3 or FGFR2 and who cannot receive chemotherapy with cisplatin prior to surgery

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

- Infigratinib
Bladder Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Bladder Cancer|Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor
DRUG: Infigratinib
≥ 70% of patients receiving at least 1 dose of study treatment followed by completion of radical cystectomy (Feasibility), Feasibility is defined as ≥ 70% of patients receiving at least 1 dose of study treatment followed by completion of radical cystectomy in the absence of DLT up to 4 weeks post-RC.

Dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) will be graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0 criteria). DLT will be defined as an adverse event (AE) or abnormal laboratory value deemed related to therapy with infigratinib, including those AEs and abnormal laboratory values that result in a failure to meet the criteria for re-treatment., time of first administration of study treatment until 4 weeks after RC up to 3 months
Pathologic response (<ypT2N0) at time of RC., Pathologic response is defined as \<pT2N0 disease at the time of RC (e.g. pT0N0, pT1N0, pTaN0, or pTisN0), 3 months|Pathologic complete response (pCR) at time of RC., Pathologic complete response (pCR) is defined as achievement of pT0N0 disease at RC., 3 months|Relapse-free survival (RFS) after RC., Relapse-free survival (RFS) is defined as the duration of time from time of RC to time of documented disease relapse or recurrence after RC, or death from any cause. Patients who have received at least one cycle of therapy and have undergone RC will be considered evaluable for RFS., 4 weeks after end of treatment, then every 12-24 weeks up to 1 year|Progression-free proportion after neoadjuvant infigratinib, prior to RC, Progression prior to RC will be defined as radiologic progression by RECIST 1.1 with development of radiologic T4b and/or N1/N2/N3 and/or or M1 disease (per RECIST 1.1) in scans obtained after commencement of neoadjuvant therapy and prior to RC, 2 months
This is a single-center (DF/HCC) prospective feasibility study to assess biomarker-directed neoadjuvant therapy in patients with cT2-T4aN0 MIBC who are candidates for radical cystectomy (RC) and ineligible for, or refuse, cisplatin-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC).

This research study involves using a drug that inhibits FGFR in patients with bladder cancer (that have mutations in FGFR) prior to surgery.

The name of the study drug involved in this study is:

- Infigratinib

The research study procedures include pre-screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits. This pre-screening is already done as clinical care. Study participants will receive study treatment for 2 months prior to surgery and will be followed for at least 1 year after undergoing surgery.

It is expected that about 12 people will take part in this research study.

This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug (infigratinib) and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

This research study is also a Feasibility Study, which is the first time investigators are examining this drug in patients with bladder cancer that has not spread to other organs. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved infigratinib as a treatment for any disease.