Laparoscopic Gastric Function Preserving Surgery Combined With Resection of the Anterior Lymphatic Drainage Area
Nowadays, while pursuing the eradication of tumor, how to maximize the preservation of normal anatomy and physiological functions of the stomach, reduce the surgical trauma caused by excessive debridement, and improve the quality of life of patients after surgery has become a more important concern in the treatment of early gastric cancer. This prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial was designed to elucidate the oncologic safety of laparoscopic gastric preservation surgery compared to standard laparoscopic gastrectomy. The oncologic safety of laparoscopic gastric preservation surgery with anterior basal dissection (SBD) compared to standard laparoscopic gastrectomy. This trial is an investigator-initiated, multicenter, prospective, randomized, open, parallel-controlled with a non-inferiority design. Patients diagnosed as distal gastric cancer with clinical stage T1N0M0, with a lesion diameter of 3 cm or less were eligible to participate in this study. Patients will be randomized to either laparoscopic stomach-preserving surgery with SBD or standard surgery. The primary end-point is 3-year disease-free survival.
Gastric Cancer Stage I
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic gastric function preserving surgery combined with resection of the anterior lymphatic drainage area
Disease-free survival (DFS) at three years, The criteria for DFS events in this study were as follows: recurrence of the primary tumor at the incisional margin or anastomosis, heterochronic metastasis in the remnant stomach, histologically or imaging confirmed intraperitoneal recurrence, lymph node metastasis, distant metastasis, new malignancy in other organs, and other causes of death., three years
Nowadays, while pursuing the eradication of tumor, how to maximize the preservation of normal anatomy and physiological functions of the stomach, reduce the surgical trauma caused by excessive debridement, and improve the quality of life of patients after surgery has become a more important concern in the treatment of early gastric cancer. This prospective multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial was designed to elucidate the oncologic safety of laparoscopic gastric preservation surgery compared to standard laparoscopic gastrectomy. The oncologic safety of laparoscopic gastric preservation surgery with anterior basal dissection (SBD) compared to standard laparoscopic gastrectomy. This trial is an investigator-initiated, multicenter, prospective, randomized, open, parallel-controlled with a non-inferiority design. Patients diagnosed as distal gastric cancer with clinical stage T1N0M0, with a lesion diameter of 3 cm or less were eligible to participate in this study. Patients will be randomized to either laparoscopic stomach-preserving surgery with SBD or standard surgery. The primary end-point is 3-year disease-free survival.