Phase I Mass Balance, PK and Safety Study of 14C-Labeled Belinostat in Patients With Advanced Cancer
The purpose of this trial is to study the mass balance, pharmacokinetics (PK), and safety of belinostat following IV administration in patients with a recurrent or progressive malignancy.
Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Belinostat
Maximum recovery of the radioactive dose in urine and feces, The route of elimination of belinostat will be determined by the recovery of total radioactivity (parent drug and metabolites) and unmetabolized belinostat in urine and feces following single IV administration of 14C-labeled belinostat in patients with recurrent or progressive malignancy., 6 months
The Concentration of Belinostat in plasma, urine, and feces and its metabolites, Secondary objectives are to determine the PK of 14C-labeled belinostat in plasma, urine, and feces following IV administration; to determine the relative proportion of 14C-labeled belinostat and its radiolabeled metabolites in plasma, urine, and feces; and to assess the safety of belinostat., 6 months
This is a Phase 1, open-label, single-dose study of 14C-labeled belinostat to determine routes of elimination of belinostat. A single dose of 14C-labeled belinostat (approximately 94.3 to 105 µCi, 1500 mg) will be administered as a 30-minute IV infusion to the patient. Routes of elimination of belinostat and its metabolites will be assessed by estimating the recovery of total radioactivity and parent belinostat over a period of 7 days. Plasma samples will be taken for 3 days at specified intervals for PK assessments. Total radioactivity in plasma, urine, and feces will be determined by liquid scintillation counting. Concentrations of belinostat in plasma and urine will be determined using a validated liquid chromatography - tandem mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS) method. Selected plasma, urine, and feces samples will be retained for use in the metabolism investigation. Samples will be initially analyzed using radio-high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) to determine the number and relative proportion of belinostat and metabolites present. Selected samples will be subsequently analyzed using LC-MS to identify the major metabolites (\> 10% of parent area under the curve \[AUC\]). If it is in the interest of the patient, treatment with non-radiolabeled belinostat may be continued with 21-day cycles until disease progression, initiation of new anticancer therapy, or an adverse event (AE) that may affect patient participation.