Comparison of the Breast Tumor Microenvironment
The goal of the project is to identify a molecular signature of tumor stroma from "normal" adjacent breast tissue obtained prospectively at the time of breast conserving surgery before and after receiving intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) in subjects that have luminal A and triple negative breast cancer. IORT is considered as being standard of care.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Hormone Receptor Positive Malignant Neoplasm of Breast
OTHER: Breast tissue collection|OTHER: Blood sample collection
Number of subjects with significant mean percent change in Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes (TILs), This outcome measure is designed to measure the amount of TILs in newly diagnosed luminal A and Triple Negative Breast Cancer (TNBC) tumors. The mean percent change in TILS in tumor tissue from initial core biopsy samples will be compared with pathology samples from definitive surgery after IORT between the two different breast cancer sub-types., Two weeks
There is evidence that the normal tissue around a tumor plays a role in determining how the tumor behaves, including how it will respond to treatments and how likely it is to recur. In breast cancer, radiation is used to decrease the chance of recurrence in the area where the tumor is removed. This risk of recurrence varies between different types of breast cancer. The investigators seek to study the proteins produced in normal tissue surrounding breast tumors. The tissue will be taken from women who are receiving radiation to the breast at the time of their surgery (known as intraoperative radiation), one specimen taken before radiation and one after. A new process will be used to stabilize the tissue rapidly and allow the proteins to be identified before they break down. This will allow us to identify differences in the proteins produced by cells before and after radiation and between two types of breast cancers, luminal A (less likely to recur) and triple negative (more likely to recur). Identifying these differences in proteins may allow them to be used in the future as markers to predict the likelihood of tumors recurring.