PI3K Inhibitor BKM120 and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumor That is Locally Advanced, Cannot Be Removed By Surgery, or Metastatic
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of PI3K inhibitor BKM120 when given together with docetaxel in treating patients with advanced solid tumor that is locally advanced, cannot be removed by surgery, or metastatic. PI3K inhibitor BKM120 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving PI3K inhibitor BKM120 together with docetaxel may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: PI3K inhibitor BKM120|DRUG: docetaxel|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose of PI3K inhibitor BKM120, Adverse events (AE) will be coded and evaluated for severity using NCI CTCAE, version 4.0 and will be summarized by system organ class and preferred term., 21 days|Incidence AE and tolerability of PI3-kinase inhibitor BKM120 in combination with docetaxel, AE will be coded and evaluated for severity using NCI CTCAE, version 4.0 and will be summarized by system organ class and preferred term., Up to 30 days after completion of treatment
Objective response rate (ORR) as assessed by the proportion of patients with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), The ORR will be calculated as the number of patients with a confirmed complete or partial response divided by the total number of patients. Tumor response will be summarized for the evaluable patient population, and the 95% confidence interval for ORR (complete response \[CR\] + partial response \[PR\]) will be presented. Response will be evaluated by revised RECIST 1.1 criteria., Up to 6 courses|Progression-free survival (PFS), Up to 3 years|PK parameters of PI3-kinase inhibitor BKM120, Baseline, days 1-7 of course 1, and then day 1 of all subsequent courses
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the dose-limiting toxicities and identify the recommended phase II dose of the combination of docetaxel and BKM 120 (P13K inhibitor BKM120) in patients with advanced solid tumors.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of this combination. III. To determine any pharmacokinetic (PK) interaction between BKM12O and docetaxel.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess any preliminary evidence of efficacy with this combination in patients with advanced cancers.

II. To evaluate phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 3-kinase, catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA) mutations as predictive biomarkers of efficacy for the combination.

III. To evaluate PIK3CA polymorphisms and polymorphisms in BKM120 transport and metabolism as predictors of toxicity and/or efficacy.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of PI3K inhibitor BKM120.

Patients receive PI3K inhibitor BKM120 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.