Efficacy Study of Chemoradiotherapy With or Without Paclitaxel in Squamous-cell Anal Carcinoma Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine whether the combination of paclitaxel, capecitabine, mitomycin and intensity-modulated radiotherapy is more effective than the standard combination of capecitabine, mitomycin and intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) in patients with squamous-cell anal cancer.
Anus Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Squamous Cell|Anus Diseases|Neoplasms|Neoplasms, Squamous Cell|Carcinoma
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Mitomycins|DRUG: Mitomycins|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
3-year disease-free survival, 3 years
Complete response at 26 weeks, 26 weeks|3-year colostomy-free survival, 3 years|3-year cancer-specific survival, 3 years|3-year overall survival, 3 years|Acute toxicity measured according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) v.4.0, Toxicity measured according to NCI-CTCAE v.4.0, 30 days|Late toxicity measured according to Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) criteria, Late toxicity measured according to RTOG criteria, 3 years
Quality of life according to European organization for research and treatment of cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life questionnaire (QLQ)-C30 (v.3) scale, Change from baseline in quality of life on the EORTC QLQ-C30 (v.3) scale, 3 years
This trial aims to investigate the efficacy of chemoradiotherapy with or without paclitaxel in squamous-cell anal cancer. This is a prospective multicenter open-label randomized phase III clinical trial. Patients will be randomized using an online randomization system to receive either standard IMRT with capecitabine and mitomycin or IMRT with capecitabine, mitomycin and paclitaxel. A stratification will be performed based on T stage, N stage and clinical center. Doses of capecitabine and mitomycin in experimental group were reduced for better treatment tolerance. The target accrual is 157 patients in each treatment arm (including 10% potential data loss) based on potential benefit of 15% 3-yr disease-free survival (70% vs 85%), α=0,05, power 80% in the experimental arm. An interim analysis is planned after 50% of the patients will reach a 3-year followup. Pelvic Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is performed in all patients for staging and followup. Pelvic MRI and histological diagnosis are subject to central review. Conduction of this study and data collection are controlled by a local institutional board.