Anlotinib Plus Nab-Paclitaxels and S-1 for Patients with Advanced Biliary Tract Cancer As Second-Line Treatment
Biliary tract cancer (BTC) presents with a 5-year survival rate less than 5%. The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate if Anlotinib plus Nab-Paclitaxels and S-1 as second-line regimen can improve the treatment efficacy in advanced biliary tract cancer (BTC) after progression upon first-line standard treatment, in comparison with standard second-line FOLFOX regimen.
Biliary Tract Cancer|Second Line Treatment|Chemotherapy|Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor
DRUG: Albumin-bound Paclitaxel + Tegafur Gimeracil Oteracil (S-1) + Anlotinib|DRUG: Oxaliplatin + Leucovorin + Fluorouracil (FOLFOX regimen)
Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS), defined as the time between the date of the subject's first dose and the subject's death from all causes. The OS of subjects who were alive at the time of the final follow-up visit was counted as data censored at the time of the final follow-up visit., From randomisation to death, up to 5 years|Progression-Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of the subject's first dose of medication to the date of the first documented tumor progression (assessed according toRECIST 1.1 criteria, with or without continuation of treatment) or the date of death from anycause, whichever occurs first. The median PFS and its 95% Cl will be analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and survival graphs will be plotted., From randomisation to disease progression or death, up to 5 years
Objective Response Rate, Refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors shrank by a certain amount and remained sofor a certain period of time, and includes both CR and PR cases. Objective tumor remission was assessed using the Solid Tumor Remission Assessment Criteria (RECIST 1.1 criteria)., From randomisation, up to 5 years|Disease control rate, Refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors shrank by a certain amount and remained sofor a certain period of time, and includes both CR and PR cases. Obiective tumor remission was assessed using the Solid Tumor Remission Assessment Criteria (RECIST 1.1 criterial, From randomisation, up to 5 years
Quality of Life, Patients' quality of life was assessed according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), assessed at baseline and every 3 weeks thereafter, From baseline, every 3weeks until end of treatment, an average of 4-6 months|Adverse Events, Defined as the proportion of grade ≥3 hematologic or non-hematologic toxic events occurring from the start of medication to the end of follow-up. Adverse events include, but are not limited to, liver dysfunction, hematologic system damage, pulmonary toxicity, and ocular toxicity. The severity of adverse events will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0)., From randomisation, up to 5 years
Biliary tract cancer (BTC) mainly includes intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, hilar cholangiocarcinoma, extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma and gallbladder carcinoma, and the 5-year survival rate is less than 5%. Most patients were diagnosed as advanced stage, and missed the opportunity of radical surgery. ABC-02 study established gemcitabine combined with platinum drugs as the first-line standard treatment for unresectable BTC. However, after the disease progresses, the second-line treatment options and efficacies are limited. In recent years, BTC second-line treatment has made some breakthroughs in the field of chemotherapy and targeted therapy. However, the benefits of chemotherapy, immunotherapy and targeted drugs alone in the second line treatment of BTC is unsatisfactory. The combined scheme of two or three drugs sees the possibility of patients benefiting, but it still needs better scheme design and larger sample size for further verification. A phase II single-arm small-sample clinical trial exploring albumin-bound paclitaxel combined with S-1 capsule in the first-line treatment of advanced biliary adenocarcinoma initially showed the efficacy and safety of AS regimen in cholangiocarcinoma, and the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib in BTC were also confirmed in the small-sample study. Therefore, this study intends to explore the efficacy and safety of the second-line treatment of advanced BTC with Anlotinib combined with AS chemotherapy in comparison with the establised standard second-line regimen (FOLFOX).