Pancreatic Carcinoma: Chemoradiation Compared With Chemotherapy Alone After Induction Chemotherapy
This randomized trial examines the effectiveness of chemoradiotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone after induction chemotherapy with 3 cycles of gemcitabine or 6 cycles of FOLFIRINOX in patients with locally advanced, non resectable and non-metastatic pancreatic cancer. Chemotherapeutic agent in chemoradiotherapy is gemcitabine administered in 5 cycles, the agent and its administration for sole chemotherapy is determined by induction chemotherapy. Operability of tumor is evaluated at week 11 after randomisation. Patients will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment. Overall survival at the end of follow up is defined as primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints are tumor-free survival, rate of local recurrence or local progression, rate of distant metastasis, acute and late toxicity of the chemoradiotherapy, quality of life, rate of remission, rate of curative resections (R0) after chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy. It is planned to include a total number of 830 patients.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Induction chemotherapy with gemcitabine or FOLFIRINOX|RADIATION: Radiotherapy, 28 x 1.8 Gy|DRUG: Chemotherapy, gemcitabine|DRUG: Chemotherapy with gemcitabine or FOLFIRINOX according to induction chemotherapy
Overall survival, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment
Tumor-free survival, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|rate of local recurrence or local progression, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|Rate of distant metastasis, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|Acute and late toxicity of the chemoradiotherapy, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|Rate of remission, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|Rate of curative resections (R0) after chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment|Changes in Quality of life, Participants will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment
This randomized trial examines the effectiveness of chemoradiotherapy compared to chemotherapy alone after induction chemotherapy with 3 cycles of gemcitabine or 6 cycles of FOLFIRINOX in patients with locally advanced, non resectable and non-metastatic pancreatic cancer. Chemotherapeutic agent in chemoradiotherapy is gemcitabine administered in 5 cycles, the agent and its administration for sole chemotherapy is determined by induction chemotherapy. Operability of tumor is evaluated at week 11 after randomisation. Patients will be followed for the duration of therapy and for 5 years after the last study treatment. Overall survival at the end of follow up is defined as primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints are tumor-free survival, rate of local recurrence or local progression, rate of distant metastasis, acute and late toxicity of the chemoradiotherapy, quality of life, rate of remission, rate of curative resections (R0) after chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy. It is planned to include a total number of 830 patients.