A Home-Based Walking Program and rTMS in Helping Breast Cancer Survivors Get More Physical Activity
This trial studies how well a home-based walking program, with or without repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, works in helping breast cancer survivors get more physical activity. Physical activity has been shown to improve health outcomes and quality of life among breast cancer survivors and can help lessen certain side effects of treatment such as fatigue, depression, and treatment-related weight gain. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation is a procedure that uses electromagnets to stimulate brain activity. Using rTMS with a home-based walking program may help breast cancer survivors get more physical activity.
Cancer Survivor|Invasive Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Physical Activity|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation|PROCEDURE: Sham Intervention
Delay discounting score, The effect of the transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) intervention on the delay discounting score will be assessed using a two-arm, randomized, double-blind, sham controlled repeated measures design. The efficacy of TMS will be quantified by comparing the within-patient change in delay discounts scores between the baseline and week 12 assessments in the evaluable sample. The treatment effect will be estimated with a generalized linear mixed model, describing the continuous delay discounting outcomes as a function of a random participant effect, and fixed effects for treatment assignment (TMS reference: sham), categorical visit number (4 levels), and the treatment/visit interaction. The magnitude, direction and 95% confidence interval for the adjusted interaction term estimate will be used to describe the effect of TMS on the delay discounting score. These results will be supported by descriptive statistics and graphical depictions of the results as appropriate., Baseline up to 6 months|Number of steps per day, The effects of TMS on steps per day will be quantified by comparing the within-patient change in these outcomes between the baseline and week 12 assessments in the evaluable sample. The treatment effect will be estimated with a generalized linear mixed model as described above. These results will be supported by descriptive statistics and graphical depictions of the results as appropriate. This analysis will be used to determine the feasibility of using rTMS to enhance a home-based walking intervention among breast cancer survivors, based on whether breast cancer survivors who receive active rTMS demonstrate more steps per day than breast cancer survivors who receive sham rTMS., Baseline up to 6 months|Number of minutes of moderate physical activity per day, The effects of TMS on minutes of activity per week will be quantified by comparing the within-patient change in these outcomes between the baseline and week 12 assessments in the evaluable sample. The treatment effect will be estimated with a generalized linear mixed model as described above. These results will be supported by descriptive statistics and graphical depictions of the results as appropriate. This analysis will be used to determine the feasibility of using rTMS to enhance a home-based walking intervention among breast cancer survivors, based on whether breast cancer survivors who receive active rTMS demonstrate more minutes of moderate intensity activity than breast cancer survivors who receive sham rTMS., Baseline up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the effects of 20 hertz (Hz) repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) on delay discounting rates and multiple measures of self-regulation and walking.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients participate in a home-based exercise program of at least 10,000 steps per day (about 30 minutes of daily exercise) for 5 days weekly (150 minutes per week) for 12 weeks. Patients also undergo repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over 1 hour for 8 sessions during the first 2 weeks of the walking program.

GROUP II: Patients participate in a home-based exercise program of at least 10,000 steps per day (about 30 minutes of daily exercise) for 5 days weekly (150 minutes per week) for 12 weeks. Patients also undergo sham repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over 1 hour for 8 sessions during the first 2 weeks of the walking program.