Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy or Conventional Radiation Therapy After Surgery in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well hypofractionated radiation therapy works compared to conventional radiation therapy after surgery in treating patients with prostate cancer. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects. Conventional radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, protons, or other sources to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. It is not yet known whether giving hypofractionated radiation therapy or conventional radiation therapy after surgery may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Change in Urinary Domain of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) at Two Years, The EPIC is a prostate cancer health-related quality of life (HRQOL) self-administered instrument measuring patient-reported urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal symptoms related to prostate cancer treatments. Response options for each item form a Likert scale with scores transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale. Domain scores are also on a 0-100 scale with higher scores representing better HRQOL. The urinary domain contains 12 items. Change from baseline is calculated by subtracting baseline from later score, with a positive change score indicating increased HRQOL., Baseline (randomization), 2 years|Change in Bowel Domain of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) at Two Years, The EPIC is a prostate cancer health-related quality of life (HRQOL) self-administered instrument measuring patient-reported urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal symptoms related to prostate cancer treatments. Response options for each item form a Likert scale with scores transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale. Domain scores are also on a 0-100 scale with higher scores representing better HRQOL. The bowel domain contains 14 items. Change from baseline is calculated by subtracting baseline from later score, with a positive change score indicating increased HRQOL., Baseline, 2 years
Change in Urinary Domain Score of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) at End of Radiation Therapy (RT), 6 Months, 1 and 5 Years, The EPIC is a prostate cancer health-related quality of life (HRQOL) self-administered instrument measuring patient-reported urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal symptoms related to prostate cancer treatments. Response options for each item form a Likert scale with scores transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale. Domain scores are also on a 0-100 scale with higher scores representing better HRQOL. The urinary domain contains 12 items. Change from baseline is calculated by subtracting baseline from later score, with a positive change score indicating increased HRQOL., Baseline, end of RT, then 6 months,1 and 5 years from the start of RT (5 year time point has not yet been reached). RT dates depend on timing and duration of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) (optional) and RT.|Change in Bowel Domain Score of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index (EPIC) at End of RT, 6 Months, 1 and 5 Years, The EPIC is a prostate cancer health-related quality of life (HRQOL) self-administered instrument measuring patient-reported urinary, bowel, sexual, and hormonal symptoms related to prostate cancer treatments. Response options for each item form a Likert scale with scores transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale. Domain scores are also on a 0-100 scale with higher scores representing better HRQOL. The bowel domain contains 14 items. Change from baseline is calculated by subtracting baseline from later score, with a positive change score indicating increased HRQOL., Baseline, end of RT, then 6 months,1 and 5 years from the start of RT (5 year time point has not yet been reached). RT dates depend on timing and duration of ADT (optional) and RT.|Percentage of Participants With Biochemical Failure, Biochemical failure was analyzed using two different definitions. The protocol definition of biochemical failure is a PSA measurement ≥ 0.4 ng/mL and rising (i.e. PSA ≥ 0.4 ng/mL followed by a value higher than the first by any amount) or followed by initiation of salvage hormones. The Phoenix definition of biochemical failure is a PSA measurement ≥ PSA nadir + 2 ng/mL where nadir is the lowest post-RT PSA value. Time to biochemical failure is defined as time from randomization to the date of first biochemical failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without biochemical failure (competing risk). Biochemical failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Two-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years.|Percentage of Participants With Progression, Progression (failure) is defined as the first occurrence of biochemical failure, local failure, regional failure, distant failure, institution of new unplanned anticancer treatment, or death from prostate cancer. Time to progression is defined as time from randomization to the date of progression, last known follow-up (censored), or death without progression (competing risk). Progression rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Two-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Percentage of Participants With Local-Regional Failure, Local-regional failure is defined as local or regional failure. Local failure is defined as the development of a new biopsy-proven mass in the prostate bed. Regional failure is defined as radiographic evidence (CT or MRI) of lymphadenopathy (lymph node size ≥ 1.0 cm in the short axis) in a patient without the diagnosis of a hematologic/lymphomatous disorder associated with adenopathy. Time to local-regional failure is defined as time from randomization to the date of first local-regional failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death without local-regional (competing risk). Local-regional failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Two-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Percentage of Participants Receiving Salvage Therapy, Salvage therapy is defined as the initiation of new unplanned anticancer treatment. Time to salvage therapy initiation is defined as time from randomization to the date of first salvage therapy, last known follow-up (censored), or death without salvage therapy (competing risk). Salvage therapy rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of salvage initiation times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Two-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Percentage of Participants With Distant Metastasis, Distant metastasis (failure) is defined as radiographic evidence of hematogenous spread evaluated by bone scan, CT, or MRI. Time to distant metastasis is defined as time from randomization to the date of first distant metastasis, last known follow-up (censored), or death without local recurrence (competing risk). Distant metastasis rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. Two-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Percentage of Participants Who Died From Prostate Cancer (Prostate Cancer Specific Mortality), Cause of death was centrally reviewed. Count and percentage at time of analysis are reported., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Percent of Participants Alive (Overall Survival), Overall survival time is defined as time from registration/randomization to the date of death (failure) from any cause or last known follow-up (censored). Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The protocol specifies that the distributions of failure times be compared between the arms, which is reported in the statistical analysis results. 2-year rates are provided., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Two-year rates reported here. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.|Number of Participants With Grade 3+ Adverse Events, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 grades adverse event severity from 1=mild to 5=death. Summary data is provided in this outcome measure; see Adverse Events Module for specific adverse event data. Counts of participants with any grade 3 or higher adverse event, any grade 3 or higher gastrointestinal adverse events, and any grade 3 or higher genitourinary adverse events are reported. Adverse events of any attribution are included., From randomization to last follow-up. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 3.0 years. Follow-up schedule: end of RT, then 6, 12, 18, 24 months from start of RT, then yearly.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate that hypofractionated post-prostatectomy radiotherapy (HYPORT) does not increase patient-reported gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) symptoms over conventionally fractionated post-prostatectomy (COPORT) at the 2-year time point.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare patient-reported GI symptoms using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC)-26 at end of radiation therapy (RT) and 6, 12, 24, and 60 months from end of treatment.

II. To compare patient-reported GU symptoms using the EPIC-26 at end of RT and 6, 12, 24, and 60 months from end of treatment.

III. To compare time to progression (TTP) where progression is defined as the first occurrence of biochemical failure (BF), local failure, regional failure, distant metastasis (DM), institution of new unplanned anticancer treatment, or death from prostate cancer (prostate cancer specific mortality \[PCSM\]).

IV. To compare freedom from biochemical failure (FFBF) and TTP rates with an alternate prostate specific antigen (PSA) \>= PSA nadir + 2 ng/mL definition of BF.

V. To compare local failure, regional failure, salvage therapy (i.e. institution of new unplanned anticancer treatment), DM, PCSM, and overall survival (OS) rates.

VI. Assessment of adverse events.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare utilities for health outcomes using the EuroQol five dimensions questionnaire (EQ-5D).

II. Paraffin-embedded tissue block, serum, plasma, whole blood, and urine for future translational research analyses for predictors of toxicity following hypofractionated or conventionally fractionated post-prostatectomy radiotherapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo conventional radiation therapy for 37 fractions over 7 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive androgen deprivation therapy for up to 6 months as per doctor recommendation.

ARM II: Patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy for 25 fractions over 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive androgen deprivation therapy for up to 6 months as per doctor recommendation.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and every year for 3 years and thereafter.