Study of Liposomal Annamycin in Combination with Cytarabine for the Treatment of Subjects with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML)
This is a Phase 1/2, multicenter, open-label, dose-escalation study that will determine the MTD and RP2D of L-Annamycin in combination with cytarabine for the treatment of subjects with AML.
Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute
DRUG: Liposomal Annamycin|DRUG: Cytarabine
Evaluate the safety and identify the MTD/RP2D of L-Annamycin in combination with a standard regimen of cytarabine (Ara-C, cytosine arabinoside), The number of patients who experience dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) will be captured at each dose level of LAnnamycin in order to determine the MTD/RP2D, Day 1 through Day 28
Pharmacokinetics - Area under the plasma concentration, Area under the plasma concentration - time curve (AUC) of annamycin and its metabolite, annamycinol, and of cytarabine, when administered., Pre-dose and at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8,12 and 24 hours after the start of liposomal annamycin infusion on Day 1 and Day 3|Anti-leukemic activity, Determined by acute myeloid leukemia (AML) response rate based on the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria in AML (Cheson, 2003). Leukemia response rate will be evaluated by the investigator at the end of each L-Annamycin cycle based on bone marrow aspirate and peripheral blood evaluations., 15-35 Days after the start of therapy
During Phase 1b, dose escalation will proceed according to a standard 3+3 design. An initial group of 3 subjects will be treated with an intravenous infusion of 190-mg/m2 L-Annamycin (Dose Level 1) for 3 consecutive days. Dose escalation will take place on the basis of safety assessments in sequential cohorts of 3 subjects each. Provided that there are no DLT's in the initial cohort of subjects treated at the 190 mg/m2/day dose level, the next cohort of subjects will receive the next highest L-Annamycin dose incremented by 40 mg/m2. In the absence of DLTs, dose escalation by 40 mg/m2 will continue in subsequent cohorts until an MTD is reached.

The dose and schedule of cytarabine during Cycle 1 (2.0 g/m2/day for 5 consecutive days) will remain constant for all cohorts. Enrolled subjects will receive cytarabine at a dose of 2.0 g/m2/day via intravenous infusion over 4 hours for 5 consecutive days (total dose cytarabine = 10.0 g/m2; starting on the first day of L-Annamycin treatment).

If no subject experiences a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5, which constitutes a study drug-related irreversible or not medically manageable Grade 3 or higher toxicity during the initial treatment through Day 28, the subsequent group of 3 subjects will receive the next higher L-Annamycin dose. However, if 1 of the 3 initial subjects experiences a DLT, the cohort of subjects at that dose level will be expanded to 6. If at least 2 of the 6 subjects experience a DLT, this will be considered a non-tolerated dose and the next 3 subjects will be treated at a lower dose. The dose of L-Annamycin will be de-escalated by 20- mg/m2/day. As such, if at least 2 out of 6 subjects receiving 230 mg/m2/day experience a DLT, the next 3 subjects will receive L-Annamycin at a dose of 210 mg/m2/day. If 1 of the 3 initial subjects experiences a DLT, the cohort of subjects will be expanded to 6 subjects. If at least 2 of the 6 subjects experience a DLT, this will be considered a toxic dose and the MTD will be the previously proven safe dose level (i.e., the next lowest dose level at which no DLTs occurred in a cohort of 3 subjects or at which fewer than 2 subjects in a cohort of 6 experienced a DLT).

In the expansion phase, up to 21 subjects will be enrolled at the MTD/RP2D to better define toxicity and evaluate efficacy.