Stereotactic Body Radiation for Prostate Oligometastases
Men with oligometastatic prostate cancer lesions will be randomized (1:2) to observation versus SBRT. The study will NOT be blinded. Within three weeks of the initial treatment planning, SBRT (1-5 fractions) will be administered.
Prostate Cancer|Oligometastases
RADIATION: SBRT
Progression at 6 Months, Number of participants who progressed at 6 months. Progression is defined as either: 1) a ≥ 25% increase in PSA from nadir (and by ≥ 2 ng/mL), requiring confirmation ≥ 4 weeks later (PCWG2 criteria); and/or, 2) clinical/radiographic-progression defined as symptomatic progression (worsening disease-related symptoms or new cancer-related complications), or radiologic progression (on CT scan: ≥ 20% enlargement in sum diameter of soft-tissue target lesions \[RECIST1.1 criteria\]; on bone scan: ≥ 1 new bone lesions),initiation of ADT or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 6 months
Time to Local Progression, Number of months until local progression in patients with oligometastatic disease., up to 6 months|Local Control of SBRT Group, Number of lesions that did not increase in size by at least 20% or more on CT from baseline to 6 months., 6 months|Toxicity as Assessed by Number of Participants With Adverse Events Grade 3 or Higher, Number of participants experiencing adverse events Grade 3 or higher, as defined by CTCAE., up to 6 months|Toxicity as Assessed by Number of Participants With Adverse Events Grades 1 or 2, Number of participants experiencing adverse events Grades 1 or 2, as defined by CTCAE, up to 6 months|Change in Quality of Life as Assessed by Brief Pain Inventory, We will assess quality of life following completion of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy via Brief Pain Inventory questionnaire made up of 9 questions. Each question scores from 0-10, with higher scores mean worse outcome or more pain. An overall score, calculated by adding the scores for questions 2, 3, 4 and 5 and then dividing by 4, will be calculated pre-treatment and at the time of day 180. The change in score (between baseline and 6 months) will be evaluated., Baseline and 6 months|Change of DCFPyL-PET/MRI Positive Lesions, 18F-DCFPyL Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/MRI or -PET/CT positive sites that are positive for new or progressive metastatic disease by bone scan/CT at 6-months following SBRT., 6 months|Change in Survival of Two Groups as Assessed by PSA Level, The PSA levels in blood will be measured in units of nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL)., Baseline and 6 months|Androgen Deprivation Therapy-free Survival, Androgen Deprivation Therapy-free survival will be assessed using the number of participants deceased at 6 months., 6 month
This research is being done to determine if we can improve the outcome of prostate cancer patients who have failed primary treatment - surgery or local radiation to the prostate - and have 3 or fewer bone metastases. Patients with metastatic prostate cancer disease will usually be placed on hormonal therapy which can work well for a period of time, but hormonal therapy can have side effects that greatly trouble men. Any effort to delay the start of hormonal therapy would be an advantage to the patient. Radiation treatment usually takes many weeks to deliver and is not given in a high enough doses to metastases to prevent them from coming back locally. Stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) is highly focused radiation, given in a very dose intensive fashion and delivered in usually less than one week. Stereotactic body radiation has been shown to be very effective on bone metastases. Therefore, we are studying the effects of stereotactic body radiation treatment on patients with five or fewer prostate cancer bone metastases to determine if we can stall the use of hormonal therapy and/or prevent other bone metastases from developing elsewhere in the body.

Additionally, fundamental analysis of the oligometastatic state with be achieved through correlation with investigational DCFPyL-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging, which can help us find cancer that has spread (metastatic disease) from its original site in people who have cancer in their prostate to other parts of their body.

Specifically, 54 men with biochemically recurrent, oligometastatic prostate adenocarcinoma will be accrued across 3 centers in the United States. Patients were stratified by primary intervention (surgery vs radiotherapy), prior hormonal therapy, and PSA doubling time, then randomized 2:1 to SBRT or observation. The primary clinical endpoint is progression at 6 months from randomization with the hypothesis that SBRT to all metastases will forestall progression by disrupting the metastatic process. Secondary clinical endpoints include local control at 6 months post-SBRT, SBRT-associated toxicity and quality of life, and ADT-free survival (ADT-FS).

Alterations in the biology of the oligometastatic state induced by stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) will be investigated using leading-edge correlatives, including: analysis of circulating tumor cells (CTCs; Epic Sciences, San Diego, CA), deep sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) using Cancer Personalized Profiling by deep sequencing (CAPP-Seq) to non-invasively assess tumor burden, and ImmunoSEQ profiling of T-cell repertoires to elucidate the immunological response to SABR (Adaptive Technologies, Seattle, WA). Lastly, the use of the Color Genomics platform (Burlingame, CA), a hereditary cancer assay assessing pathogenic mutations in 30 cancer predisposition genes that account for \>90% of the germline mutations known to occur in men with castrate resistant metastatic prostate cancer (mCRPC), will help inform and allow for efforts to advance a more personalized medicine approach to tailor screening and therapies in these men.