Adoption of Audio Recording in the Outpatient Supportive Care Center
This study evaluates how patients feel about having an audio recording of their visit to help remember information given to them and share that information with family members and/or caregivers not present during a clinic visit. Information from this study may help evaluate the effectiveness of using technology to help improve patient care by recording consultation recommendations.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Locally Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Communication Intervention|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of patients who will select "Complete Agree/Partially Agree" in Question 1 "I found the audio recording useful after the visit", Will be summarized using proportion along with a 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Proportion of patients who will select "Complete Agree/Partially Agree" in Question 2 "I was able to effectively discuss my medical condition with my family member(s) and/or caregiver(s) who were not present at the clinical visit, Will be summarized using proportion along with a 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Number of times the recording is listened to, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results. Wilcoxon rank sum test or Kruskal-Wallis test will be applied to examine differences in continuous variables between or among patient's demographic/clinical characteristics., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To assess the ease of use of the technology., Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results. Chi squared test or Fisher's exact test will be applied to examine the association between the ease of use of the technology and patient's demographic/clinical characteristics., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To assess the ability to share the information with the patient's family member(s) and/or caregiver(s) if he or she chooses to do so., Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results. Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be applied to examine the association between the ability to share and patient's demographic/clinical characteristics., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To assess the patient perception of whether the audio recording caused any disruption to the clinic, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize the results. Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be applied to examine the association between the patient perception of whether audio recording caused any disruption to the clinic and patient's demographic/clinical characteristics., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient participation rate, The participation rate of patients in this study will be estimate using proportion along with 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To explore the association between the frequency of caregivers' use of audio recording, Pearson or Spearman correlation coefficient will be used to assess the association between caregivers' age and frequency of their use of the audio recording. Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied to examine differences in frequency of caregivers' use of audio recording between their sexes., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To explore the association of the ease of use of the technology and the type of device and application used, Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be applied to examine the association between the ease of use of the technology and the types of recording devices/applications., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the patient's perception of the usefulness of the audio recording in helping to recall information given to him/her in the visit along with the perception of usefulness in the dissemination of information to family member(s) and/or caregiver(s) not present at the clinic visit.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the number of times the recording is listened to. II. To assess the ease of use of the technology. III. To assess the ability to share the information with the patient's family member(s) and/or caregiver(s) if he or she chooses to do so.

IV. To assess the patient perception of whether the audio recording caused any disruption to the clinic.

V. To estimate the participation rate of patients. VI. To explore association between patient's perception of the usefulness of the audio recording and patient's demographic/clinical characteristics.

VII. To explore the association between age and sex of the caregiver and frequency of caregiver's use of the audio recording.

VIII. To explore the association of the ease of use of the technology and the type of device and application used.

OUTLINE:

Patients audio record the recommendations and instructions given to them by the doctor record as part of their clinic visit at the Supportive Care Center.