Interest of Virtual Reality to Prevent Cancer Patient Anxiety Before Chemotherapy or an Invasive Act
The aim of the REV clinical trial is to evaluate the impact of a virtual reality exposure to decrease patient anxiety before chemotherapy or an invasive act. If positive, the access to virtual reality exposure is aimed to be used as standard of care at Lyon's hospital to improve cancer patient well-being in a drug-free manner.

The majority of cancer patients lives with high level of anxiety as soon as diagnosed. This level anxiety is particularly high before invasive acts but also before chemotherapy by side effects anticipation.

Hypnosis is a highly interesting drug-free approach to decrease patient's anxiety. It however requires on site specialists to be available whenever needed.

Virtual reality provides a distractive environment enabled to shift patient focus. It can support a switch of patient mindset by providing positive emotions.

Since 5 years, this disruptive technology is being more and more used as medical support thanks to a new generation of headsets enabling improved performance at cheaper prices.

Many publications have now demonstrated the positive impact of virtual reality to take in charge patients' pain or pre-operational anxiety.
Anxiety|Chemotherapy Effect|Breast Cancer|Head Cancer Neck
BEHAVIORAL: Virtual reality exposure
Difference of anxiety using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory before oncologic procedure, Difference of anxiety before and after a virtual reality exposure using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-Y; A-State Scale) before patients undergo an oncologic procedure (invasive act or chemotherapy (C1D1)., Before an invasive act or a chemotherapy
Difference of anxiety using a self-evaluation anxiety inventory before oncologic procedure, Difference of anxiety before and after a virtual reality exposure using a self-evaluation anxiety inventory before patients undergo an oncologic procedure (invasive act or chemotherapy (C1D1).

Comparison of responses between self-evaluation anxiety inventory before and after virtual reality exposure just before an oncologic procedure (invasive act or a chemotherapy), Before an invasive act or a chemotherapy|Difference of anxiety using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory before chemotherapy, Difference of anxiety before and after a virtual reality exposure using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-Y; A-State Scale) or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory before patients undergo chemotherapy (C1D1, C2D1, C3D1).

Comparison of responses between the STAI-Y; A-State Scale or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory before and after virtual reality exposure just before chemotherapy, Just before chemotherapy|Difference of anxiety using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory before invasive act, Difference of anxiety before and after a virtual reality exposure using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-Y; A-State Scale) or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory before patients undergo an invasive act.

Comparison of responses between the STAI-Y; A-State Scale or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory before and after virtual reality exposure just before an invasive act, Just before an invasive act|Patient basal anxiety level just before an oncologic procedure, Patient basal anxiety level using STAI-Y; A-State Scale, STAI-Y; Trait-State Scale or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory just before an oncologic procedure (invasive act or a chemotherapy).

Quotation of patient basal anxiety level using STAI-Y; A-State Scale, STAI-Y; Trait-State Scale or the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory just before an oncological procedure (invasive act or a chemotherapy), Just before an oncologic procedure|Determination of patient anxiety level evolution through 3 cycles of chemotherapy, Determination of patient anxiety level evolution through 3 cycles of chemotherapy using the STAI-Y; A-State Scale and the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory (just before virtual reality exposure, after virtual reality exposure, after 1 hour of chemotherapy).

Comparison of responses between the STAI-Y; A-State Scale and the Self-evaluation anxiety inventory before virtual reality exposure, after virtual reality exposure and after 1 hour of chemotherapy, just before virtual reality exposure, after virtual reality exposure, after 1 hour of chemotherapy
The primary objective of the REV study is to demonstrate the difference of anxiety before and after a virtual reality exposure using the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI-Y) before patients undergo an oncological procedure (invasive act or chemotherapy (C1D1).

The investigator's REV study aims to recruit 66 patients among three cohorts (22 patients per cohort) in 12 months.

* Breast cancer cohort (patient receiving an adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide)
* Head or neck cancer cohort (patient treated by concomitant radiochemotherapy)
* Cancer patient for which an invasive act inducing anxiety is planned (lumbar puncture, ascites puncture, thoracocentesis, myelogram, bone marrow biopsy, urinary catheterization, ..)

The REV study aims to impact Lyon's hospital patients' quality of life and well-being by decreasing their anxiety level during oncological treatments thanks to innovative supportive cares.