Y-90 Versus SBRT for Inoperable HCC
This phase II trial tests whether Y-90 segmentectomy (internal radiation) versus stereotactic body radiation therapy (external radiation) is more optimal in treating inoperable liver cancer. Y-90 segmentectomy consists into very tiny radioactive glass beads that can be injected into the liver through the blood vessels supplying the liver. Stereotactic body radiation therapy uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver external radiation to tumors with high precision. This study many help doctors determine which treatment, Y-90 segmentectomy or SBRT, works better in treating liver cancer.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage I Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage II Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v8
OTHER: Quality of Life|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Yttrium-90 Microsphere Radioembolization
Feasibility of enrollment (enrollment rate), Determine feasibility of trial enrollment for two therapeutic groups., Up to 4 years
Overall survival, Death, adjuvant systemic therapy or liver directed therapy to treated lesion, transplant, lost to follow up, or 13 months post-treatment|Time to progression, Time of radiographic evidence of treated tumor progression as determined by tumor board review, adjuvant systemic therapy or liver directed therapy to treated lesion, transplant, death, or 13 months post-treatment|Time to intrahepatic progression, Time of radiographic intrahepatic progression, adjuvant systemic therapy or liver directed therapy, transplant, death, or 13 months post-treatment|Rate of liver transplant, Time of liver transplant, death, or 13 months post-treatment|Rate of non-classic radiation induced liver disease, Defined as a Child-Pugh criteria \>= 2 point increase., Up to 13 months|Rate of patient reported outcome-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Baseline up to 13 months|Change in patient reported quality of life, Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobilliary Cancer compared to baseline., Baseline to 13 months|Time to next treatment, Time to next liver directed or non-adjuvant systemic therapy, transplant, or death, assessed up to 13 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine feasibility of trial enrollment (enrollment date).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess differences in overall survival, local control, time to intrahepatic progression, time to next treatment, rate of liver transplant, toxicity, and patient reported complications and quality of life.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare cumulative cost of treatment-related medical care at 13 months.

OUTLINE: Patients will be randomized in 1 of 2 arms.

Arm I: Patients undergo SBRT every other day for a total of 5 days over 2 weeks.

Arm II: Patients receive Y-90 radioembolization via injection on day 1.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 2, 4, and 12 weeks and then every 3 months for 13 months.