Antiandrogen Therapy and SBRT in Treating Patients With Recurrent, Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well antiandrogen therapy (leuprolide, apalutamide, and abiraterone acetate) and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) works in treating patients with prostate cancer that has come back and has spread to other parts of the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as leuprolide, apalutamide, and abiraterone acetate, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. SBRT uses special equipment to position a patient and deliver radiation to tumors with high precision. This method can kill tumor cells with fewer doses over a shorter period and cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving antiandrogen therapy and SBRT may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer.
Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma With Focal Neuroendocrine Differentiation|Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Apalutamide|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Percent of patients achieving a serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) of < 0.05 ng/mL, Will be summarized by count and percent along with the 95% confidence interval., Up to 6 months post treatment
Time to biochemical progression, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline to first rise in PSA to 0.2 ng/mL, assessed up to 2 years|Time to radiographic progression, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline to time when any imaging shows new evidence of metastatic disease, assessed up to 2 years|Time to initiation of alternative antineoplastic therapy, Will be summarized using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline to time when new anti-prostate cancer therapy is initiated, assessed up to 2 years|Prostate cancer specific survival, Up to 2 years post treatment|Health related quality of life: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) scale - patient questionnaire, This uses the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) questionnaire. It assesses patient function in four domains: Physical, Social/Family, Emotional, and Functional well-being, which is further supplemented by 12 site specific items to assess for prostate related symptoms. Items are rated on a 0 to 4 Likert type scale and combined to produce subscale scores for each domain and a global score, the higher the score, the better the quality of life. Range from 0-150 . Data will be aggregated per patient and over time., Up to 2 years post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, The intensity of clinical adverse events will be graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version (v) 4.0 (CTCAE) grading system in the toxicity categories., Up to 30 days post treatment|Biomarker analysis, Will conduct whole exome deep sequencing (WES), RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and comparative genomic hybridizations (CGH) of the metastatic tumors., Up to 2 years post treatment
Genomic and transcriptomic features present in metastatic tumors, Will conduct whole exome deep sequencing (WES), ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNA-seq), and comparative genomic hybridizations (CGH) of the metastatic tumors of the 28 patients enrolled in the Phase II trial. Then, will identify discriminating features of the metastatic tumors in responders that distinguish them from the non-responders., Up to 2 years post treatment|Circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) for predictors of response, Up to 2 years post treatment|Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) for predictors of response, Up to 2 years post treatment|Changes in circulating immunophenotypes, Baseline up to 2 years post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of combined systemic and tumor directed therapy for recurrent oligometastatic M1a,b prostate cancer patients with 1-5 metastases (exclusive of pelvic nodal N1 metastases) staged by prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time to biochemical progression. II. Time to additional antineoplastic therapy. III. Prostate cancer specific survival. IV. Safety and tolerability. V. Assessment of health related quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) scale.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine genomic and transcriptomic features present in metastatic tumors in patients that respond to this multimodal therapy.

II. To evaluate biomarkers of response using circulating tumor cells (CTCs). III. To evaluate biomarkers of response using circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA).

IV. To evaluate immunophenotypes of circulating immune cells.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive a single dose of leuprolide subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 and apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) and abiraterone acetate PO QD for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 2 months of initiation of antiandrogen therapy (ADT), patients also receive SBRT over 1, 3, or 5 fractions in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 2 -4 weeks, every 30 days for 6 months, and then every 3 months thereafter.