Advance Care Planning: Promoting Effective and Aligned Communication in the Elderly
In this research study, the investigators are working to help oncologists better serve patients by delivering more patient-centered, goal-concordant care that may improve health care delivery.

- It is expected that about 30,000 people will take part in this research study, 29,550 of these patients, the vast majority, will be included only for medical record review.
Other Cancer
OTHER: Clinician Communication Skills Training|OTHER: Advance Care Planning (ACP) Decisions Videos Decisions Aids|OTHER: Video Declarations (ViDec)
Advance Care Planning Documentation, Any advance directive (e.g., living will, POLST, etc.) and changes of resuscitation orders or any indication in the EHR of a goals-of-care or advance care planning conversation, 4 years
Rate of Preferences for Resuscitation, Documented choices regarding CPR and mechanical ventilation in the EHR, 4 years|Rate of Palliative Care Consultation, Use of palliative care services (consults, outpatient visits) in the EHR, 4 years|Rate of Hospice Use, Use of hospice documented in the EHR, 4 years|Confidence in Future Care, (in person survey) patient confidence that they will receive the right care at the right time by their health system, 4 years|Communication and Decisional Satisfaction, (In person survey) patient satisfaction with communication and decision making, 4 years|Decisional Regret, (In person survey) patient regret regarding decision making, 4 years
The purpose of this study is to improve the quality of care provided to millions of older Americans with cancer. The investigators are working to help oncologists better serve patients by delivering more patient-centered, goal-concordant care that may dramatically improve health care delivery.

This is pragmatic stepped wedge cluster randomized trial (SW-CRT) of a Comprehensive ACP (Advance Care Planning) Program among older oncology patients. The ACP Program will include training clinicians in communication skills and using video decision aids for participants.

- This study will involve medical record review of 30,000 people age 65 or older with advanced cancer.

We will also recruit 450 eligible patients (150 patients from each of our three sites broken down into 75 patients during the control phase and 75 patients during the intervention phase) to conduct a survey for our secondary patient-centered outcomes (confidence, satisfaction with physician communication, patient decisional satisfaction and regret). From among this sub-group we will engage 240 participants (80 from each of our three sites broken down into 40 patients during the control phase and 40 patients during the intervention phase) in an activity to film video declarations of their preferences.

During the first year, three pilot sites (one at each health care system) will trial the intervention. The subjects recruited at these pilot sites will not be included in the final analysis. Thus, the main trial will begin during year 2 and continue through year 5 with recruitment of 30,000 subjects for the primary outcome at 30 oncology clinics. The first year pilot will serve to inform the larger roll-out and the intervention may change during the first year based on pilot-clinic experience.