Carboplatin, Paclitaxel and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride With or Without Bevacizumab After Surgery in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Epithelial, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies carboplatin, paclitaxel and gemcitabine hydrochloride when given together with or without bevacizumab after surgery to see how well it works in treating patients with ovarian, epithelial, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer that has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin, paclitaxel and gemcitabine hydrochloride work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. It is not yet known whether combination chemotherapy is more effective when given with or without bevacizumab after surgery in treating patients with ovarian, epithelial, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.
Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Serous Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Fallopian Tube Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Mucinous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Brenner Tumor|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinofibroma|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Seromucinous Carcinoma|Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Transitional Cell Carcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Recurrent Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Undifferentiated Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Paclitaxel|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
To Determine if Surgical Secondary Cytoreduction in Addition to Adjuvant Chemotherapy Increases the Duration of Overall Survival in Patients With Recurrent Platinum Sensitive Epithelial Ovarian Cancer, Peritoneal Primary or Fallopian Tube Cancer, The treatment regimens will be compared with a logrank procedure which includes all of the patients categorized by their randomly assigned treatment. The logrank test will be stratified by the secondary surgical debulking status (randomized to undergo cytoreduction, vs randomized to not undergo secondary cytoreduction vs not a candidate or did not consent to secondary surgical cytoreduction) and the duration of treatment free-interval prior to enrolling onto this study (6-12 months vs \> 12 months). The median duration of follow-up is calculated by the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., The time frame is 82.5 months (median duration of follow-up)|To Determine if the Addition of Bevacizumab Increases the Duration of Overall Survival Relative to Second-line Paclitaxel and Carboplatin Alone in Patients With Recurrent Platinum Sensitive Epithelial Ovarian, Peritoneal Primary or Fallopian Tube Cancer, The treatment regimens will be compared with a logrank procedure which includes all of the patients categorized by their randomly assigned treatment. The logrank test will be stratified by the secondary surgical debulking status (randomized to undergo cytoreduction, vs randomized to not undergo secondary cytoreduction vs not a candidate or did not consent to secondary surgical cytoreduction) and the duration of treatment free-interval prior to enrolling onto this study (6-12 months vs \> 12 months). The median duration of follow-up is calculated by the reverse Kaplan-Meier method., The time frame is 82.5 months (median duration of follow-up).
Progression-free Survival (Chemotherapy Analysis), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to cancer progression as shown on radiography, according to the RECIST version 1.0 criteria, an increase in the CA125 level according to Gynecologic Cancer InterGroup (GCIG) criteria, global deterioration of health, or death from any cause., Radiographic assessment of disease was conducted during chemotherapy and then every 6 months during the maintenance / surveillance phase|Progression Free Survival (Surgery Analysis), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to cancer progression as shown on radiography, according to the RECIST version 1.0 criteria, an increase in the CA125 level according to Gynecologic Cancer InterGroup (GCIG) criteria, global deterioration of health, or death from any cause., Radiographic assessment of disease (in patients with measurable and non-measurable disease) was conducted Every three months for two years and then every 6 months after completion of chemotherapy during the maintenance/surveillance phase.|Summary of Adverse Events (CTCAE Version 4.0), Number of treated patients with at least one adverse event reported (assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (version 4.0)), During treatment period and up to 100 days after stopping the study treatment, a median duration of 82.5 months|Patient Reported Quality of Life (Chemotherapy Analysis), Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Treatment Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for ovarian cancer (FACT-O TOI). The FACT-O TOI is a scale for assessing general QOL of ovarian cancer patients. It consists of three subscales: Physical Well Being (7 items), Functional Well Being (7 items), and Ovarian Cancer subscale (11 items). Each item in the FACT-O TOI was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). The FACT-O TOI score ranges 0-100 with a large score suggests better QOL., 1. Prior to cycle 1 (baseline), 2. Prior to cycle 3 (6 weeks post cycle 1), 3. Prior to cycle 6 (15 weeks post cycle 1), 4. 6 months post cycle 1, 5. 12 months post cycle 1.|Patient Reported Physical Function (Chemotherapy Analysis), Patient reported physical functioning was measured with physical functioning subscale of the RAND SF-36. The Physical Functioning Subscale consists of 10 items concerning activities of daily living: walking, climbing stairs, bathing, dressing, and performance of physical activities. Each item is rated on a three-point scale of limitation of activity due to the patients' health from 1=limited a lot to 3=not limited. The total PF score is the summation of item scores and then rescaled to 0-100. A larger score suggests better physical functioning., 1. Prior to cycle 1 (baseline), 2. Prior to cycle 3 (6 weeks post cycle 1), 3. Prior to cycle 6 (15 weeks post cycle 1), 4. 6 months post cycle 1, 5. 12 months post cycle 1.|Patient Reported Quality of Life (Surgery Analysis), Patient reported quality of life was measured with the Treatment Outcome Index (TOI) of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy for ovarian cancer (FACT-O TOI). The FACT-O TOI is a scale for assessing general QOL of ovarian cancer patients. It consists of three subscales: Physical Well Being (7 items), Functional Well Being (7 items), and Ovarian Cancer subscale (11 items). Each item in the FACT-O TOI was scored using a 5-point scale (0=not at all; 1=a little bit; 2=somewhat; 3=quite a bit; 4=very much). The FACT-O TOI score ranges 0-100 with a large score suggests better QOL., 1. Prior to surgery, 2. 6 weeks post-surgery, 3. 15 weeks post-surgery, 4. 6 months post-surgery, 5. 12 months post-surgery.|Patient Reported Physical Functioning (Surgery Analysis), Patient reported physical functioning was measured with physical functioning subscale of the RAND SF-36. The Physical Functioning subscale consists of 10 items concerning activities of daily living: walking, climbing stairs, bathing, dressing, and performance of physical activities. Each item is rated on a three-point scale of limitation of activity due to the patients' health from 1=limited a lot to 3=not limited. The total PF score is the summation of item scores and then rescaled to 0-100. A larger score suggests better physical functioning. This measure was completed by US patients only., 1. Prior to surgery (baseline), 2. 6 weeks post-surgery, 3. 15 weeks post-surgery 4. 6 months post-surgery, 5. 12 months post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if surgical secondary cytoreduction in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy increases the duration of overall survival in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

II. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phases of treatment increases the duration of overall survival relative to second-line paclitaxel and carboplatin alone in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phase of treatment increases the duration of progression-free survival relative to second-line paclitaxel and carboplatin alone in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

II. To prospectively determine the incidence of carboplatin and paclitaxel hypersensitivity in these patients undergoing retreatment with both agents as first recurrence therapy.

III. To determine if surgical secondary cytoreduction in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy increases quality of life (QOL) in patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) trial outcome index and Rand Short Form (SF)-36 physical functioning scale.

IV. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phases of treatment increases QOL relative to second-line paclitaxel and carboplatin alone in patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. To define molecular and biochemical profiles associated with the duration of progression-free survival in platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube carcinoma treated with combination chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab followed with or without maintenance bevacizumab therapy in the presence or absence of secondary surgical cytoreduction.

II. To identify molecular determinants that predict sensitivity or resistance to carboplatin and paclitaxel with or without bevacizumab followed with or without maintenance bevacizumab therapy.

III. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research and evaluate the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and measures of clinical outcome including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups. Patients who are not candidates for surgical cytoreduction (i.e., those for whom complete cytoreduction in the estimation of the investigator is impossible or a medical infirmity precludes exploration and debulking) are eligible to receive chemotherapy after randomization.

Patients who are eligible for surgery undergo abdominal exploration with cytoreduction. Patients are then randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours or docetaxel IV over 1 hour and carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.

ARM II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in Arm I and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1.

ARM III: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin as in Arm I.

ARM IV: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV as in Arm III, bevacizumab IV and carboplatin IV as in Arm II.

In all arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients with measurable disease achieving a clinical response (CR) receive 6-8 courses of therapy. Patients with stable disease or partial regression receive a maximum of 8 courses.

Patients without measurable lesions as determined by a computed tomography (CT) scan prior to initiating study treatment continue therapy for 6 courses or, if cancer antigen (CA)-125 normalizes, for 2 courses beyond CA-125 normalization, whichever is greater. Patients in Arm II then receive a maintenance regimen comprising bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes. Treatment with bevacizumab alone repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly for 5 years.