Short-course Radiotherapy Combined With CAPOX and PD-1 Antibody Versus Long-course Chemoradiotherapy Combined With CAPOX for Early Low-lying Rectal Cancer
TORCH-E2 is a prospective, multicentre, randomized phase II trial. 134 low-lying early (T1-3b/N0-1M0, distance from anal verge ≤5cm) patients will be recruited and assigned to Group 1 and Group 2 (1:1). Group 1 receives SCRT (25Gy/5Fx) followed by 4 cycles of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin (CAPOX) chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody. Group 2 receives LCRT (50Gy/25Fx) followed by 2 cycles of CAPOX. A WW option can be applied to patients achieving cCR while surgery will be recommended for those who fail to achieve cCR. The primary endpoint is complete response (CR, pathological complete response \[pCR\] plus cCR) rate. The secondary endpoints include the grade 3-4 acute adverse effects (AE) rate, anal preservation rate, 3-year DFS rate, etc.
Early Low Rectal Cancer
RADIATION: Short-course radiotherapy|DRUG: PD-1 antibody (Toripalimab)|RADIATION: Long-course radiotherapy|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine
complete response (CR) rate, Rate of complete response (CR), including the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) after surgery and the rate of cCR with W\&W strategy., 1 month after the surgery or the decision of W&W
Grade 3-4 adverse effects rate, Rate of chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy related adverse events, From date of randomization until 3 months after the completion neoadjuvant therapy|Organ preservation rate, Organ preservation rate, from date of receiving neoadjuvant therapy, assessed up to 3 years|3 year disease free survival rate, Rate of 3 year disease free survival, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year local recurrence free survival rate, Rate of 3 year local recurrence free survival, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of first documented pelvic failure, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year overall survival rate, Rate of 3 year overall survival, From date of initiation of treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|3 year Quality of Life, Quality of life will be evaluated using EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC QLQ-CR29, LARS score and Wexner score., From date of initiation of treatment until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years
TORCH-E2 is a prospective, multicentre, randomized phase II trial. 134 low-lying early (T1-3b/N0-1M0, distance from anal verge ≤5cm) patients will be recruited and assigned to Group 1 and Group 2 (1:1). Group 1 receives SCRT (25Gy/5Fx) followed by 4 cycles of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin (CAPOX) chemotherapy and PD-1 antibody. Group 2 receives LCRT (50Gy/25Fx) followed by 2 cycles of CAPOX. A WW option can be applied to patients achieving cCR while surgery will be recommended for those who fail to achieve cCR. The primary endpoint is complete response (CR, pathological complete response \[pCR\] plus cCR) rate. The secondary endpoints include the grade 3-4 acute adverse effects (AE) rate, anal preservation rate, 3-year DFS rate, etc.