Trisenox® in Women With Metastatic Endometrial Cancer
The primary purpose of this study is to see whether women who have already received chemotherapy for their endometrial cancer, or who have disease that has spread outside of the uterus, will respond to the drug arsenic trioxide (Trisenox®) as judged by shrinkage of their tumor.
Endometrial Carcinoma
DRUG: Arsenic trioxide
Objective Response (CR+PR) Rate of Subjects Given Trisenox, To estimate the objective response (CR+PR) rate (as defined by the Gynecologic Oncology Group \[GOG\] RECIST Criteria)of Trisenox® in women with recurrent or metastatic endometrial cancer when administered at 0.25 mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive days (D1-5) every 4 weeks., 28 days
Progression Free Survival in Patients Treated With Trisenox®, Progression-Free survival is the period from start of treatment until disease progression, death, or date of last contact., 28 days|Overall Survival, 5 years|Associations Between Markers of Angiogenesis (e.g. VEGF) With Response, We will request a blood sample to measure vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as well as other angiogenic factors and correlate levels to response to arsenic trioxide. Such effects have been observed in cultured cell lines and animal models, as well as clinical studies., 4 years
This is an open-label, single arm, single institution, phase II trial designed to assess the response rate and safety of Trisenox® in women with recurrent endometrial carcinoma. Trisenox® will be administered at a dose of 0.25 mg/kg/day for 5 consecutive days (D1-5) every 4 weeks. A 4-week period will be defined as a cycle of treatment. Marker and non-marker lesions will be assessed every 2 cycles (every 8 weeks) and the response assigned according to Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) RECIST guidelines. Safety will be assessed by routine physical, laboratory and ECG evaluations. Up to 10 patients will be enrolled into the study. Patients are expected (excluding any unforeseen toxicities) to receive a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 6 cycles of Trisenox®. (Patients with at least documented stable disease may be eligible for \>6 cycles). Patients will be followed for 6 months after their last dose of Trisenox®.

For this trial we would allow one prior cytotoxic regimen since the time of recurrence and patients may have had one prior regimen as part of their induction chemotherapy. Patients will be treated with 0.25 mg/kg/day for days 1-5 every 28 days and patients may remain on trial until progression of disease.