68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/MRI in Finding Tumors in Patients With Intermediate or High-Risk Prostate Cancer Undergoing Surgery
This phase 2-3 trial studies the utility of 68-gallium (68Ga)-prostate-specific membrane antigen 11 (PSMA-11) positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI) to find tumors in patients with prostate cancer who are undergoing resection surgery for prostate cancer that is prognostically expected to spread quickly (intermediate-risk) or is likely to come back or spread (high-risk). Diagnostic procedures, such as PET/MRI, may help find and diagnose prostate cancer, and reveal out how far the disease has spread. Radioactive drugs, such as 68Ga-PSMA-11, may bind to tumor cells that have specific receptors, and may allow doctors to see smaller tumors than the standard of care contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) or MRI scan.
Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: 68Ga-PSMA-11|PROCEDURE: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
68Ga-PSMA-11 PET Detection of Prostate Cancer Metastasized to Lymph Nodes, 68-gallium (68Ga)-prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI) will be used to detect regional nodal and distant metastases in participants with intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer scheduled to undergo prostatectomy with lymph node dissection. The data will be analyzed by imaging interpretation. Each participant will be interpreted as either positive or negative for the presence of metastatic disease by 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI, as assessed by imaging interpretation. The outcome will be expressed as the number of participants with metastatic disease, as identified by PET/MRI, a number without dispersion., 1 Day
Histopathologic Detection of Prostate Cancer Metastasized to Lymph Nodes, Participants that undergo prostatectomy will be evaluated for prostate cancer metastasis to the lymph nodes as determined by histopathology. Each participants will be interpreted as either positive or negative for the presence of metastatic disease by histopathology. The outcome will be expressed as the number of participants with metastatic disease, as identified by histopathology, a number without dispersion., 1 Day|Sensitivity of 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/MRI, 68-gallium (68Ga)-prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI) will be used to detect metastases in participants with intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer scheduled to undergo prostatectomy with lymph node dissection. For participants that undergo both procedures (68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI and prostatectomy), sensitivity of the 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI detection of metastatic prostate cancer will be determined. For an individual participant, sensitivity means the 2 assessments are in agreement that the participant truly has (ie, true-positive) have the condition being tested for (ie, metastatic prostate cancer). The outcome is reported as the percentage of participants for which the 2 assessments are in agreement that metastatic prostate cancer is detected (true-positive), a number without dispersion., 1 Day|Specificity of 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/MRI, 68-gallium (68Ga)-prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging (PET/MRI) will be used to detect metastases in participants with intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer scheduled to undergo prostatectomy with lymph node dissection. For participants that undergo both procedures (68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI and prostatectomy), specificity of the 68Ga-PSMA PET/MRI detection of metastatic prostate cancer will be determined. For an individual participant, specificity means the 2 assessments are in agreement that the participant does not (ie, true-negative) have the condition being tested for (ie, metastatic prostate cancer). The outcome is reported as the percentage of participants for which the 2 assessments are in agreement that metastatic prostate cancer is not detected (true-negative), a number without dispersion., 1 Day
OBJECTIVES:

1. To evaluate 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/MRI for detection of tumor metastases in patients with intermediate and high-risk prostate cancer scheduled to undergo prostatectomy with lymph node dissection.
2. To assess sensitivity (positive predictive value) and specificity (negative predictive value) of 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/MRI for the detection of regional nodal metastases compared to pathology at radical prostatectomy.

OUTLINE:

Participants will receive 68Ga-PSMA-11 intravenously (IV). Patients then undergo PET/MRI after 45 minutes of administration of radiopharmaceutical injection.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 24 to 48 hours.