Ivosidenib and Combination Chemotherapy for the Treatment of IDH1 Mutant Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of ivosidenib when given together with combination chemotherapy for the treatment of 1DH1 mutant acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). Ivosidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking the IDH1 mutation and some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fludarabine phosphate, cytarabine, and filgrastim, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ivosidenib with combination chemotherapy may work better in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia compared to chemotherapy alone.
Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Myeloproliferative Neoplasm|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Myelodysplastic Syndrome
DRUG: Cytarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Filgrastim|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|DRUG: Ivosidenib
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Will be assessed for a DLT per the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., Up to day 42 of the first treatment cycle
Incidence of adverse events, Will be assessed by the CTCAE version 5.0. Toxicity profiles will be summarized for toxicities of any grade, with rates of \>= grade 3 toxicities also analyzed separately. Adverse events rates will be summarized and accompanied by 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., Up to 30 days after last dose|Rates of complete remission (CR + complete remission with incomplete hematological recovery [CRi] + complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery [CRp]), Patients that complete the induction cycle will be eligible for assessment, After induction on day 28 or upon count recovery, up to 1 year|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier curves., At 1 year|Overall survival, Will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier curves., At 1 year|Number of patients that receive hematopoietic stem cell transplant after induction treatment, Patients that complete the induction cycle will be eligible for assessment., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of ivosidenib in combination with fludarabine, cytarabine, plus granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) (FLAG) chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety profile of ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

II. To determine the rate of complete remission (CR + complete remission with incomplete hematological recovery \[CRi\] + complete remission with incomplete platelet recovery \[CRp\]) with ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

III. To evaluate the 1 year progression free survival. IV. To evaluate the 1 year overall survival. V. To assess the number of patients that receive allogeneic stem cell transplant after ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess for minimal residual disease negativity by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for IDH1 mutations after treatment with ivosidenib in combination with FLAG chemotherapy.

II. To assess for minimal residual disease negativity by PCR for IDH1 mutations after 3 cycles of maintenance therapy.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION: Patients receive filgrastim subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) on days 0-6, fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) QD over 30 minutes on days 1-5, cytarabine IV QD over 4 hours on days 1-5, and ivosidenib orally (PO) QD on days 7-28. Treatment continues for 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

CONSOLIDATION: Patients receive filgrastim SC QD on days 0-5, fludarabine phosphate IV QD over 30 minutes on days 1-4, cytarabine IV QD over 4 hours on days 1-4, and ivosidenib PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment continues for 28 days for 1 cycle in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE: Patients receive ivosidenib PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 26 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every month for up to 1 year.