RAD001 (Everolimus) and Pasireotide (SOM230) LAR in Patients With Advanced Uveal Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the drugs everolimus and pasireotide have on the patient and on melanoma. Pasireotide is also called SOM-230. Pasireotide is an experimental drug and is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Everolimus is also called RAD001. Everolimus is approved for use in the U.S. for kidney cancer. Everolimus is not approved for treatment of melanomas, but early studies show that it may help some patients with melanoma.
Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: RAD001 (Everolimus) and Pasireotide (SOM230) LAR
Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), For patients with metastatic uveal melanoma treated with RAD001 and pasireotide LAR., at 16 weeks|Number of Participants With Partial Response (PR), For patients with metastatic uveal melanoma treated with RAD001 and pasireotide LAR., at 16 weeks|Number of Participants With Stable Disease (SD), For patients with metastatic uveal melanoma treated with RAD001 and pasireotide LAR., at 16 weeks
Median Progression Free Survival(PFS), Up to 3 years|Safety and Toxicity in This Patient Population., Safety assessments will consist of monitoring and recording all adverse events, including serious adverse events, the regular monitoring of hematology (including glycosylated hemoglobin and coagulation parameters), blood chemistry (including fasting glucose, thyroid function tests, GH, IGF-1 and prolactin), urinalysis, regular monitoring of vital signs, echocardiography, ECGs, and body weight. Toxicity will be assessed using the NCI-CTC for Adverse Events, version 4.0 (CTCAEv4.0,, 16 weeks|Median Overall Survival (OS), Up to 3 years
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, the drugs everolimus and pasireotide have on the patient and on melanoma. Pasireotide is also called SOM-230. Pasireotide is an experimental drug and is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Everolimus is also called RAD001. Everolimus is approved for use in the U.S. for kidney cancer. Everolimus is not approved for treatment of melanomas, but early studies show that it may help some patients with melanoma.