Phase 1/2 Study of VSLI Plus Rituximab in Patients With Relapsed and/or Refractory NHL
This was a Phase 1/2 study performed at two clinical centers in the US and UK. It was a single arm, open label study evaluating VSLI plus rituximab in adults with aggressive relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate Liposome Injection plus rituximab
Objective response rate, The primary efficacy endpoint was the objective response rate (ORR) defined as the proportion of patients whose best responses were complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) (ORR = CR + PR)., Assessed prior to each cycle for up to 12 cycles (24 weeks). For patients achieving a complete or partial response, follow-up assessments were to be made 2, 8, 16, and 24 weeks after treatment was discontinued (up to ~48 wks).
Assessment of the number of events and number and percentage of patients with treatment-emergent AEs, The number of events and number and percentage of patients with treatment-emergent AEs that occurred from the time of first study treatment up to 30 days following the last study treatment were summarized by MedDRA system organ class and preferred term, NCI CTC grade, and relationship to study drug.

Safety variables included adverse events, neurologic assessments, chemistry and hematology laboratory tests, physical examinations, and vital signs.

Neurologic symptom scores were summarized for baseline and worst score on study. The number and percentage of patients with neurologic symptom abnormalities were tabulated and presented by severity and cycle for each symptom.

Neurologic sign scores were summarized for baseline and worst score on study. The number and percentage of patients with neurologic sign abnormalities were tabulated and presented by severity and cycle for each sign.

Shifts from baseline to worst value were tabulated by cycle based on NCI CTC grades, AEs were assessed up to 30 days post last dose. Dosing may last up to 24 weeks.|Time to Progression, Time To Progression (TTP), defined as the interval between the initial day of dosing and disease progression or death due to NHL, First dose to disease progression. Follow up was reported approximately every 3 months post-dose up to the date of patient death. Patients were followed up to 2 yrs.|Overall survival, Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the interval between the initial day of dosing and death due to any cause., The interval between first dose and death due to any cause. Reported every 3 months post dose up to patient death. Follow up was approximately 2 years
The primary efficacy endpoint was objective response rate, defined as the proportion of patients with a response of CR + PR.

Duration of response, time to progression, and overall survival were analyzed. Descriptive statistics were used for demographics, disease characteristics, treatment exposures, efficacy, and safety variables.