Clofarabine in Treating Patients With T-Cell or Natural Killer-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma That Has Relapsed or Not Responded to Previous Treatment
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as clofarabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of clofarabine and to see how well it works in treating patients with T-cell or natural killer-cell lymphoma that has relapsed or not responded to previous treatment.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Small Intestine Cancer
DRUG: clofarabine
Maximum Tolerated Dose, 2 years|Response Rate for Participants With Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Response rate as defined by complete remission, complete remission unconfirmed, partial remission, positron emission tomography (PET)-negative partial remission, stable disease, and progressive disease (Phase II), 2 years
Participants Evaluated for Toxicity, Toxicity as defined by NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v 3.0, 2 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine in patients with relapsed or refractory T-cell or natural killer-cell lymphoma.
* Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.
* Determine, preliminarily, the efficacy of this drug, in terms of response rate, in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, non-randomized, dose-escalation study followed by an open-label, phase II study.

* Phase I: Patients receive clofarabine IV over 1 hour once daily on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving stable disease or partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) may receive 2 additional courses of treatment. Patients with PR or CR after completing 4 courses of therapy may receive 2 additional courses.

Cohorts of 1-6 patients receive escalating doses of clofarabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

* Phase II: Patients receive clofarabine as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years.