Dasatinib, Cytarabine, and Idarubicin in Treating Patients With High-Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of dasatinib when given together with cytarabine and idarubicin hydrochloride and to see how well they work in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that is likely to come back or spread. Dasatinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and idarubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving dasatinib together with cytarabine and idarubicin hydrochloride may be a better treatment for acute myeloid leukemia.
Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With 11q23 (MLL) Abnormalities|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Del(5q)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13;q22)|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22)|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: cytarabine|DRUG: idarubicin|DRUG: dasatinib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Dasatinib (Phase I), Maximum tolerated dose of dasatinib, determined according to incidence of dose limiting toxicity (DLT), graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I), From the first dose of Dasatinib through the DLT observation period (Day +28)|Complete Remission Rate (Phase II), Remission rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients that have a confirmed CR, and exact 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for these estimates., From the first cycle up to two years
Overall Survival (Phase II), Overall survival was measured from the first dose of Dasatinib to death from any cause or last contact, whichever comes first. It was estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from start of study therapy until death, or last contact, whichever comes first, assessed up to 2 years|Event-free Survival (Phase II), Event-free survival was defined as time from the first dose of Dasatinib to relapse/progression, receipt of anti-leukemia therapy, death, or last contact, whichever comes first. It was estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Time from start of study therapy until death, relapse/progression, receipt of anti-leukemia therapy, or last contact, whichever comes first, assessed up to two years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Of the dose levels studied, to determine the maximum tolerated dose of dasatinib when given in combination with cytarabine and idarubicin for treatment of high risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML). (Phase I)

II. To determine the anti-tumor activity of dasatinib when given in combination with cytarabine and idarubicin, as assessed by complete remission rate (CR) and remission duration. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To document CR and survival outcomes (overall, event-free). (Phase I)

II. To estimate the survival probabilities (overall and event-free) and cumulative incidence of relapse/progression. (Phase II)

III. To describe and summarize all toxicities by organ and severity. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of dasatinib, followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously over 168 hours on days 1-7, dasatinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-7, and idarubicin hydrochloride IV on days 1-3. Patients with non-responsive disease on day 30 may receive a second course of therapy (re-induction therapy) within 1 week in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 2 months for up to 2 years.