Efficacy of Everolimus Alone or in Combination With Pasireotide LAR in Advanced PNET
This study will estimate the treatment effect of everolimus in combination with pasireotide LAR relative to everolimus alone on progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced progressive PNET.

A planned primary analysis was completed with data cut of 02-Apr-2014. The study did not meet its primary objective, which was based on progression-free survival (PFS) as per local radiology assessment and was prematurely terminated with the last patient last visit on 19-Feb-2015. However, it is important to note that the data did not reveal any new safety concerns. It was decided to stop the study and this decision was shared with the study sites on 31-Jul-2014.
Islet Cell Tumor
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Pasireotide LAR
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Per Local Radiological Review, PFS per RECIST 1.0. (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first radiologically documented disease progression or death due to any cause., Once 80 PFS events had occurred aproximately after 24 months
Safety and Tolerability Profile of Everolimus Alone or in Combination With Pasireotide LAR, Consisted of monitoring and recording the rate, type, severity, and causal relationship of adverse events (AEs) and serious AEs (SAEs) to treatment. The safety analysis was based mainly on the frequency of AEs or SAEs and on the number of laboratory values that fell outside of pre-determined range., Once 80 PFS events had occurred|Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Per Radiology Review, Objective response was determined by the local radiologist according to the RECIST Version 1.0. ORR is the percentage of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). This is also referred to as Overall response rate.

CR: Disappearance of all nontarget lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline., Once 80 PFS events had occurred|Duration of Response (DoR), 80 PFS are expected after approximately 24 months. Kaplan Meier was initially planned to be used to depict duration of response by treatment group and by stratum. Later based on the mode of action of everolimus and pasireotide and based on study experience, only a low number of objective responses per RECIST were expected. Therefore, protocol was amended to only list duration of response, and confirmed responses were flagged in the listing. Hence, statistical analyses were not planned and such data are not available for the following table., Once 80 PFS events had occurred|Overall Survival (OS) Using Kaplan Meier Method, Overall survival was defined as the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to date of death due to any cause. If a patient is not known to have died, survival was to be censored at the date of last contact., Once 80 PFS events had occurred|PFS and the Predictive Probability of Success in Phase III, 105 PFS events expected after approximately 36 months, Once 105 PFS events had occurred occurred|Disease Control Rate (DCR) as Per Radiology Review, Disease control rate is the percentage of patients with a best overall response of CR or PR or stable disease (SD) determined by the local radiologist according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST) Version 1.0. CR: Disappearance of all nontarget lesions. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest diameter of all target lesions recorded at or after baseline. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR or CR nor an increase in lesions which would qualify for progressive disease (PD). PD: Any progression ≤ 18 weeks after randomization (and not qualifying for CR, PR or stable disease SD., Once 80 PFS events had occurred|Summary of Pharmacokinetics (PK) for Everolimus for AUClast, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary of Pharmacokinetics (PK) for Everolimus for CL/F, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary of Pharmacokinetics (PK) for Everolimus for Cmax and Cmin, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary of Pharmacokinetics (PK) for Everolimus for Tmax, Cycle 2 Day 1|Summary of Pasireotide Concentrations Following Intramuscular Injection of Pasireotide LAR 60mg, Cycle 1 Day 21, Cycle 2 Day 29
This study will estimate the treatment effect of everolimus in combination with pasireotide LAR relative to everolimus alone on progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with advanced progressive PNET.

A planned primary analysis was completed with data cut of 02-Apr-2014. The study did not meet its primary objective, which was based on progression-free survival (PFS) as per local radiology assessment and was prematurely terminated with the last patient last visit on 19-Feb-2015. However, it is important to note that the data did not reveal any new safety concerns. It was decided to stop the study and this decision was shared with the study sites on 31-Jul-2014.