BR Combined With OR in Treatment-naïve Marginal Zone Lymphoma
This is a multi-center, prospective study. The main purpose is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of BR (bendamustine and zuberitamab) combined with OR (orelabrutinib and zuberitamab) in treatment-naïve patients with marginal zone lymphoma.
Marginal Zone Lymphomas
DRUG: BR+OR
Complete response rate, Complete response rate is defined as the proportion of patients with a response of CR., From enrollment to the end of induction therapy of cycle 6 (each cycle is 28 days)
Overall response rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with a response of CR or PR., At the end of induction therapy (6 cycles; each cycle is 28 days)|Time to response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from the start of therapy to the first response., From the start of therapy to the first documentation of response, assessed up to 3 years.|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from documentation of response to treatment to the first documentation of tumor progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first., From the first demonstration of response until disease progression/death, up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to the first occurrence of progression or relapse as assessed by the investigator, or death from any cause. PFS for patients without disease progression, relapse, or death will be censored at the time of the last tumor assessment., From the date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression, up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the enrollment to death from any cause. Patients who have not died until the time of the analysis will be censored at their last contact date., From the date of enrollment until the date of death, up to 3 years|The occurrence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded by the investigator according to the NCI-CTCAE Version 5.0., From the date of enrollment until the date of death, up to 3 years
Marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) represents the second most prevalent indolent lymphoma subtype, accounting for 5-15% of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas. MZL is categorized into three subtypes based on distinct clinical and pathological features: mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma (MALT), nodal marginal zone lymphoma (NMZL), and splenic marginal zone lymphoma (SMZL). Currently, there remains no internationally recognized consensus regarding the optimal first-line treatment for MZL. Exploring more effective, low-toxicity treatment regimens for MZL patients is a scientifically valuable and clinically significant attempt. Orelabrutinib, a novel highly selective BTK inhibitor, has been approved by the NMPA for the treatment of MZL in patients who have received at least one prior treatment.

This study is a multi-center, prospective clinical study involving previously untreated MZL patients. During the induction therapy phase, patients will receive 90 mg/m2 of bendamustine and 375 mg/m2 zuberitamab from cycles 1 to 3, followed by 150 mg of orelabrutinib and 375 mg/m2 zuberitamab from cycles 4 to 6. At the investigator's discretion, patients who achieved a complete response or partial response could be assigned to maintenance therapy, consisting of 150 mg of orelabrutinib for up to 24 cycles.