Cryocompression Therapy for Peripheral Neuropathy in Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This trial studies how well cryocompression therapy works in reducing bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy in patients with multiple myeloma. Peripheral neuropathy (nerve pain or tingling in hands or feet) is a common side effect of chemotherapy such as bortezomib that affects the quality of life and amount of chemotherapy that can be given to many cancer patients. Cryocompression is a treatment where a glove and a boot are worn to cool down the skin. This cooling treatment is safe and does not interfere with chemotherapy treatment. Daily cryocompression therapy may reduce neuropathy caused by bortezomib chemotherapy.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Plasma Cell Myeloma
DEVICE: VascuTherm5 vascular compression device
Feasibility - Ability to complete daily 30-minute cryocompression treatments, The primary outcome measure will be feasibility of daily 30-minute cryocompression treatments with a target of 60% compliance. Compliance will be measured by VCU recorded data. Patient study treatment diary will be compared and when discrepancies exist, resolved either by asking the patient or discussing with the study principal investigator. Compliance is defined as completion of 60% of prescribed treatment days. Completion of at least 25 of 30 minutes on each day will be considered completion of therapy on the prescribed day.

Analyses will be primarily descriptive to estimate variances and effect sizes for future work. The proportion of compliance and its 95% confidence interval will be calculated for each cohort., Baseline up to 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy
EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 Questionnaire, Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) is characterized by numbness, tingling, and shooting/burning pain. Patient-reported assessment of neuropathy based on sensory, motor and autonomic neuropathic pain scores (scale of 1 to 4) 1 being "not at all" and 4 being "very much." EORTC QLQ-CIPN20 (PRO) will be done at baseline, and at 4 and 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy., Baseline up to 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy|NCI-CTCAE v5.0 Severity Grade Changes, Physician graded assessment of peripheral neuropathy as measured by NCI-CTCAE v5.0 criteria. The CTCAE displays Grades 1 through 5 (1 = mild, 5 = death), Baseline up to 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy|Change in Motor Nerve Function, Tibial motor response will include tibial amplitude (mV), latency (sec) and conduction velocity (m/sec). Sural sensory response will include amplitude (mV) and latency (sec). Scores include N(normal), INC(increased), DEC(decreased), A(absent), or NA (not available), Baseline and after 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy|Change in Sensory Response, Sural sensory response will include amplitude (mV) and latency (sec). Scores include N(normal), INC(increased), DEC(decreased), A(absent), or NA (not available), Baseline and after 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy
Velocity changes of digital artery perfusion, Pre-treatment and post-treatment velocity measurements (cm/s) will be measured by ultrasound at baseline and after 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy., Baseline and after 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy|Proportion of Changes in Peripheral Nerve Function, The peripheral nerve assessment measures with the patient reported outcomes (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20, PRO-CTCAE) at baseline, week 4, week 8, and for the change from baseline to week 8. Pain scores (scale of 1 to 4) 1 being "not at all" and 4 being "very much.", Baseline up to 8 weeks of cryocompression therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of daily cryocompression therapy in multiple myeloma patients with bortezomib-induced peripheral neuropathy (BIPN).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the change in patient-reported assessment of neuropathy based on the sensory, motor and autonomic neuropathy scores on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-Cancer-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN20) (patient-reported outcome \[PRO\]) from baseline to 4 and 8 weeks after the start of cryocompression therapy.

II. To examine the change in physician graded assessment of peripheral neuropathy by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 criteria from baseline to 4 and 8 weeks after the start of cryocompression therapy.

III. To assess the effect on sensory and motor nerve function via nerve conduction study (NCS) (e.g. conduction velocity, latency, and amplitude) and neuro-ultrasound after 8 weeks of daily cryocompression therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effect of 8 weeks of cryocompression on changes in digital artery perfusion as measured by ultrasound (US).

II. To examine the associations among the peripheral nerve assessment measures (nerve conduction and peripheral nerve US) with the patient reported outcomes (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20, PRO-CTCAE) at baseline, week 4, week 8, and for the change from baseline to week 8.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo home cryocompression therapy treatments on their non-dominant hand and foot over 30 minutes daily for 8 weeks.

After completion of cryocompression therapy, patients are followed up at 30 days.