Eribulin Mesylate and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Metastatic Solid Tumors or Solid Tumors That Cannot be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of eribulin mesylate and gemcitabine hydrochloride in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as eribulin mesylate and gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Uterine Corpus Carcinoma|Stage III Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Uterine Corpus Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Eribulin Mesylate|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride
Maximum tolerated dose of eribulin mesylate administered with gemcitabine hydrochloride in advanced/metastatic solid tumors, The Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE version 3 will be used to grade toxicity., Course 1|Recommended phase II dose of eribulin mesylate in combination with gemcitabine hydrochloride, Defined as one dose level below the dose at which 2 or more patients experience a DLT. If =\< 1 DLT is observed at dose level 5, then this will be the RPTD., Course 1|Safety, tolerability, toxicity profile, and dose-limiting toxicity of eribulin mesylate, Graded using the CTCAE version 3., From the time of their first treatment with eribulin mesylate|Pharmacokinetic profiles of eribulin mesylate and gemcitabine hydrochloride, Plasma samples for the determination of eribulin mesylate plasma concentration will be analyzed in conjunction with Eisai Pharmaceuticals. Plasma samples for the determination of gemcitabine plasma concentration will be analyzed through methods developed at the Princess Margaret Hospital., Days 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8 of course 1
Preliminary clinical antitumor activity of eribulin mesylate, Assessed using radiologic images (CT scans). Measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria., Baseline, every 2 courses, and 4 weeks post-treatment|Objective response rate in patients with measurable disease, Measured by RECIST criteria. All tests will be two-sided and a p-value of 0.05 or less will be considered statistically significant. Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean, median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate parameters of interest. 95% confidence intervals will be provided for estimates of interest where possible., Baseline, every 2 courses, and 4 weeks post-treatment|Duration of response in patients with measurable disease, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented|Time to disease progression in patients with measurable disease, Estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From start of treatment until the criteria for progression are met
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of E7389 (eribulin mesylate) when given in combination with gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) in patients with advanced cancer.

II. Determine the safety, tolerability, and toxicity profile of E7389 and gemcitabine given in combination.

III. Assess the antitumor activity of E7389 in combination with gemcitabine in patients with measurable disease.

IV. Determine the pharmacokinetic profile of E7389 and gemcitabine to assess for any possible interactions between the two agents.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study. Patients receive eribulin mesylate intravenously (IV) and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15 OR on days 1 and 8.

Courses repeat every 28 or 21 days\* in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of eribulin mesylate and gemcitabine hydrochloride until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT). NOTE: \*If DLT is observed at the first dose level of the 28-day schedule, subsequent patients are treated on days 1 and 8 of the 21-day schedule; patients enrolled in the expansion cohort (patients with ovarian or endometrial cancer or chemotherapy-naive or minimally pre-treated cancer) receive treatment according to the 21-day schedule.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then every 3 months thereafter.