Effects of Short-term Fasting on Tolerance to Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to determine the effect of short-term fasting on tolerance to adjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Short-term fasting|OTHER: Healthy nutrition
chemotherapy-induced neutropenia, Neutrophil count after 6 cycles of chemotherapy (6x 21 days), approximately 126 days
chemotherapy-induced DNA damage in leukocytes, chemotherapy-induced DNA damage in leukocytes will be determined after each cycle of chemotherapy (i.e. every 21 days), 21 days|perceived side effects of chemotherapy, To determine the effect of short-term fasting on perceived side effects after each cycle of chemotherapy (i.e. every 21 days), 21 days|effect of short-term fasting on the body's inflammatory response to chemotherapy, To determine the effect of short-term fasting on the body's inflammatory response to chemotherapy, inflammation parameters will be measured after each cycle of chemotherapy, 21 days
Evidence from experimental animals provides strong support for the concept that caloric restriction (CR) increases resistance to multiple forms of stress. CR decreases plasma levels of growth factors, e.g. insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), thereby diverting energy from growth to maintenance. Accordingly, the currently available information suggests that short-term fasting protects normal cells against the perils of (high dose) chemotherapy. In contrast, cancer cells are not (or less) protected as a result of their self-sufficiency in growth signals. This phenomenon is termed Differential Stress Resistance (DSR). DSR reduces the severity of side-effects caused by the toxicity of chemotherapy, without interfering with its effect on reduction of tumour volume or tumour markers. A recent report, sketching a case series of 10 cancer patients, suggests that short term fasting protects against the side effects of chemotherapy in humans. Indeed, the majority of patients preferred fasting over feeding in preparation of their therapy. This study aims to further evaluate the impact of fasting on tolerance to chemotherapy in humans.