MEDI4736 Or MEDI4736 + Tremelimumab In Surgically Resectable Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
The objective of this study is to determine whether MEDI4736 or combination therapy with MEDI4736 + tremelimumab are associated with favorable alterations of the intratumoral immunologic environment in subjects undergoing resectional surgery for Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma MPM.
Mesothelioma
DRUG: MEDI4736|DRUG: Tremelimumab|OTHER: no other name
Change in Ratio of Intratumoral Cytotoxic T Cells to Regulatory T Cells (CD8/Treg), Tissue biomarker immune response of CD8 and Treg to before and after MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The ratios of CD8/Treg are calculated by diving CD8 by Treg., at day 1 after screening and at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment
Change in Percentage of Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator (ICOS) + CD4 T Cells., Tissue biomarker for the immune response of ICOS+ CD4 T cells to before and after MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The percentages of ICOS+CD4 T cells are calculated by dividing by total cells., at day 1 after screening and at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Change in Tumor Expression Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)., Tumor expression programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) before and after treatment with combination MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab will be obtained by immunohistochemistry and CytoF. The unit of measure is MMI. MMI (mean metal intensity or mean mass intensity) is a signal intensity in time-of-flight mass cytometry (CyTOF), which is the same as MFI (mean fluorescent intensity) in flow cytometry. Mean metal intensity looks more common in CyTOF to tell it from the unit in mass spectrometry. Its range is from 0 to infinity., at day 1 after screening and at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Ratio of Intratumoral Cytotoxic T Cells to Regulatory T Cells (CD8/Treg) in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and in Patients Treated With MEDI-4736 Alone., Tissue biomarker immune response of CD8 and Treg after MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab, and after MEDI4736 alone will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The ratios of CD8/Treg are calculated by diving CD8 by Treg., at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Ratio of Intratumoral Cytotoxic T Cells to Regulatory T Cells (CD8/Treg) in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and Untreated Patients., Tissue biomarker immune response of CD8 and Treg after MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab, and at day 1 of untread will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The ratios of CD8/Treg are calculated by diving CD8 by Treg., the untreated group(control) : at day 1, MEDI4736 + Tremelimumab: at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment (MEDI4736+Tremelimumab) group|Percentage of Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator (ICOS) + CD4 T Cells in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and in Patients Treated With MEDI-4736 Alone, Tissue biomarker immune response of ICOS+ CD4 T cells after combination therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and after MEDI4736 alone will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The percentages of ICOS+CD4 T cells are calculated by dividing by total cells., at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Percentage of Inducible T-cell Co-stimulator (ICOS) + CD4 T Cells in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and in Untreated Patients., Tissue biomarker immune response of ICOS+ CD4 T cells after combination therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and after untreated patients will be obtained using CytoF (time-of-flight mass cytometry) and/or flow cytometry. The percentages of ICOS+CD4 T cells are calculated by dividing by total cells., Untreated group (control): at day 1, MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab group: at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Tumor Expression Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and in Patients Treated With MEDI-4736 Alone., Tumor expression programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) after combination therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and after MEDI-4736 alone will be obtained by immunohistochemistry and CytoF. The unit of measure is MMI. MMI (mean metal intensity or mean mass intensity) is a signal intensity in time-of-flight mass cytometry (CyTOF), which is the same as MFI (mean fluorescent intensity) in flow cytometry. Mean metal intensity looks more common in CyTOF to tell it from the unit in mass spectrometry. Its range is from 0 to infinity., at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Tumor Expression Programmed Death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in Patients Treated With Combination Therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and in Untreated Patients., Tumor expression programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) after combination therapy (MEDI-4736 and Tremelimumab) and before and at day 1 of untreate alone will be obtained by immunohistochemistry and CytoF. The unit of measure is MMI. MMI (mean metal intensity or mean mass intensity) is a signal intensity in time-of-flight mass cytometry (CyTOF), which is the same as MFI (mean fluorescent intensity) in flow cytometry. Mean metal intensity looks more common in CyTOF to tell it from the unit in mass spectrometry. Its range is from 0 to infinity., Untreated arm (control): at day 1 after screening, MEDI4736 + Tremelimumab group: at a surgery within one to six weeks after treatment|Median Recurrence-free Survival (RFS), RFS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time between treatment and disease recurrence or censored and participants in either MEDI-4736 alone or MEDI-4736 plus Tremelimumab will be followed up for 2 years after surgery., Participants will be followed up until disease recurrence or censor for 2 year after surgery|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time between treatment and death or censored and participants in either MEDI-4736 alone or MEDI-4736+Tremelimumab will be followed up for 2 years after surgery., Participants will be followed up until death or censor for 2 year after surgery
Subjects with MPM will undergo surgical mediastinal lymph node biopsy (cervical mediastinoscopy) and simultaneous surgical biopsy of the pleural tumor by thoracoscopy, at which time tumor tissue (at least 2 g) and peripheral blood will be collected for the study. These procedures are performed as standard of care in the treatment of these subjects. The subject will be randomized. Three days to three weeks after the biopsy, subjects will be randomly treated with either MEDI-4736 (15 mg/kg once intravenously) or MEDI-4736 (1500 mg once intravenously) plus tremelimumab (75 mg once intravenously) or a control group in a randomized controlled study design. There will be two treatment arms (MEDI4736 only and combination MEDI4736+tremelimumab) and one untreated arm (control). Randomization, stratified by receiving previous chemotherapy or not, will be performed and will help to minimize patient selection biases between three arms. Subjects under 30 kg will be treated with weight-based dosing for both MEDI4736 and Tremelimumab combination therapy. These patients are excluded from fixed based dosing to limit endotoxin exposure from the drug preparations. One to six weeks after the infusion, subjects will undergo resectional surgery, including extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) or pleurectomy/decortication (P/D), at which time the tumor will be removed (typically 200-1000 g) and obtained for study. Four patients that do not undergo treatment with MEDI-4736 or tremelimumab will be included as controls. Blood will be obtained after the induction of general anesthesia for both the thoracoscopy procedure and the EPP or P/D resectional procedure, as is routinely done in these procedures. The sixth rib will be obtained at the time of the resection. After the removal of the tumor, standard protocol includes intraoperative heated chemotherapy using a lavage of intracavitary cisplatin in the presence of conserved renal function (Sugarbaker et al., 2013, 2014; Richards et al., 2006).