Values and Options in Cancer Care 2 (VOICE 2) A Randomized Pilot Study
Primary Objective:

Aim 1: To evaluate the acceptability and feasibility of recruitment strategies for subjects for VOICE 2 intervention.

Secondary Objective:

Aim 2: To test the preliminary efficacy of VOICE 2 on oncologist-patient, patient-caregiver, and oncologist-caregiver concordant prognostic understanding, oncologist-patient and oncologist-caregiver therapeutic alliance, patient/caregiver depression/anxiety and death anxiety, and patient/caregiver meaning/purpose.
Communication, Multidisciplinary
BEHAVIORAL: Interventional Survey
Open-ended, Likert scale will measure fidelity, Treatment fidelity will also be measured, Two years|Multiple-choice questions will measure fidelity, Treatment fidelity will also be measured, Two years
Coding a recording as a group, Trainees and trainers will then independently code two recordings and will meet to discuss coding differences, 2 years
16-item Human Connection Scale measured by a four point Likert scale, To measure the therapeutic alliance between the participant and physician. Measured in a four-point Likert scale, with response categories relevant to question content. The Human Connection Score is a summary score of item responses. Possible scores range from 16 to 64 with a mean value, 2 Years|Cancer Care Assessment Survey-Trust, To measure a narrower construct, trust., Two years|To measure a narrower construct, trust, A 16-item self-report measure assesses a narrower construct, trust, Two years|Anxiety and Depression measured by a Patient Health Questionnaire Anxiety and Depression Scale using the PHQ-ADS scales., A 16-item self-report measure assesses a narrower construct, trust. Scores can range from 0 to 48 (with higher scores indicating more severe depression/anxiety) .PHQ-ADS cutpoints of 10, 20, and 30 indicated mild, moderate, and severe levels of depression/anxiety, respectively. The PHQ-9 can be scored as either a continuous variable from 0 to 27 (with higher scores representing more severe depression) or categorically using a diagnostic algorithm for major depressive or other depressive disorder., Two years|Meaning and purpose measured by a 9-item Purpose in Life Scale using a five-point Likert rating for each item, A self-report measure meaning and purpose. The Purpose in Life Questionnaire (PIL), is a 20-item scale measuring different dimensions of life purposes and employ a five-point Likert-type response format. Higher scores suggest greater perceived meaning/purpose in life, Two year|Death anxiety, measured by a 15-item Death and Dying Distress Scale (DADDS), Death anxiety (patients, caregivers) will be measured by designed to serve as an outcome assessment in studies of the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions in participants with advanced cancer. Total DADDS scores may range from 0 to 75, with higher scores indicating greater death anxiety. Response options are as follows: 0 = I was not distressed by this thought or concern; 1 = I experienced very little distress; 2 = I experienced mild distress; 3 = I experienced moderate distress; 4 = I experienced great distress; 5 = I experienced extreme distress., Two Years|8-item Modified Decision Regret scale39, A post-intervention follow up. A score of 0 means no regret; a score of 100 means high regret. unidimensional, self-report instrument consisting of five items, which are answered on a 5-point bipolar intensity scale. Completers evaluate the item statements by circling a number from 1 (strongly agree) to 5 (strongly disagree)., Two years
The purpose of the research is to test whether the randomized recruitment of oncologist and their participants-caregivers dyads is feasible to improve communication and illness understanding in participants with advanced cancer and their caregivers. This study will be recruit oncologists first and randomize them to either control of intervention group. Participants and caregivers of the respective oncologists will be recruited and then assigned the same group.

The intervention group, a study team member will be meet with the caregiver for about one hour to review "Our Cancer Care" booklet and help the participant form questions that can be asked at the visit with the oncologist. This will be conducted in person or via secure video-conferencing program. There will be three follow up sessions where the study team member will ask the participants reflection of the prior conversation and the participants conversation with the oncologist and help formulate further questions or clarifications. These sessions should last about 20 minutes.

If assigned to the control group, the participant will receive "Our Cancer Care" booklet.

All participants participating in this study will, irrespective of the group assigned, will be asked to complete surveys about illness and the relationship with the oncology team at appropriate times during the study. A brief questionnaire about the understanding of the illness before and after receiving either the intervention or the booklet.

The time in the study is about one hour to complete each of the two set of surveys through an interview with the research staff, about five minutes to rate your illness understanding, and a total of about two hours for the four coaching sessions over a period lasting up to about ten weeks.