C2 CryoBalloon™ 180 Ablation System Dose De-escalation Study.
The primary objective is to determine the safety, performance and efficacy of the C2 CryoBalloon 180 Ablation System ("CryoBalloon 180") used at decreasing doses in treatment naïve patients with low- or high-grade dysplastic Barrett's Esophagus (BE) or with residual BE after resection of dysplasia or early adenocarcinoma.
Barrett Esophagus
DEVICE: C2 CryoBalloon 180° Ablation System
Efficacy: Dose response, Dose response (efficacy) is defined as eradication percentage of BE confirmed by histological evidence of eradication of BE, after treatment with the therapeutic dose (phase II)., 10 weeks|Safety: Incidence of Dose-related SAEs, Safety will be evaluated by the incidence of Dose-related SAEs.

Dose-related SAEs include pain in the treatment area, or any stricture (symptomatic or asymptomatic) preventing passage of the diagnostic endoscope at follow-up EGD., 30 days
Incidence of AEs, Incidence of all serious and non-serious adverse events up to 30 days post-treatment, 30 days|Patient reported post-procedure pain, Post-procedure pain in the area of the cryoablation treatment (0-10 VAS score), 24hours and 7 days post-procedure|Efficacy: Percent Regression, Efficacy, defined as the regression percentage at the first follow-up endoscopy, after one (1) treatment covering 50% of circumference of the esophagus with the therapeutic dose., 10 weeks|Efficacy: Treatment, Efficacy of treatment with CryoBalloon 180 Ablation system, defined as the proportion of patients with ≥80% regression of BE after 1 hemi-circumferential and after full circumferential treatment., 10 weeks
The procedure will be performed on an outpatient basis, and the CryoBalloon 180 Ablation system will be used for all ablations following the instructions for use provided with the product.

Patients who meet the eligibility criteria will be assigned to one of the treatment groups and doses, depending on the order of their enrollment:

In phase I, the first 25 patients will be treated with Dose 1 (lowest), in one application to ablate 50% of the esophageal circumference.

All patients will undergo 10 week (±2 weeks) follow-up EGD to evaluate efficacy of the dose before the study continues.

If follow-up shows that Dose 1 eradicates ≤60% of the treated BE (by median percentage) and no SAE's are reported, the treatment phase will continue but at the next incremental higer dose (Second Dose) after approval from the IRB.

If the Dose 1 median BE surface regression percentage is ≥60%, the dose is defined as the therapeutic dose. In that case, an additional group of 25 patients will be enrolled at this dose, pending IRB approval.

---------------------------------------------------------------

Dose-related SAEs include pain in the treatment area greater than 6 (0-10 VAS score) at 24 hours AND seven (7) days post-treatment; symptomatic stricture requiring an additional EGD with endoscopic dilation before the first follow-up EGD; symptomatic stricture at follow-up EGD; or any stricture (symptomatic or asymptomatic) preventing passage of the therapeutic endoscope at follow-up EGD. Any other serious adverse events within 30 days after treatment will also be evaluated by the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) for relationship to the dose and severity.

When a Dose-related serious adverse event occurs, the Holding Rule will be invoked and enrollment at that dose will be held until the DSMB has evaluated the event.