Clinical Study to Assess the Safety and Efficacy of the SpectraCure P18 System
The rationale for the study is to obtain safety and efficacy data as well as to establish dose parameters for the SpectraCure P18 System with IDOSE®, with verteporfin for injection (VFI) as photosensitizer for the treatment of recurrent prostate cancer.
Recurrent Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Verteporfin|DEVICE: SpectraCure P18 System
Number of participants with treatment related adverse events as assesses by CTCAE v4.0 related to protocol therapy., Dose limiting toxicities are defined as grade 3 non-hematologic or grade 4 hematologic toxicities that are possibly, probably or definitely related to PDT., Within 4 weeks of treatment in each cohort.|Percentage of subjects with negative biopsies., Histopathologically tumor-free., 6 months following PDT.
Damage to the periprostatic tissues including the rectal wall mediated by PDT, Potential damage to the periprostatic tissue will be evaluated by contrast-enhanced and not-contrast enhanced MRI., 5-9 days following PDT|Performance of SpectraCure P18 system, Performance of the SpectraCure P18 system will be evaluated by light dose-volume histograms for the light dose coverage, Dose-volume histograms will be evaluated at month 12|Adequacy of effectiveness, Effectivity will be evaluated by MRI to determine the extent of necrosis in the prostate, Within 1 week of treatment|Percentage of subjects with remaining localized tumour., Evaluated by MRI., 12 months following PDT.|Percentage of subjects with biochemical failure., Failure defined as a rise in PSA level of 2.0 ng/mL or more, over and above the nadir., 12 months following PDT.|Percentage of subjects with extra prostatic or distant disease., Evaluated by PSMA PET., 12 months following PDT.
In 2011, more than 200,000 men in North America alone were diagnosed with cancer of the prostate, which makes it one of the most common cancer types. It affects the lives of the subjects in many ways.

After treatment the subjects PSA levels are being closely monitored to detect potential recurrence. A high number of subjects will get recurrent prostate cancer. The treatment options for recurrent cancer are more limited than for primary tumors as secondary treatment partly depends on which treatment the subject has previously undergone.

Treatment of recurrent prostate cancer may, depending on the standard treatment of the primary disease, include the following:

* Radiation therapy.
* Prostatectomy for subjects initially treated with radiation therapy.
* Hormone therapy.
* Pain medication, external radiation therapy, internal radiation therapy with radioisotopes such as strontium-89, or other treatments as palliative therapy to lessen bone pain.

The objectives of this study is to demonstrate that the use of the SpectraCure P18 System (Interstitial multiple diode lasers and IDOSE® Software) and verteporfin for injection (VFI) is a safe treatment for recurrent prostate cancer.