Sleep Disorders in Patients With Suspected Lung Cancer Before and After Thoracic Surgery
The main aim of this study is to prospectively evaluate the occurrence of sleep disorders in patients undergoing thoracic surgery due to the preliminary diagnosis of lung cancer. Secondary aims include anxiety, depressive mood and functional outcomes before and 3 months after the intervention.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Functional Outcome of Sleep Questionnaire Turkish version (FOSQ-TR)|OTHER: Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS)|OTHER: Berlin Questionnaire|OTHER: Stop-Bang Questionnaire|OTHER: Insomnia Questionnaire|OTHER: Restless Leg Syndrome Questionnaire|OTHER: Zung Self-rating Depression Scale (SDS)|OTHER: Beck Anxiety Inventory
Change from baseline in Functional Outcome of Sleep Questionnaire scores, Sleep related quality of life. Score range: 5-20 points, with higher scores indicating better functional status., 3 months|Change from baseline in Epworth Sleepiness Scale scores, Excessive daytime sleepiness. Score range: 0-24 points, with higher scores indicating greater daytime sleepiness. Scores ≥11 are generally considered to be abnormal, or positive for excessive daytime sleepiness., 3 months|Change from baseline in Berlin Questionnaire scores, High-risk Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Patients can be classified into High Risk or Low Risk based on their responses to the individual items and their overall scores in the symptom categories., 3 months|Change from baseline in STOP-BANG questionnaire scores, High-risk Obstructive Sleep Apnea. Score range: 0-8 points, patients with a STOP-Bang score of 0 to 2 can be classified as low risk for moderate to severe OSA whereas those with a score of 5 to 8 can be classified as high risk for moderate to severe OSA.

The STOP-BANG is an assessment tool used to help diagnose Obstructive Sleep Apnea, 3 months|Change from baseline in Insomnia questionnaire scores, Insomnia questionnaire. Score range: 0-28 points, with higher scores indicating greater insomnia severity., 3 months|Change from baseline in Restless Legs Syndrome questionnaire scores, Restless Leg Syndrome questionnaire. Score range: 0-4 points, with higher scores indicating more severe symptoms, 3 months
Change from baseline in Zung Self-rating Depression Scale scores, Zung Self-rating Depression Scale. Score range: 0-80 points, most people with depression score between 50 and 69, while a score of 70 and above indicates severe depression., 3 months|Change from baseline in Beck Anxiety Inventory scores, Self-rating anxiety scale. Score range: 0-63 points, a total score of 0 - 7 is interpreted as a "Minimal" level of anxiety; 8 - 15 as "Mild"; 16 - 25 as "Moderate", and; 26 - 63 as "Severe"., 3 months
Cancer surgery is one of the traumas that affect human life, starting from diagnostic procedures, along with the recovery process. Although 5-year survival in lung cancer has increased to 60%, there is a general prejudice that lung cancer has a poor prognosis. A preliminary diagnosis of a such condition has consequently a negative effect on the mood and sleep patterns of the patients, starting already from the beginning of the diagnostic procedures. In our study, we want to evaluate the occurrence of sleep disorders, anxiety, depressive mood and functional outcomes before and 3 months after the surgical intervention. This would also help us to better identify the patients in need for professional support for sleep disorders as well as psychiatric conditions, and thus, a better management of patients with lung cancer.