GA101-miniCHOP Regimen for the Treatment of Elderly Unfit Patients With Diffuse Large B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
GA101-miniCHOP regimen for the treatment of elderly unfit patients with diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
CD20 Positive Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma|Elderly Unfit Patients
DRUG: Ga101
Complete Response Rate (CRR). Based a Central Independent Review Committee Considering Use the Conventional CT Scan Images., Complete Response Rate after 10 infusions of GA101 and 6 cycles of miniCHOP. Complete Remission (CR): Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present before therapy, normalization of biochemistry abnormalities. If the bone marrow was involved by lymphoma before treatment, the infiltrate must be cleared on repeat bone marrow aspirate and biopsy of the same site. Partial disease (PR): \>= 50% decrease in node diameter of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses and no new sites of disease; Stable disease (SD): is defined as less than a PR but is not progressive disease. Progession disease (PD): \>50% increase diameter of node from nadir of any previously identified abnormal node nonresponders, and/or appearance of any new lesion., Up to 36 months.
Adverse Events (AEs), Rate of Adverse Events. Although was not defined a formal threshold, in this section we reported the summary of frequencies of maximum CTCAE observed in patients. Each patient was counted only once within the AE terms during the therapy. If, during the therapy the patient experiences more than one AE, only the AE with the greatest intensity was included in the summary., Up to 36 months|Partial Response Rate (PRR), Partial Response Rate (PRR): patients in Partial Response after induction therapy.

Frequency of PRR already reported in the table of principal end-point., Up to 36 months|ORR (Overall Response Rate), ORR (Overall Response Rate): sum of patiens with Complete or Partial response after the induction therapy., Up to 36 months|OS (Overall Survival), OS (Overall Survival): defined as the time from the date of treatment start into the study until the date of death irrespective of cause. Patients who have not died at the time of end of the whole study, and patients who are lost to follow up, will be censored at the date of the last contact., Up to 36 months|PFS (Progression Free Survival), PFS (Progression Free Survival): defined as the time from entry into the study until lymphoma relapse/ progression or death as a result of any cause. Responding patients, patients who are lost to follow up, who withdrawal the consent or drop-out due to adverse event will be censored at their last assessment date. Patients died due to tumor will be considered in progression. Patients died for any other cause will be censored to the death date., Up to 36 months|Activities of Daily Living (ADL), Change in Activities of daily living score. The score ranging from 0 (bad performance) to 6 (good performance), Up to 36 months|Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL), Change in Instrumental Activities of Daily Living score. The score ranging from 0 (bad performance) to 8 (good performance)., Up to 36 months|Cumulative Illness Rating Scale (CIRS), Change in Cumulative Illness Rating Scale. The grading of comorbidity ranging from 0 (absent) to 4 (severe)., Up to 36 months|Questionnaire for Quality of Life (EORTC QLQ C30), Change in quality of life (QoL), Up to 36 months
Considering that the treatment of elderly unfit patients with DLBCL cannot be based on a full course of R-CHOP (Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, Prednisone), and that using a less intense R-miniCHOP (an attenuated version of the standard R-CHOP: Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, Prednisone) combination an acceptable cure rate can be achieved this study is designed to try to improve the cure rate in unfit patients with DLBCL (Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma) by adopting the R-miniCHOP scheme substituting Rituximab with the more active GA101 monoclonal antibody. The study hypothesis is that a higher activity of the treatment can be achieved without modifying the cytotoxic part of the treatment but using a more active immunotherapy. Differently from the previous experience with R-miniCHOP eligible patient are not only identified using anagraphic criteria but adopting CGA (Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment) as part of initial assessment and considering as eligible unfit patients.