AMG 102 and Erlotinib for Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a phase I/II study of erlotinib and AMG 102 in previously treated subjects with advanced NSCLC. Subjects will be enrolled with recurrent or progressive advanced stage NSCLC that has been treated with at least one and a maximum of two prior chemotherapy regimens. The Phase I part of the study will enroll 8-16 subjects with the Phase II part enrolling 21-45 subjects.

The Phase I part of the study is designed to determine how safest the combination of AMG 102 and erlotinib is and the recommended dose for the Phase II part. The Phase II part is to determine whether the combination of AMG102 and erlotinib works enough to warrant further interest in this combination.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: AMG 102 and erlotinib
Percentage of Participants That Experienced a Dose Limiting Toxicity, Determination of the safety and recommended phase II dose of AMG 102 when combined with erlotinib for the treatment of patients with advanced, previously-treated NSCLC., During first cycle of treatment (3 weeks)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Using RECIST v1.1 criteria, DCR was determined by following equation: the number of complete response (CR) participants + the number of partial response (PR) participants + the number of stable disease (SD) participants / the number of complete response (CR) participants + the number of partial response (PR) participants + the number of stable disease (SD) participants + the number of progressive disease (PD) participants., Six weeks from initiation of treatment with AMG 102 + Erlotinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR/Clinical Response), Using RECIST v1.1 criteria, ORR was determined by following equation: the number of partial response (PR) participants / the number of partial response (PR) participants + the number of stable disease (SD) participants + the number of progressive disease (PD) participants., Up to 6 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment until first evidence of disease progression, death, or date of last contact. The (median) length of time that subjects with previously-treated advanced NSCLC, who were treated with the combination of AMG 102 and erlotinib, are both alive and free of disease progression as estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. For participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who did not have PD, the PFS date was censored at the last contact date (contacts considered in the determination of last progression free disease assessment)., Up to 24 months (after the first patient is accrued)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was computed for all participants and is defined as the time between start of treatment and death. The (median) length of time in months that subjects with previously-treated advanced NSCLC, treated with the combination of AMG 102 and erlotinib, remain alive estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 24 months (after the first evaluable patient is accrued)
While modest improvements have been made in survival and quality of life in patients with advanced NSCLC there is a need to explore new agents and combinations with novel mechanisms of action in an effort to improve clinical outcomes in this patient population. The HGF/c-MET pathway inhibition is a promising novel target in NSCLC. Preclinical evidence support the combined targeting of EGFR and HGF/c-MET pathways in NSCLC as a strategy that may result in enhanced antitumor activity. Inhibition of both HGF/c-Met and EGFR pathways can be accomplished by utilizing the combination of AMG 102 and erlotinib in patients with advanced NSCLC. Therefore, we propose a safety and efficacy, phase I/II clinical trial of the combination in patients with previously treated, advanced NSCLC.