Hypofractionated Post Mastectomy Radiation With Two-Stage Expander/Implant Reconstruction
Hypofractionated radiotherapy could provide more convenient treatment and had similar toxicities.However,reports of hypofractionated radiotherapy with two-stage expander/implant reconstruction are rare,Some studies have shown that hypofractionated radiotherapy had similar toxicities to conventional fractionated radiotherapy in patients with breast reconstruction. So,investigators conducted a phase II study to observe the reconstruction failure in hypofractionated radiotherapy with two-stage expander/implant reconstruction.
Breast Carcinoma
RADIATION: hypofractionated radiotherapy
reconstruction failure, the 1-year rate of implant removal due to serious complications (such as infection, hematoma, seromatas, prosthesis exposure, prosthesis rupture, envelope contracture, severe breast deformity, etc.), 12 months after the reconstructive surgery
cosmetic result, Digital photographs will be taken of each patient to facilitate thorough assessment of breast symmetry, cleavage and donor site scarring. Overall satisfaction is scored on a five-point Likert scale (1 = very unhappy, 5 = very happy)., 12 months after the reconstructive surgery
Acute and late radiotherapy toxicity, Radiotherapy toxicity assessed by CTCAE3 and RTOG standard （e. g. acute skin toxicity, radiation pneumo nitis, etc.), through study completion, an average of 1 year
Results from a phase III randomized controlled study in China showed that Postmastectomy hypofractionated radiotherapy was non-inferior to and had similar toxicities to conventional fractionated radiotherapy in patients with high-risk breast cancer.However,reports of hypofractionated radiotherapy with two-stage expander/implant reconstruction are rare. Literatures report that reconstruction failure is a well-known complication of radiation therapy in breast cancer patients with reconstruction. Results may vary based on RT timing and technique. Some studies have shown that hypofractionated radiotherapy had similar reconstruction failure to conventional fractionated radiotherapy in patients with breast reconstruction. So,investigators conducted a phase II study to observe the reconstruction failure in hypofractionated radiotherapy with two-stage expander/implant reconstruction.