Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Versus Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery For Early Rectal Neoplasms And Large Rectal Adenomas: Сomparison Of Treatment Efficacy And Safety.
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery is the main treatment option for rectal tumors such as large adenoma, early cancer because of lower complications and mortality rates and shorter hospital stays rather than conventional surgery. Particularly, However, transanal endoscopic microsurgerymust be performed under either general or spinal anesthesia, and expensive surgical instruments are required. Colorectal endoscopic submucosal dissection is a novel endoscopic procedure that enables en bloc resection of benign colorectal lesions and early colorectal cancer. Endoscopic submucosal dissectioncan be performed under conscious sedation without anesthesia, and there are fewer hospital days than those for transanal endoscopic microsurgery. In the present study, we compared the treatment efficacy and safety between endoscopic submucosal dissectionand transanal endoscopic microsurgery for the treatment of early rectal neoplasms and large rectal adenomas.
Early Rectal Cancer|Large Rectal Adenomas
PROCEDURE: transanal endoscopic microsurgery|PROCEDURE: endoscopic submucosal dissection
R0 resection rate, 14 day|En-block resesction rate, 14 day
Incidence of locoregional recurrence, 12 months|Morbidity defined by the Clavien-Dindo classification, 30 day
Transanal endoscopic microsurgery is the main treatment option for rectal tumors such as large adenoma, early cancer because of lower complications and mortality rates and shorter hospital stays rather than conventional surgery. Particularly, However, transanal endoscopic microsurgerymust be performed under either general or spinal anesthesia, and expensive surgical instruments are required. Colorectal endoscopic submucosal dissection is a novel endoscopic procedure that enables en bloc resection of benign colorectal lesions and early colorectal cancer. Endoscopic submucosal dissectioncan be performed under conscious sedation without anesthesia, and there are fewer hospital days than those for transanal endoscopic microsurgery. In the present study, we compared the treatment efficacy and safety between endoscopic submucosal dissectionand transanal endoscopic microsurgery for the treatment of early rectal neoplasms and large rectal adenomas.