Osimertinib Plus Chemotherapy in Uncommon EGFRm NSCLC
This is an open-label, single-arm, multicenter, exploratory Phase II study sponsored by Astrazeneca Investment (China) Co., LTD. to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Osimertinib with Platinum plus Pemetrexed Chemotherapy, as First-line Treatment in Recurrent or Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Patients with Uncommon Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutations (EGFRm).
Lung Cancer
DRUG: osimertinib
ORR, ORR (objective response rate) defined as the proportion of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as their best overall response based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) 1.1 as assessed by the investigator, 24 weeks after LSI
PFS, PFS will be defined as the time from first dose of study intervention until progression per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator or death due to any cause prior to PD., The analysis of PFS will occur when 60% PFS maturity is observed at approximately 12 months after LSI|OS, OS is defined as the time from the first dose of treatment to the date of death, regardless of the actual cause of the subject's death. For participants who are still alive at the time of data analysis or who are lost to follow up, OS will be right-censored at the last recorded date that the participant is known to be alive prior to or at the data cut-off date for the analysis., The analysis of OS will occur when 60% OS maturity is observed at approximately 28 months after LSI|DoR, DoR is defined as the time from the date of first documented response until the date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression. The end of response should coincide with the date of progression or death from any cause used for the PFS endpoint.

The time of the initial response will be defined as the latest of the dates contributing toward the first visit response of PR or CR. If a participant does not progress following a response, then his/her duration of response will use the PFS censoring time as the end point for their DoR calculation., The analysis of DoR will occur when 60% PFS maturity is observed at approximately 12 months after LSI|Depth of response, Depth of response (ie, tumour shrinkage / change in tumour size) by Investigator is defined as the relative change in the sum of the longest diameters of RECIST target lesions at the nadir in the absence of NLs or progression of NTLs when compared to baseline. The best absolute change in target lesion tumour size from baseline, and best percentage change in target lesion tumour size from baseline will be summarized using descriptive statistics. The best change in tumour size will include all assessments prior to progression or start of subsequent anti-cancer therapy., The analysis of depth of response will occur when 60% PFS maturity is observed at approximately 12 months after LSI|DCR, DCR is defined as the percentage of subjects who have a best overall response of CR or PR or SD by RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the Investigator. For participants with a best overall response of SD, a RECIST assessment of SD must have been observed at least 6 weeks following enrolment to be included in the numerator of the calculation for disease control rate. This is to enable sufficient follow-up to establish SD., The analysis of DCR will occur when 60% PFS maturity is observed at approximately 12 months after LSI.|TTF, Time to treatment failure (TTF) or death is defined as defined as the time from first dose of study intervention (osimertinib) to earlier of the date of last study intervention administration or death due to any cause. Any participant not known to have permanently discontinued study intervention and not known to have died at the time of the analysis will be censored at the last known time on which the participant was known to be alive. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median TTF and its 95% confidence interval., The analysis of TTF will occur when 60% OS maturity is observed at approximately 28 months after LSI|TFST, Time to first subsequent therapy (TFST) or death is defined as the time from first dose of study intervention to the earlier of the date of anti-cancer therapy (except cisplatin or carboplatin or pemetrexed) start date following study intervention discontinuation or death due to any cause. Any participant not known to have had a subsequent therapy or not known to have died at the time of the analysis will be censored at the last known time to have not received subsequent therapy. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median TFST and its 95% confidence interval., The analysis of TFST will occur when 60% OS maturity is observed at approximately 28 months after LSI
Participants successfully enrolled into the study will receive 80mg osimertinib QD p.o. plus standard chemotherapy composed of cisplatin or carboplatin and pemetrexed i.v. on Day 1 of a 21 day cycle (every 3 weeks) for 4 to 6 cycles, followed by osimertinib 80 mg QD p.o. plus pemetrexed maintenance i.v. every 3 weeks until RECIST 1.1-defined radiological progression as judged by the investigator.

Tumour assessments will be performed as per RECISTv1.1 criteria, using computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). The baseline assessment is part of the screening procedures and should be performed before the start of study intervention.

safety will be assessed in the whole treatment period as well as 28 days after study drug termination for any reason.