Cediranib Maleate and Selumetinib Sulfate in Treating Patients With Solid Malignancies
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of cediranib maleate and selumetinib sulfate in treating patients with solid malignancies. Cediranib maleate and selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Cediranib maleate may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Metastatic Melanoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7|Unresectable Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Cediranib|DRUG: Cediranib Maleate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Selumetinib|DRUG: Selumetinib Sulfate
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD will be defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (at least 2 of a maximum of 6 new patients). Graded per the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE)., 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, classified as either possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment, Will be assessed using NCI CTCAE. The number and severity of all adverse events (overall, by dose-level, and by tumor group) will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 3 months|Incidence of hematologic toxicities, Will be evaluated via Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, and leukopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir) as well as categorization., Up to 3 months|Incidence of non-hematologic toxicities, Will be evaluated via the ordinal CTC standard toxicity grading. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 3 months|Overall toxicity incidence, Will be evaluated using NCI CTCAE. Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, patient and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 3 months|Best response, Will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria. Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population (overall and by tumor group)., From the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started), assessed up to 3 months
Changes of the serum levels of M30 (dose expansion phase), Descriptive statistics, scatter plots and longitudinal data plot will form the basis of presentation of these data. Multiple comparison corrections (e.g. Bonferroni) will be performed during data analyses., Baseline up to day 22 of course 1|Changes of the serum levels of caspase 3 (dose expansion phase), Descriptive statistics, scatter plots and longitudinal data plot will form the basis of presentation of these data. Multiple comparison corrections (e.g. Bonferroni) will be performed during data analyses., Baseline up to day 22 of course 1|Changes of the serum levels of cytochrome c (dose expansion phase), Descriptive statistics, scatter plots and longitudinal data plot will form the basis of presentation of these data. Multiple comparison corrections (e.g. Bonferroni) will be performed during data analyses., Baseline up to day 22 of course 1
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose of cediranib maleate (AZD2171 \[cediranib\]) in combination with selumetinib sulfate (AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate).

II. To describe the toxicity profile associated with AZD2171 (cediranib) in combination with AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate.

III. To describe the tumor responses and identify any activity of this AZD2171 (cediranib) in combination with AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate.

IV. To explore, through correlative studies, the effect of AZD2171 (cediranib) with or without AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate on serum markers of apoptosis.

V. To assess the pharmacokinetic interaction of AZD2171 (cediranib) in combination with AZD6244 hydrogen sulfate.

VI. To study the association of clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) with the pharmacologic (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) parameters, and/or biologic (correlative laboratory study) results.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study followed by a dose-expansion cohort study.

Patients receive cediranib maleate orally (PO) once daily (QD) and selumetinib sulfate PO QD or twice daily (BID) on days 1-28 (days 8-28 of cycle 1). Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cycles may be extended to 12 weeks after 1 year of study treatment.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 3 months.