Cabozantinib In Advanced Radioactive-Iodine Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Cancer.
CABOTHYROID is a prospective, exploratory, biomarker-focused, phase II, single-arm, non-randomized, non-blinded, investigator-initiated study of cabozantinib in patients with previously treated advanced radioactive-iodine refractory
Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Cabozantinib
Gene expression of molecular biomarkers characteristics of the pathology, Gene expression levels in the sample will be reported as media and interquartile range for each one of the biomarkers included in the determination. Determination of the expression of the molecular markers will perform applied chromatin immunoprecipitation of cell-free nucleosomes carrying active chromatin modifications followed by sequencing chromatin immunoprecipitation (cfChIP-seq) in blood samples. A blood sample of each patient will be collected for cfChIP-seq analysis in the baseline, before any dose of study treatment (week0), Time point: At baseline, before any dose of study treatment|Gene expression of molecular biomarkers characteristics of the pathology, Gene expression levels in the sample will be reported as media and interquartile range for each one of the biomarkers included in the determination. Determination of the expression of the molecular markers will perform applied chromatin immunoprecipitation of cell-free nucleosomes carrying active chromatin modifications followed by sequencing chromatin immunoprecipitation (cfChIP-seq) in blood samples. A blood sample of each patient will be collected and cfChIP-seq test will be performed as soon as the patient progresses according to RECIST 1.1 guidelines, Time point: Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR), primary endpoint for efficacy: Assessed by the investigator through imaging follow-up (CT scan/MRI) using RECIST 1.1. This will be considered as the percentage/proportion of patients with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as their overall best response throughout the study period. Objective responses will be assessed locally by the investigator according to RECIST, version 1.1, and indicating the change in size of tumors as compared with baseline, at the first dose of study treatment., Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Disease control rate (DCR), Percentage/proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), according to ORR definition for the trial, or maintained stable disease (SD) as their overall best response, assessed by imaging follow-up (CT scan/MRI) and RECIST 1.1 criteria. Stable disease should be maintained for at least 4 months to be considered as a Chemical, Biological, or Radiological (CBR) event, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Duration of response (DoR), DoR is defined as the time from first confirmed response (CR or PR), according to ORR definition for the trial, to the date of the documented PD as determined using RECIST 1.1 criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Those patients with response and without PD or death event will be censored on the date of their last tumor assessment., Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from first dosing date to the date of confirmed PD according to RECIST 1.1. Patients alive and free of events at the date of the analysis will be censored at their last known tumor assessment. Patients who start a new treatment line without progression will be censored on the date of first dose of the subsequent anticancer treatment., Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Overall survival (OS), Defined as the time elapsed from the first dose of study treatment until death from any cause. We will assess the median OS, estimated by Kaplan-Meier. Patients alive and free of events at the date of the analysis will be censored at their last known contact. Survival will be assessed by recording patient status at each visit according to Table 1. Long term follow up to be performed at least every 6 months., Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Frequency of Adverse events (AEs) leading to treatment discontinuation., Percentage of patients experiencing an adverse event leading to discontinuation of treatment, Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL), assessed through the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) version 3., The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire is a specific questionnaire validated for cancer that is composed of 30 questions or items. The questionnaire is structured in 5 functional scales (physical functioning, daily activities, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning and social functioning), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea, vomiting), 1 global health status scale, and 6 independent items (dyspnea, insomnia, anorexia, constipation, diarrhea and economic impact). Values between 1 and 4 (1: not at all, 2: a little, 3: quite, 4: a lot) are assigned according to the patient's responses to the item, only in items 29 and 30 are they evaluated with a score of 1 to 7 (1: dreadful, 7: excellent). The scores obtained are standardized and a score between 0 and 100 is obtained, which determines the level of impact of the cancer on the patient on each of the scales. A higher score indicating a better HRQoL., Throughout the study period, approximately 2 years per patient
The trial will enroll competitively up to 41 subjects; male and female, ≥ 18 years, with ECOG PS 0-1 patients with advanced radioactive-iodine refractory differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) who progressed to previous Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), including but not limited to lenvatinib or sunitinib. Patients will have not received previously cabozantinib, selective small-molecule BRAF kinase inhibitors, immune checkpoint inhibitor therapy, or systemic chemotherapy regimens.

The design includes a screening phase in which patient eligibility is addressed, a treatment phase, and a follow-up phase.

Study treatment will begin as soon as possible after signing the informed consent and inclusion will be completed.

All patients will receive cabozantinib at a fixed dose of 60 mg once a day (QD). Patients will continue study treatment until PD (either clinical or radiological), or until unacceptable toxicity, the need for another systemic anticancer treatment, or other reasons for treatment discontinuation.

All patients will undergo periodic tumor assessments by CT or MRI scan every 12 weeks ± 14 days (3 months), and blood monitoring of tumor markers (i.e. thyroglobulin if applicable) every 12 weeks ± 3 days (2 months) from the start of study treatment until progression or patient withdrawal. Further CT/MRI scans could be performed upon suspicion of disease progression according to standard clinical practice and physician criteria. Safety will be assessed at every visit through continuous monitoring of signs and symptoms and periodic laboratory analysis.

The study includes the collection of two blood samples (baseline and after PD; 40 mL at each timepoint) for the determination of cf CHIP-seq (Chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing) and patient reported outcomes.