Role of Piwi-protein Interacting RNA, miRNA-194 and Amino Acids in Patients With Prostate Cancer
Prostate cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed cancers and one of the main causes of death due to tumors in men . The mechanisms of its carcinogenesis have not been fully elucidated yet . Prostate tumours remain undetected or dormant for a long period of time before they progress loco-regionally or at distant sites as overt tumours. The molecular mechanism of dormancy is yet poorly understood
Finding New Biomarkers That Could be Evaluated in Patients With Prostate Cancer and Clarify Their Role in Early Detection of Prostate Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: piRNAs, miRNA-194, regucalcin and plasma aminoacids levels
• To investigate the role of piRNAs, miRNA-194, regucalcin and aminoacids in prostate cancer development. and highlight their potential clinical utilities as biomarkers as well as potential targets for cancer treatment, 1 year
Currently, early detection of prostate cancer involves mainly digital rectal examination (DRE) and testing of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level in blood . However, over the years it became clear that PSA is not a specific biomarker of prostate cancer . Finding out new biomarkers is pivotal for early detection of prostate cancer, increasing the accuracy of diagnosis, and reducing the false positives in PSA testing These biomarkers include many biological compounds such as, microRNAs, small nuclear RNAs (sncRNA), proteins and metabolites .

PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), a class of sncRNA molecules, are associated with the PIWI proteins. Moreover, MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are conserved small non-coding RNAs (19-22 nucleotide-long) that mediate post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression, affecting mRNA stability and translation by binding complementary sites on target mRNAs\[15\]. Studies have shown that the miRNAs have critical roles in a variety of biological processes such as: cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and carcinogenesis. Regucalcin (RGN) is an inhibitory protein of calcium signaling with calcium-binding properties. It plays a multifunctional role in the regulation of cell functions. Free amino acids, in biological fluids can be a reduced invasive method associated to a high diagnostic potential. It was found that free amino acid profiles vary depending on type of cancer and its stage.