Study of Lenvatinib in Combination With Everolimus in Recurrent and Refractory Pediatric Solid Tumors, Including Central Nervous System Tumors
Phase 1 of this study, utilizing a rolling 6 design, will be conducted to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), and to describe the toxicities of lenvatinib administered in combination with everolimus once daily to pediatric participants with recurrent/refractory solid tumors. Phase 2, utilizing Simon's optimal 2-stage design, will be conducted to estimate the antitumor activity of lenvatinib in combination with everolimus in pediatric participants with selected recurrent/refractory solid tumors including Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and high grade glioma (HGG) using objective response rate (ORR) at Week 16 as the outcome measure.
Recurrent and Refractory Solid Tumors
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Everolimus
Phase 1: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Lenvatinib in Combination With Everolimus, MTD was defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1/6 participants experienced a dose limiting toxicity (DLTs), with the next higher dose having at least 0 of 3 or 1 of 6 participants experiencing DLTs. DLT was graded according to common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 4.03., Cycle 1 (Each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 1: Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Lenvatinib in Combination With Everolimus, The RP2D of lenvatinib in combination with everolimus was determined by Dose Escalation Committee (DEC) based on safety (including DLTs), pharmacokinetic and clinical data. DLT was graded according to CTCAE v4.03., Cycle 1 (Each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 1: Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), A TEAE was defined as an adverse event that emerged during treatment, having been absent at pretreatment or reemerged during treatment, having been present at pretreatment but stopped before treatment, or worsened in severity during treatment relative to the pretreatment state, when the adverse event is continuous. An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered an investigational product., From date of first dose up to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment (Up to 17.5 months)|Phase 1: Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Event (TESAE), A TESAE was any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death; life threatening condition; required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; was a congenital anomaly/birth defect or was medically important due to other reasons than the above mentioned criteria. An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered an investigational product., From date of first dose up to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment (Up to 17.5 months)|Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR) at Week 16, ORR at Week 16 was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) at Week 16 based on investigator assessment according to response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 for non-HGG cohorts and response assessment in neuro-oncology (RANO) for HGG cohort. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis less than (\<) 10 millimeter (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameter (SOD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Week 16
Phase 1: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR of CR or PR based on investigator assessment according to RECIST version 1.1 for non-HGG cohorts and RANO for HGG cohort. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of the first dose of study drug to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (up to 16.5 months)|Phase 2: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with BOR of CR or PR based on investigator assessment according to RECIST version 1.1 for non-HGG cohorts and RANO for HGG cohort. CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the date of the first dose of study drug to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death, which ever occurred first (up to 6.5 months)|Phase 1: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) (SD duration \>=7 weeks since the first dose of study treatment) divided by number of participants in analysis set. DCR was assessed by an investigator based on RECIST v1.1 for non-HGG participants or RANO for HGG participants. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest SOD. PD: at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From first dose of study drug until PD or death, whichever occurred first (up to 16.5 months)|Phase 2: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed CR, PR, or SD (SD duration greater than or equal to \[\>=\] 7 weeks since first dose of study treatment) divided by number of participants in analysis set. DCR was assessed by investigator based on RECIST v1.1 for non-HGG cohorts or RANO for HGG cohort. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest SOD. PD: at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From first dose of study drug until PD or death, whichever occurred first (up to 6.5 months)|Phase 1: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as percentage of participants who had BOR of CR, PR, or durable SD (SD duration \>=23 weeks since the first dose of study treatment) divided by number of participants in analysis set. CBR was assessed by an investigator based on RECIST v1.1 for non-HGG participants or RANO for HGG participants. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest SOD. PD: at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From first dose of study drug until PD or death, whichever occurred first (up to 16.5 months)|Phase 2: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), CBR was defined as percentage of participants who had BOR of CR, PR, or durable SD (SD duration \>=23 weeks since the first dose of study treatment) divided by number of participants in analysis set. CBR was assessed by an investigator based on RECIST v1.1 for non-HGG cohorts or RANO for HGG cohort. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest SOD. PD: at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From first dose of study drug until PD or death, whichever occurred first (up to 6.5 months)|Phase 1: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time (in months) from the date of first observation of confirmed response (PR or CR) to the date of the first observation of progression based on the investigator's assessment utilizing RECIST 1.1 for non-HGG cohorts and RANO for HGG cohorts, or date of death, whatever the cause. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD was defined as at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From date of the first observation of CR or PR until the date of first observation of progression or date of death (up to 16.5 months)|Phase 2: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time (in months) from the date of first observation of confirmed response (PR or CR) to the date of the first observation of progression based on the investigator's assessment utilizing RECIST 1.1 for non-HGG cohorts and RANO for HGG cohort, or date of death, whatever the cause. CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions (non-lymph nodes). All pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have a reduction in their short axis \<10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. PD was defined as at least 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 mm) in the SOD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions., From date of the first observation of CR or PR until the date of first observation of progression or date of death (up to 6.5 months)|Phase 1: Area Under the Plasma Concentration-time Curve From Time Zero to Time of Last Quantifiable Concentration of Lenvatinib (AUC[0-t Hours]), AUC0-t of lenvatinib was quantified using validated liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) methods., Cycle 1 Days 1 and 15: 0-8 hours post-dose (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1: Maximum Plasma Concentration of Lenvatinib (Cmax), Cmax of lenvatinib was quantified using validated liquid LC-MS/MS methods., Cycle 1 Days 1 and 15: 0-8 hours post-dose (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1: Time to Reach Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Lenvatinib (Tmax), Tmax of lenvatinib was quantified using validated liquid LC-MS/MS methods., Cycle 1 Days 1 and 15: 0-8 hours post-dose (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 1: Trough Concentrations (Ctrough) of Everolimus When Administered in Combination With Lenvatinib, Trough concentrations of everolimus was quantified using validated liquid LC-MS/MS methods., Cycle 1 Days 1, 2, 15 and 22: Pre-dose (Cycle length=28 days)|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), A TEAE was defined as an adverse event that emerged during treatment, having been absent at pretreatment or reemerged during treatment, having been present at pretreatment but stopped before treatment, or worsened in severity during treatment relative to the pretreatment state, when the adverse event is continuous. An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered an investigational product., From date of first dose up to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment (up to 7.5 months)|Phase 2: Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Serious Adverse Event (TESAE), A TESAE was any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: resulted in death; life threatening condition; required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; was a congenital anomaly/birth defect or was medically important due to other reasons than the above mentioned criteria. An adverse event was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered an investigational product., From date of first dose up to 28 days after the last dose of study treatment (up to 7.5 months)
Phase 1 of this study, utilizing a rolling 6 design, will be conducted to determine a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), and to describe the toxicities of lenvatinib administered in combination with everolimus once daily to pediatric participants with recurrent/refractory solid tumors. Phase 2, utilizing Simon's optimal 2-stage design, will be conducted to estimate the antitumor activity of lenvatinib in combination with everolimus in pediatric participants with selected recurrent/refractory solid tumors including Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and high grade glioma (HGG) using objective response rate (ORR) at Week 16 as the outcome measure.