Online Survey: Oncologists' Thoughts Regarding Their Patients
Our study is a questionnaire targeting the medical staff in Oncology. It aims at exploring the thoughts and expectations of the medical staff in Oncology regarding their patients management and prognosis worldwide. It also investigates the factors that affect these thoughts and expectations and their effects.
Oncology
OTHER: survey
What are the most and least important factors the oncologists usually consider when they build their management plan?, We would like to know the factors that the oncologists usually consider for a patient's management plan. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months
How often do oncologists inform patients of the detailed management plan? and Why?, We would like to know if the oncologists inform the patients the detailed management plan. and if they are expecting patients to fully understand the plan. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months|How satisfied do oncologists think most patients are during their management., we would like to know how satisfied are the patients during their management, and why they are unsatisfied from the oncologists point of view. This will be done via a questionnaire., Two months|How often are Oncology patients open to their case being discussed in multidisciplinary clinics or being referred to psychiatrists/Nutritionists/palliative care/hospice?, This will be done via a questionnaire to see their point of view., Two months
Oncology patients need to trust the medical staff dealing with them. They are expecting knowledge, well communication, competence .. etc. This Questionnaire is for research purpose aiming at exploring the thoughts and expectations of the medical staff in Oncology regarding their patients management and prognosis worldwide. It investigates the factors that affect these thoughts and expectations and their effects. The results of this survey will shed the light on the oncologists' side of their relationship with their patients, which is often ignored or down played.