Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) Proton vs. Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT)
The goal of this clinical research study is to compare IMRT with IMPT in patients with glioblastoma. Researchers want to learn about cognitive side effects (mental status changes) that may occur, such as memory loss and impaired thinking.

IMRT is the delivery of focused radiation therapy using photon beams and advanced computer planning to help shape the dose in order to give the highest possible dose to the tumor with the least dose to surrounding normal tissues.

IMPT is also focused radiation therapy similar to IMRT, but it uses proton particles to deliver the radiation instead of photon beams. IMPT also uses advanced computer planning in order to shape the dose to the target with the least dose to surrounding normal tissues.
Brain Cancer
RADIATION: IMPT|RADIATION: IMRT|BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive Tests|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
Time to Cognitive Failure, Time to cognitive failure on any of 6 primary variables from pre-specified cognitive tests (HVLT-R total recall, HVLT-R delayed recall, HVLT-R delayed recognition, TMT Part A or Part B, COWA) with failure defined as a decline that meets or exceeds the reliable change index (RCI) for each cognitive test variable. A cumulative incidence approach used to estimate median time to cognitive failure in order to account for the competing risks of disease progression and death., baseline, 4 months, then every 2 months for 2 years
Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as time from registration/randomization to the date of death from any cause. Overall survival rates are estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Measured from date of registration to date of first observation of progressive disease, symptomatic deterioration or death due to any cause. Participants last known to be alive and progression-free are censored at date of last contact., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years|Number of Participants Experienced Adverse Events by Maximum Grade (Grade 2 or Higher), The adverse severity was graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE v4.0).

Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age-appropriate instrumental ADL

Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL

Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated.

Count of participants experiencing adverse events. Should a participant experience multiple adverse events at different grades, the patient is counted only once at the highest grade., 2 years
Study Groups:

If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. You will have an equal chance of being assigned to either group.

If you are in Group 1, you will receive IMRT.

If you are in Group 2, you will receive IMPT.

Radiation Therapy:

In both groups, you will receive radiation treatments each day, Monday-Friday, starting on Day 1. You will continue to receive radiation treatment until you have completed 30 total treatments. This is a total of up to 6 weeks of treatment.

You will sign a separate consent form for the IMRT or IMPT that will explain the procedures and risks in detail.

Study Visits:

Before beginning radiation, you will have what is called a "simulation" to plan your radiation. During the simulation, you will be flat on your back on a computed tomography (CT) table and a soft plastic mask will be made to help hold your head still during treatment. This is the position you will be in when you receive radiation treatment. You will then have a CT scan, which will make computerized images to help plan your treatment.

At Month 2 (+/- 30 days):

* You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.
* You will have an MRI to check the status of the disease.
* You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and side effects you may be having.
* You will complete the thinking skills tests and the questionnaires about your quality of life and symptoms.

Length of Treatment:

You may receive up to 6 weeks of radiation therapy. You will no longer be able to receive radiation therapy if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

Your active participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

Follow-Up:

At Month 4 (+/- 30 days) and then every 2 months for up to 2 years after radiation therapy:

* You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.
* You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.
* You will have an MRI to check the status of the disease.
* You will complete the thinking skills tests and the questionnaires about your quality of life and symptoms.

Starting 2 years after radiation therapy, the study staff will continue checking your medical record to find out about your health status from then on.

This is an investigational study. IMRT is delivered using FDA-approved and commercially available methods. IMPT is investigational.

Up to 90 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.