Evaluation and Re-evaluation of Post-mastectomy Pain Syndrome by Breast Cancer EDGE Task Force Outcomes
The purpose of the Breast Cancer EDGE Task Force is to provide physiotherapists with a comprehensive list of outcome measures that can be administered to a selected patient population, to assess post-mastectomy pain syndrome.
Post-mastectomy Pain Syndrome
OTHER: questionnaires
McGill Pain Questionnaire-Short Form, 15-word descriptors that describe two dimensions of pain: sensory and affective., baseline|Numeric Rating Scale, the most ordinarily used one is the 11-item version, the rating of pain from (0 - 10)., baseline|Visual Analog Scale, is a 10 cm-long horizontal line with the words "no pain" at one end and "pain as bad as it can be" at the other., baseline
Brief Pain Inventory, There's a complete of 32 items on the Brief Pain Inventory, it describes pain interferes with 7 domains of function within the last 24 hours:

general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relations with people, sleep, and pleasure of life using a scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (pain as bad as you can imagine)., baseline|Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form, is a tool developed specifically to be used in individuals with cancer., baseline|McGill Pain Questionnaire, is a unique measure because it assesses pain using a multidimensional approach based on the gate control theoretical framework.

contains three major classes of word descriptors: sensory, affective, and evaluative., baseline|Pain Disability Index, is a multidimensional tool designed to measure the degree to of chronic pain affects an individual's ability to perform a variety of activities.

The PDI contains seven categories: family/home responsibility, recreation, social activity, occupation, sexual behavior, self-care, and life support activity., baseline
Female breast cancer incidence rates are slowly increasing by about 0.5% each year since the mid-2000s, attributed a minimum of partially to continued declines in fertility and increases in excess weight. the best number of deaths are from cancers of the lung, prostate, and colorectum in men and of the lung, breast, and colorectum in women. Incidence from 2014 through 2018 continued a slow increase for female breast cancer. For women, breast cancer, and lung cancer, account for 51% of all new diagnoses, with breast cancer alone accounting for nearly one-third.

According to the literature, the prevalence of chronic pain after breast cancer treatment varies from 25% to 60% in other countries.

Survival rates for breast cancer vary worldwide, but normally, rates have improved. In most countries, the five-year survival rate of early-stage breast cancers is 80-90 percent, falling to 24 percent for breast cancers diagnosed at a more advanced stage.

A systematic review evaluating risk factors for the event of persistent pain after surgery found that additionally to younger age, preoperative pain, intercostobrachial nerve damage during surgery, radiotherapy, also psychological morbidities are among the foremost frequently reported factors associated with chronic pain after breast cancer treatment.

Surgery could be a mainstay of primary breast cancer therapy. Alterations in surgical technique have reduced normal tissue injury, yet pain and functional compromise continue to occur following treatment.

Assa suggested that damage to the intercostobrachial nerve (ICBN) is also chargeable for the event of persistent pain arises from the lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve and enters the axilla by perforating the second intercostal space and musculus serratus anterior within the midaxillary line. It then passes with considerable variability to the posteromedial border of the upper arm, leaving the ICBN in danger of harm during axillary surgery Post-mastectomy pain syndrome (PMPS) could be a chronic pain condition, typically neuropathic, which might occur following surgery on the breast.

Pain may be a common complication of breast cancer surgery. The event of chronic pain is one of the foremost frequently seen sequelae within the cancer survivor population.

Persistent pain after mastectomy was first reported during the 1970s, characterized as a dull, burning, and aching sensation within the anterior chest, arm, and axilla, exacerbated by movement of the shoulder girdle.

Although the pain related to breast cancer surgery includes different conditions (e.g., phantom-breast pain, pain around the mastectomy scar, or pain within the anterior chest wall). neuropathic pain due to intercostobrachial neuropathy-i.e. painful intercostobrachial neuropathy-is the foremost representative type of pain in breast cancer survivors The exact explanation for PMPS is unclear, but various etiological theories are postulated, including dissection of the intercostobrachial nerve, intraoperative damage to axillary nerve pathways, and pain caused by a neuroma, although evidence regarding the epidemiology of PMPS is growing, little is known about risk factors for the event of PMPS, or the long-term outcome of this chronic pain condition.

the International Association for the Study of Pain has defined chronic pain as that persisting beyond the traditional healing time of three months. Chronic pain was defined as PMPS supported by three criteria: character, location, and timing of pain. The identical criteria for PMPS were used at both time points to make sure comparability. Pain location was recorded as the same side of surgery, chest wall, axilla, or ipsilateral arm.

And "unpleasant sensory and emotional experience related to actual or potential tissue damage, or described in terms of such damage".

As the lesion recovers or the threat disappears, the pain sensation should normally decrease. However, when the pain remains persistent after the traditional tissue healing process, it can be considered chronic.

But, Neuropathic pain (NP), is defined by the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP) as ''pain arising as a direct consequence of a lesion or disease affecting the somatosensory system will be a vital source of disability and distress in breast cancer patients already laid low with the psychological and medical stressors related to diagnosis and treatment and has been considered the foremost important contributor to chronic breast pain.

Neuropathic pain following breast surgery is often characterized by radiating pain, numbness, pins, and needles, burning, or stabbing. and is often related to paresthesia and hypersensitivity near the operative site.

The development of postoperative neuropathic pain (NPP) is related to many psychosocial and medical stressors, and for several, it represents a failure to return to normal life The current literature shows that chronic pain is related to nerve damage associated with the surgical technique, adjuvant therapy (such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and endocrine therapy), and younger age. However, these findings are equivocal because there's a body of literature that found no association between chemotherapy and chronic pain.

An important portion of breast cancer survivors needs to cope with complications and sequelae physical (lymphedema, neuropathy/pain, fatigue, menopausal symptoms, weight gain, etc.) and psychological nature (fear of recurrence, fear of death, change in body image, change in relationship, financial stress, etc.). These complications can arise during the treatment or can persist long after treatment cessation.