Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia
This phase II trial studies the effect of pembrolizumab on cervical intraepithelial neoplasia. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|Cervical Squamous Cell Carcinoma In Situ|Cervical Squamous Intraepithelial Neoplasia 2
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Pathological response rate, Will assess the percent of patients with pathologic complete response at 6 months., At 6 months
Proportion of subjects with pathologic partial response (regression to a lower grade of dysplasia), Up to 6 months|Incidence of adverse events, Up to 6 months
PD-L1 expression, Will correlate PD-L1 positivity with response to pembrolizumab., Up to 6 months|Assess percentage of subjects who respond to treatment who are HPV positive compared to percentage of subjects who respond to treatment who are HPV negative., Assess percentage of subjects who respond to treatment who are HPV positive (using p16 positivity from pathology) compared to percentage of subjects who respond to treatment who are HPV negative in order to evaluate if HPV positivity correlates with improved response to treatment., Up to 6 months|Assess percentage of subjects with initial HPV infection who clear HPV infection (using p16 positivity from pathology) as a surrogate response to treatment evaluation., Will evaluate HPV clearance as a surrogate endpoint., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Proportion of subjects with pathologic complete response (no evidence of dysplasia).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab in subjects with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN).

II. Proportion of subjects with pathologic partial response (regression to a lower grade of dysplasia).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluation of Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in CIN lesions as a biomarker of response to therapy.

II. Evaluation of Human Papillomavirus (HPV) status as a biomarker of response to therapy.

III. Evaluation of HPV clearance as a surrogate endpoint.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for 4 cycles (24 weeks).