Cold Atmospheric Plasma Device for Pediatric Molluscum and Verruca
This study is going to test a cold atmospheric plasma device (CAP), in particular a floating electrode-dielectric barrier device (FE-DBD), to treat warts and molluscum. The treatment device in this study generates cold atmospheric plasma (gaseous ionized molecules) to rid the virus from the body. Based on the successes of previous dermatologic studies, FE-DBD is being tested for this study to treat warts and molluscum. Patients will be enrolled to test the efficacy and safety of this device. The duration of the study is 4-12 weeks depending on treatment clearance. The number of lesions will be chosen by the dermatologist. Patients will receive standard of care therapy and/or NTAP depending on the number of lesions.
Verruca Vulgaris|Molluscum Contagiosum Skin Infection
DEVICE: Floating electrode-dielectric barrier device (FE-DBD) cold atmospheric plasma (CAP)|DEVICE: Cryotherapy|DRUG: Canthardin Collodion
Numbers of Lesions With no Response, Absence of change in appearance of targeted lesion. Molluscum is defined as the visualization of a central umbilication with polylobular, white to yellow, amorphous structures. A peripheral crown of radiating or punctiform vessels may also be present. Warts are defined as grouped papillae, with dotted or loop vessels, and/or hemorrhagic points and lines often surrounded by a whitish halo., 12 weeks|Numbers of Lesions With Partial Response, There is change in the size, dyspigmentation, or discomfort of the targeted lesion as compared to its appearance and symptoms at the initial visit, but the lesion remains grossly visible. Molluscum is defined as the visualization of a central umbilication with polylobular, white to yellow, amorphous structures. A peripheral crown of radiating or punctiform vessels may also be present. Warts are defined as grouped papillae, with dotted or loop vessels, and/or hemorrhagic points and lines often surrounded by a whitish halo. Changes in the characteristics of the targeted lesions will be evaluated by a dermatologist and documented via photographs at follow-up visits at 4, 8, and 12 weeks, with the final outcome measured at the 12-week visit., 12 weeks|Numbers of Lesions With Complete Response, Targeted lesion is no longer grossly visible., 12 weeks
Post-Treatment CAP Tolerability Questionnaire, This questionnaire measures tolerability of cold atmospheric plasma treatment. Assessment of dryness, peeling, scaling, erythema, edema, stinging, burning sensation, itching, scarring and dyspigmentation will each be assessed individually. Participants were asked about these symptoms at a 1-week post-first treatment phone call, and then at every in-person follow up visit. Outcome data represents the number of total lesions in each treatment group in which a participant reported at least one of the above adverse symptoms. Results of specific AEs are detailed in the Adverse Event section., 12 weeks|Score of Visual Analogue Scale Associated With Treatment, The visual analogue scale (VAS) is a validated subjective measurement of pain experienced by the patient. It consists of visual-numeric scale, numbered from 0-10. (0) indicate absence of pain or "no pain at all", while (10) indicates severe pain or "worst imaginable pain". This is supplemented by six faces with different expressions, ranging from happy to extremely upset. Each facial expression is assigned a numerical scale from 0 to 10., 12 weeks
This study is going to test a cold atmospheric plasma device (CAP), in particular a floating electrode-dielectric barrier device (FE-DBD), to treat warts and molluscum. The treatment device in this study generates cold atmospheric plasma (gaseous ionized molecules) to rid the virus from the body. Based on the successes of previous dermatologic studies, FE-DBD is being tested for this study to treat warts and molluscum. Patients will be enrolled to test the efficacy and safety of this device. The duration of the study is 4-12 weeks depending on treatment clearance. The number of lesions will be chosen by the dermatologist. Patients will receive standard of care therapy and/or NTAP depending on the number of lesions.