Calizumab Combined With Bevacizumab and Capecitabine in the Treatment of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This is a prospective, one-arm exploratory second-line study of carrilizumab combined with bevacizumab plus capecitabine in relapsed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Carrilizumab, bevacizumab,capecitabine
Objective response rate, Proportion of subjects assessed with CR or PR based on RECIST v1.1 criteria as a percentage of all enrolled patients, From the time a patient signs the ICF to the last dose, each patient will be followed up until death or withdrawal from the study or until 6 months after the last eligible patient is enrolled.
Disease control rate, Proportion of subjects assessed as CR, PR, or SD based on RECIST v1.1 criteria., From the time a patient signs the ICF to the last dose, each patient will be followed up until death or withdrawal from the study or until 6 months after the last eligible patient is enrolled.|Progression-free survival time, The time between the patient's first treatment date and any recorded tumor progression or death from any cause., From the time a patient signs the ICF to the last dose, each patient will be followed up until death or withdrawal from the study or until 6 months after the last eligible patient is enrolled.|Overall survival time, The time between the patient's date of first treatment and death from any cause., From the time a patient signs the ICF to the last dose, each patient will be followed up until death or withdrawal from the study or until 6 months after the last eligible patient is enrolled.
This is a prospective, single-center, single-arm, phase II clinical study. The study was intended to include histologically or cytologically determined squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck, which the investigators assessed as metastatic. After the patients signed informed consent and met the screening criteria, the second-line patients received carrilizumab combined with bevacizumab and capecitabine until disease progression, intolerable toxicity, death, or the subject's decision to withdraw from the study for a maximum of two years.

Radiographic evaluations were performed using RECIST v1.1, and baseline evaluations were conducted within 28 days prior to enrollment. Tumor imaging evaluation was performed every 6 weeks (±3 days) from the first administration of the drug in the study. After reaching CR, patients entered the maintenance treatment period of carrilizumab. After 48 weeks, tumor imaging evaluation was performed every 12 weeks (±7 days). Imaging tests before signing the ICF, if within 28 days before starting treatment, can be used as screening tests.

During the study, participants will receive safety follow-up from the first dose of carrilizumab until 30 days after the last dose).

Experimental drugs: carrilizumab, bevacizumab, capecitabine

Administration regimen:

1. Carrilizumab: 200mg/ cycle, three weeks as a treatment cycle, the first day of each cycle, intravenous drip;
2. Bevacizumab: 7.5mg/kg, intravenous infusion on the first day of each cycle, every 3 weeks for 1 cycle (Q3W);
3. Capecitabine: 1250mg/m2, three weeks as a treatment cycle, oral twice a day (once in the morning and once in the evening; Stop the drug for 1 week after 2 weeks of treatment.

Duration of test plan and inclusion time:

1. Program selection time: 22 months.
2. Duration of the planned study: 24 months.