Breast Cancer Rehabilitation Program in Improving Quality of Life in Breast Cancer Survivors
RATIONALE: A breast cancer rehabilitation program and exercise therapy may help improve the quality of life of breast cancer survivors.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial studies a breast cancer rehabilitation program in improving quality of life in breast cancer survivors.
Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer|Stage IIIB Breast Cancer|Stage IIIC Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
OTHER: questionnaire administration|BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: survey administration|PROCEDURE: management of therapy complications|PROCEDURE: psychosocial assessment and care
Ability to recruit breast cancer survivors into a six-month breast cancer rehabilitation program, Approximately 24 months|BMI, 6 months|Muscular strength, 6 months|Range of motion, 6 months|Quality of life, 6 months|Proportion of screened women who are eligible for the study and the proportion of eligible women who agree to participate, Approximately 24 months|Proportion of women who complete the study and the average number of weeks of participation, Approximately 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate accrual, retention, adherence, and participation of breast cancer survivors to a breast cancer rehabilitation program.

II. To estimate the variability of weight, six-minute walk, quality of life and other psychosocial and physical measures in women participating in the BCRP.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess changes in the anthropometric, psychosocial, and physical outcomes over the six-month period of the BCRP.

II. To document the types and the rates of adverse events associated with the BCRP.

OUTLINE:

Patients attend exercise therapy sessions over 1 hour 3 times a week for 6 months. Exercise therapy sessions are comprised of a 10 minute warm-up of light stretching and aerobic type exercise (walking, cycling), 30 minutes of endurance type exercise (cycle, walking), and 20 minutes of resistance training exercise.