Neoadjuvant Chemo-endocrine Therapy and Immunotherapy for Pre-menopausal Luminal B Breast Cancer Patients
Multicentric, phase II neoadjuvant trial in hormone-positive, HER-negative, luminal B, premenopausal breast cancer patients stage II-IIIA. Patients receive as neoadjuvant treatment before surgery: three courses of anthracycline-based chemotherapy followed by exemestane p.o. daily plus nivolumab i.v. 2-weekly for 8 courses. GnRH analogues are started concomitantly with chemotherapy and maintained until the completion of neoadjuvant treatment.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Triptorelin|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Nivolumab
pathological complete response (pCR), ypT0ypN0, up to 7 months from enrolment
clinical objective response, cOR, up to 6 months from enrolment|molecular response, Ki67, up to 7 months from enrolment|Breast conserving surgery, Surgery type, up to 7 months from enrolment|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Adverse Events, up to 100 days from last nivolumab dose|Correlative biomarkers, correlation between different biomarkers expression at baseline and pathological response, Tumor samples will be collected at baseline, at 14 days after completion of anthracycline-based chemotherapy (about 7 weeks after first dose of Epirubicin), at surgery (about 30 weeks after first dose of Epirubicin)
This is a multicenter, phase II neoadjuvant trial in hormone-sensitive, HER-negative, luminal B, premenopausal breast cancer patients stage II-IIIA.

Patients will undergo a core-biopsy of the primary tumor, for the histological diagnosis and the biological characterization of the tumor.

After confirmation of eligibility and informed consent signature, the patients will start neoadjuvant treatment including:

Epirubicin 90 mg/mq + Cyclophosphamide 600 mg/mq i.v. every 3 weeks for 3 courses, followed by the combination of Nivolumab (240 mg flat dose i.v. each 2 weeks) for 8 courses and exemestane 25 mg (orally, continuous daily dose, to be continued until surgery). Patients will start LHRH analogue (Triptorelin 3.75mg 1 fl i.m. every 28 days) concomitantly to anthracycline-based chemotherapy, to be continued until surgery.