ADAM17 Inhibitor/ Rituximab After Auto HCT for DLBCL
This is a single institution phase I/II study using an ADAM17 inhibitor (INCB7839) with rituximab as consolidation therapy after an autologous hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) for patients with diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The study consists of two phases. The dose finding phase is a modified version of a phase I trial and the extended phase is a modified version of a phase II trial.
Diffuse Large B Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: INCB7839
Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity Events, The Phase I design will continue until the MTD is declared or until the first dose is declared to be above MTD. Phase I dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as Grade 3-5 non-hematologic, non-infectious toxicity including thromboembolic complications and select hematologic events including: grade 4 neutropenia lasting for ≥ 7 days, febrile neutropenia, grade 4 thrombocytopenia lasting ≥ 7 days despite dose delay or grade 3 thrombocytopenia associated with bleeding., 2 weeks|Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival at 6 Months, This primary end point will be estimated with Kaplan-Meier curves., 6 months
Incidence of Serious Adverse Events, To determine incidence of serious adverse events, 1 year|Overall Survival, To evaluate 1 year overall survival, 1 year|Time to Progression, Time to relapse/progression in days, 1 year
The primary goal of the dose finding phase is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of INCB7839. Up to three dose levels will be tested (100 mg bid, 200 mg bid, and 300 mg bid). As the 300 mg bid has been proven safe in the non-transplant setting, dose escalation follows a Fast-Track Design with 1 patient enrolled per dose level unless a grade 2 or greater treatment emergent event occurs within the 1st 14 days of INCB7839. At that point, dose escalation converts to a standard 3+3 design and two additional patients are enrolled at the current dose level. If dose level 3 is completed without dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in the 1st 3 patients, an additional 3 patients will be enrolled at this level (without the staggering required by the DLT rules) prior to moving to the phase II component.

Once the phase I dose escalation is completed, an additional 12 patients will be enrolled at the MTD (or dose level 3, if no DLT) to obtain a more detailed toxicity profile as well as a preliminary estimate of progression free survival at 6 months post-transplant.