Low-Dose Total-Body Irradiation and Fludarabine Phosphate Followed By Donor Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Stage IV Kidney Cancer
The reason for doing this study is to see if cancer will respond to immune therapy after transplantation of blood stem cells (from the bone marrow) using a new kind of treatment regimen that is less toxic than that previously used for blood stem cell transplants. This type of transplant uses much less chemotherapy and radiation than standard bone marrow transplants. The treatment consists of medications that weaken the immune system so it doesn't reject the donor's marrow cells. Researchers hope that the immune cells from the donor will attack the tumor. This is called a "graft versus tumor" effect and has been seen in other types of cancer. In addition, 65 days or more after the transplant the patient may be eligible for an immune treatment that uses additional immune cells from the donor to increase the effect of the stem cells against the cancer.
Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|PROCEDURE: nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
True response rate (complete response [CR] or partial response [PR]) greater than the 15% achievable with standard therapy, If 6 or more out of 25 patients achieve a CR or PR, then there is at least 80% confidence that the true response rate exceeds 15% and that this approach is potentially efficacious., Up to 5 years|Transplant-related mortality, Defined as death before day 200 not related to progression of disease., Within 200 days of transplant|Rate of grade IV acute GVHD, Up to 90 days after last T-cell infusion
Survival, Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented., Up to 5 years|Incidence of relapse, Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented., Up to 5 years|Incidence of myelosuppression after initial PBSC infusion, Defined as absolute neutrophil count \< 500 for \> 2 days, platelets \< 20,000 for \> 2 days. Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented., Up to 2 months post-transplant|Incidence of aplasia after DLI, Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented., Until 2 months post-transplant|Incidence of grades 2-4 acute GVHD after DLI, Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented., Up to 90 days after last T-cell infusion|Incidence of grades chronic extensive GVHD after DLI, Will be examined separately and reported in a descriptive manner and confidence intervals will be presented for all estimates., Up to 90 days after last T-cell infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether mixed or full donor hematopoietic chimerism can be safely established using a non-myeloablative conditioning regimen.

II. To determine whether mixed chimerism can be safely converted to full donor hematopoietic chimerism by infusions of donor lymphocytes (DLI).

III. To evaluate potential efficacy of this approach as a treatment for metastatic renal cancer.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -4 to -2 and undergo low-dose total-body irradiation (TBI) on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or IV once daily (QD) or BID on days -3 to 35 with taper to day 56, and mycophenolate mofetil PO or IV over 2 hours thrice daily (TID) on days 0-40.

DLI: Patients with stable mixed chimerism on day 56 with no evidence of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD) may receive escalating doses of non-mobilized DLI over 30 minutes. Patients may receive up to 4 DLIs at escalating doses if there is disease progression with no evidence of GVHD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for 5 years.