Palbociclib + Ganitumab In Ewing Sarcoma
This research study is designed to study the combination of two drugs, palbociclib and ganitumab, as a potential treatment for Ewing sarcoma.

The names of the study drugs involved in this study are:

* Palbociclib
* Ganitumab
Ewing Sarcoma|Ewing's Sarcoma Recurrent
DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Ganitumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) on treatment based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Participants were followed up to 10.8 months|Grade 3/4 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, The proportion of participants who experienced a maximum grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse event based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse events Version 5.0 (CTCAEv5) as reported on case report forms, Participants were followed up to 11.8 months.
6-month Progression Free Survival (PFS6), PFS6 is the percent probability estimate at 6 months based on the Kaplan-Meier method. PFS is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) requiring removal from the study or death. Participants alive without PD were censored at the earliest of the date of the last disease evaluation or start of new anticancer therapy. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD, taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase. For non-target lesions, progression-free means no new lesions or unequivocal progression on existing non-target lesions or not evaluated., Participants were followed up to 6 months.|6-month Overall Survival (OS6), OS6 is the percent probability estimate at 6 months based on the Kaplan-Meier method. Overall survival was defined as the time from study enrollment to death. Participants alive were censored at the last date of contact (including lost-to-follow-up) or at the date of withdrawal of consent, if relevant., Participants were followed up to 6 months.
This research study involves participants taking a medicine that inhibits proteins in cancer cells called CDK4 and CDK6 (palbociclib) in combination with a medicine that inhibits a protein called IGF-1R (ganitumab). This study is designed to see if these drugs are safe when given together and whether they are effective in treating Ewing sarcoma.

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug or drug combination to learn whether the drug(s) works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug or combination is being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ganitumab as a treatment for any disease.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved palbociclib for this specific disease but it has been approved for another cancer.

This research study is:

* Testing whether palbociclib and ganitumab are safe when given together and effective in treating Ewing sarcoma.
* Testing markers in the blood and in tumor tissue to see if there are certain features of the tumor that may indicate this combination of drugs is effective or not effective