Durvalumab With or Without Metformin in Treating Participants With Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
This pilot phase I trial studies how well durvalumab given with or without metformin works in treating participants with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Metformin, a drug typically used for the treatment of diabetes, may help to reduce the metabolic activity of cancer cells and of surrounding supportive tissues. It is not yet known whether giving durvalumab with or without metformin may work better in treating participants with head and neck squamous carcinoma.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Metformin|BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab
Immune cell polarization (Th1/Th2; M1/M2), The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives. The response outcomes will be evaluated between treatment arms by Fisher's exact tests., Up to 6 months
Alterations in immunohistochemical (IHC) markers, Pre- and post-treatment patient tumor samples will be compared. The study will compare data from patients treated with durvalumab and metformin to patients treated with Durvalumab alone and to patients from our own historical controls of head and neck squamous carcinoma (HNSCC), both untreated and treated with metformin monotherapy, Up to 6 months|Alterations in intratumoral immune cell populations, The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives., Up to 6 months|Changes of the intratumoral immunophenotype and metabolism after exposure to durvalumab and metformin, The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives., Baseline up to 6 months|Tumor size as measured by immune-related response criteria (irRC), The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives. The response outcomes will be evaluated between treatment arms by Fisher's exact tests., Up to 4 weeks post-treatment
Assessment of alterations in metabolites produced in different tumor compartments, The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives., Up to 6 months|Assessment of the interactions between the immune and metabolic microenvironments, The biomarker data will be compared for differences in means (or geometric means) between treatment arms using Student's t-tests on the raw data (or on log-transformed data depending on the degree and nature of skew in the data). Non-parametric alternatives, such as permutation tests, will be considered if the data are not approximately normal for any continuous outcome variables after log-transformation. A similar approach will be used for making pre vs. post treatment comparisons, when necessary, but with paired t-tests or their non-parametric alternatives., Up to 6 months|Circulating Tumor DNA, The possibility of measuring an increase in the release of circulating tumor DNA as an indicator of responsiveness or tumor progression is attractive and is supported by xenograft models. An attempt to correlate the mutations found in the circulating tumor DNA with the mutations in the tumor tissues will be performed. The identification of new mutations in circulating tumor DNA over time might inform the clinician about tumor evolution and provide evidence to support new treatment targets not identifiable in the primary tumor, Baseline up to 12 days post surgery|Ultrasound and Photoacoustic Imaging, Our clinical project will evaluate diagnostic utility of multimodality imaging method of digital blood flow quantification based on 3D high frequency Doppler ultrasound and photoacoustic (PA) imaging in patients with Head and Neck Squamous cell carcinoma before and after treatment with Durvalumab and Metformin. This will be done to correlate changes in tissue and tumor oxygenation of the specific tumor of interest measured via photoacoustic imaging with treatment response., Baseline up to 38 days post visit 1.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the combined effect of metformin and durvalumab on the immune tumor microenvironment, specifically with respect to alterations in T cell polarization (Th1/Th2 ratio) and tumor associated macrophage (TAM) (M1/M2 ratio) as measured by cytokine shifts in tumor specimens and peripheral blood.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the combined effect of metformin and durvalumab on the metabolic microenvironment, specifically with respect to alterations in immunohistochemical markers of the reverse Warburg effect.

II. To further characterize the alterations in intratumoral immune cell populations (effector T cells \[Teff\], regulatory T cells \[Tregs\], tumor associated macrophages \[TAMs\], and myeloid-derived suppressor cells \[MDSC\]).

III. To assess changes of the intratumoral immunophenotype and metabolism after exposure to durvalumab and metformin by transcriptome analysis using a ribonucleic acid-sequencing (RNA-seq) transcriptome analysis.

IV. To assess the efficacy of combined durvalumab and metformin treatment prior to surgery as determined by radiographic response and immune-related response criteria (irRC).

V. To assess the safety and tolerability of the combination of metformin and durvalumab.