Serplulimab Combined with Chemotherapy in Patients with Resectable Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
China with high incidence of esophageal cancer, the number of new cases and deaths account for about 50% of the world every year. In the past few decades, surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and other treatments were continuously improved, however, the mortality of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients was not significantly decreased. For patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, direct surgery is not effective. It is difficult to achieve radical resection by surgery merely, and even if many patients receive surgery, they may eventually have tumor recurrence and poor survival rate. Therefore, it is necessary to explore effective perioperative neoadjuvant treatment to reduce the risk of postoperative recurrence and improve the postoperative survival rate of patients. According to the reports, the expression of PD-L1 in esophageal cancer was about 41.4%. Therefore, PD-1/ PD-L1 immunocheckpoint inhibitor may become a new method for the treatment of esophageal cancer. Preliminary clinical results showed that immunotherapy combined with chemoradiotherapy provided a synergies antitumor effect. Multiple clinical results showed that serplulimab provided higher overall response rate for advanced esophageal cancer. However, in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, the efficacy of serplulimab combined with chemotherapy for sequential radical surgery is still unclear. The purpose of this study is to observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of silulimab combined with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant therapy of resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Neoadjuvant Therapy
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Serplulimab, Albumin paclitaxel, carboplatin AUC=5, neoadjuvant therapy|PROCEDURE: Esophagectomy|OTHER: sample
Pathological Complete Response (PCR), No residual invasive tumor cells were found in the pathological examination of resected specimens, including the primary tumor and lymph nodes., 1 month after surgery
major pathological response (MPR), In the pathological examination of resected specimens, the proportion of residual tumor cells was less than 10%., 1 month after surgery|Objective Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of subjects with imaging PR or CR assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, before surgery|2-year and 5-year overall survival, The proportion of all study cases in which no death from any cause occurred within 2 years and 5 years after surgery, 2-year and 5-year after surgery|Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v5.0, 1 month after surgery|R0 resection rate, The pathological results will showed that the incision margin was negative and no residual cancer cells were found under the microscope, 1 month after surgery|The changes in the peripheral blood immunoprofile and tumor tissue sample among non-PCR (NPCR) and PCR patients, By using mass spectrometry (CyTOF) and single-cell analysis, we comprehensively characterized the immune landscape in the peripheral blood and tumor sample of ESCC patients before and after anti-PD-1 immunotherapy, aiming to explore the immune subsets correlated with neoadjuvant immunotherapy response., 3 months after surgery
China with high incidence of esophageal cancer, the number of new cases and deaths account for about 50% of the world every year. In the past few decades, surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and other treatments were continuously improved, however, the mortality of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma patients was not significantly decreased. For patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, direct surgery is not effective. It is difficult to achieve radical resection by surgery merely, and even if many patients receive surgery, they may eventually have tumor recurrence and poor survival rate. Therefore, it is necessary to explore effective perioperative neoadjuvant treatment to reduce the risk of postoperative recurrence and improve the postoperative survival rate of patients. According to the reports, the expression of PD-L1 in esophageal cancer was about 41.4%. Therefore, PD-1/ PD-L1 immunocheckpoint inhibitor may become a new method for the treatment of esophageal cancer. Preliminary clinical results showed that immunotherapy combined with chemoradiotherapy provided a synergies antitumor effect. Multiple clinical results showed that serplulimab provided higher overall response rate for advanced esophageal cancer. However, in patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, the efficacy of serplulimab combined with chemotherapy for sequential radical surgery is still unclear. The purpose of this study is to observe and evaluate the efficacy and safety of silulimab combined with chemotherapy in the neoadjuvant therapy of resectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.