Psychosocial Needs and Exploration of Online Support for Patients With Mesothelioma
The aim of this study is to learn about how mesothelioma affects patients' emotional and physical well-being. Also, the investigators would like to learn more about what patients need and how they deal with this illness. This information can help us find ways to lessen physical and emotional strains. Part of the study tests an alternate way of giving emotional support through the Internet. By providing support online, patients can participate in the comfort of their home.
Mesothelioma
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires & online virtual support group|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires & online virtual support group
To describe the psychological needs of patients with mesothelioma., Patients'psychological symptom burden will be assessed by the set of questionnaires administered in part 1 of the study. scores of the assessments of coping (28-item Brief Cope), social support (6-item SSQ-SF), depressive symptoms (20-item Zung), and quality of life (36-item FACT-Lung)., 1 year
the aim is to explore the acceptability and promise of an Internet-based discussion group for patients with mesothelioma., The investigators will summarize acceptability and gather pilot data on the promise of the intervention. Acceptability in this study will be assessed through the enrollment rate (percentage of eligible individuals consented and recruited into the Internet-based discussion group). The adherence rate will be the percentage of enrolled patients who complete all virtual group sessions., 1 year
The aim of this study is to learn about how mesothelioma affects patients' emotional and physical well-being. Also, the investigators would like to learn more about what patients need and how they deal with this illness. This information can help us find ways to lessen physical and emotional strains. Part of the study tests an alternate way of giving emotional support through the Internet. By providing support online, patients can participate in the comfort of their home.