An Interactive Preventive Health Record to Increase Colorectal Cancer Screening
This study involves 3 phases that modifies current Interactive Preventative Health Record-Colorectal Cancer Screening (IPHR-CRCS) modules to address each patient's individual colorectal cancer screening (CRCS) knowledge, attitudes, preferences, and test-specific barriers. The study will engage patients, ages 50-75 years who are non-adherent to CRCS, to assess their CRCS test preferences and corresponding test-specific barriers in "real time". Based on patient characteristics (e.g. age, personal and family history, physician CRCS recommendation, CRCS test preferences, top test-specific barriers), tailored messages/videos will appear in the pop-up screens to address/reduce the top patient-reported, test-specific CRCS barriers while incorporating an action plan for CRCS adherence. The investigators hypothesize that modifying the IPHR-CRCS module to address each patient's individual CRCS knowledge, attitudes, preferences, and test-specific barriers will further increase CRCS.
Colorectal Cancer Screening
BEHAVIORAL: MyCRCS+Prefs|BEHAVIORAL: MyCRCS+Prefs+Barriers
CRCS adherence provided by the electronic medical record, Having had ≥1 test (i.e., fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and barium enema) within the time frame specified for each procedure will count as adherent CRCS., Phase II: Baseline up to 12 months post randomization|CRCS adherence provided by the electronic medical record, Having had ≥1 test (i.e., fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and barium enema) within the time frame specified for each procedure will count as adherent CRCS., Phase III: Baseline up to 12 months post intervention
Self-reported CRCS adherence, The four NCI-recommended CRCS history questions will be included on the self-report surveys. Respondents will identify the last time they had each test (i.e., fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and barium enema). Having had ≥1 test within the time frame specified for each procedure will count as adherent CRCS., Phase II: Baseline, 3 months, and 9 months post randomization|EHR Paradata, We will track participants' use of the intervention and usual care arms to capture number of log-ins, pages viewed, length of view, links clicked. In addition to elucidating patients' uptake of intervention components, these data can indicate engagement for dose-response analyses or be examined as potential mediators. For Phase II, this data will allow us to assess the timing of intervention reminders to make a decision about what frequency is most appropriate so that we can modify before we begin the feasibility study (phase III)., Phase II: continuous|Psychosocial Constructs, Scales (e.g. Decisional conflict, intentions , self-efficacy, perceived susceptibility, worry, etc.) are included in the patient questionnaire, which have good psychometric properties., Phase II: Baseline, 3 months, and 9 months post randomization|General and test-specific colorectal cancer screening barriers, A previously validated modality-specific colorectal cancer screening barrier instrument will be used. The FOBT-specific scale includes 19 questions relating to barriers for fecal occult blood test, and the colonoscopy-specific scale includes 21 questions relating barriers to colonoscopy. All items are measured on a 5-point Likert-type scale, with 5 representing greater barrier endorsement. Items are summated to create continuous scale scores (range: FOBT=19-95; colonoscopy=21-105)., Phase II: Baseline, 3 months, and 9 months post randomization|Self-reported CRCS adherence, The four NCI-recommended CRCS history questions will be included on the self-report surveys. Respondents will identify the last time they had each test (i.e., fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and barium enema). Having had ≥1 test within the time frame specified for each procedure will count as adherent CRCS., Phase III: Baseline and 9 months post intervention|EHR Paradata, We will track participants' use of the intervention and usual care arms to capture number of log-ins, pages viewed, length of view, links clicked. In addition to elucidating patients' uptake of intervention components, these data can indicate engagement for dose-response analyses or be examined as potential mediators. For Phase II, this data will allow us to assess the timing of intervention reminders to make a decision about what frequency is most appropriate so that we can modify before we begin the feasibility study (phase III)., Phase III: Continuous|Psychosocial Constructs, Scales (e.g. Decisional conflict, intentions , self-efficacy, perceived susceptibility, worry, etc.) are included in the patient questionnaire, which have good psychometric properties., Phase III: Baseline and 9 months post intervention|General and test-specific colorectal cancer screening barriers, A previously validated modality-specific colorectal cancer screening barrier instrument will be used. The FOBT-specific scale includes 19 questions relating to barriers for fecal occult blood test, and the colonoscopy-specific scale includes 21 questions relating barriers to colonoscopy. All items are measured on a 5-point Likert-type scale, with 5 representing greater barrier endorsement. Items are summated to create continuous scale scores (range: FOBT=19-95; colonoscopy=21-105)., Phase III: Baseline and 9 months post intervention|Feasibility of MyCRCS+ in target setting - patient survey, Phase III is a feasibility study to determine among other things, implementation in the "real world" setting. The outcomes we propose to measure are defined by the RE-AIM model. Specifically, we selected four essential elements pertaining to the feasibility of fielding MyCRCS+: Reach, Effectiveness, Implementation, and Maintenance.

The patient survey will include key questions related to intervention reach and potential future implementation adaptations addressing patient awareness and perception of the practices' MyCRCS+ integration strategies.Surveys will assess: patients' awareness of MyCRCS+, how they learned about it, what they liked or disliked about how practices promoted and used MyCRCS+; to what extent they used the MyCRCS+, the factors that influenced use, facilitators and barriers to both using and acting on MyCRCS+ recommendations; anxiety and worry; and quality of life (QOL)., Phase III: Baseline and 9 months post intervention
Development of MyCRCS+ intervention content, Develop and pretest MyCRCS+, which focuses on integrating patient CRCS preferences and test-specific barriers in an interactive web-based intervention. Answer the question: What intervention content and reminder content, packaging and frequency are acceptable to patients?, Phase I (months 1-17)
This study involves 3 phases that modifies current Interactive Preventative Health Record-Colorectal Cancer Screening (IPHR-CRCS) modules to address each patient's individual colorectal cancer screening (CRCS) knowledge, attitudes, preferences, and test-specific barriers. The study will engage patients, ages 50-75 years who are non-adherent to CRCS, to assess their CRCS test preferences and corresponding test-specific barriers in "real time". Based on patient characteristics (e.g. age, personal and family history, physician CRCS recommendation, CRCS test preferences, top test-specific barriers), tailored messages/videos will appear in the pop-up screens to address/reduce the top patient-reported, test-specific CRCS barriers while incorporating an action plan for CRCS adherence. The investigators hypothesize that modifying the IPHR-CRCS module to address each patient's individual CRCS knowledge, attitudes, preferences, and test-specific barriers will further increase CRCS.