Brostallicin and Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Metastatic Breast Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well brostallicin and cisplatin work in treating patients with breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) and does not have estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, or large amounts of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) on its cells (triple-negative). Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as brostallicin and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from spreading.
Triple-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: brostallicin|DRUG: cisplatin
3-month Progression-free Survival (3-mo PFS) Rate, A patient is considered to be a 3-month progression-free survivor if the patient is on study treatment 3 months from registration without a documentation of disease progression. The proportion of successes will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients and 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the approach of Duffy and Santner. If some patients are lost to follow-up not having been observed for at least 3 months, an estimate and confidence interval for the 3-month PFS rate incorporating censoring will be computed using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using the revised RECIST guideline (v1.1) as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., 3 months
Confirmed Response Rate, A confirmed response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 6 weeks apart. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for response. The confirmed response rate will be estimated by the number of confirmed responses in evaluable patients with measurable disease divided by the total number of evaluable patients with measurable disease. The appropriate confidence interval will be calculated. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<1 cm.; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years|Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined for all evaluable patients with measurable disease who have achieved a confirmed response as the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented. If a patient dies subsequent to the confirmed response without a documentation of disease progression, the patient will be considered to have had disease progression at the time of their death. The distribution of duration of response will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<1 cm.; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Up to 5 years|6-month Progression-free Survival (6-mo PFS) Rate, 6-month progression-free survival. A patient is considered to be a 6-month progression-free survivor if the patient is on study treatment 6 months from registration without a documentation of disease progression. The 6-month progression-free survival rate incorporating censoring will be computed using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using the revised RECIST guideline (v1.1) as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., At 6 months|Time to Disease Progression, Time to disease progression is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression. If a patient dies without a documentation of disease progression the patient will be considered to have had disease progression at the time of their death. If the patient is declared to be a major treatment violation, the patient will be censored on the date the treatment violation was declared to have occurred. The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined using the revised RECIST guideline (v1.1) as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm., up to 5 years|Survival Time, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To identify any clinical efficacy of brostallicin and cisplatin in the treatment of breast cancer patients having a triple negative (estrogen receptor \[ER\]/progesterone receptor \[PR\]/HER2 negative) phenotype, as measured by progression-free survival (PFS) at 3 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the confirmed tumor response rate of patients with measurable disease receiving brostallicin and cisplatin.

II. To describe the duration of response in patients with measurable disease receiving brostallicin and cisplatin.

III. To describe the 6-month progression-free survival of patients receiving brostallicin and cisplatin.

IV. To describe the overall survival (OS) of patients receiving brostallicin and cisplatin.

V. To evaluate the adverse event profile of the study regimen (adverse events graded using the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program \[CTEP\] Active Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\]).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on day 1 and brostallicin IV over 10 minutes on day 2. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.