Clinical Trial of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy With Atezolizumab or Placebo in Patients With Triple-Negative Breast Cancer Followed After Surgery by Atezolizumab or Placebo
The main purpose of this study is to learn if the usual chemotherapy given before surgery (neoadjuvant therapy) for breast cancer plus the experimental drug, atezolizumab, is better than the usual chemotherapy plus a placebo. (A placebo is a drug that looks like the study drug but contains no medication.) The usual chemotherapy in this study is paclitaxel (WP) and carboplatin followed by doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (AC) or epirubicin and cyclophosphamide (EC). Usually, after neoadjuvant therapy and surgery for triple negative breast cancer, no additional treatment is given unless the cancer returns. This study will also look at continuing treatment after surgery with atezolizumab or the placebo. To be better, atezolizumab given with the neoadjuvant therapy should be better at: 1) decreasing the amount of tumor in the breast than the placebo given with the usual chemotherapy and 2) decreasing the chance of the cancer from returning after surgery.

Another purpose of this study is to test the good and bad effects of atezolizumab when added to the usual chemotherapy. Atezolizumab may keep your cancer from growing but it can also cause side effects.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Event-free survival (EFS), Time from randomization until event, From randomization until event, through study follow up to the time target number of events is obtained, up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS), Time from randomization until death from any cause, From date of randomization through study follow-up, to the time the target number of events is obtained, up to 5 years|Pathologic complete response in the breast and lymph nodes (ypT0/Tis ypN0), Absence of any invasive component in the resected breast specimen and all resected lymph nodes, Following completion of neoadjuvant therapy (ypT0/Tis ypN0)|Distant disease-free survival (DDFS), Time from randomization until distant recurrence, death from breast cancer, death from other causes, and second primary invasive cancer (non-breast), From date of randomization through study follow-up, to the time the target number of events is obtained, up to 5 years|Disease-free survival (DFS), Ipsilateral invasive breast tumor recurrence, ipsilateral local-regional invasive breast cancer recurrence, distant recurrence, contralateral invasive breast cancer, ipsilateral or contralateral DCIS, second primary non-breast invasive cancer and death attributable to any cause including breast cancer, non-breast cancer, or unknown cause., From the first breast surgical procedure to the first disease recurrence or death from any cause|Frequency of Adverse Events, Frequency of adverse events graded according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0), From beginning of study therapy to 90 days after last dose of study therapy|Frequency of immune Adverse Events of Special Interest, Frequency of immune adverse events of special interest according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0), From beginning of study therapy to 90 days after last dose of study therapy|Cardiac safety lead-in (Troponin-T), Troponin-T levels in blood prior to initial dose of AC/EC following completion of carboplatin/paclitaxel co-administered with atezolizumab/placebo, prior to initial dose of AC/EC following completion of carboplatin/paclitaxel co-administered with atezolizumab/placebo, approximately 12 weeks|Cardiac safety lead-in (Troponin-T), Troponin-T levels in blood after administration of the 1st cycle of AC/EC prior to administration of atezolizumab/placebo, After administration of the 1st dose of AC/EC prior to administration of atezolizumab/placebo, approximately 1 hour after beginning the 1st dose of AC/EC|Cardiac safety lead-in (Troponin-T), Troponin-T levels in blood after administration of the 3rd cycle of AC/EC prior to administration of atezolizumab/placebo, After administration of the 3rd dose (Cycle 3; each cycle is 21 days) of AC/EC prior to administration of atezolizumab/placebo, approximately 1 hour after beginning the 3rd dose of AC/EC|Cardiac safety lead-in (Left ventricular ejection fraction; LVEF), LVEF levels measured at baseline prior to initiation of carboplatin/paclitaxel and atezolizumab/placebo, Prior to initiation of carboplatin/paclitaxel and atezolizumab/placebo, at baseline|Cardiac safety lead-in (Left ventricular ejection fraction; LVEF), LVEF levels measured before 3rd cycle of AC/EC, Prior to the 3rd cycle (each cycle is every 21 days) of AC/EC, approximately 6 weeks after initiation of AC/EC|Cardiac safety lead-in (Left ventricular ejection fraction; LVEF), LVEF levels measured after surgery, Four to 6 weeks after surgery
NSABP B-59/GBG 96-GeparDouze is a prospective, randomized, double-blind, Phase III clinical trial. This is a collaborative study being conducted by NSABP Foundation, Inc. in partnership with the German Breast Group (GBG), and supported by funding by Genentech, a Member of the Roche Group, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd.

In this clinical trial of neoadjuvant and adjuvant administration of atezolizumab/placebo in patients with high risk triple-negative breast cancer, the potential incremental efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant administration of atezolizumab/placebo with a sequential regimen of weekly paclitaxel with every-3-week carboplatin followed immediately by neoadjuvant administration of atezolizumab/placebo with AC/EC will be evaluated. Patients will then undergo surgery. Following recovery from surgery, patients will initiate approximately 6 months of adjuvant therapy with atezolizumab/placebo and receive the same investigational agent they received pre-operatively. Administration of radiation therapy will be based on local standards at the discretion of patients and investigators, but if administered, atezolizumab/placebo will be administered concurrently. Adjuvant atezolizumab/placebo may be delayed until after completion of radiation therapy per investigator discretion. Patients with residual invasive cancer at the time of surgery may receive capecitabine concurrently with atezolizumab/placebo in the adjuvant setting per investigator discretion and local guidelines. Patients with germline BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations with residual invasive cancer at the time of surgery may receive olaparib in the adjuvant setting per investigator discretion and local guidelines. Patients receiving olaparib must discontinue atezolizumab/placebo.

The primary aims of the study are 1) to determine value of atezolizumab in improving pathologic complete response in the breast and post-therapy lymph nodes evaluated histologically (pCR breast and nodes \[(ypT0/Tis ypN0)\]), and 2) to determine the value of atezolizumab in improving event-free survival (EFS). Secondary aims include: pathologic complete response in the breast (ypT0/Tis); pathologic complete response in the breast and lymph nodes (ypT0 ypN0); positive nodal status conversion rate; overall survival; recurrence-free interval: distant disease-free survival; brain metastases free survival; and toxicity. The stratification factors for the study are: 1) clinical size of the primary tumor (1.1-3.0 cm; \> 3.0 cm); 2) nodal status as determined by protocol-specified criteria (negative, positive); 3) AC/EC (every 2 weeks; every 3 weeks); and 4) Region (North America; Europe).

For patient eligibility, local testing on the diagnostic core must have determined the patient's tumor to be ER-negative, PgR-negative, and HER2-negative by current ASCO/CAP guidelines. Material from either the diagnostic core biopsy or the research biopsy must be sent for central testing for confirmation of ER, PgR, and HER2 to confirm eligibility. If local testing has determined a tumor to be HER2 equivocal or to have a borderline ER/PgR status (% IHC staining \< 10% for both), material may be submitted for central testing to determine eligibility.

In order to proactively identify and further assess any cardiac toxicity that may occur with the combination of anthracyclines and atezolizumab, this study includes a cardiac safety lead-in for the first 60 patients who initiate AC/EC. The safety lead-in will consist of assessment of ECG and serum troponin-T obtained just prior to administration of the first dose of AC/EC, following completion of the administration of the 1st and 3rd cycle of AC/EC prior to initiation of the atezolizumab/placebo. An additional assessment of LVEF with echocardiogram or MUGA scan will also be obtained prior to the 3rd dose of AC/EC. In order to provide an early assessment of cardiac safety, results of the troponin-T assessments, ECGs, LVEF assessment, and cardiac safety data will be evaluated by the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) when the last of the initial 20 patients who initiate AC/EC undergo their scheduled post-surgery LVEF assessment. When the last of the first 60 patients to initiate AC/EC undergo their scheduled post-surgery LVEF assessment, results of the troponin assessments, ECGs, LVEF assessments, and cardiac safety data from all 60 patients will be evaluated by the DSMB.

Research core biopsies of breast primary at baseline and 1-4 days prior to the second dose of atezolizumab/placebo are a study requirement for all patients. One to three representative blocks of residual primary tumor containing the maximum amount of tumor and node with the largest focus of metastasis is required from the definitive breast surgery if gross residual disease is greater than or equal to 1.0 cm. If gross residual disease is less than 1.0 cm, tissue should be submitted, if possible. Blood specimens will be collected on all patients at baseline for exploratory biomarker analysis and to support future correlative studies.

Accrual to NSABP B-59/GBG 96-GeparDouze began in December 2017 and was completed in May 2021 with a total of 1550 patients randomized. Based on actual accrual and the decision to eliminate pCR as a co-primary endpoint, we recalculated the power to detect a hazard ratio of 0.70 attributed to the addition of atezolizumab, assuming a lost-to-follow-up rate of 0.00083 per month, using the actual accrual pattern for the power calculation. With 1550 patients accrued in 42 months, an additional 22 months follow up will allow us to obtain 252 events under the assumptions stated above, which will provide 80% power to detect a HR of 0.7 between the atezolizumab and the placebo arm at an overall 2-sided alpha level of 0.05.