Cilengitide in Treating Younger Patients With Recurrent or Progressive High-Grade Glioma That Has Not Responded to Standard Therapy
This phase II trial studies how well cilengitide works in treating younger patients with recurrent or progressive high-grade glioma that has not responded to standard therapy. Cilengitide may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Childhood High-grade Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Childhood High-grade Cerebral Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Oligoastrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Recurrent Childhood Brain Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Glioblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma
DRUG: cilengitide|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Objective Response to Cilengitide, Objective response is defined as a complete response or partial response at 4 weeks that is sustained for at least another 4 weeks, or a stable disease at 4 weeks that is sustained for at least 12 weeks while on stable or decreasing dose of corticosteroids, except when corticosteroids are being used to control hydrocephaly unrelated to tumor progression., Up to 16 weeks
Time to Tumor Progression (TTP), The distribution of TTP will be analyzed separately using product limit (PL) estimate., Time from study enrollment to radiographically determined tumor progression or recurrence, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), The distribution of TTF will be analyzed separately using PL estimate., Time from study enrollment to tumor progression, tumor recurrence, death from any cause, or occurrence of a second malignant neoplasm, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Death (TTD), The distribution of TTD will be analyzed separately using PL estimate., Time from study enrollment to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Rate of Toxicity, Especially That of Symptomatic Intratumoral Hemorrhage (ITH) Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Rate of individual toxicity including that of symptomatic ITH will be summarized in each course of treatment using standard descriptive statistical methods., Up to 5 years|Pharmacokinetic Parameter of Cilengitide in Plasma: Volume of Central Compartment (Vc), Cilengitide plasma concentration-time data are fit to a compartmental pharmacokinetic model using MAP-Bayesian estimation as implemented in ADAPT II. For each patient, samples collected at different time points are used to derive one Vc value per patient., At baseline and 1, 3, and 6 hours after the first dose of cilengitide|Pharmacokinetic Parameter of Cilengitide in Plasma: Elimination Rate Constant (Ke), Cilengitide plasma concentration-time data are fit to a compartmental pharmacokinetic model using MAP-Bayesian estimation as implemented in ADAPT II. For each patient, samples collected at different time points are used to derive one Ke value per patient., At baseline and 1, 3, and 6 hours after the first dose of cilengitide|Pharmacokinetic Parameter of Cilengitide in Plasma: Half-life (t1/2), Cilengitide plasma concentration-time data are fit to a compartmental pharmacokinetic model using MAP-Bayesian estimation as implemented in ADAPT II. For each patient, samples collected at different time points are used to derive one t1/2 value per patient., At baseline and 1, 3, and 6 hours after the first dose of cilengitide|Pharmacokinetic Parameter of Cilengitide in Plasma: Systemic Clearance (Cl), Cilengitide plasma concentration-time data are fit to a compartmental pharmacokinetic model using MAP-Bayesian estimation as implemented in ADAPT II. For each patient, samples collected at different time points are used to derive one Cl value per patient., At baseline and 1, 3, and 6 hours after the first dose of cilengitide|Pharmacogenetic Polymorphism in Drug Transporter Gene ABCB1 and Relate to Cilengitide Disposition as Measured by AUC, Cilengitide systemic exposure as measured by AUC is used in this genotype-phenotype analysis. The ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein; P-gp) Exon 26 genotype is coded as 0/1/2 based on the number of T alleles., At baseline|Pharmacogenetic Polymorphism in Drug Transporter Gene ABCB1 and Relate to Cilengitide Disposition as Measured by Systemic Clearance, Cilengitide systemic exposure as measured by systemic clearance is used in this genotype-phenotype analysis. The ABCB1 (P-glycoprotein; P-gp) Exon 26 genotype is coded as 0/1/2 based on the number of T alleles., At Baseline|Pharmacogenetic Polymorphism in Drug Transporter Gene ABCG2 and Relate to Cilengitide Disposition as Measured by AUC, Cilengitide systemic exposure as measured by AUC is used in this genotype-phenotype analysis. The ABCG2 (breast cancer resistance protein; BCRP) Exon 5 genotype is coded as 0/1/2 based on the number of G alleles., At baseline|Pharmacogenetic Polymorphism in Drug Transporter Gene ABCG2 and Relate to Cilengitide Disposition as Measured by Systemic Clearance, Cilengitide systemic exposure as measured by systemic clearance is used in this genotype-phenotype analysis. The ABCG2 (breast cancer resistance protein; BCRP) Exon 5 genotype is coded as 0/1/2 based on the number of G alleles., At baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the objective response rate to cilengitide in younger patients with recurrent or progressive high-grade glioma that is refractory to standard therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the distribution of time to progression, time to treatment failure, and time to death in these patients.

II. To estimate the rate of toxicity, especially symptomatic intratumoral hemorrhage, in these patients.

III. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of cilengitide in plasma using a limited sampling strategy.

IV. To evaluate the pharmacogenetic polymorphisms in drug transporters (eg, breast cancer resistance protein \[BCRP\], P-glycoprotein \[P-gp\]) and relate to cilengitide disposition.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive cilengitide IV over 1 hour on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then periodically for 3 years.