Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery (TEM) After Radiochemotherapy for Rectal Cancer
In the Netherlands approximately 2300 new patients are diagnosed with rectal cancer each year. Standard treatment for patients with a T2 or T3 rectal cancer consists of preoperative short course of radiotherapy followed by surgery. In advanced cases long course of radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy is used instead of a short cause. In some of these advanced cases a complete remission is observed after a long course of radio-/chemotherapy. Patients who respond well to neo-adjuvant treatment carry a better prognosis.

Objective of this research is to evaluate whether neo-adjuvant chemo-/radiotherapy in small non-advanced rectal cancers can be used to obtain a complete or near complete remission. In these patients could a complete resection of the rectum as an organ be avoided by treating them with a local excision with the TEM-technique (Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery) of the scar. The advantage for these patients is, that they do not need major abdominal surgery and in a substantial number of these patients the rectum can be preserved with a better function of continence.
Rectal Tumour
DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: TME resection|PROCEDURE: TEM surgery
Response, the response of the rectal carcinoma to chemo-/radiotherapy defined as complete response (no visible disease); partial response (more than 50% reduction of the tumour mass); no response (meaning an increase of the tumour mass less than 25% or a decrease of the tumour mass less than 50%); or progressive disease when the tumour mass increase more than 25% of the original tumour mass., Baseline and 6 weeks after chemoradiation therapy
Quality of life, Quality of life form EORTC-QLQC30 and 38. Determine the faecal continence and QOL after treatment with TEM surgery will be compared with TME treated patients., baseline, 6-12-24 and 35 months after surgery|Local Recurrence, Careful follow-up will determine the local recurrence rate of patients treated with TEM and TME surgery. This will be standard colorectal cancer follow-up with additional endo-anal endography and MRI for patients treated with TEM surgery during the first two years., 36 months, 60 months after surgery last enrolled patient|Toxicity, Regional and systemic Toxicity/Side effects will be recorded according to the CTC-Toxicity Grading system, CTC-NCIC Toxicity Criteria v. 3.0. (See appendix to the protocol).

Surgical and postoperative complications will be collected and assessed during interim analysis., 4 weeks after surgery last enrolled patient|Number of positive lymph nodes in patient who have been treated with classical surgery, The number of patients with positive lymph nodes after chemo radiation is expected to be less than 20%, this will carefully be monitored., 4 weeks after surgery last enrolled patient|The number of sphincter saving procedures, after organ sparing surgery by classical TEM or after TME surgery:, 4 weeks after surgery last enrolled patient
In the Netherlands approximately 2300 new patients are diagnosed with rectal cancer each year. Standard treatment for patients with a T2 or T3 rectal cancer consists of preoperative short course of radiotherapy followed by surgery. In advanced cases long course of radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy is used instead of a short cause. In some of these advanced cases a complete remission is observed after a long course of radio-/chemotherapy. Patients who respond well to neo-adjuvant treatment carry a better prognosis.

Objective of this research is to evaluate whether neo-adjuvant chemo-/radiotherapy in small non-advanced rectal cancers can be used to obtain a complete or near complete remission. In these patients could a complete resection of the rectum as an organ be avoided by treating them with a local excision with the TEM-technique (Transanal Endoscopic Microsurgery) of the scar. The advantage for these patients is, that they do not need major abdominal surgery and in a substantial number of these patients the rectum can be preserved with a better function of continence.