Screening More Patients for Colorectal Cancer Through Adapting and Refining Targeted Evidence-Based Interventions in Rural Settings, SMARTER CRC
This study collects information to provide a model for how to rapidly adapt and scale-up multilevel interventions through clinic-health plan partnerships to reduce the burden of colorectal cancer (CRC) on the United states population. This study may improve colorectal cancer screening rates, follow-up colonoscopy, and referral to care in rural Medicaid patients.
Colorectal Carcinoma
OTHER: Fecal Immunochemical Test|OTHER: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation
Likelihood of any colorectal cancer (CRC) screening (for study-eligible patients), Will use claims and vendor data to determine whether or not the patient completed CRC screening (i.e., fecal testing, FIT-DNA, sigmoidoscopy, CT colonography, or colonoscopy). To assess effectiveness of CRC screening completion, will use the generalized form of hierarchical linear model (binomial distribution with logit link) to account for clustering of patients within clinics and the assignment to arm at the clinic level., Primary outcome at 6 months following CCO eligible patient list pull date
Completion of testing types (fecal testing, FIT-DNA, CT Colonography, Colonoscopy, Flex Sigmoidoscopy) and % completion, Will use claims and vendor data for calculating whether or not the patient completed each different type of screening., Up to 12 months|Rate of CRC screening among the study-eligible population (by clinic), Will use claims and vendor data for calculating CRC screening rates in clinics. For each clinic, N completed CRC screening / N eligible, 6 months|Time to screening from study-eligible patient list pull, Days from study-eligible patient list pull to return of FIT or completion of other screening modality (colonoscopy, flex, FIT-DNA). Number of days at individual level., Up to 12 months|FIT Results, Results of the completed FITs, 6 months|Patient Navigation Trainings (Intervention group), Clinic participation (i.e., attendance count and staff roles) in patient navigation training., Up to 12 months|Patient Navigation completed (Intervention group), Patient navigation implemented = one or more live phone contact with the patient (binary at the individual level)., Up to 12 months|Follow-up colonoscopy completion, The percentage of patients with abnormal FIT who completed follow-up colonoscopy., Up to 12 months|Time to colonoscopy from abnormal FIT result, Days from abnormal FIT result to completion of follow-up colonoscopy. Number of days at the individual level., Up to 12 months|Adenomas or cancers detected, Whether or not eligible patient had an adenoma or cancer detected. Binary at individual level., Up to 12 months|Adaptations to core program components made by payer or clinic, Key informant interviews and practice facilitator field notes based on the FRAME framework for tracking adaptations will be used to identify and qualitatively assess adaptations., Up to 36 months|Key Implementation Factors, Qualitative key informant interviews with patient, clinic, and payer stakeholders to identify implementation strategies and factors relevant to rural context. Guided by Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) and the Expert Recommendations for Implementing Change (ERIC) classification., Up to 36 months|Colonoscopy referral, For each clinic, the percent of patients who receive a referral to colonoscopy. Proportion at the clinic level., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Adapt, pilot, then test the implementation and scale-up of targeted direct mail and patient navigation programs.

OUTLINE:

This is an implementation-effectiveness trial of direct mail outreach and patient navigation intervention to improve rates of CRC screening. Eligible patients will be mailed a fecal immunochemical test (FIT). The mailed FIT and patient navigation interventions are a part of standard care and are carried out by the Medicaid health plan or clinic. Outcomes are tracked using reports from direct mail vendors, claims data from participating Medicaid health plans, clinic data from the electronic health record, chart review, and data from a REDCap database. The hypotheses will be tested using a two-arm cluster randomized trial design. Participating clinics will be randomized into two groups: Intervention and Usual Care. Medicaid health plans/ Coordinated care organizations (CCO) and clinic leadership participate in interviews and complete surveys.

The primary effectiveness outcome of this study is CRC screening likelihood in eligible Medicaid patients in intervention and control clinics at 6 months. Data will be collected at 6 time points: baseline, 6-months, 12-months, 18-months, 24-months, and 36-months.

Implementation outcomes and adaptations will be evaluated through interviews with clinic staff, patients, and CCO partners. Clinic staff in various roles related to the program (e.g., outreach workers, patient navigators, quality improvement leads) complete surveys and participate in interviews and observations at baseline, 6-9 months (post-implementation) and at approximately 12 months later, to assess clinic/health system level factors that may influence outcomes. Patients participate in interviews to explore patient experiences with the program. Regional and Organizational partners: CCO leaders, endoscopy providers (e.g., gastrointestinal specialists, general surgeons, primary care clinicians), and community organizations also participate in interviews.