Image-Guided Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy With Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy Boost and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage II-III Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This clinical trial studies image-guided hypofractionated radiation therapy (RT) when given together with hypofractionated RT boost and combination chemotherapy in treating patients with stage II-III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that cannot be removed by surgery. RT uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Hypofractionated RT may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving RT together with combination chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells and allow doctors to save the part of the body where the cancer started
Adenocarcinoma of the Lung|Adenosquamous Cell Lung Cancer|Large Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Squamous Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
RADIATION: hypofractionated radiation therapy|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|RADIATION: image-guided radiation therapy|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy
To determine the maximal tolerated dose using hypofractionated radiotherapy in patients with stage II-III non small cell lung cancer., The primary end point is to reach the maximum tolerated dose or a total of 75 Gy, whichever comes first, by escalating the daily dose of last 5 fractions., up to 90 days
To determine tumor Local control, Radiological evaluation (CT, PET-CT) will be done to assess tumor., participants will be followed for 2 years|To determine Lung cancer Disease specific survival, Participants will be followed for 2 years|Overall survival, Participants will be followed for 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) using hypofractionated RT in patients with stage II-III NSCLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the dose-limiting toxicity, if the MTD is reached.

II. To determine the tumor local control (LC).

III. To determine the lung cancer disease specific survival (DSS).

IV. To determine the overall survival (OS).

V. To assess the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-B), interleukin (IL)-1, and IL-6 levels as predictive biomarkers for treatment induced tissue injury.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of image-guided hypofractionated RT.

Patients undergo image-guided hypofractionated RT over 35 minutes 5 days a week for 2 weeks followed by 5 fractions of hypofractionated RT boost. Patients also receive standard carboplatin and paclitaxel for 3 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, every 3 months for the first 2 years, and then periodically thereafter.