Lenalidomide and Dinutuximab With or Without Isotretinoin in Treating Younger Patients With Refractory or Recurrent Neuroblastoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with dinutuximab with or without isotretinoin in treating younger patients with neuroblastoma that does not respond to treatment or that has come back. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide and isotretinoin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as dinutuximab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) together with dinutuximab therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Dinutuximab|DRUG: Isotretinoin|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lenalidomide|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum tolerated dose defined as the highest dose level tested at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) criteria, version 4.0, All toxicities observed will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity (by NCI CTCAE), and attribution. Tables will be created to summarize these toxicities and side effects by dose level and by course as well as with Kaplan-Meier plots (i.e. time to first delay or dose reduction) in order to assess the tolerability of the regime over multiple courses., Up to 28 days|Recommended phase II dose, Determination of the recommended phase II dose of lenalidomide will include consideration of obtaining median peak plasma lenalidomide levels of 5-10 uM (based on laboratory modeling of this regimen in neuroblastoma), acceptable clinical toxicity, and laboratory evidence of an augmentation in immune function., Up to 28 days
Overall survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots., From start of lenalidomide until death for any reason or date that patient was last known to be alive if the patient is still alive, assessed up to 3 years|Event-free survival, Will be summarized with Kaplan-Meier plots., From the start of treatment with lenalidomide until progression, clinical deterioration mandating that the patient terminate treatment or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 3 years|Changes in the levels of T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, monocytes, cytokines, and chemokines, These levels and the changes relative to baseline will be summarized by dose level by simple summary statistics: means (possibly after transformation) or medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit). Scatterplots will be used to explore possible associations between the dose and day and toxicity experienced (as reflected in the maximum grade of toxicity experienced, infections or platelet recovery)., Baseline to up to 28 days|Changes in levels of HACA (or other genotype) and tumor response, These levels and the changes relative to baseline will be summarized by dose level by simple summary statistics: means (possibly after transformation) or medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit). Scatterplots will be used to explore possible associations between the dose and day and toxicity experienced (as reflected in the maximum grade of toxicity experienced, infections or platelet recovery)., Baseline to up to 3 years|Pharmacokinetic determinations of lenalidomide, These will be summarized by dose level with simple summary statistics: means (possibly after transformation) or medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit). Scatterplots will be used to explore possible associations between the dose and estimates of the pharmacokinetic parameters, and between the pharmacokinetic determinations and toxicity experienced (as reflected in the maximum grade of toxicity experienced or in clinical measurements)., Baseline, at 60 and 90 minutes, at 2, 6, 24 hours and days 7 and 22 after last dose of lenalidomide in course 1|Changes in TaqMan low density array (TLDA) scores, Standard descriptive summaries as well as scatterplots will be used. The association between the changes in TLDA scores and overall tumor response will also be summarized graphically and quantitatively. Changes (from baseline) in the TLDA scores over the course of treatment will be plotted and summarized by dose level and course., Baseline to up to 3 years|Overall response, The association between the changes in TLDA scores and overall tumor response will be summarized graphically and quantitatively., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of lenalidomide in combination with fixed doses of dinutuximab (ch14.18) and isotretinoin given to children with refractory or recurrent neuroblastoma.

II. To define the toxicities of lenalidomide administered in combination with ch14.18 and isotretinoin.

III. To describe the differences in immune function modulation between "low" versus "high" dose lenalidomide given with ch14.18 and isotretinoin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacokinetics of lenalidomide given in this combination regimen.

II. To determine the steady state pharmacokinetics of isotretinoin (day 28, course one) given in combination with lenalidomide.

III. To measure peak and trough levels of ch14.18 in patients receiving lenalidomide and to compare to historical controls of patients receiving ch14.18 in combination with interleukin 2 (IL-2) and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF).

IV. To describe the immunological effects of lenalidomide (T cells, natural killer \[NK\] cells, monocytes, cytokines, chemokines) within this three drug regimen.

V. To define the incidence and titers of human anti-chimeric antibody (HACA) on this regimen.

VI. To describe, within the context of a phase I study, the response rate to lenalidomide combined with ch14.18 and isotretinoin in patients with recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma.

VII. To summarize, within the context of a phase I study, the event-free survival of patients with recurrent/refractory neuroblastoma or in complete response (CR) after progressing, and who are treated with lenalidomide combined with ch14.18 and isotretinoin.

VIII. To determine, within the context of a phase I study, if killer-cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (KIR) receptor-ligand mismatch or specific Fc gamma receptor (Fc gamma R) alleles are associated with anti-tumor response.

IX. To quantify neuroblastoma tumor cell "load" using a 5-gene TaqMan Low Density Array (TLDA) assay in peripheral blood at study entry, following, with each disease evaluation and at end of therapy and bone marrow at study entry, with each response evaluation when bone marrow is sampled, and at end of therapy.

X. To compare the toxicities of this regimen with the historical toxicity data from the Children's Oncology Group (COG) ANBL0032 and ANBL0931 studies of ch14.18 with IL-2, GM-CSF and isotretinoin.

XI. To describe the tolerability and ability to give full doses of ch14.18 and lenalidomide over extended periods of time, i.e. in courses 6-12.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, dinutuximab intravenously (IV) over 10 hours on days 8-11, and isotretinoin PO twice daily (BID) on days 15-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.