Evaluation of the Safety and Efficacy of TXA127 (Angiotensin 1-7) to Enhance Engraftment in Pediatric Patients Undergoing Single or Double Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation
Engraftment failure is a major obstacle to the success of cord blood transplantation in children with malignancies and inherited metabolic disorders, despite the fact that they receive relatively high doses of nucleated cells from UCB. TXA127 is pharmaceutically formulated Angiotensin 1-7 \[A(1-7)\], a non-hypertensive derivative of Angiotensin-II (which contains the 8th amino acid conferring receptor binding to blood pressure receptors). TXA127 has multilineage effects on hematopoietic progenitors in vitro and in vivo. Preclinical data show that TXA127 is a novel stimulator of early multilineage hematopoietic progenitors, increases engraftment of committed hematopoietic progenitors, and induces more rapid production of platelets and neutrophils in the peripheral circulation, especially in limited cell number transplants. Treatment with TXA127 following UCBT is expected to increase the numbers of hematopoietic progenitors and accelerate engraftment.
Cord Blood Transplant|Hematologic Malignancy|Inherited Metabolic Disease
DRUG: TXA127
Safety of TXA127 in subjects undergoing cord blood transplantation, Through Day 100 post transplant
Effect of TXA127 on incidence, severity and duration of aGVHD, Through Day 100 post transplant|Effect of TXA127 on incidence, severity and duration of mucositis, WHO oral toxicity score, Through Day 100 post transplant|Effect of TXA127 on neutrophil engraftment, Through Day 100 post transplant|Effect of TXA127 on platelet recovery, Through Day 100 post transplant|Effect of TXA127 on immune reconstitution, Through Day 100 post transplant
Engraftment failure is a major obstacle to the success of cord blood transplantation in children with malignancies and inherited metabolic disorders, despite the fact that they receive relatively high doses of nucleated cells from UCB. TXA127 is pharmaceutically formulated Angiotensin 1-7 \[A(1-7)\], a non-hypertensive derivative of Angiotensin-II (which contains the 8th amino acid conferring receptor binding to blood pressure receptors). TXA127 has multilineage effects on hematopoietic progenitors in vitro and in vivo. Preclinical data show that TXA127 is a novel stimulator of early multilineage hematopoietic progenitors, increases engraftment of committed hematopoietic progenitors, and induces more rapid production of platelets and neutrophils in the peripheral circulation, especially in limited cell number transplants. Treatment with TXA127 following UCBT is expected to increase the numbers of hematopoietic progenitors and accelerate engraftment.