Study in Which Therapy is Either Switched to Nivolumab After 3 Months of Treatment or Therapy is Continued With a Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor in Patients With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) and Disease Control
This study aims to assess the survival benefit from an early switch approach from sunitinib or pazopanib (10-12 weeks of 1st-line therapy) to nivolumab (anti-angiogenic to immunotherapy switch).
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Pazopanib
Overall survival (OS), Efficacy measure, 128 of events in max. 72 months
Best overall response rate, Best overall response (PR+CR) throughout the 1st-line treatment according to RECIST 1.1, From start of 1st line until disease progression or death of last patient (max. 72 months)|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS time of randomization to death from any caused OS

From start of 1st line TKI therapy, 72 months|Quality of Life, Health related-Quality of Life (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Kidney Symptom Index (FKSI) FKSI-15 score and changes in the FKSI-15 score., From randomization until disease progression or death of last patient (max. 72 months)|Quality of Life, Proportion of subjects with increase from baseline in FKSI-15 (MID 3 points), From randomization until disease progression or death of last patient (max. 72 months)|Safety - Absolute and relative frequencies of emergent adverse events according to CTCAE 4.03, Adverse Events (AEs) / Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) / Treatment Emergent Adverse Events according to CTCAE 4.03, From randomization until 100 days after end of treatment of last patient (post last dose).
This is a randomized, open-label, phase II trial. Patients with advanced or metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) will be randomized into two arms either receiving Nivolumab or continuation of the Tyrosin Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) treatment that they have received as 1st-line therapy.

Patients must have received first line therapy with a VEGFR-TKI (Sunitinib or Pazopanib) prior to study inclusion for 10-12 weeks with documented disease control (PR/SD) according to RECIST 1.1 at time of study entry.

Eligible patients will be randomized 1:1 either in the Nivolumab or in the TKI arm.

Dosage of Nivolumab: 240 mg i.v. on D1 of every cycle (Q2W) for 16 weeks. After 16 weeks 480 mg i.v. on D1 of every cycle (Q4W) until disease progress, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or end of study.

Dosage of Sunitinib: According to Standard of Care (SOC). Recommended dose is 50 mg p.o. once daily for 4 consecutive weeks followed by a 2-week rest period (schedule 4/2) to comprise a complete cycle of 6 weeks (until disease progress, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or end of study.).

Dosage of Pazopanib: According to Standard of Care (SOC). Recommended dose is 800 mg p.o. daily continuously (until disease progress, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or end of study.).