PaRTNer: Patient Reported Outcomes and Financial Toxicity in Head and Neck Cancer A Pilot, Survey Based Study
The purpose of this single institution, pilot study is to explore the out of pocket (OOP)costs and financial toxicity of cancer care for patients during definitive treatment of head and neck cancer with radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy and surgical resection. The study team will assess how the financial burden of cancer care impacts quality of life as well as treatment-related decision-making from a patient perspective.
Head and Neck Cancer
OTHER: Demographics questionnaires and the FACT HN questionnaire
Financial toxicity, as measured by out of pocket (OOP) costs for a definitive course of treatment for HNC, 3 months post radiation therapy|Financial toxicity, as measured by out of pocket (OOP) costs for a definitive course of treatment for HNC, 6 months post radiation therapy|Financial toxicity, as measured by change in Comprehensive Score for financial Toxicity (COST), Financial toxicity will be measured using the comprehensive score for financial toxicity (COST). The range of the COST score is 0-44., Baseline, 3 months post radiation therapy, 6 months post radiation therapy
Change in symptom burden, as measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Head and Neck (FACT-H&N) score, Baseline, 3 months post radiation therapy, 6 months post radiation therapy|Change in quality of life, as measured by FACT-H&N score, Baseline, 3 months post radiation therapy, 6 months post radiation therapy|Perceived quality of care, Patients will be asked to rate the quality of care as excellent, good, fair, poor, or very poor, 3 months post radiation therapy, 6 months post radiation therapy
Disease status, 5 years|Overall survival, 5 years|Progression free survival, 5 years
This is a prospective, single institution, survey-based study to assess OOP costs, financial toxicity and pateint reported outcomes (PROs') (including QOL, quality of care, and attitudes/perspectives on the role of cost in treatment decisions). Potential participants are new patient consults in Radiation Oncology Head and Neck Cancer Clinic. Patients with an indication for definitive treatment involving radiation therapy will be approached by study staff and, if amenable, enrolled in the study. After signing informed consent, they will complete a baseline survey assessing socioeconomic household information, baseline symptoms/QOL and baseline costs/financial toxicity. They will be followed prospectively and re-surveyed at 3 and 6 months after completion of radiation therapy. Repeat assessments will document treatment costs and PRO including QOL, financial toxicity, and self-reported quality of care. Patients will be asked to collect all treatment-related bills in a provided binder, which will be reviewed at each survey date. Basic demographic data (including age, sex, race, marital status, zip code, and insurance coverage), comorbidities, smoking status, cancer characteristics (stage, site, histology), treatments received, emergency department visits and hospitalization rates at baseline, end of treatment, 3 months and 6 months after radiation treatment will be collected as part of this study. Disease status and survival will also be assessed from standard of care follow-up visits up to five years after completion of radiation treatment.