Abraxane Therapy in Patients With Pancreatic Cancer Who Failed First-Line Gemcitabine Therapy
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation works in treating patients with locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer that did not respond to first-line therapy with gemcitabine.
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Abraxane
Overall Survival Rate at 6 Months, Overall survival was measured from the start of treatment (date of first dose of Abraxane® therapy) to date of death due to any cause. For patients who are alive, follow-up time will be censored at date of last contact., 6 months
Number of Participants Showing Complete or Partial Response, Number of participants showing complete or partial response to protocol therapy according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors(RECIST) v1.0 criteria for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI. Per RECIST, Complete Response (CR) = Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 months|Number of Participants Showing Stable Disease, Number of participants showing stable disease according to RECIST 1.0 criteria, 12 months|Progression-free Survival, Median number of months participants experienced progression-free survival, according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors(RECIST) v1.0 criteria for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI. Per RECIST, progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 6 months|Number of Participants Experiencing Adverse Events, 6 months|Median Overall Survival of Participants, Median overall survival rate of participants measured in months, 12 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To establish preliminary evidence of efficacy of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation in patients with locally advanced (unresectable) or metastatic pancreatic cancer that failed first-line therapy with a gemcitabine hydrochloride-containing regimen.

Secondary

* To determine the safety and characterize the toxicity profile of this drug.
* To determine the complete, partial, and overall response rates and duration of response in patients with measurable disease.
* To determine CA 19-9 response.
* To determine progression-free survival.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then annually thereafter.