A Study of Imlunestrant Versus Standard Endocrine Therapy in Participants With Early Breast Cancer
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well imlunestrant works compared to standard hormone therapy in participants with early breast cancer that is estrogen receptor positive (ER+) and human epidermal receptor 2 negative (HER2-). Participants must have already taken endocrine therapy for two to five years and must have a higher-than-average risk for their cancer to return. Study participation could last up to 10 years.
Breast Neoplasms
DRUG: Imlunestrant|DRUG: Tamoxifen|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Letrozole|DRUG: Exemestane
Invasive Disease-Free Survival (IDFS), IDFS excluding second non-breast primary invasive cancers, Randomization to recurrence or death from any cause (up to 10 years)
Distant Recurrence-Free Survival (DRFS), DRFS, Randomization to Distant Recurrence or Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)|Overall Survival (OS), OS, Randomization to Death from Any Cause (up to 10 Years)|Pharmacokinetics (PK): Steady State Plasma Concentrations of Imlunestrant, PK: steady state plasma concentrations of imlunestrant, Year 1, Month 2 to Month 4|Change from Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Physical Functioning, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question patient reported instrument used to assess multidimensional quality of life (QOL) in cancer patients. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global QOL scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Sleep Disturbance, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact). Physical functioning was measured by items 1 to 5. The sum score was linearly transformed to the range 0 - 100 as recommended by the EORTC (higher score is better)., Visit 1 Day 1 up to end of Year 5|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question patient reported instrument used to assess the multidimensional QOL in cancer patients. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global QOL scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Sleep Disturbance, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact). Role functioning was measured by items 6 and 7. The sum score was linearly transformed to the range 0 - 100 as recommended by the EORTC (higher score is better)., Visit 1 Day 1 up to end of Year 5|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Global QOL, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-question patient reported instrument used to assess the multidimensional QOL in cancer patients. It consists of 15 domains: 1 global QOL scale, 5 functional scales (Physical, Role, Cognitive, Emotional, Social), and 9 symptom scales/items (Fatigue, Nausea and Vomiting, Pain, Dyspnea, Sleep Disturbance, Appetite Loss, Constipation, Diarrhea, Financial Impact). Global QOL was measured by items 29 and 30. The sum score was linearly transformed to the range 0 - 100 as recommended by the EORTC (higher score is better)., Visit 1 Day 1 up to end of Year 5|Proportion of Time on Study Treatment with High Overall Adverse Event Burden, FACT GP5 = Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General Physical Well-being Item 5 (FACT GP5). High overall adverse event burden is defined as a score of 3 or 4 on a 5-point Likert scale. Higher scores represent higher symptom burden., Visit 1 Day 1 up to end of Year 5
The main purpose of this study is to measure how well imlunestrant works compared to standard hormone therapy in participants with early breast cancer that is estrogen receptor positive (ER+) and human epidermal receptor 2 negative (HER2-). Participants must have already taken endocrine therapy for two to five years and must have a higher-than-average risk for their cancer to return. Study participation could last up to 10 years.