Vorinostat in Combination With Vinorelbine in Patients With Advanced Cancer
This is a multi-center, open-label non-randomized dose-escalation trial of vorinostat given in combination with vinorelbine. Cohorts will be treated with a fixed dose of vinorelbine (25mg/m²/week continuously, representing the schedule that has been approved). Patients eligible will be enrolled into a standard 3+3 design with a starting dose of vorinostat at 200 mg po qd 7/21 (weekly schedule). Then, further dose levels will be explored. Toxicity of the schedule will be assessed during the first cycle. Patients may receive up to 6 cycles of study medication. Blood samples will be collected at specified time points to assess pharmacokinetic endpoints.
Malignant Solid Tumour
DRUG: Zolinza (vorinostat), vinorelbine
To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vorinostat administered in combination with standard doses of vinorelbine., at the end of the trial
To assess the pharmacokinetics of vorinostat and vinorelbine when administered in combination., at the end of the trial|To assess the safety and tolerability of this regimen in advanced solid tumors., at the end of the study|To make a preliminary assessment of the efficacy of the combination, in terms of response rate, response duration, time to response and time to progression., At the end of the trial|To evaluate predictive pharmacodynamic biomarkers (e.g., histone acetylation in peripheral blood) when vorinostat is administered in combination with vinorelbine., At the end of the trial
This is a multi-center, open-label non-randomized dose-escalation trial of vorinostat given in combination with vinorelbine. Cohorts will be treated with a fixed dose of vinorelbine (25mg/m²/week continuously, representing the schedule that has been approved). Patients eligible will be enrolled into a standard 3+3 design with a starting dose of vorinostat at 200 mg po qd 7/21 (weekly schedule). Then, further dose levels will be explored. Toxicity of the schedule will be assessed during the first cycle. Patients may receive up to 6 cycles of study medication. Blood samples will be collected at specified time points to assess pharmacokinetic endpoints.