Androgen Ablation Therapy With or Without Niraparib After Radiation Therapy for the Treatment of High-Risk Localized or Locally Advanced Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of androgen ablation therapy with or without niraparib after standard of care radiation therapy in treating patients with prostate cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body (localized) or that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). Androgen ablation therapy (also known as hormone therapy) lowers the levels of male hormones called androgens in the body. Androgens stimulate prostate cancer cells to grow. There are 2 types of androgen ablation therapy given in this study: AAP + ADT and Apa + ADT. AAP + ADT is the treatment combination of the drugs abiraterone acetate and prednisone (AAP) given with androgen deprivation therapy (ADT, also known as androgen deprivation therapy or androgen suppression medication, which is used as standard of care to lower testosterone levels in men with high risk localized or metastatic prostate cancer). Apa + ADT is the treatment combination of the drug apalutamide (Apa) given with ADT. Androgen ablation therapy with or without niraparib after radiation therapy may help to control the disease in patients with prostate cancer.
Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Antiandrogen Therapy|DRUG: Apalutamide|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|DRUG: Niraparib|DRUG: Prednisone|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Composite radiographic progression-free survival(rPFS) and biochemical (PSA) progression-free survival (PFS), From randomization until progression, death, or last assessment without progression, whichever comes first, assessed at 3 years
Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), Adverse events will be recorded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 along with date and attribution to study treatment., Up to 3 years|Incidence and severity of serious adverse events (SAEs), Graded by NCI CTCAE version 5.0., Up to 3 years|Overall survival, From randomization until death or last contact, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Eugonadal progression-free survival, Assessed as composite radiographic PFS (rPFS) and biochemical (prostate specific antigen \[PSA\]) PFS among patients with non-castrate level testosterone. Eugonadal is defined as non-castrate levels of testosterone (\> 50 ng/mL)., From randomization until progression, death, or last assessment without progression, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival, Defined as composite rPFS and biochemical (PSA) PFS in those with unfavorable histologic response versus favorable histologic response in men who received maximal androgen signaling ablation prior to definitive radiation. PFS will be calculated from histologic response assessment between Parts 1 and 2., From randomization until progression, death, or last assessment without progression, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of addition of adjuvant niraparib to maximal androgen signaling ablation (AAP + ADT) versus maximal androgen signaling ablation alone (Apa + ADT) following definitive radiation therapy (XRT) for biomarker-selected men with poor histopathologic response to neoadjuvant androgen signaling ablative therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of adjuvant niraparib with androgen ablation versus androgen ablation alone following definitive XRT in the study population.

II. Determine the impact of the addition of adjuvant niraparib to maximal androgen signaling ablation (AAP + ADT) versus maximal androgen signaling ablation alone (Apa + ADT) following definitive XRT for biomarker-selected men with good and poor histopathologic response to neoadjuvant androgen signaling ablative therapy on overall survival III. Determine the impact of the niraparib + AAP + ADT and Apa+ADT treatment on eugonadal (non-castrate levels of testosterone) progression free survival.

IV. Determine the impact of favorable versus unfavorable histologic response on progression-free survival (PFS) in men who received maximal androgen signaling ablation prior to definitive radiation.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVE:

I. Collect and archive solid and liquid tumor samples, as well as normal blood samples for germline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), immune, and metabolic profiles from all study patients for later hypothesis generating associations. Assess the relationship of histopathologic score with circulating markers and clinical outcomes of progression free survival for biomarker discovery.

OUTLINE:

PART 1 NEOADJUVANT PHASE (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive apalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, and physician's choice ADT. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART 2 RADIATION PHASE (CYCLES 4-6): Within 30 days of completing Part 1, patients undergo radiation therapy. Patients also receive apalutamide PO QD on days 1-28 and physician's choice ADT. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PART 3 ADJUVANT PHASE (CYCLES 7 AND BEYOND): Patients with favorable response after Part 2 continue Apa + ADT. Patients with unfavorable response after Part 2 are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP A: Patients receive apalutamide PO QD on days 1-28 and physician's choice ADT. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

GROUP B: Patients receive abiraterone acetate PO QD, prednisone PO twice daily (BID), physician's choice ADT, and niraparib PO QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 14 days, at 30-90 days, and then every 3 months for 3 years.