Immunostimulatory CpG SD-101 + RT in Recurrent/Progressive Lymphoma After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation (HCT)
For patients with lymphoma that recurs after chemotherapy, bone marrow transplantation using cells from a healthy donor represents potentially curative treatment. In these individuals, cure is possible because transplantation of healthy donor immune cells can fight the lymphoma in the patient. The goal of this work is to test a strategy that activates the healthy donor immune cells so that they more effectively fight lymphoma and can result in an increased cure rate for these patients. Our group has previously studied CpG, an immune activating medication, in patients with lymphoma and demonstrated modest anti-tumor responses. We now have a more potent form of CpG which we intend to test to see if it will better activate the donor immune cells and result in shrinkage of tumor throughout the entire body, not just at the injected site.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Hodgkin Disease
DRUG: SD-101|RADIATION: Local Radiation
Determination of the maximum tolerated dose based on dose limiting toxicity defined as any new grade 3-4 toxicity after the first SD-101 administration, 60 Days
Measure cytotoxic T-cell activity changes pre- and post-treatment of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and peripheral blood lymphocytes using ELISA and Immunohistochemistry., 2, 3, 8 weeks after treatment|Measure tumor response by PET-CT scan imaging, 8 weeks after treatment|Measure level of donor specific tumor infiltrating lymphocytes by flow cytometry and Immunofluorescence, Collect PBMCs, 2, 3, 8 weeks after treatment
Patients will receive low dose radiation to all bulky or symptomatic lymph nodes on days -2 and -1. SD-101 will be administered intratumorally to the single largest palpable node within 24 hours after completion of radiation, on day 0. Two additional intratumoral SD-101 injections will be performed on days 7 (+/- 2 days) and 14 (+/- 2 days). This is a dose ranging study using a 3+3 design with a definition of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) which our group has found acceptable in the past. The first cohort of patients will receive a SD-101 dose of 0.3 mg per injection. The dose will be escalated to 1 mg and 3 mg based on dose limiting toxicity (DLT).