Oncoquest-L Vaccine in Patients With Previously Untreated Stage III or IV, Asymptomatic, Non-bulky Follicular Lymphoma
This Phase II trial studies the overall tumor response of vaccine therapy in patientswith previously untreated Stage III or IV, asymptomatic, non-bulky follicular lymphoma. The vaccine contains an extract of the patient's own cancer cells and the immunostimulant protein, interleukin-2 (IL-2). It is hoped that when injected under the skin, the vaccine will enable the patient's immune system to recognize and destroy the cancer cells. The trial will also assess the safety of the vaccine, the time from vaccine treatment until the patient requires another type of anti-lymphoma treatment, progression-free survival, and the anti-tumor immune response.
Follicular Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Oncoquest-L vaccine
Overall tumor response rate, Tumor measurements will be performed at enrollment (baseline); then, tumor measurements and response assessments will occur 4 weeks after the 5th vaccination. Thereafter, tumor measurements and response assessments will occur every 3 months during the 1st year and then every 6 months during the 2nd year until relapse or disease progression, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years
Assessment of complete and partial tumor response rates, Tumor measurements will be performed at enrollment (baseline); then, tumor measurements and response assessments will occur 4 weeks after the 5th vaccination. Thereafter, tumor measurements and response assessments will occur every 3 months during the 1st year and then every 6 months during the 2nd year until relapse or disease progression, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Assessment of time until initiation of radiotherapy or systemic therapy, Up to 2 years|Safety evaluation will include frequency, severity, and relationship of adverse events to vaccination; vital signs (blood pressure, respiration, pulse, and temperature); and laboratory test results (including, hematology and clinical chemistry), Safety parameters (e.g., adverse events, vital signs, and laboratory test results) will be recorded from the time patient signs informed consent, at every clinic visit during study treatment, 4 weeks after the 5th vaccination, and thereafter every 3 months during the 1st year and then every 6 months during the 2nd year., From the time of informed consent up to 2 years|Tests to measure tumor-specific antibody production and T cell and B cell responses to vaccination, Antibody production will be reported as increased titers of antibodies, B cells will be expressed as % B cell populations, T cell responses will be expressed as increases of tumor-specific T cells and changes in expression and quantity of cytokines (proteins that indicate changes in the immune response). Blood samples will be collected within 8 weeks prior to the 1st vaccination (baseline); within 7 days prior to the 5th vaccination; and 4 weeks after the 5th vaccination., From 8 weeks prior to the 1st vaccination to Week 19 following the 1st vaccination.
This is a single-arm open-label pilot Phase II study. Following informed consent, eligible subjects will undergo excisional biopsy of a lymphoma-containing lymph node for diagnosis and for generation of the Oncoquest-L vaccine. Patients will receive subcutaneous injections consisting of their autologous tumor-derived Oncoquest-L vaccine starting at approximately 4 to 8 weeks after the biopsy. The first two doses will be given at a 2-week interval and the remaining 3 doses at monthly intervals. Patients will be monitored for response by performing imaging studies at baseline and 1 month after the fifth vaccination (Week 19). Additional imaging studies will be performed every 3 months for the first year and every 6 months during the second year until relapse or disease progression whichever occurs sooner.