A Vaccine (PDS0101) Alone or in Combination With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Locally Advanced Human Papillomavirus-Associated Oropharynx Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies how well PDS0101 alone or in combination with pembrolizumab works to shrink tumor in patients with human papillomavirus-associated oropharynx cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced). PDS0101 is a vaccine made from specific peptides that may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving PDS0101 with or without pembrolizumab may kill more tumor cells in patients with locally advanced human papillomavirus-associated oropharynx cancer before surgery so that it may make the tumor smaller and may reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Clinical Stage III HPV-Mediated (p16-Positive) Oropharyngeal Carcinoma AJCC v8|Human Papillomavirus-Related Carcinoma|Locally Advanced Oropharyngeal Carcinoma|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal (p16-Negative) Carcinoma AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Liposomal HPV-16 E6/E7 Multipeptide Vaccine PDS0101|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: FDG-Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Biopsy
Proportion of pathologic and human papillomavirus cell-free tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctHPVDNA) response, Will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety-five percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the exact binomial method for each arm separately., Up to 2 years
Progression-free survival (PFS), Patients who receive the study drug, but then never return for an evaluation will be censored on their last follow-up date. PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. PFS rates at 12 and 24 months will also be reported., From registration to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan Meier., From registration to death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Response rate, Will be estimated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 criteria. A tumor response is defined to be either a complete response or partial response noted up until surgery. All patients meeting the eligibility criteria who have signed a consent form and have begun treatment will be evaluable for response. Patients who go off study early before having a tumor assessment performed will be considered a failure., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), All patients that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for AE analyses. The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine AE patterns. AEs will be analyzed separately by arm., Up to 30 days after treatment discontinuation
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine pathologic and human papillomavirus cell-free tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctHPVDNA) response to liposomal HPV-16 E6/E7 multipeptide vaccine PDS0101 (PDS0101) or PDS0101 plus pembrolizumab in patients with high risk human papillomavirus-associated oropharynx cancer (HPV-OPSCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine tumor response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

II. To determine progression-free survival and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of PDS0101 delivered alone or with pembrolizumab.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the changes in tumor microenvironment (TME) with PDS0101 alone or with pembrolizumab.

II. Determine circulating ctHPVDNA as a biomarker for tumor response. III. Determine HPV16-specific T-cell response utilizing multiplex flow cytometry and other parameters.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive PDS0101 subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/CT and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may undergo a biopsy during screening and on the trial.

ARM B: Patients receive PDS0101 SC on day 1 and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT or FDG-PET/CT and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may undergo a biopsy during screening and on the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for up to 2 years.