Muscadine Grape Extract to Improve Fatigue
The purpose of this research is to see if muscadine grape extract improves fatigue in people age 70 and above who have a history of treated cancer and report the symptom of fatigue.
Fatigue
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Muscadine grape extract|DRUG: Placebo|OTHER: Quality of Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaires|OTHER: Participant Feedback
Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement System (PROMIS) Fatigue 7a Questionnaire, (PROMIS) Fatigue 7a will be used to assess fatigue. Using a mixed effects model with a constraint of a common baseline mean across treatment groups and an unstructured covariance matrix to model all fatigue measures over time, and use linear contrasts to estimate the difference in change and corresponding 90% confidence interval between the two groups. Item responses are rated on a five-point scale ranging from "never" to "always" and are summed for a total score and transformed to a T-score metric, which has a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10. Higher scores indicate more fatigue., At baseline and at 12 weeks
Pepper Assessment Tool for Disability (PAT-D) Questionnaire, Pepper Assessment Tool for Disability (PAT-D) will used to assess self-reported physical function. The (PAT-D) is a 19-item survey designed to assess domains of physical function in older adults which contains subscales on mobility, instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), and basic activities of daily living (ADLs). Participant responses will best describe their ability to perform certain activities of daily living (On a scale of 1 to 5; 1 = usually did with no difficulty to 5 = unable to do. Minimum score of 19, max score of 95. A lower score indicates less difficulty., At baseline and at 12 weeks|Short Form Minnesota Leisure Time Activity Questionnaire (MLTA), This questionnaire will assess self-reported physical activity with participants answering yes/no questions in regards to physical activities done in the past two weeks and the frequency of those activities. Score is interpreted by calculating the total energy expenditure based on the frequency and duration of reported leisure activities, with higher scores indicating a greater level of physical activity; generally, scores are categorized as low (inactive), moderate (moderately active), and high (highly active)., At baseline and at 12 weeks|Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), The Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) will be used to objectively assess lower extremity physical function. This validated measure comprises a short walk, repeated chair stands, and balance test. Each section is scored out of 4 points, so the highest total score for the SPPB is 12 points. Scores for all three tests will be combined. Lower scores on the SPPB have been associated with increased risk of disability, hospitalization and worse survival among older adults with and without cancer., At baseline and at 12 weeks|6-Minute Walk Test, A 6-minute walk will be measured to assess physical fitness. The 6-minute walk is easy to administer in a clinical setting, accurately assesses submaximal exercise capacity, is an independent predictor of mortality and is correlated with peak V02 testing. The number of laps and distance walked on the final lap will be recorded. The total distance the participant walked will be entered onto the online database (1 lap = 30 meters distance)., At baseline and at 12 weeks|Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (LASA) Sedentary Behavior Questionnaire, The questionnaire will be used to measure sedentary behavior for time spent during a 24 hour period for weekday and weekend various activities. The questionnaire consists of 10 items. The average time per 24 hours on each sedentary activity will be recorded in hours and/or minutes. Scores represent the self-reported average time an older adult spends engaged in sedentary activities (i.e., watching TV, reading, or sitting during a typical weekday and weekend day), with higher scores indicating a greater amount of time spent sedentary., At baseline and at 12 weeks|PROMIS Global Health Short Form (SF) - Quality of Life, The PROMIS Global Health Short Form (SF) is a 10-item questionnaire that will assess global quality of life including overall physical health, mental health, social health, pain, fatigue an overall perceived quality of life. Participants will respond to questions or statements with varied selections (excellent to poor; completely to not at all; never to always; and none to very severe). Scores above 50 are considered a better than average quality of life and scores below 50 are considered below average quality of life., At baseline and at 12 weeks|Adherence - Pill Count, Adherence will be measured by pill count at study completion., 12 weeks|Fried Frailty Index, Frailty indexes will be assessed for differences between the two arms. The Fried frailty index is a scoring system that classifies people into three stages of frailty based on five criteria: weight loss, exhaustion, low physical activity, and slowness. Frailty index scores can be calculated by dividing the sum of the recoded values of the variables by the number of variables measured for a person. Corresponding scores are: Score of 0, non-frail; score of 1-2 pre-frail; score of 3-5 frail., At baseline and at 12 weeks
Primary Objective: To evaluate whether administration of MGE supplementation decreases PROMIS Fatigue score from baseline to 12 weeks compared to placebo.

Secondary Objective(s)

* To evaluate whether administration of muscadine grape extract supplementation (4 tablets twice daily) causes changes in physical function (Pepper Assessment Tool for Disability \[PAT-D\], Short Physical Performance Battery), physical fitness (6-minute walk), physical activity (Minnesota Leisure Questionnaire), sedentary behavior (Sedentary Behavior Questionnaire) from baseline to 12 weeks compared to placebo.
* To compare changes in health related quality of life (PROMIS Global Health) at 12 weeks in participants randomized to muscadine grape extract group vs. placebo.
* To compare changes in the Fried frailty index at 12 weeks in participants randomized to muscadine grape extract vs. placebo.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive muscadine grape extract orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO BID for 12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 30 days after the last dose of the study drug.