Sintilimab in the Treatment of Advanced and Refractory Pediatric Malignant Tumors
This is a single center, single arm, open-label and phase I clinical study. The standard 3 + 3 group design was performed. Patients were enrolled by the design of phase I study standard. Sintilimab was divided into three dose levels: 1 mg / kg, 3 mg / kg, and 10 mg / kg. Dose escalation was carried out from the first level of sintilimab. The study is to evaluate the safety, including dose limited toxicity (DLT) in the treatment of advanced, recurrent, and refractory childhood cancer.
Pediatric Cancer
DRUG: Sintilimab
Maximum tolerable dose (MTD), Determine the appropriate dose of maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of sintilimab for further clinical study in this patient population, From date of enrollment until the end of 1 cycle of treatment, assessed up to 3 weeks
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Hematology and non-hematology toxicity (NCI CTCAE v5.0 ), From date of enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 1 year|Objective presponse rate (ORR), complete release and partial release, From the date of the treatment to the first evaluation (After 2 cycles of treatment assessed up to 6 weeks)
Malignant tumors are the second leading cause of death in China after accidental casualties, which is consistent with developed countries in Europe and America.

Sintilimab is a human monoclonal antibody against PD-1 receptor which was developed in China. It can block the binding of PD-1 of T-lymphocyte and PD-L1 on the surface of tumor cells, release the immunosuppression of tumor cells on immune cells, making immune cells play the role of anti-tumor cell immunity again and kill tumor cells. In the past, the development of immunocheckpoint drugs mainly focused on adult cancer. Immunocheckpoint inhibition has achieved many successes in the adult population, including metastatic melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer, Hodgkin's lymphoma, bladder cancer and head and neck cancer.

In the past, the development of immunocheckpoint drugs mainly focused on adult cancer. Immunocheckpoint inhibition has achieved many successes in adult population. However, some results of the clinical trials of immunocheckpoint inhibitors in children are also promising especially in Hodgkin's lymphoma.

The investigators aimed to determine the maximum tolerable dose and effectiveness in pediatric malignant tumors, so as to lay the foundation for the future phase II / III clinical research.