Substudy 02B: Safety and Efficacy of Pembrolizumab in Combination With Investigational Agents or Pembrolizumab Alone in Participants With First Line (1L) Advanced Melanoma (MK-3475-02B/KEYMAKER-U02)
Substudy 02B is part of a larger research study where researchers are looking for new ways to treat advanced melanoma that has not been treated before. The larger study is the umbrella study. Researchers want to know if adding other treatments to pembrolizumab can treat advanced melanoma. The goals of this study are to learn:

* About the safety and how well people tolerate pembrolizumab given with other treatments
* How many people have melanoma that responds (gets smaller or goes away) to treatment

Arm 1: Pembrolizumab + Vibostolimab was added in the base protocol on 13-Nov-2019, and enrollment into this arm has been completed. Arm 2: Pembrolizumab was added in the base protocol on 13-Nov-2019, and enrollment stopped prematurely on 15-Aug-2022. Arm 3: Coformulation Pembrolizumab/Quavonlimab was added in Amendment 01 on 20-Oct-2020, and enrollment stopped prematurely on 15-Aug-2022. Arm 4: Coformulation Pembrolizumab/Quavonlimab + Lenvatinib was added in Amendment 01 on 20-Oct-2020, and enrollment is ongoing. Arm 5: Coformulation Favezelimab/Pembrolizumab was added in Amendment 03 on 01-DEC-2022 and has paused enrollment, Arm 6: Coformulation Favezelimab/Pembrolizumab + All-trans Retinoic Acid (ATRA) was added in Amendment 03 on 01-DEC-2022 and has paused enrollment, and Arm 7: Coformulation Favezelimab/Pembrolizumab + Vibostolimab was added in Amendment 03 on 01-DEC-2022 and enrollment was stopped prematurely on 22-SEP-2023.
Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Vibostolimab|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab/Quavonlimab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|BIOLOGICAL: Favezelimab/Pembrolizumab|DRUG: ATRA
Percentage of participants who experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT): Safety lead-in phase, The percentage of participants who experience 1 or more protocol-defined DLTs during the safety lead-in period will be reported., Up to ~3 weeks|Percentage of participants who experience an adverse event (AE): Safety lead-in, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who experience an AE during the safety lead-in period will be reported., Up to ~3 weeks|Percentage of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE: Safety lead-in, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE during the safety lead-in will be reported., Up to ~3 weeks|Percentage of participants who experience an adverse event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who experience an AE will be reported., Up to ~28 months|Percentage of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The percentage of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to ~24 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters). Responses are according to RECIST 1.1 as assessed by blinded independent central review (BICR). RECIST 1.1 has been modified for this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to ~30 months
Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1, For participants in the analysis population who demonstrate a confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or confirmed PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters), DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Responses are according to RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. RECIST 1.1 has been modified for this study to include a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to ~30 months
With Amendment 5, participants receiving vibostolimab (Arm 1 and Arm 7) will discontinue treatment with vibostolimab and will be transitioned within their arm to pembrolizumab monotherapy. Participants receiving favezelimab (Arm 5, Arm 6, and Arm 7) may continue on study therapy until the end of study or may transition within their arm to pembrolizumab monotherapy. Participants with access to approved standard of care (SOC, pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy) should be considered for discontinuation from the study. Those benefiting from pembrolizumab with chemotherapy, but unable to access it as SOC outside the study, may continue on study and receive treatment with pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy until discontinuation criteria are met.