Confocal Laser Endomicroscopy as an Imaging Biomarker for the Diagnosis of Pancreatic Cystic Lesions
The study schema is shown in Figure 4. (A) All patients referred to one of the participating academic centers for EUS evaluation of the PCL will be enrolled in the protocol if they satisfy inclusion criteria. Patient consent will be obtained during the clinic visit or prior to their EUS. EUS-guided nCLE imaging is first performed (B) followed by EUS-guided FNA and aspiration of cyst fluid. The cyst fluid is analyzed for CEA and cytology. As per institutional standard of care, the cyst fluid is also sent for molecular analysis. The results of the cyst fluid molecular analysis (B) will be utilized for the most likely diagnosis. Based on institutional multidisciplinary tumor board meetings, surgery is performed as indicated (C). Surgical histopathology serves as "gold standard" for diagnosis. It is anticipated that the majority of patients will undergo surgical resection after their EUS.
Pancreatic Cyst
Accuracy of PCL diagnosis, Diagnostic accuracy of confocal laser endomicroscopy and/or cyst fluid molecular markers and/or composite clinical and imaging features for the diagnosis of mucinous PCLs, PCLs with malignant potential, specific PCL types, and mucinous PCLs with advanced neoplasia., 48 months|Accuracy of risk-stratification of IPMNs, Diagnostic accuracy of confocal laser endomicroscopy and/or composite clinical and imaging features for the risk stratification of IPMNs, 48 months
Imaging quality, Optimal quality of imaging obtained during in vivo confocal laser endomicroscopy of pancreatic cystic lesions, 48 months
The study schema is shown in Figure 4. (A) All patients referred to one of the participating academic centers for EUS evaluation of the PCL will be enrolled in the protocol if they satisfy inclusion criteria. Patient consent will be obtained during the clinic visit or prior to their EUS. EUS-guided nCLE imaging is first performed (B) followed by EUS-guided FNA and aspiration of cyst fluid. The cyst fluid is analyzed for CEA and cytology. As per institutional standard of care, the cyst fluid is also sent for molecular analysis. The results of the cyst fluid molecular analysis (B) will be utilized for the most likely diagnosis. Based on institutional multidisciplinary tumor board meetings, surgery is performed as indicated (C). Surgical histopathology serves as "gold standard" for diagnosis. It is anticipated that the majority of patients will undergo surgical resection after their EUS.