Diindolylmethane in Treating Patients With Stage I or Stage II Prostate Cancer Undergoing Radical Prostatectomy
RATIONALE: The use of diindolylmethane, a substance found in cruciferous vegetables, may slow the growth of tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well diindolylmethane works in treating patients with stage I or stage II prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: B-Dim|PROCEDURE: Radical Prosatectomy
Mean Level of Diindolylmethane in Prostate Tissue After Treatment, Within the first 24 months after radical prostatectomy.
Serum Levels of PSA, Testosterone, and Diindolylmethane, Serum levels of PSA, testosterone, and diindolylmethane (DIM), Pre and post radical prostatectomy|Levels of Androgen Receptor in Prostate Tissue, Levels of androgen receptor in prostate tissue as measured by AR score (intensity x % cells stained), higher scores indicate higher levels of androgen receptor in prostate tissue., Pre and post radical prostatectomy
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To measure the level of diindolylmethane in prostate tissue after treatment with oral microencapsulated diindolylmethane (B-DIM) in patients with stage I or II adenocarcinoma of the prostate undergoing radical prostatectomy.

Secondary

* To measure serum biomarkers (e.g., total PSA, serum testosterone, and diindolylmethane levels) pre- and post-treatment with B-DIM.
* To measure tissue biomarkers (e.g., androgen receptor, NF-κB, and PSA) pre- and post-treatment with B-DIM.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral microencapsulated diindolylmethane (B-DIM) twice daily for 14-72 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo radical prostatectomy 1 day after the last dose of B-DIM.

Patients undergo blood and tissue sample collection for correlative laboratory studies. Blood samples are analyzed for serum PSA, testosterone, and diindolylmethane levels by high performance liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Tissue samples are analyzed for diindolylmethane concentration by LC-MS/MS and for androgen receptor, activated NF-κB (p65 antibody), and PSA expression by IHC.