Single Fraction Preoperative Radiotherapy for Early Stage Breast Cancer
This is a phase I/II, single-arm and open-label single-centre clinical trial with the aim to test the feasibility, safety and the efficacy, in terms of complete pathological response, of preoperative ablative radiotherapy in single fraction for selected breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: Phase I|RADIATION: Phase II
Phase I: Identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Dose escalation is designed as a 3+3 rule-based study. Acute skin/soft tissue toxicity, measured according to NCI CTCAE v. 4.03. Any Grade 3-4 toxicity related to radioablation is considered dose limiting (DLT)., time frame:2 weeks|Phase II: Evaluate efficacy measured in terms of pCR rate, Rate of pCR after radioablative treatment, according to Modified Residual Cancer Burden (RCB) index, time frame:8 weeks
Incidence of chronic toxicity, Chronic skin/soft tissue, bone, lung and heart toxicities incidence measured according to NCI CTCAE v. 4.03, time frame: 6 months - 3 years|Cosmetic outcomes, Measured according to the 4 points scale (poor, fair, good, excellent), time frame: 1 - 3 years|Post surgery complications, Reporting of any post surgery complication (rate of infection, seroma, hematoma, necrosis, delayed wound healing), time frame: within 30 days of surgery|Disease free survival, establish the rate of disease free survival, time frame: 1- 3 years|Local relapse, establish the rate of local relapse, time frame: 1 - 3 years|Overall survival, establish the rate of overall survival, time frame: 3 years|Breast cancer specific survival, establish the rate of breast cancer specific survival, time frame: 3 years
The research plan is conceived in two sections, as follows. (i)The technical study handles the set-up, motion and dosimetric issues of the radioablation technique using CyberKnife system.

(ii)The clinical section is organized in two studies: a phase I dose escalation study to identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) delivering 18 Gy, 21 Gy and 24 Gy in single fraction and a phase II study to evaluate the rate of pathological complete response (pCR) when a dose level is chosen according to the results of the previous phase I study.

Study population includes patients affected by cT1-T2 (up to 2.5 cm) cN0, adenocarcinoma of the breast, diagnosed with conventional workup. Surgical tumor removal will be scheduled after 4-8 weeks after radioablation. Whole breast radiation therapy without boost will be performed after surgery.