Widespread vs. Selective Screening for Hepatitis B Infection Prior to Chemotherapy
This trial studies hepatitis B screening strategies of new cancer patients scheduled to undergo chemotherapy. Patients with cancer and hepatitis B virus infection are at risk of reactivation of infection after chemotherapy. Hepatitis B virus infection reactivation can be prevented by starting antivirals before chemotherapy in patients who are hepatitis B virus infection positive. Hepatitis B screening may help doctors prevent the reactivation of hepatitis B virus infection after chemotherapy.
Cancer|Hepatitis B|HBV|Hepatitis B Infection|Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Hepatitis B Screening|OTHER: Survey Administration
Rate of a positive result (hepatitis B surface antigen [HBsAg], hepatitis B core antibody [anti-HBc], and hepatitis B surface antibody [anti-HBs]) before first chemotherapy, Number of screened participants (new cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy) with positive hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection compared to total screened. Prospective, universal screening of eligible MD Anderson cancer patients not known to have HBV infection using three HBV screening tests (HBsAg, anti-HBc, and anti-HBs) prior to chemotherapy., Baseline blood tests, approximately 30 minutes for blood draw
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To derive a selective screening strategy that optimizes the identification of positive hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection cases in comparison to widespread screening of new cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the prevalence of risk factors among patients with unknown HBV infection status as well as among patients known to have HBV infection, determine the incidence of reactivation of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, rates of disruptions in cancer therapy, co-infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), and mortality rates.

OUTLINE:

Patients with unknown HBV infection status undergo 3 HBV screening tests (hepatitis B surface antigen \[HBsAg\], hepatitis B core antibody \[anti-HBc\], and hepatitis B surface antibody \[anti-HBs\]) before chemotherapy. Patients with known HBV infection status undergo either HBsAg or anti-HBc screening tests if there is no evidence of HBV testing in the last 3 months. All patients complete HBV risk assessment survey.

After completion of study, patients with HBV infection are followed up every 3 months for at least 12 months after completion of chemotherapy or end of study period.