Comparison of Delta-8-THC to Ondansetron in the Prevention of Acute Nausea From Moderately Emetogenic Chemotherapy
Patients will be treated for 2 consecutive chemo cycles with the study drug for one and placebo for the other. In addition, patients will receive an injection before the chemo, either ondansetron (if receiving placebo inhalation) or normal saline) if receiving active study drug. They will take study medication for 3 days, 4 times daily and fill out VAS scores before and after doses. Patients will be given rescue medication with each dose.
Cancer
DRUG: inhaled delta-8-THC 300mcg or 600mcg per dose
VAS scale for nausea, subjective measurement of feeling of nausea. Patients to indicate on a horizontal line, how much nausea the patient feels, lower score = less nausea, higher score is more severe. Measurement is made on the line from "none" to "severe" for score., Up to 4 days after the patient receives chemotherapy. Measurements taken just before and 2 hours after inhalation morning and evening doses.
No. of emesis, number of times patient vomits recorded daily after receiving cancer chemotherapy, up to the 4 days after patient receives chemotherapy|VAS scale for delayed nausea, Subjective measurement of feeling of nausea. Patients to indicate on a horizontal line, lower score = less nausea, higher score is more severe. Measurement is made on the line from "none" to "severe" for score., Up to the 4 days after patient receives chemotherapy. Measurements taken just before and 2 hours after taking inhalation morning and evening doses. Delayed nausea is nausea that occurs 24 hours or more after receiving cancer chemotherapy.|VAS scale for pain, subjective measurement of feeling of pain at the moment Patients to indicate on a horizontal line, lower score = less pain, higher score is more severe pain. Measurement is made on the line from "none" to "severe" for score., Up to the 4 days after the patient takes the study medication after receiving chemotherapy. Measurements taken just before and 2 hours after inhalation morning and evening doses|VAS scale for appetite stimulation, Patients to indicate on a horizontal line, lower score = less appetite, higher score is more appetite. Measurement is made on the line from "not at all" to "very hungry" for score., Up to 4 days after patient receives chemotherapy. Measurements are taken just before and 2 hours after taking inhalation morning and evening doses|VAS scale for dizziness, subjective measurement of feeling dizzy Patients to indicate on a horizontal line, lower score = less nausea, higher score is more severe. Measurement is made on the line from "none" to "severe" for score., before and 2 hours after taking inhalation, morning and evening doses.
The study is comparing the use of inhaled delata-8-THC in the prevention of nausea and vomitting in patients being treated with moderately emetogenic chemotherapy, and the patients will continue use for 3 days afterward. Patients will be given rescue medication and will fill out VAS scales for nausea, pain, appetite and dizziness. Patients will be treated for 2 cycles, one cycle receiving active drug (one of 2 doses) and the other placebo. Patients receiving placebo will receive ondansetron injection before chemo and patients receiving active drug will receive a normal saline injection. Patients will take the drug 4 times daily for 3 days. The patients will return to clinic for a visit after 24-48 hours and 4 days. Patients will bring a urine sample to measure metabolite. Patients will be given a diary to monitor dosing and side effects as well as concomitant medication. The study will be conducted in 2 - 3 centers. There will be 108 patients enrolled with 27 in each of 4 groups:

Group 1 cycle 1 - Placebo cycle 2 - 300 mcg of delta-8-THC per dose Group 2 cycle 1 - Placebo cycle 2 - 600 mcg of delta-8-THC per dose Group 3 cycle 1 - 300 mcg of delta-8-THC per doseGroup cycle 2 - Placebo Group 4 cycle 1 - 600 mcg of delta-8-THC per dose cycle 2 - placebo