An Investigational Device (Millar Mikro-Tip Catheter) and Imaging Scan (Shear Wave Elastography) in Measuring Tumor Pressure and Stiffness in Patients With Solid Tumors Undergoing Ultrasound-Guided Biopsy
This trial studies how well a Millar Mikro-tip catheter and shear wave elastography measure pressure and stiffness inside tumors among patients with solid tumors undergoing an ultrasound-guided biopsy. A Millar Mikro-tip catheter measures the pressure inside the tumor. Shear wave elastography is similar to an ultrasound and uses sound waves to vibrate the tissue in order to study tissue stiffness. These measurements may help doctors learn if pressure and stiffness are related to intratumoral fibrosis (the thickening and scarring of connective tissue).
Solid Neoplasm
DEVICE: Shear Wave Elastography|PROCEDURE: Tumor Interstitial Fluid Pressure Measurement
The change in Tumor pressure, Measured by Millar Microcath (Millar Mikro-Tip Pressure Catheter). Tumor pressure and its change will be summarized using mean, standard deviation, and range by time point., Up to 30 days|The change in Tumor stiffness, Measured by General Electric LOGIQ Shear Wave Elastography. Tumor stiffness and its change will be summarized using mean, standard deviation, and range by time point., Up to 30 days
Tumor pressure, As a secondary endpoint, the relationship of tumor pressure with tumor fibrosis will be assessed for each patient. An ordinary least squares regression will be fit to the data to investigate the potential relationship between tumor stiffness, pressure, and fibrosis., Up to 30 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the feasibility of measuring tumor intratumoral pressures in vivo using a commercially available, sterile, single use, cardiovascular catheter device.

II. To determine the feasibility of measuring tumor intratumoral stiffness in vivo using a commercially available shear wave elastography with ultrasound.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the relationship of tumor pressure, stiffness, and fibrosis.

OUTLINE:

Patients scheduled for an ultrasound-guided tumor biopsy undergo stiffness assessment of the tumor with shear wave elastography over 2 minutes and pressure measurements of the tumor using a Millar Mikro-tip catheter before and after the biopsy is collected.

After completion of the study, patients are followed up at 24-48 hours and at 30 days.