Efficacy of Preoperative Intravenous Iron in Anaemic Colorectal Cancer Surgical Patients
Iron deficiency anaemia is a common condition among colorectal surgical patient. Untreated anaemia would lead to increase in blood transfusion, surgical complications and mortality. Treatment with oral iron sulphate is poorly tolerated due to side effects. Intravenous iron supplement provides an alternative way to rapidly replace iron deficit during the preoperative period among surgical patients. Evidence is growing for its effect in rising hemoglobin level and reducing blood transfusion, at the same time supporting its safety profile.

The investigators plan for a single-centered, randomized controlled trial to examine the effect of intravenous iron compared to standard care in terms of hemoglobin level/serum ferritin increment, need for blood transfusion, duration of hospital stay, quality of recovery and surgical complication rate, as well as safety profile among colorectal cancer surgical patients in Hong Kong. The investigator propose the following pilot RCT for exploring the effect size and study process in conducting the above-mentioned large-scale RCT.
Anemia, Iron-Deficiency|Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: iron isomaltoside(Monofer®)
Preoperative change in hemoglobin concentration (g/dL), the difference between the value at diagnosis(baseline) and preoperative day (3-10weeks after diagnosis)., 3 weeks to 10 weeks|Preoperative change in serum ferritin (mcg/L), the difference between the value at diagnosis(baseline) and preoperative day (3-10weeks after diagnosis)., 3 weeks to 10 weeks
Units of red blood cells transfused in perioperative period, Units of red blood cells transfused from diagnosis to discharge, 3 weeks to 12 weeks|Duration of hospital stay (days), 1 days up to 1 month|Quality of recovery as measured by questionnaire (QoR-15(Chinese)), post op day 3|Incidence of adverse reactions/serious adverse events to intravenous iron administration and adverse reaction to blood transfusions, up to post op day 30|Rate of surgical complications, recorded and graded according to Clavien Classification of Surgical Complications, up to post op day 30|Days (alive and) at home within 30 days of surgery (DAH30), up to post op day 30
Patient recruitment rate(%), number of recruited patients divided by number of eligible patients x 100%, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of patients recruited per month, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Median waiting time to surgery (days), through study completion, an average of 1 year
Iron deficiency anaemia is a common condition among colorectal surgical patient. Untreated anaemia would lead to increase in blood transfusion, surgical complications and mortality. Treatment with oral iron sulphate is poorly tolerated due to side effects. Intravenous iron supplement provides an alternative way to rapidly replace iron deficit during the preoperative period among surgical patients. Evidence is growing for its effect in rising hemoglobin level and reducing blood transfusion, at the same time supporting its safety profile.

The investigators plan for a single-centered, randomized controlled trial to examine the effect of intravenous iron compared to standard care in terms of hemoglobin level/serum ferritin increment, need for blood transfusion, duration of hospital stay, quality of recovery and surgical complication rate, as well as safety profile among colorectal cancer surgical patients in Hong Kong. The investigator propose the following pilot RCT for exploring the effect size and study process in conducting the above-mentioned large-scale RCT.