Clinical Data Collection in Studying Clinical Factors Associated With Post-Surgery Chronic Opioid Use in Patients With Head and Neck Cancers
This trial studies the risk of developing disorders associated with chronic opioid use post-surgery in patients with head and neck cancers. Clinical data collection may help doctors to learn how often and how likely disorders associated with the use of opioid pain medication may occur in patients with head and neck cancer who are having surgery as part of their treatment plan.
Head and Neck Carcinoma
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Rate of chronic opioid use, Rate of chronic opioid use will be measured by the association of chronic opioid use with that of the risk of opioid misuse Screener and Opioid Assessment for Patients tool (SOAPP-14), At 90 days after surgery|Severity of symptom burden, Will be measured by MDASI., At 90 days after surgery|Association of chronic opioid use, Association of chronic opioid use with that of the CAGE-AID scores, At 90 days after surgery
Risk of opioid use assessed, Screener and Opioid Assessment for Patients with Pain\[SOAPP-14\] Score of greater than or equal 7 is considered as risk factor for opioid misuse., Up to 90 days after surgery|Frequency of positive risk of opioid use disorder, Will be assessed by Screener and Opioid Assessment for Patients with Pain\[SOAPP-14., Up to 90 days post surgery|Frequency of aberrant opioid use behaviors, Correlation between categorical variables will be evaluated using Chisquare test or Fisher's exact test., Up to 90 days post surgery|Frequency of post-operative complications, Correlation between categorical variables will be evaluated using Chisquare test or Fisher's exact test, Up to 90 days post surgery|Risk of opioid use will be assessed by CAGE-AID, CAGE-AID: Score of greater than or equal 2 is considered as risk factor for opioid misuse, Up to 90 days post surgery|Frequency of positive risk of opioid use disorder, Will be assessed by CAGE-adapted to include drugs (AID)., Up to 90 days post surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess prevalence of chronic opioid use and severity of symptom burden (M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory-Head and Neck \[MDASI-HN\]) in patients undergoing surgery of head/neck cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the extent of association of chronic opioid use with risk of opioid use disorder (as assessed by Screener and Opioid Assessment for Patients with Pain\[SOAPP-14\] and Cut down, Annoyed, Guilty and Eye Opener \[CAGE\] scores) and psychosocial factors (as assessed by MDASI).

II. To assess frequency of positive risk of opioid use disorder as assessed by Screener and Opioid Assessment for Patients tool (SOAPP-14) and CAGE-adapted to include drugs (AID).

III. Assess frequency of aberrant opioid use behaviors. IV. Assess frequency of post-operative complications.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete questionnaires and quality of life assessments over 10-15 minutes at pre-surgery, after-surgery, at discharge, within 2-3 weeks after surgery, and within 90 days after surgery.