Combination Chemotherapy Plus Oblimersen in Treating Patients With Previously Untreated Extensive-Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Oblimersen may make tumor cells more sensitive to chemotherapy drugs. Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy and oblimersen in treating patients who have extensive-stage small cell lung cancer
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: oblimersen sodium|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: etoposide|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Feasibility and toxicity of the regimen monitored using the Common Toxicity Criteria Version 2.0, Data will be summarized separately for each dose level, by severity, and type of toxicity., Up to 3 years|Maximally tolerated dose of oblimersen sodium, 8 days
Potential antitumor activity (responses to therapy), Will be analyzed using simple descriptive statistics only., Up to 3 years|Whether concomitant carboplatin and etoposide administration alters oblimersen sodium steady state level, Will be analyzed using a paired t-test. If there are outliers or the distribution of changes in oblimersen sodium levels appears to be highly non-normal, the data will be analyzed using the Wilcoxon singed-rank test., Day 6 and 8
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of oblimersen when combined with standard dose carboplatin and etoposide in patients with previously untreated extensive stage small cell lung cancer.

II. Determine the toxicity and feasibility of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine potential antitumor activity of this regimen as assessed by objective response in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of oblimersen (G3139).

Patients receive G3139 IV continuously on days 1-8, carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 6, and etoposide IV over 1 hour on days 6-8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of G3139 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 6-12 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 months.