Testing the Addition of An Anti-cancer Drug, M3814 (Peposertib), to the Usual Radiation-Based Treatment (Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate) for Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors
This phase Ib trial is to find out the best dose, possible benefits and/or side effects of peposertib when given together with lutetium Lu 177 dotatate in treating patients with neuroendocrine tumors. Peposertib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell formation, so as to help block the formation of growths that may become cancer. Radioactive drugs, such as lutetium Lu 177 dotatate, may deliver radiation directly to tumor cells and not harm normal cells. Adding peposertib to lutetium Lu 177 dotatate may kill more tumor cells.
Neuroendocrine Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Peposertib
Recommended phase 2 dose, Up to 8 weeks|Dose limiting toxicity, Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. The maximum grade of toxicity for each adverse event category of interest will be recorded for each patient and the summary results will be tabulated by category and grade. Will describe all serious (\>= grade 3) toxicity events on a patient-by-patient basis. Frequency and incidence tables of toxicity and adverse events will be generated in the overall patient group and by dose level depending on patient enrollment., Up to 24 months post-treatment
Overall response rate, Will be estimated along with 95% exact binomial confidence interval., Up to 24 months post-treatment|Progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier curve and median estimates and confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 24 months post-treatment|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier curve and median estimates and confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 24 months post-treatment
Radiographic expression of somatostatin receptors, Will be summarized using descriptive statistics and changes from baseline versus follow-up time points will be assessed using paired test methodologies., Baseline up to 24 months post-treatment|Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis, PK parameters will be estimated from patients enrolled in the dose escalation portion of the phase 1 trial. PK parameters will be compared with historical controls, and exploratorily, may correlate exposure to toxicity, and incorporate data into a population PK model., Baseline, cycle 1 days 2, 4, 9, 15, and 22|Krenning score from the gallium 68 or copper 64 dotatate, Will be summarized by calculating the proportion of patients in each Krenning score category and exploratory assessments for association with clinical response will be performed using Fisher's exact test. Median, interquartile range will be calculated for quantitative image measurements from gallium 68 or copper 64 dotatate and exploratory comparison of levels with clinical response will be performed using two sample t-test or nonparametric analogs., Up to 24 months post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate in combination with M3814 (peposertib).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 at 4, 8, and 12 months post-therapy.

III. To measure duration of response (DOR) associated with the combination. IV. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS).

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Measure the somatostatin receptor uptake on gallium 68 dotatate or Copper 64 dotatate at baseline.

II. Perform lutetium Lu 177 dotatate dosimetry. III. Determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of M3814 (peposertib). IV. Describe the tumor molecular profile using whole exome sequencing (WES) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq) and correlate it with treatment outcome.

V. Collect plasma for circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (ctDNA) assessment.

VI. Collect blood for biobanking and future correlative studies. VII. Measure association of overall response rate with gallium 68 dotatate-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or Copper 64 dotatate measurements and Krenning score.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of peposertib followed by a dose-expansion study.

Patients receive peposertib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 and lutetium Lu 177 dotatate intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 56 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the trial and undergo collection of blood samples on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4 months for 24 months.