Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, and Radiation Therapy in Patients With Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well combination chemotherapy, gemcitabine hydrochloride, and radiation therapy before surgery works in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that has not spread to other places in the body and can be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, irinotecan hydrochloride, oxaliplatin, and gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride, and gemcitabine hydrochloride may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving combination chemotherapy and gemcitabine hydrochloride with radiation therapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Irinotecan Hydrochloride|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Percentage of Participants Achieving R0 Resection (R0 Resection Rate), The percentage of participants achieving R0 resection, defined as the absence of gross and microscopic tumor involvement in the resection margins, will be determined for those participants who receive at least one cycle of FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy. A 90% confidence interval will be determined., Up to 30 months
Adverse Events Related to Surgery, Adverse events related to surgical resection will be documented and evaluated using the Clavien-Dindo classification scale. The Clavien-Dindo Classification is used to rank the severity of a surgical complication with higher Grades indicative of more intense interventional therapy needed to correct the complication. Scale grades range from Grade I to Grade V. Grade I complications are usually mild and consist of any deviation from the normal postoperative course without the need for pharmacological treatment or surgical, endoscopic and radiological intervention. Grade II complications require pharmacological treatment with drugs other than such allowed for Grade I. Grade III complications require surgical, endoscopic, or radiological intervention, Grade IV are indicative of life-threatening complications requiring ICU management and Grade V signify death of patient., Up to 30 months|Toxicities Associated With Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy, The number of patients who experienced treatment related adverse events will be determined for all patients who received at least one cycle of FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy. These events will be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 30 months|Overall Survival (OS), Median Overall Survival defined as the the duration of time from diagnosis to the time of death from any cause will be determined., Up to 60 months|Overall Response Rate, Overall Response Rate, defined as the percentage of patients that achieved Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) as per the Response evaluation in solid tumors criteria, was assessed using RECIST Version 1.1 criteria. Complete Response (CR) is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial Response (PR) is defined as having at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Higher percentages of PR and CR are associated with more favorable outcomes, Up to 30 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free Survival defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of disease progression will be analyzed. Median progression free survival will be presented., From start of treatment to time of progression, assessed up to 60 months|Percentage of Patients Able to Undergo Resection, The percentage of participants with resectable or borderline resectable disease to undergo resection will be determined. The ability for patients to complete preoperative therapy and undergo resection is correlated with more favorable overall survival outcomes., Up to 30 months|Vascular Reconstruction, The percentage of patients who underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy requiring vascular reconstruction will be evaluated., Up to 30 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy, measured as the proportion of R0 resections, of fluorouracil-leucovorin calcium-irinotecan hydrochloride-oxaliplatin (FOLFIRINOX) chemotherapy regimen followed by gemcitabine based chemoradiotherapy when used as preoperative therapy in patients with borderline resectable adenocarcinoma of the pancreas.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To measure the overall response rate (ORR). II. To evaluate overall survival (OS). III. To evaluate progression free survival (PFS). IV. To evaluate safety and toxicity associated with chemotherapy and radiotherapy.

V. To assess adverse events related to surgery. VI. To assess the proportion of patients able to undergo resection. VII. To assess proportion of patients requiring vascular reconstruction.

OUTLINE:

CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN: Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours, and irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on day 1, and fluorouracil IV over 46 hours on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients not achieving disease progression proceed to chemoradiotherapy.

CHEMORADIOTHERAPY REGIMEN: Beginning 4-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients undergo intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) on 5 consecutive days per week for a total of 28 fractions and receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 30 months.