Plasma ctDNA Detection in Diagnosis of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer.
Epithelial ovarian cancer constitutes one of the most common gynecological malignancies.Because the ovaries lie in the deep pelvic cavity,most ovarian cancer patients are asymptomatic, rendering the majority often diagnosed at an advanced stage.ctDNA in cancer patients often bears similar genetic and epigenetic features to the related tumor DNA.This study aims to detect plasma ctDNA in Diagnosis of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: methylation markers screening
Pathological diagnosis of ovarian lumps, Pathological diagnosis of ovarian lumps，including immunohistochemical information and HE staining information., One week after surgery
sensitivity (true positive rate), The proportion of persons with disease who have a positive test (positive test results among persons with disease), 2 year|Specificity (true negative rate), The proportion of persons without disease who have a negative test (negative test results among persons without disease), 2 year
Epithelial ovarian cancer constitutes one of the most common gynecological malignancies, with an incidence rate of 3-12/100 000 woman per year. Because the ovaries lie in the deep pelvic cavity,most ovarian cancer patients are asymptomatic, rendering the majority often diagnosed at an advanced stage. Liquid biopsy, which is meant to detect cancers by sequencing the DNA in a few drops of a person's blood. It may detect cancers early, even before symptoms arise, when there is just a few cells in the blood circulation.

ctDNA in cancer patients often bears similar genetic and epigenetic features to the related tumor DNA. There is evidence that some of the ctDNA originates from tumor tissue. This, and the fact that ctDNA can easily be isolated from the circulation and other body fluids of patients, makes it a promising candidate as a non-invasive biomarker of cancer.

This study aims to detect plasma ctDNA in Diagnosis of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer.