Sutent Rechallenge In mRCC Patients
Retrospective and prospective study in mRCC patients treated with sutent in first line and rechallenged by Sutent in 3rd and 4th line.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: sunitinib: observational study
Progression Free Survival With Sunitinib as First Line of Therapy, The PFS was defined as the time interval between the start date of treatment and the date of progression as assessed by the investigator or date of death occurring after treatment initiation, whichever occurred first. Duration of progression free survival= \[(Date of mRCC progression - Start date of the treatment) + 1)\]/ 365.25 x 12. Progression was defined as an increase in visible disease., From start of treatment up to 66.6 months|Progression Free Survival for Re-challenge With Sunitinib, The PFS was defined as the time interval between the start date of treatment and the date of progression as assessed by the investigator or date of death occurring after treatment initiation, whichever occurred first. Duration of progression free survival= \[(Date of mRCC progression - Start date of the treatment) + 1)\]/ 365.25 x 12. Progression was defined as an increase in visible disease., From start of treatment up to 52.2 months|Progression Free Survival: Second Line of Treatment, The PFS was defined as the time interval between the start date of treatment and the date of progression as assessed by the investigator or date of death occurring after treatment initiation, whichever occurred first. Duration of progression free survival= \[(Date of mRCC progression - Start date of the treatment) + 1)\]/ 365.25 x 12. Progression was defined as an increase in visible disease. Second-line treatment were divided in two groups: Group A (received treatment with: bevacizumab (with interferon), bevacizumab (without interferon), sorafenib, axitinib) and Group B (received treatment with: temsirolimus, everolimus)., From start of treatment up to 22.9 months|Progression Free Survival: Third Line Treatment, The PFS was defined as the time interval between the start date of treatment and the date of progression as assessed by the investigator or date of death occurring after treatment initiation, whichever occurred first. Duration of progression free survival= \[(Date of mRCC progression - Start date of the treatment) + 1)\]/ 365.25 x 12. Progression was defined as an increase in visible disease. Third-line treatment were divided in two groups: Group A (received treatment with: bevacizumab (with interferon), bevacizumab (without interferon), sorafenib, axitinib) and Group B (received treatment with: temsirolimus, everolimus)., From start of treatment up to 23.7 months
Overall Survival, Overall survival of patients under treatment was evaluated by calculating the time between date of initiation of treatment (1st line) and date of death, if the latter occurred before the end of the study. Duration of Overall Survival =(Date of death - Start date of treatment) + 1)/365.25 x 12., Baseline up to death or end of study (up to 98.0 months)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Percentage of participants with objective response based assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST). CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis \<10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as \>=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions. Percentage of participants with objective response was calculated for the 1st-line of therapy with Sunitinib, Sunitinib re-challenge and for retreatment with Sunitinib as 3rd-line of therapy or more., Baseline up to 98.0 months
Number of Participant With Adverse Events (AEs) or Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. AEs include both serious as well as non-serious AEs. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly., Baseline up to 24 months
A sample size of n = 40 patients will allow to estimate of the median PFS with a precision around 1.8 months (based on data from Rini et al.) This retrospective and prospective study is designed to estimate the effect of Sutent rechallenge.

The PFS (estimated from Kaplan-Meier estimate) will be the primary endpoints. In addition, the effects of sunitinib at the 2 periods of treatment (i.e. first line sunitinib vs. rechallenge) will be compared by Wilcoxon signed-rank test for PFS values and by McNemar test for overall response rate (ORR).