Lorvotuzumab Mertansine in Treating Younger Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Wilms Tumor, Rhabdomyosarcoma, Neuroblastoma, Pleuropulmonary Blastoma, Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor, or Synovial Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well lorvotuzumab mertansine works in treating younger patients with Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, pleuropulmonary blastoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST), or synovial sarcoma that has returned or that does not respond to treatment. Antibody-drug conjugates, such as lorvotuzumab mertansine, are created by attaching an antibody (protein used by the body?s immune system to fight foreign or diseased cells) to an anti-cancer drug. The antibody is used to recognize tumor cells so the anti-cancer drug can kill them.
Pleuropulmonary Blastoma|Recurrent Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Synovial Sarcoma|Wilms Tumor
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Lorvotuzumab Mertansine|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Objective Response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, The best response of disease will be examined separately in each stratum. A responder is defined as a patient who achieves a best response of partial response or complete response on the study. Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders, and Clopper-Pearson confidence intervals will be constructed., Up to 18 weeks (6 courses)|Incidence of Toxicities of Lorvotuzumab Mertansine, Using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, Toxicity tables will be constructed to summarize the observed incidence by type of toxicity and grade for toxicities with Possible, Probable, or Definite attribution to the study drug. Tables will summarize incidence by cycle., Up to 12 months (17 courses)
Pharmacokinetic (PK) Parameters of Lorvotuzumab Mertansine, A descriptive analysis of PK parameters of lorvotuzumab mertansine will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, and other pharmacokinetic parameters. The PK parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit). Analyses will be descriptive and exploratory and hypotheses generating in nature., Pre-treatment, end of infusion, and 2, 6, 24, 48, and 96 hours after end of infusion on day 1 of course 1, and pre-treatment, end of infusion, and 2 and 6 hours after end of infusion on day 8 of course 1|CD56 Expression, The association between CD56+ expression and response will be evaluated using the exact conditional test of proportions (Fisher?s Exact test). Analyses will be descriptive and exploratory and hypotheses generating in nature., Day 1 and 8 of course 1 prior to lorvotuzumab mertansine
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of IMGN901 (lorvotuzumab mertansine) in Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma and other cluster of differentiation (CD)56-expressing tumors such as pleuropulmonary blastoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor (MPNST) and synovial sarcoma.

II. To determine the tolerability of the adult recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of IMGN901 administered as an intravenous infusion, administered on days 1 and 8 of a 21-day cycle, to children with refractory Wilms tumor, rhabdomyosarcoma, neuroblastoma, pleuropulmonary blastoma, MPNST, or synovial sarcoma.

III. To define and describe the toxicities of IMGN901 administered on this schedule.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate tumor response with tumor CD56+ expression. II. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of IMGN901 in children with refractory cancer, including an assessment of impact on circulating CD56+ peripheral blood cells.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive lorvotuzumab mertansine intravenously (IV) over 1-1.5 hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 5 years.