Sunitinib Malate Related Fatigue in Patients With Metastatic Kidney Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to determine how sunitinib (sunitinib malate) causes fatigue. Patients will be asked to complete a brief questionnaire (survey) to rate their levels of fatigue every two weeks while they are participating in this research study. The questionnaire takes approximately 10-15 minutes to complete and is 9 questions. A series of physical measurements for fatigue will be performed before the first dose of sunitinib and again (4) weeks later to see if there are any changes in physical level of fatigues
Fatigue|Recurrent Renal Cell Cancer|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer
PROCEDURE: transcranial magnetic stimulation|PROCEDURE: electromyography|OTHER: survey administration|DRUG: sunitinib malate
Changes of Muscular (Peripheral) Fatigue Maximal Twitch Force (MTF), The MTF will be elicited by supramaximal-intensity electrical stimulation of the muscle before and after the sustained contraction (SC). If the muscle is fatigued at the end of the SC, the MTF will be reduced because the ability of muscle to generate force declines with fatigue. If the sunitinib treatment results in minimal muscular fatigue, the MTF will not have as much reduction in the 2nd as that in the 1st session., Baseline and 28 days|Change in EMG Amplitude and Power Frequency, EMG amplitude will increase (for low-intensity SC) and mean power frequency (MPF) decrease with muscle fatigue. The EMG signals recorded during the SC, its amplitude and MPF will be analyzed to determine their changes at the end vs. beginning of the SC. If the sunitinib results in minimal muscular fatigue, the amount of EMG increase and MPF decrease will be reduced in the 2nd compared with those the 1st session., Baseline and 28 days|Changes in Motor Evoked Potential (MEP) by TMS, TMS illustrates the changes in corticospinal excitability occurring in association with fatigue. Central muscle evoked response (MEP) will be elicited using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) using single stimulus pulses applied to the scalp overlying the primary motor cortex., Baseline and 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the mechanisms associated with sunitinib related fatigue by recording EMG signals during a submaximal elbow contraction, twitch force and TMS prior to and at the end of 4 weeks of sunitinib in metastatic RCC patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sunitinib malate orally (PO) daily for 4 weeks. Patients undergo neuromuscular testing at baseline and on day 28 and complete fatigue assessment at baseline and on days 14 and 28.

.