Ambulatory Cancer Pain Management: A Feasibility Study
The primary purpose of this study is to examine the feasibility of collecting pain and other symptom data in outpatient treatment centers across multiple institutions in the Texas Medical Center (TMC). We will also examine the prevalence and severity of cancer-related pain and begin to identify other commonly reported symptoms in outpatient settings. Factors that interfere with management of pain will also be examined. Additionally, the study will explore patient satisfaction with pain management and pain education in outpatient settings. The specific aims of this study include:

Primary Objective:

-Explore the feasibility of a collaborative effort by oncology nurses to collect pain and symptom data across multiple institutions that care for ambulatory cancer patients in the TMC.

Secondary Objectives:

* Describe the prevalence and severity of pain and other symptoms in persons with breast, colorectal, lung, or prostate cancer who are receiving chemotherapy in the outpatient setting.
* Describe factors that interfere with adequate pain management in these patients.
* Examine patient satisfaction with pain management and patient education about pain management.
Breast Cancer|Colorectal Cancer|Lung Cancer|Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire
Pain and symptom data across multiple institutions, Survey data collection taking 30 minutes, collecation accomplished at multiple sites over 3 years
You will be asked to complete 3 questionnaires that will take a total of about 20 minutes to complete. Your name or medical record number will not appear on the questionnaires. You will be assigned a study subject code number. The study chair will keep a file that links your name to the code.

The first questionnaire will ask for basic demographic information (such as gender, ethnicity, and education) and your current chemotherapy and pain medications. If you cannot remember the names of these medications, researchers will locate them in your M. D. Anderson medical record.

The second questionnaire asks you to rate your pain and a variety of symptoms (for example, fatigue and nausea).

The last questionnaire includes 3 sections. The first section asks about your beliefs about pain and its treatment. The second part asks for your opinion about your pain management and about the education you have received about pain management. On the last page, you will be asked to use a picture of the outline of a body to show the researchers where you have pain.

Once you have completed these questionnaires, you will be considered off-study.

This is an investigational study. Up to 125 patients will take part in this study. Up to 35 will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.