Prospective Comprehensive Molecular Analysis of Endocrine Neoplasms
Background:

* Endocrine neoplasms (tumors) are among the fastest growing tumors in incidence in the United States. Furthermore, it is often difficult to distinguish between benign or malignant tumors in cancers of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal gland, and pancreas. More research is needed to improve detection and treatment options for patients who develop these kinds of cancer.
* Researchers are interested in studying the molecular changes that are involved in endocrine cancer development and growth. To collect a sample of tumor specimens and healthy tissue for further study, researchers are specifically looking for samples from participants who are scheduled for surgery or biopsy on endocrine tumors.

Objectives:

- To collect samples of precancerous, cancerous, and healthy tissue from individuals who are scheduled for surgery or biopsy of endocrine system tumors.

Eligibility:

- Individuals who have a tumor in or around their thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal gland, pancreas, or any neuroendocrine tissue, and are scheduled for surgery at the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center.

Design:

* Participants in this study will provide blood and urine samples prior to surgery.
* During the surgery or biopsy, pieces of the tumor or precancerous growth and pieces of normal tissue near to the tumor will be removed for ongoing and future research. The rest of the tumor or growth will be sent for analysis.
* After surgery, participants will receive routine care until discharge, and doctors will discuss possible treatment options. If there is an appropriate NIH protocol, participants may choose to be treated at the NIH.
* After discharge, participants will return to the clinic for a routine postoperative check about 6 weeks following the operation, and then may be followed yearly at the Clinical Center or by phone.
Endocrine Tumors|Thyroid Neoplasms|Parathyroid Neoplasms|Adrenal Neoplasm|Neuroblastoma
To develop a genetic, epigenetic, metabolomic, and proteomic profile of endocrine neoplasm that will allow us to distinguish benign from malignant tumor for each of the endocrine histologies under study., To develop a genetic, epigenetic, metabolomic, and proteomic profile of endocrine neoplasm that will allow us to distinguish benign from malignant tumor for each of the endocrine histologies under study., 10 years
To utilize the tissue obtained from these endocrine neoplasms for studies of gene expression, epigenetic (methylation) changes, and metabolite and protein expression., Obtained endocrine neoplasm tissue will be used for studies of gene expression, epigenetic (methylation) changes, and metabolite and protein expression., at the time of procedure or biopsy|To obtain, when accessible, normal endocrine and other adjacent tissue for comparison with the neoplastic tissue including the comparison of genomic profiling data to determine the best approach for normalizing expression data., When accessible, normal endocrine and other adjacent tissue will be obtained for comparison with the neoplastic tissue for genomic profiling to determine the best approach for normalizing expression data., at the time of procedure or biopsy|To collect tissues from endocrine neoplasms arising in the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas, extra-adrenal neuroendocrine nests, and gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors for future analysis and correlation with clinical outcome., Obtained endocrine neoplasm tissue in the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas, extra-adrenal neuroendocrine nests, and gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors will be collected for future analysis and correlation with patient clinical outcome., at the time of procedure or biopsy
Background:

Endocrine neoplasms are among the fastest growing tumors in incidence in the United States. Between 1995 and 2005, the incidence of thyroid carcinoma has increased 98 percent.

Tumors of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal gland and gastrointestinal-pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are among some of the most difficult tumors to clinically and histopathological distinguish as benign or malignant.

Moreover, endocrine neoplasms provide an extremely important model for studying the important molecular changes that lead to carcinogenesis because of their diverse clinical behavior, even when having the same TNM stage and histologic features.

The Surgical Oncology Program (formerly known as Endocrine Oncology Branch), NCI has a focus on studying the molecular changes that are involved in endocrine cancer initiation and progression. In addition, this section has primary responsibility for providing endocrine surgery consultative services to the NIH. As such, we are uniquely positioned to acquire and perform important studies to help identify diagnostic and predictive markers as well as therapeutic targets that may have significant clinical ramifications.

Objectives:

To develop a genetic, epigenetic, metabolomic, and proteomic profile of endocrine neoplasm that will allow us to distinguish benign from malignant tumor for each of the endocrine histologies under study. This objective will drive the statistical endpoints of the study.

Eligibility:

Participants with radiographic evidence of, biochemical evidence of, or histologically/cytologically proven, endocrine neoplasms, including lesions of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, extra-adrenal endocrine nests, paragangliomas, neuroblastomas, pancreas and gastrointestinal tract. Or participants with a described pre or potentially malignant condition that requires surgery or biopsy as a part of the standard of care treatment and/or follow up.

Participants must have an ECOG performance score of 0-2.

Participants must have laboratory and physical examination parameters within acceptable limits by standard of practice guidelines prior to biopsy or surgery.

Design:

A tissue acquisition trial in which tissues will be obtained at the time of surgical operation for the removal of neoplasms of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas, paragangliomas and/or extra adrenal nests of neuroendocrine tissue, and gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors.

At the time of surgical operation, blood samples will be obtained from the operative field during the removal of neoplasms of the thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas, paragangliomas and/or extra adrenal neuroendocrine tissue and gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors.

No investigational therapy will be given.

It is anticipated that 2,300 participants will be followed on this study, however, to account for screening up to 2,415 participants may be enrolled.