MMRF CureCloud Research Initiative
The MMRF CureCloud Research Initiative, a Direct-to-Patient Research effort aimed at enrolling 5,000 individuals from whom comprehensive molecular and immune analyses will be generated from blood specimens and the resulting data aggregated with the correlating clinical information. Blood will be collected from all participants after electronic online consenting via a mailed blood kit designed for a mobile phlebotomy appointment. Through the consenting process, participants will also be authorizing collection of their electronic medical records information.
Multiple Myeloma
GENETIC: liquid biopsy
Collection and Analyses of Clinical Information and Peripheral Blood Samples, Patients that have been diagnosed with active Multiple Myeloma will be asked to share their clinical information and blood samples to help scientists and researchers understand these conditions better. The study will use submitted blood samples to perform comprehensive research that will include, among others, genomic and immune characterization, as well as collect past and present medical records to combine and compare with the blood sample analysis., 5 years
More than ever, there is an urgent need for a deeper understanding of the clinical, molecular and immune parameters involved in multiple myeloma disease initiation, progression and response to treatment. Such rich information, collected at the population level, is crucial to generate the evidence needed to ultimately make Precision Medicine a reality for all multiple myeloma patients. To this end the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) is launching the MMRF CureCloud Research Initiative, a Direct-to-Patient Research effort aimed at enrolling 5,000 individuals from whom comprehensive molecular and immune analyses will be generated from blood specimens and the resulting data aggregated with the correlating clinical information. Blood will be collected from all participants after electronic online consenting via a mailed blood kit designed for a mobile phlebotomy appointment. Through the consenting process, participants will also allow the MMRF to collect their electronic medical records information. An important deliverable of the MMRF CureCloud Research Initiative is a curated dataset of integrated genomic, immune and correlating clinical data that will be made available to support scientific investigations through the MMRF CureCloud, a cloud-based platform with tools and capabilities for the seamless aggregation, integration and analysis of large collections of myeloma datasets.