Dasatinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well dasatinib works in treating patients with relapse small cell lung cancer. Dasatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: dasatinib
6 Week Progression Free Survival, Percentage of patients who were alive and progression free at 6-weeks. The 6-week progression free survival was estimated using the Kaplan Meier method.

Progressive Disease was defined by the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria as 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., 6 weeks
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from registration until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. The median PFS with 95% CI was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method.

Progression is defined as in the primary outcome measure., Time from registration to progression (up to 3 years)|Response to Therapy, Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria:

* Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions;
* Partial Response (PR) 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions;
* Progressive Disease (PD): 20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions;
* Stable Disease (SD): small changes that do not meet above criteria., Assessed every 2 cycles (up to 3 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time from registration to death of any cause. Surviving patients were censored at the date of last follow-up. The median OS with 95% CI was estimated using the Kaplan Meier method., Time from registration to death (up to 3 years)|Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, The National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0 was used to evaluate toxicity.

Grade 1: mild; Grade 2: moderate; Grade 3: Severe; Grade 4: Life Threatening; Grade 5: Death., Assessed during treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE I. Determine the efficacy of dasatinib in patients with relapsed small cell lung cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE II. Determine the objective response rate (complete and partial response) in patients treated with this drug.

III. Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this drug. IV. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral dasatinib twice daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for 3 years.