A Phase Ib Study of Intravenous Copper Loading With Oral Disulfiram in Metastatic, Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and optimal dosing of intravenous copper chloride and disulfiram in men with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Eligible men will have neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC), adenocarcinoma CRPC with non-liver/peritoneal metastases (lymph nodes, bone, or lung) or adenocarcinoma CRPC with liver and/or peritoneal metastases. Subjects will receive three doses of intravenous copper chloride and take disulfiram and oral copper gluconate until disease progression (up to two years). Subjects will also undergo a PET scan with radioactive copper 64 to measure the levels of copper in their tumor. The central hypotheses of this project are that (a) copper chloride and disulfiram are safe to give together and that (b) the combination of disulfiram with copper will have efficacy for both mCRPC and NEPC.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Copper|DRUG: Disulfiram|DRUG: Copper gluconate
Number of adverse events, Safety (NCI CTC v4.0) and tolerability of IV CuCl2 and DSF in men with mCRPC, Up to 2 years
Median radiographic progression free survival (PFS), Radiographic PFS based on PCWG3 criteria or based on the onset of a skeletal related event. Imaging obtained every 12 weeks., Every 12 weeks, up to 2 years|Amount of 64-Copper uptake by the tumor, 64-Copper PET imaging, Baseline|Change in PSA, PSA response, Every 4 weeks, up to 2 years|Time to PSA nadir, Time to PSA nadir, Every 4 weeks, up to 2 years|Time to PSA progression, Time to PSA progression, Every 4 weeks, up to 2 years
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and optimal dosing of intravenous copper chloride and disulfiram in men with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Eligible men will have neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC), adenocarcinoma CRPC with non-liver/peritoneal metastases (lymph nodes, bone, or lung) or adenocarcinoma CRPC with liver and/or peritoneal metastases. Subjects will receive three doses of intravenous copper chloride and take disulfiram and oral copper gluconate until disease progression (up to two years). Subjects will also undergo a PET scan with radioactive copper 64 to measure the levels of copper in their tumor. The central hypotheses of this project are that (a) copper chloride and disulfiram are safe to give together and that (b) the combination of disulfiram with copper will have efficacy for both mCRPC and NEPC.