Predictors of Physical Activity Maintenance in Colorectal Cancer Survivors
This study is a two-arm trial, comparing the effects of a virtual 12-week group-based exercise intervention vs. control group on physical activity, physical fitness, and quality of life in colorectal cancer survivors, and explore multi-level determinants of physical activity maintenance, 6-months after intervention completion.
Colorectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Group Exercise
Physical Activity, Compare the effects of a 12-week physical activity intervention delivered in group versus control group, on physical activity. Physical activity will be measured with a self-report questionnaire (duration and frequency of moderate and vigorous physical activity) and accelerometer., From baseline to 12-weeks, and 6 months post intervention
Physical Fitness: Aerobic, Aerobic fitness will be assessed with a submaximal, graded exercise test on a motorized, calibrated treadmill. Muscular Strength \& Endurance will be assessed by multiple repetition maximum (1RM) plate loaded seated bench press and leg press, and by the number of full stands from a chair, and the number of bicep curls (holding a hand weight of 5lbs) that can be completed in 30 seconds., From baseline to 12-weeks and 6-months post intervention|Physical Fitness: Strength and Endurance, Muscular strength \& endurance will be assessed by various weight training activities., From baseline to 12-weeks and 6 months post intervention|Body Composition, Assessed by waist circumference, From baseline to 12-weeks 6 months post intervention|Body Composition, Assessed by the combination of lean mass and fat mass via Dual-Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA), From baseline to 12 weeks|Sleep Quality, Assessed by a self-report measure of sleep quality using the Pittsburg Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and through the Actiwatch, which is a wrist-worn monitor that records movement and light exposure., From baseline to 12 weeks|Quality of Life Assessment, Assessed by a quantitative self-report questionnaire (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Colorectal (FACT-C), From baseline to 12 weeks and 6 months post intervention
Participants will be prospectively assigned or allocated to either a the exercise intervention or a control group for 12-weeks. The control group will be provided with an informational handout from the American Cancer Society describing exercise recommendations and guidelines for cancer survivors. At the end of the study, control group participants will be offered compensation for participation in a community-based cancer specific exercise program (e.g., BfitBwell, Fit Cancer, Livestrong at the YMCA). Supervised exercise sessions will take place twice per week for approximately one hour, and include aerobic, muscular strength and endurance, balance, and flexibility components. Sessions will be delivered synchronously (i.e., in real-time/live) via Zoom. Exercise will be individualized based on the results of baseline fitness assessments and medical history. The intervention will also include virtual, group-based discussion sessions which operationalize behavior change techniques to increase physical activity. Discussion sessions will take place in the same groups, synchronously, via Zoom.