Assessing the Potential for Reduced Toxicity Using Focal Brachytherapy in Early Stage, Low Volume Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see what side effects a type of radiation treatment called focal brachytherapy has in treating early stage prostate cancer. The study is also looking at how useful focal brachytherapy will be in treating prostate cancer. Additionally, the investigators would like to see how this type of treatment impacts quality of life.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Prostate Biopsy, Focal Brachytherapy , Assessment of QOL
To Assess the Late Toxicity Outcomes, focal brachytherapy in patients with low risk prostate cancer This study will utilize the toxicity grading scale Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, 6 months to 2 years
To Evaluate the Local Tumor Control After Focal Brachytherapy, as measured by the ability to obtain all negative biopsy cores 12 and 24 months after completion of therapy in the hemi-gland of where the focal therapy was administered. "All negative" means no prostate cancer;, 12 and 24 months|To Evaluate the Change From Baseline in QOL Indicators, Following focal brachytherapy in patients with early stage low volume localized prostate cancer. The scales to measure these domains were derived from the previously validated MSKCC Prostate-Health Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (PHRQOLQ, baseline and then approximately 3 ± 1 months, 6 ± 1 months, 12 ± 2 months, 18 ± 2 months, and 24 ± 2 months after treatment|To Correlate Post-treatment MRI Findings With Post-treatment Biopsy Outcomes, Post-treatment MRI outcome is defined as a 3-level categorical variable: positive, negative and undetermined. Post-treatment biopsy outcome is defined as a binary variable: positive and negative. We will examine the correlation between the 12-month MRI and 12-month biopsy, and between the 24-month MRI and 24-month biopsy. The correlation will be assessed by a Fisher exact test., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to see what side effects a type of radiation treatment called focal brachytherapy has in treating early stage prostate cancer. The study is also looking at how useful focal brachytherapy will be in treating prostate cancer. Additionally, the investigators would like to see how this type of treatment impacts quality of life.