Ablation vs Resection of Colorectal Cancer Liver Metastases
230 patients with colorectal cancer liver metastases will be randomly assigned to resection or thermal ablation.
Colorectal Cancer Metastatic
PROCEDURE: Surgical resection|PROCEDURE: Thermal ablation
Local tumor progression, Local tumor progression at site of treatment, 12 months
Overall survival, Overall survival following treatment, 60 months|Overall survival (secondary analysis), A secondary analysis will be performed on a oncologically more homogenous group of patients that fulfil the following requirements: a) no previous surgical procedure on the liver, b) no extrahepatic metastases, and c) that had their primary tumor resected, 60 months|Disease free survival, DFS, 60 months|Postoperative complications, Morbidity, 30 days|Health related quality of life, HRQoL is measured using SF-36, 12 months|Cost-Effectiveness, An analysis of cost will be performed to assess cost-effectiveness, 12 months|Hemodynamic response, The hemodynamic response to the two interventions will be recorded and compared, 7 days|Ventilation methods, The intraoperative movement of the liver will be measured using different ventilation methods (one lung ventilation, jet ventilation, gentle double lung ventilation). The movement of the liver during the different ventilation methods will be assessed in cm., 1 day|Cerebral flow, Intraoperative cerebral blood flow will be measured and related to cardiac output and other hemodynamic measures. Micro bubbles caused by the treatment will be visualized using ultrasonography., 1 day|Inflammatory response, The inflammatory response (cytokines, complement, catecholamines) will be compared., 7 days
Rationale: The use of thermal ablation of liver tumors is rapidly increasing. This is despite a lack of high-level evidence of the oncologic efficacy of ablation. Ablation is most often used in cases where resection is not possible, but as the technique has improved it is increasingly used as a substitute for resection. A majority of studies on ablation are hampered by selection bias. Selection bias can only be overcome in a randomized controlled trial.

Primary objective:

To compare rates of local tumor progression within 12 months in patients randomly assigned to thermal ablation or surgical resection of colorectal liver metastases.

Secondary objectives:

* To establish a pipeline for immediate three-dimensional verification of the ablated zone following thermal ablation of liver metastases.
* To compare health related quality of life in patients randomly assigned to thermal ablation or surgical resection of colorectal liver metastases.
* To perform a cost-effectiveness analysis (Cost per quality adjusted life year) of thermal ablation and resection of colorectal liver metastases.
* To compare disease-free and overall survival in in patients randomly assigned to thermal ablation or surgical resection of colorectal liver metastases.
* To evaluate the hemodynamic response to thermal ablation and laparoscopic resection of liver tumors.

Study design:

A randomized, controlled, multicenter, double-blinded non-inferiority trial.

Study population:

Two groups of 115 patients (230 in total) with colorectal liver metastasis eligible for radical treatment using EITHER resection OR ablation (not a combination).

Intervention:

Ablation of colorectal liver metastases

Control:

Resection of colorectal liver metastases

Main study parameters/endpoints:

The primary endpoint of the study is local recurrence of cancer at 12 months. Secondary endpoints include overall survival, disease free survival, health related quality of life, postoperative pain, complications, hospital stay and cost-effectiveness.