A Clinical Study Evaluating the Efficacy of Systemic Chemotherapy and Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors Combined With Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy in the Treatment of Gastric Cancer Patients With Peritoneal Metastasis
This study is a single-center, prospective, phase II clinical trial aimed at assessing the impact of HIPEC combined with systemic chemotherapy and immune checkpoint inhibitors on the R0 resection rate in patients with peritoneal metastasis from gastric cancer. Furthermore, it seeks to analyze the effects of this treatment strategy on overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), PCI and adverse reaction rates.
Gastric Cancer
DRUG: HIPEC|DRUG: SOX|DRUG: Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
R0 resection rate, The proportion of patients who achieved R0 resection, 1 year
1,2,3-year OS rate, The proportion of patients who will be alive within 1/2/3 years after receiving surgery, up to 12/24/36-months follow-up|Progression-free Survival, Percentage of all patients who did not experience disease progression or death., up to 36-months follow-up|Incidence and severity of adverse reactions and serious adverse events, The incidence of adverse events and serious adverse events (referring to CTCAE 5.0) will be analyzed., up to 36-months follow-up
Gastric cancer with peritoneal metastasis represents an advanced stage of the disease, with a very poor prognosis for patients. It is crucial to develop more effective treatment options to improve their prognosis. CRS with HIPEC has shown promise in extending survival for these patients. Currently, a PCI value ≥12 is widely recognized as significantly impacting the prognosis of gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis.

Recent clinical trials have resulted in the global endorsement of immune checkpoint inhibitors as a third-line therapy for gastric cancer. In March 2020, the National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) granted approval for nivolumab to be used in advanced or recurrent patients with gastric or esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma who have received two or more systemic treatments.

However, there remains a lack of widely accepted effective treatment regimens for patients with peritoneal metastasis of gastric cancer. The CSCO recommends that such patients be referred for standard advanced gastric cancer treatments or consider participation in clinical trials. Consequently, our center has developed a comprehensive treatment protocol involving systemic chemotherapy (SOX), immune checkpoint inhibitors (Tislelizumab) and HIPEC, aiming to investigate the safety of this regimen and further enhance the prognosis of patients with peritoneal metastasis from gastric cancer.