Mindfulness-based Virtual Reality Intervention
Through virtual reality technology and mindfulness therapy, we can intervene the patients with Hematologic Neoplasms during chemotherapy, hoping to improve their symptoms and self-efficacy.
Hematologic Neoplasms
DEVICE: virtual reality device
MDASI-C, Symptom burden was assessed using the Chinese version of the M. D. Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI-C),39 which is a self-report scale consisting of two domains. The first domain is named "core symptom severity items" and has 13 symptoms. Each symptom is rated on an 11-point scale (0-10) to indicate the presence and severity of the symptom, with 0 indicating "not present" and 10 indicating "as bad as you can imagine." Each symptom is rated based on the severity of the symptom, at its worst, in the last 24 h. The second domain is named "six symptoms interference items" and includes ratings of how much symptoms interfered with different aspects of the survivor's life in the last 24 h. The interference items are also rated on a scale of 0-10, with 0 indicating "did not interfere" and 10 indicating "interfered completely." A score of 0-3 indicated a mild level, 4-6 indicated a moderate level, and 7-10 indicated a severe level of symptom severity or interference., up to 7 weeks|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), The hospital anxiety and depression scale The HADS was compiled by Zigmond AS Which was used to detect states of depression and anxiety in the setting of an hospital medical outpatient clinic . It is a 14-question instrument, with each question being scored between 0 (no impairment) and 3 (severe impairment), with a maximum score of 21 for anxiety or depression., up to 7 weeks
the self-management efficacy scale (C-SUPPH), the self-management efficacy scale (C-SUPPH)，The C-SUPPH scale consisted of 28 items in three dimensions: self-decompression, self-decision-making, and positive attitude, with each item scoring 1-5 points and a total score of 28-140 points. The higher the total score is, the higher the self-efficacy is., up to 7 weeks
In recent years, the intervention method of giving mindfulness has achieved good results in the management of symptoms related to cancer patients, but the compliance of patients with conventional mindfulness intervention is low. The virtual reality intervention based on mindfulness can effectively mobilize the enthusiasm of patients to participate in research and the compliance of mindfulness training. We aim to combine virtual reality with mindfulness intervention to intervene patients with hematologic neoplasms during chemotherapy, To improve their symptoms.