Genetic Counseling Patient Preference Intervention Versus Conventional Genetic Counseling for Women at Elevated Risk for Breast Cancer
This stage I clinical trial compares a genetic counseling patient preference (GCPP) intervention via EHR MyChart patient portal to conventional genetic counseling for women at elevated risk for breast cancer. Women at elevated breast cancer risk may be offered genetic counseling and genetic testing to further define whether they are at high risk (e.g. hereditary risk; BRCA mutation positive); moderate risk (e.g. risk based largely on family history and/or polygenic risk score) or average risk (e.g. general population). Genetic counseling may improve basic genetic knowledge, produce more accurate risk perceptions and tailor recommendations for greater perceived personal control regarding breast cancer risk. A single approach to genetic counseling may not fit the needs for all patients, and genetic counseling models that increase access to genetic testing and are more patient-centered may better serve patients. This trial may help researchers determine if a GCPP intervention can take the place of conventional genetic counseling, while being non-inferior in terms of adherence to screening recommendations, breast cancer genetic knowledge, accurate perception of risk, breast cancer-specific worry, and satisfaction with counseling compared to conventional genetic counseling. Study results will provide the efficacy for using a novel cancer genetic counseling approach via EHR MyChart patient portal that will be readily adaptable to other health care systems in the future, inform best practices, and reduce workforce burden.
Breast Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Genetic Counseling|OTHER: Survey Administration
Adherence to National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines of having a clinical encounter every 6-12 months, Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of genetic counseling patient preference (GCCP) versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin. Will use mixed effects logistic regression with adherence as the outcome, random intercept effects for genetic counselors, and fixed effects for study arm, breast cancer knowledge, breast cancer worry, post-test/counseling distress, and perception of breast cancer risk., Up to 14 months|Adherence to NCCN guidelines of having an annual mammogram (and breast magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] with contrast if recommended), Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin. Will use mixed effects logistic regression with adherence as the outcome, random intercept effects for genetic counselors, and fixed effects for study arm, breast cancer knowledge, breast cancer worry, post-test/counseling distress, and perception of breast cancer risk., Up to 14 months|Risk perception, Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling on breast cancer genetic knowledge, the accurate perception of breast cancer risk, breast cancer-specific worry, post-test/counseling distress, and satisfaction with counseling. Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin., Up to 14 months|Breast cancer-specific worry, Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling on breast cancer genetic knowledge, the accurate perception of breast cancer risk, breast cancer-specific worry, post-test/counseling distress, and satisfaction with counseling. Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin., Up to 14 months|Post-test/counseling distress, Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling on breast cancer genetic knowledge, the accurate perception of breast cancer risk, breast cancer-specific worry, post-test/counseling distress, and satisfaction with counseling. Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin., Up to 14 months|Satisfaction with counseling, Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling on breast cancer genetic knowledge, the accurate perception of breast cancer risk, breast cancer-specific worry, post-test/counseling distress, and satisfaction with counseling. Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin., Up to 14 months
Adherence to other National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) recommended cancer screening (e.g. colorectal cancer screening), Non-inferiority will be assessed by constructing a one-sided 95% confidence interval for the effect of GCCP versus conventional counseling and comparing the bound to a non-inferiority margin., Up to 14 months
Genetic counseling preferences, Will estimate the proportion of subjects who choose the remote (versus in-person) mode of the GCCP stratified by detection of high-risk variants, and construct 95% two-sided confidence intervals., Up to 14 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the efficacy of genetic counseling patient preference (GCPP) compared to conventional genetic counseling for adherence to National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines for having: 1) a clinical encounter every 6-12 months; and 2) an annual mammogram (and breast magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\] with contrast if recommended).

II. Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling for adherence to other NCCN recommended cancer screening (e.g. colorectal cancer screening).

III. Determine the efficacy of the GCPP compared to conventional genetic counseling on breast cancer genetic knowledge, the accurate perception of breast cancer risk, breast cancer-specific worry, post-test/counseling distress, and satisfaction with counseling.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Explore the genetic counseling preferences among the GCPP group.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive GCPP intervention which uses REDCap and the MyChart patient portal to: 1) deliver a series of educational videos on pre-genetic test information; 2) provide multigene and polygenic risk score (PRS) test results; 3) obtain information about patients' questions/concerns about test results to use in post-genetic test counseling; and 4) determine patient preference (e.g. telehealth) for receipt of post-genetic test counseling.

ARM II: Patients receive conventional genetic counseling with utilization of multigene and polygenic risk score (PRS) test results.