A Study of Pembrolizumab in Patients With Neuroendocrine Tumors
The purpose of this research study is to test if pembrolizumab is safe and effective for treating patients with metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine tumors who have failed platinum based chemotherapy.The study drug, pembrolizumab has been FDA approved for treating a type of skin cancer called melanoma and for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. However, it is not approved for treatment of metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine tumors.
Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To estimate objective response rate (ORR), using RECIST 1.1, in previously treated metastatic High Grade Neuroendocrine Tumors (HGNET) patients treated with pembrolizumab monotherapy. The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) criteria will be used for objective tumor response assessment: Complete Response (CR):Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters, Upto 3 years
Progression Free Survival (PFS), To evaluate progression free survival (PFS) (using RECIST 1.1) in metastatic HGNET patients treated with pembrolizumab monotherapy. PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase (at least 5 mm absolute increase) in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. PFS was estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method., Upto 3 years|Overall Survival, To evaluate overall survival (OS) in metastatic HGNET patients treated with pembrolizumab monotherapy. OS was estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method., Upto 3 years|Frequency With Treatment-Related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Occurence of toxicity, graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) version 4.0., Upto 3 years
The purpose of this research study is to test if pembrolizumab is safe and effective for treating patients with metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine tumors who have failed platinum based chemotherapy.The study drug, pembrolizumab has been FDA approved for treating a type of skin cancer called melanoma and for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. However, it is not approved for treatment of metastatic high-grade neuroendocrine tumors.