Impact of Minimally Invasive and Open Liver Surgery in Different BMI-classes
Despite the worldwide increase of both obesity and use of minimally invasive liver surgery(MILS), evidence regarding the safety and eventual benefits of MILS in obese patients is scarce. The aim of this study is therefore to compare the outcomes of non-obese and obese patients(BMI 18.5-29.9 and BMI≥30, respectively) undergoing MILS and OLS, and to assess trends in MILS use among obese patients. In this retrospective cohort study, patients operated at 20 hospitals in eight countries(2009-2019) will be included and the characteristics and outcomes of non-obese and obese patients will be compared. Thereafter, the outcomes of MILS and OLS were compared in both groups after propensity-score matching(PSM). Changes in the adoption of MILS during the study period will be investigated.
Liver Cancer|Liver Metastases|Obesity
PROCEDURE: Minimally invasive liver resection
Major complications, Severe complications (Clavien-Dindo grade 3a or higher) related to the surgical procedure, 30 days postoperatively
Overall complications, Overall complications related to the surgical procedure, 30 days postoperatively|Length of hospital stay, The length of hospital stay for the surgical procedure, 30 days postoperatively|R0 resection margin, Proportion of patients in whom a microscopically radical resection of both the primary colorectal carcinoma and the liver metastases was performed.

Proportion of patients in whom a microscopically radical resection was performed, 30 days postoperatively|Intraoperative blood loss, Intraoperative blood loss in milliliters, During the surgical procedure|Operative time, Operative time in minutes, During the surgical procedure|Conversion to open surgery, Intra-operative conversion to an open or hand-assisted procedure in the minimally invasive group, During the surgical procedure|Respiratory complications, All respiratory complications, 30 days postoperatively|Wound-related complications, All wound-related complications, 30 days postoperatively|Post-hepatectomy liver failure, Occurrence of post-hepatectomy liver failure (ISGLS definition and classification), 30 days postoperatively|Bile leak, Occurrence of bile leak (ISGLS definition and classification), 30 days postoperatively|Ascites, Occurrence of ascites, 30 days postoperatively|Mortality, Postoperative mortality, 90 days postoperatively|Red blood cell transfusion, Intraoperative red blood cell transfusion, During the surgical procedure
Despite the worldwide increase of both obesity and use of minimally invasive liver surgery(MILS), evidence regarding the safety and eventual benefits of MILS in obese patients is scarce. The aim of this study is therefore to compare the outcomes of non-obese and obese patients(BMI 18.5-29.9 and BMI≥30, respectively) undergoing MILS and OLS, and to assess trends in MILS use among obese patients. In this retrospective cohort study, patients operated at 20 hospitals in eight countries(2009-2019) will be included and the characteristics and outcomes of non-obese and obese patients will be compared. Thereafter, the outcomes of MILS and OLS were compared in both groups after propensity-score matching(PSM). Changes in the adoption of MILS during the study period will be investigated.