Safety and Efficacy of NRT6008 in Patients With Unresectable Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer (LAPC)
This is a single arm, open label, multi-center phase I study, including phase Ia dose escalation and phase Ib dose expansion. Safety review committee (SRC) will be formed to monitor safety and efficacy data through the study. And the independent review committee (IRC) will be formed to monitor efficacy data through the study.
Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: NRT6008 Injection + Systematic chemotherapy
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or the recommended phase Ⅱ dose (RP2D), Optimal dose for NRT6008 injection, 28 days after NRT6008 administration|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), Incidence rate of DLT, 28 days after NRT6008 administration|Adverse events (AE) and severe adverse events (SAE), Incidence rate and severity of AE and SAE, Up to 52 weeks
Objective response rate (ORR), According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines, version 1.1 (evaluated by the investigator and Independent Review Committee respectively), Up to 52 weeks|Duration of response (DOR), According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines, version 1.1 (evaluated by the investigator and Independent Review Committee respectively), Up to 52 weeks|Progression-free survival (PFS), According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines, version 1.1 (evaluated by the investigator and Independent Review Committee respectively), Up to 52 weeks|Overall survival (OS), How long the participant lives after the administration, Up to 52 weeks|Resection rate (R0 and R1), R0 (≥1 mm margin), R1 (\<1 mm clearance), Up to 52 weeks
Concentration of tumor biomarkers, Changes of tumor biomarkers through the study, Up to 52 weeks|Numeric rating scale (NRS) of pain, Changes of Numeric rating scale (NRS) score. Patients should choose from 4 main categories, totaling 11 scores (0-10): namely no pain (0), mild pain (1-3), moderate pain (4-6), severe pain (7-10). As the score increases, the intensity of pain also rises., Up to 52 weeks|Distribution of NRT6008 injection in human body and radioactivity of biological samples, Distribution of NRT6008 injection in human body and radioactivity of Yttrium-90 in blood, urine, and feces (if available), Up to 48 hours
The efficacy and safety of Yttrium-90 carbon microspheres in patients with unresectable LAPC remain unknown. This trial is a prospective, multicenter, open-label, single-arm phase I trial designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of NRT6008 injection. The primary objective is to evaluate the safety of NRT6008 Injection. While the secondary objectives include the assessments of the preliminary efficacy. In addition, the distribution of NRT6008 injection in human body, and the changes of tumor biomarkers and the improvement of cancer pain status of participants after administration will also be evaluated.