NeoLIPA: Neoadjuvant LTX-315 in Combination with Pembrolizumab in Resectable Stage III/IV Melanoma
This clinical trial aims to evaluate the effectiveness of a new treatment approach for patients with stage III or IV melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body but can still be surgically removed. The study combines two treatments: LTX-315 and pembrolizumab.

Melanoma that has spread to other parts of the body can often be treated with surgery. Despite surgery, there is a high risk of the cancer coming back. Pembrolizumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor, can reduce this risk when given after surgery. Recent studies have shown that giving pembrolizumab before surgery, along with post-surgery treatment, might be more effective than giving it only after surgery. However, many patients still experience cancer recurrence. Combining pembrolizumab with LTX-315, which triggers a different immune response, might improve the treatment\&amp;amp;amp;#39;s effectiveness and reduce the risk of cancer progression before surgery.

This is an open-label Phase II study, meaning both the researchers and participants will know which treatments are being given. The study will be conducted at a single center and will involve about 27 participants. They will receive LTX-315 and pembrolizumab before their planned surgery to see if this combination could be more effective than pembrolizumab alone.

The primary goal is to assess the tumors response to the neoadjuvant (pre-surgery) treatment, specifically looking at the rate of pathological complete response (pCR), where no cancer is detected in the removed tumor tissue.
Melanoma Stage IIIB-IV
DRUG: LTX-315 + pembrolizumab
Complete Pathologic Response Rate, Rate of pathologic complete response (pCR), defined as complete absence of viable tumor in the treated tumor bed., 12 weeks after start of treatment
Safety Evaluation, Frequency, nature and severity of AE according to NCI CTCAE v 5.0:

* All AEs
* LTX-315 treatment-related AEs
* LTX-315 and/or pembrolizumab treatment-related AEs, Continously from first dose of treatment to 90 days after last study drug administration|Objective response rate (ORR), Rate of CR or PR as per RECIST version 1.1 prior to surgery, After 12 weeks of treatment|Pathologic Response Rate, Rate of partial (less than 50% of the treated tumor bed is occupied by viable tumor cell) or complete pathologic response.

Rate of Major Pathologic Response (MPR) defined as complete or near-complete (less than 10% of viable tumor in the treated tumor bed) pathologic response, After 12 weeks of treatment|Event free survival (EFS), Defined as time from start of treatment to progression of disease that precludes surgery, recurrence (local or distant) or death, From first dose of treatment to two years|Recurrence free survival (RFS), Defined as the time from surgery to recurrence or death., Two years after surgery|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival, Three years after surgery|Quality of Life (QoL), Patient reported outcomes (PRO), From first dose to end of treatment at approximately 1.5 years
This is a single arm, single center, open-label phase II study to assess the effect of neoadjuvant LTX-315 in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with clinically detectable and resectable stage III-IV melanoma.

Clinically detectable, fully resectable stage III or oligometastatic IV melanoma can be cured with surgery but has a very high risk of local or systemic recurrence. The risk of recurrence can be significantly reduced by adjuvant treatment with a PD-1 inhibitor. Due to the mode of action of PD-1 inhibitors (stimulating tumor reactive T cells), there is reason to believe that their effect is enhanced if given before definitive surgery and removal of tumor reactive T cells in the tumor microenvironment. Indeed, it was recently shown that the effect is greatly improved if three doses of pembrolizumab are administered prior to surgery (neoadjuvant), followed by 15 doses in the adjuvant setting, compared to giving 18 doses adjuvant.

Several studies have shown that pathologic complete response (pCR) after neoadjuvant treatment correlates with recurrence-free survival (RFS). The pCR rate neoadjuvant pembrolizumab is only modest (20%), and for 8% of the patients, disease progression in the neoadjuvant phase precludes the planned surgery.

LTX-315 is an oncolytic peptide generated from a host defense peptide and has both a direct killing activity and immunomodulatory properties. By inducing cell lysis and immunogenic cell death, LTX-315 can lead to increased T-cell infiltration, broadened repertoire of tumor antigens and increased diversity of T-cell clones, and thus has the potential to enhance the effect of pembrolizumab. Furthermore, the addition of LTX-315 to neoadjuvant pembrolizumab can lower risk of disease progression precluding surgery.