Serum Biomarkers to Characterize the Effects of Therapy on Ovarian Reserve in Premenopausal Women With Early-stage Breast Cancer or BRCA Mutations
The purpose of this study is to see how the cancer treatment affects the ovaries. Cancer treatment can make it hard for a person to conceive a child in the future. It may also bring on early menopause. We will check blood levels of hormones that the ovaries produce. We will do this before, during, and after the cancer treatment. We will also ask the patient to fill out questionnaires about their menstrual cycle (periods) and information about your health and pregnancies. This may help us learn which women will be more likely to have early menopause.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Blood draw and questionnaires|OTHER: Blood draw and questionnaires
characterize the changes in serum AMH from baseline to 1 year post-chemo (or 1 year into hormonal therapy if no chemotherapy planned), in premenopausal breast cancer patients \& to characterize the changes in serum AMH from baseline to 1 year in unaffected high risk BRCA mutation carriers., 2 years
To characterize the changes in serum estradiol and FSH from baseline to one year postchemotherapy (or 1 year into hormonal therapy if no chemotherapy planned) in premenopausal breast cancer patients and BRCA mutation carriers., 2 years|To characterize the changes over time in serum AMH, estradiol, and FSH in premenopausal breast cancer patients and unaffected high risk BRCA mutation carriers., 2 years|To describe the impact of commonly used therapies for early-stage breast cancer on self-reported monthly menstrual cycles and future pregnancy/reproductive health., 2 years|To study the differences in ovarian reserve between BRCA1+ and BRCA2+ women., 2 years|To study sexual health and function in unaffected high risk BRCA mutation carriers, 2 years
The purpose of this study is to see how the cancer treatment affects the ovaries. Cancer treatment can make it hard for a person to conceive a child in the future. It may also bring on early menopause. We will check blood levels of hormones that the ovaries produce. We will do this before, during, and after the cancer treatment. We will also ask the patient to fill out questionnaires about their menstrual cycle (periods) and information about your health and pregnancies. This may help us learn which women will be more likely to have early menopause.