SABR-ATAC: A Trial of TGF-beta Inhibition and Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy for Early Stage Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
The SABR-ATAC trial (Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy and anti-TGFB Antibody Combination) is a phase I/II trial that studies the side effects and efficacy of fresolimumab, an anti-transforming growth factor beta (TGFB) antibody, when given with stereotactic ablative radiotherapy in patients with stage IA-IB non-small cell lung cancer. Fresolimumab may inhibit radiation side effects and block tumor growth through multiple mechanisms. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR), also known as stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), is a specialized form of radiation therapy that precisely delivers high dose radiation directly to tumors, thus killing tumor cells and minimizing damage to normal tissue. Giving fresolimumab with SABR may work better in treating patients with early stage non-small cell lung cancer than treating with SABR alone.
Stage IA Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma|Stage IB Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Fresolimumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy
Number of Participants Experiencing Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) of Fresolimumab When Combined With SABR (Phase I), DLT is defined as CTCAE grade 3 or higher radiation pneumonitis or bronchopulmonary hemorrhage., Up to 30 days|Number of Participants With Late Radiation Induced Fibrosis, Presence of radiation induced pulmonary fibrosis is defined as presence of a moderate-to-severe level of fibrosis. This outcome is primary in phase 2 patients., 12 months
Number of Participants With Late Radiation Induced Fibrosis (Phase 1 Patients), Presence of radiation induced pulmonary fibrosis is defined as presence of a moderate-to-severe level of fibrosis. This outcome is secondary for phase 1 patients., 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

Phase 1: Evaluate the safe dose of fresolimumab in combination with stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) in patients.

Phase 2. Evaluate the rate of radiation induced pulmonary fibrosis after SABR plus fresolimumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate potential adverse events in patients receiving fresolimumab plus SABR. (Phase I) II. Evaluate post treatment changes in pulmonary function. (Phase I) III. Evaluate recurrence rates and progression free survival. (Phase I) IV. Assess pharmacokinetics (PK) of fresolimumab in combination with SABR (optional for patient). (Phase I) V. Evaluate the rate and severity of radiation induced pulmonary fibrosis after SABR plus fresolimumab. (Phase I) VI. Evaluate the severity of radiation induced pulmonary fibrosis after SABR plus fresolimumab. (Phase II) VII. Evaluate potential adverse events in patients receiving fresolimumab plus SABR. (Phase II) VIII. Evaluate post treatment changes in pulmonary function. (Phase II) IX. Evaluate recurrence rates and progression free survival. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose escalation study of fresolimumab followed by a phase II study.

* Phase 1: A cohort of 5 patients receive the pre-selected dose of 3mg/kg of fresolimumab. If one patient experiences a DLT, an additional 5 patients will be enrolled at 3 mg/kg. If no more patients experience a DLT, then 3 mg/kg will be the dose for the Phase 2 component. If 2 or more patients experience a DLT in the total expanded cohort (or 2 or more patients in the initial cohort experience DLT), then the investigational dose of fresolimumab will be changed to 1 mg/kg. If 2 or more patients in the initial cohort experience DLT before all 5 patients have been enrolled, the remaining patients will receive the lower dose of 1 mg/kg.
* Phase 2: Patients receive fresolimumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 15, and 36 and undergo SABR in 4 fractions between days 8 and 12.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months.