Care Coordination in Oncology, Quality Among Patients With Lung Cancer and Their Caregivers
The Oncology Care Coordination study is designed to evaluate use of a care coordination tool for lung cancer patients and their caregiver on quality of care and performance outcomes. Eligible patients need to be receiving treatment at Geisinger. Participation in the study involves completion of surveys, permission to review information from the patient's electronic health record, and for some enrollment in the care coordination tool called Harmonized Care. Geisinger oncology care providers who have patients enrolled the study will be invited for interviews.
Lung Cancer
OTHER: Care coordination tool
Patient Satisfaction, To evaluate the difference in patient satisfaction associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control patient analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of satisfaction associated with FCA exposure.To evaluate the association of the change in patient satisfaction associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in satisfaction perceptions based on role., 8 weeks
Caregiver Satisfaction, To evaluate the difference in caregiver satisfaction associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control caregiver analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of satisfaction associated with FCA exposure. To evaluate the association of the change in caregiver satisfaction associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in satisfaction perceptions based on role., 8 weeks|Patient Quality of Life, To evaluate the difference in patient quality of life associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control patient analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of quality of life associated with FCA exposure.To evaluate the association of the change in patient quality of life associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in quality of life perceptions based on role., 8 weeks|Caregiver Quality of Life, To evaluate the difference in caregiver quality of life associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control caregiver analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of quality of life associated with FCA exposure. To evaluate the association of the change in caregiver quality of life associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in quality of life perceptions based on role., 8 weeks|Family Centered Care, To evaluate the difference in family centered care associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control patient and caregiver analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of family centered care associated with FCA exposure. To evaluate the association of the change in family centered care associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in family centered care perceptions based on role., 8 weeks|Patient Experience, To evaluate the difference in patient experience associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean patient and caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control patient analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of experience associated with FCA exposure.To evaluate the association of the change in patient experience associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. Within Case Dyads, patient means will be compared with caregiver means to detect difference in experience perceptions based on role., 8 weeks|Caregiver Burden, To evaluate the difference in caregiver burden associated with FCA exposure (Case v. Control) will be evaluated using chi-square test, t-tests and non-parametric univariate tests distribution dependent. Mean caregiver scores will be calculated for each dyad and compared between groups. Sensitivity analyses may stratify by level of FCA use (low-moderate-high) per dyad and opportunity time for FCA exposure. Case to Control caregiver analyses will also be performed to detect role-level differences in perceptions of burden associated with FCA exposure.To evaluate the association of the change in caregiver burden associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution. To evaluate the association of the change in caregiver burden associated with FCA use difference in response between pre- and post- surveys paired t-test or ANCOVA depending on data type and distribution., 8 weeks
The case-matched controlled design, exploratory evaluation study will look at how exposure to a care coordination tool impacts quality and performance indicators associated with oncology care from the perspective of patients, caregivers, and providers.

Geisinger research staff will recruit lung cancer patients and their caregivers across three Geisinger locations: Geisinger Medical Center (GMC), Geisinger Wyoming Valley Medical Center (GWV) and Geisinger Community Medical Center (GCMC). GMC will serve as the intervention site and GWV and GCMC as control sites.

Eligible participants will be identified by the study staff through the electronic health record as well as through clinical staff and approached in the oncology clinic as part of a schedule office visit and/or treatment. For the purpose of study awareness, informational flyers will be available to patients in the exam rooms, waiting rooms, and through Oncology Care's Multi-Disciplinary clinic. Participants will asked to identify a caregiver who will participate in the study as well, however this is not required.

Case dyads enrolled at the intervention site (GMC) will be asked to complete a survey when they join the study and at the end of the study. Participants will also be asked to enroll in the care coordination tool, a health information solution that integrates the patient, caregiver, and clinical data to enhance communication and improve quality of care and performance outcomes. Patients will also be asked to give permission to the study team to access their health information via the e electronic health record. Participants will be in the research study for about 8-10 weeks.

Control dyads enrolled at the control site (GWV and GCMC) will be asked to complete a survey eight weeks after consenting to participate. Patients will be asked to give permission to the study team to access their health information via the electronic health record. Participants will be in the research study for about 8-10 weeks.

The study will also enroll oncology care providers within the Medical Oncology or Radiation Oncology departments at GMC and who have patients enrolled in the study. Providers will be asked to participate in a 30-minute interview to get their feedback and insights on the care coordination tool.