Tradeoffs in Patient Decision Making About Rectal Cancer Treatment: Benefits Compared to Quality Of Life.
This study is aiming to look into patients' treatment preferences and their socio economic background as well as the exploration of thought processes leading to these preferences. It will integrate, in two exploratory questionnaires, the three most common treatment schema (standard of care, non-operative management, surgery alone) all of which have been demonstrated efficacious.
Patient Preference
BEHAVIORAL: The only intervention will be the information brochure that will be given after the first questionnaire.
Socio-economic and demographic characteristics, The primary study objective is to evaluate socioeconomic and demographic factors involved in patients' / physicians treatment preferences. This will be evaluated with the first questionnaire given at the time of the first consultation or when first approached by a research team member., 1 day
Tradeoff level, The second objective is to assess the tradeoff level between the benefits versus quality of life. This will be evaluated with the second questionnaire given 2-3 weeks after the first consultation or after answering the first questionnaire., 1 day
The primary study objective is to evaluate socioeconomic and demographic factors involved in patients' / physicians treatment preferences. The secondary objective is to assess the tradeoff level between the benefits versus quality of life.

This study will evaluate 192 participants: 14 physicians (group A) and 178 patients (group B).

Participants with operable rectal cancer or health professionals will be screened for eligibility. Subsequently, these participants will be offered to participate in this pilot study and provided a consent form. When a participant has consented to participate, he/she will be provided with a first questionnaire (socio-demographic characteristics, some clinical data and medical baseline information as well as details about their current knowledge about treatments).

An informational brochure will be given after answering the first questionnaire describing different treatment regimens, treatment duration, potential side effects and oncologic outcomes.

A second questionnaire will be provided (evaluating patients treatment preferences and tradeoff).

The consent form, brochure and questionnaires will be available only in an electronic format (Microsoft Form).