A Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Trial of Lenvatinib (E7080) in 131I-Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Cancer (DTC)
This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study to compare the progression free survival, overall response rate (ORR) and safety of participants treated with lenvatinib 24 mg by continuous once daily oral dosing versus placebo. The study is conducted in 3 phases: a Prerandomization Phase (screening and baseline period), a Randomization Phase (double-blind treatment period), and an Extension Phase (Optional Open Label (OOL) Lenvatinib Treatment Period and a follow-up period).
Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression or death (whichever occurred first), as determined by blinded IIR using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for the double-blind treatment period (Randomization Phase). Disease progression per RECIST v1.1 was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) relative increase and 5 millimeter (mm) absolute increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study), recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions., Date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death (whichever occurred first), assessed up to data cutoff date (15 Nov 2013) or up to approximately 2.5 years
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR, defined as the percentage of participants who had best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by blinded IIR using RECIST 1.1 for target lesions and assessed by magnetic resonance imaging/computed tomography (MRI/CT) scans (for double blind treatment period i.e. Randomization Phase). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) had to have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. ORR = CR + PR., Date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death (whichever occurred first), assessed up to data cutoff date (15 Nov 2013) or up to approximately 2.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival measured from the date of randomization until date of death from any cause. Overall survival is adjusted with rank preserving structural failure time., Date of randomization until date of death from any cause, assessed up to data cutoff date (15 Nov 2013) or up to approximately 2.5 years|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Profile of Lenvatinib: Area Under the Plasma Concentration Curve, Cycle 1 Days 1 and 15: 0-10 hours postdose; Cycle 2 Day 1: 0-12 hour postdose
Randomization Phase: Participants will receive blinded study drug (lenvatinib/placebo) in 2:1 ratio until documentation of disease progression (confirmed by independent imaging review), development of unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. After having completed the primary analysis, subjects treated with lenvatinib who have not experienced disease progression may request to continue open label lenvatinib at the same dose, according to the clinical judgment of the investigator. Participants who discontinue treatment for any reason other than disease progression will be followed in the Randomization Phase until disease progression or start of another anticancer treatment; these participants then enter the Extension Phase for survival follow-up. Extension Phase: Participants in the placebo arm who have disease progression confirmed by IIR could request to enter the OOL Lenvatinib Treatment Period and receive lenvatinib treatment. Participants will receive lenvatinib treatment until disease progression (investigator's assessment), development of intolerable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. Participants who had disease progression during the Randomization Phase and did not enter the OOL Lenvatinib Treatment Period and all participants who discontinued lenvatinib treatment in the OOL Lenvatinib Treatment Period will enter the follow-up period. Participants will be followed for survival, and all anticancer treatments will be recorded until the time of death.