Efficacy and Safety of Fosaprepitant in Preventing Chemotherapy-induced Vomiting in Children Treated With Medium and High Emetic Chemotherapeutic Drugs
This study was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel controlled clinical trial. The children who met the inclusion criteria and were treated with medium and high emetic chemotherapy drugs were randomly included in the experimental group (forsapitan group) and the control group (placebo group) in the ratio of 1 ∶ 1. The children in the experimental group were infused with fosapitan, dexamethasone and granisetron before chemotherapy, and then continued to be infused with granisetron and dexamethasone until 48 hours after the end of chemotherapy. The antiemetic regimen of children in the control group was placebo instead of fosapitan, and the others were the same as those in the experimental group. In this study, CNNC antiemetic scale and pediatric scale proposed by Dupuis were used to evaluate the vomiting data. The primary end point was the proportion of children who achieved complete remission (CR) in the delayed period (within 24-120 hours after the start of chemotherapy); The secondary end points were the CR rate in the acute phase (within 24 hours after the first chemotherapy administration) and the overall phase. The antiemetic efficacy and adverse reactions of the two groups were observed and analyzed.
Chemotherapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting Pediatric Cancer Patients
DRUG: Fosaprepitant|DRUG: Placebo(normal saline)
Complete remission rates in the acute phases, The primary end point was complete remission rates in the acute phase. Complete Remission was defined as no vomiting, no retching, and no use of rescue medecation, up to 6 months
Complete Remission rates in the delayed and overall phases, Complete Remission rates in the delayed and overall phases, up to 6 months|Adverse events reported in study patients, All of the adverse reaction of aprepitant and fosaprepitant during the study, up to 6 months
This study was a prospective, randomized, double-blind, parallel controlled clinical trial. The children who met the inclusion criteria and were treated with medium and high emetic chemotherapy drugs were randomly included in the experimental group (forsapitan group) and the control group (placebo group) in the ratio of 1 ∶ 1. The children in the experimental group were infused with fosapitan, dexamethasone and granisetron before chemotherapy, and then continued to be infused with granisetron and dexamethasone until 48 hours after the end of chemotherapy. The antiemetic regimen of children in the control group was placebo instead of fosapitan, and the others were the same as those in the experimental group. In this study, CNNC antiemetic scale and pediatric scale proposed by Dupuis were used to evaluate the vomiting data. The primary end point was the proportion of children who achieved complete remission (CR) in the delayed period (within 24-120 hours after the start of chemotherapy); The secondary end points were the CR rate in the acute phase (within 24 hours after the first chemotherapy administration) and the overall phase. The antiemetic efficacy and adverse reactions of the two groups were observed and analyzed.