Fentanyl Sublingual Spray in Treating Opioid-tolerant Cancer Patients With or Without Oral Mucositis
This was an open-label, single-dose study to assess the safety, tolerability, and absorption/distribution kinetics of a single 100 µg dose of fentanyl sublingual spray in opioid-tolerant cancer subjects, with or without oral mucositis.
Mucositis|Pain|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: Fentanyl sublingual spray
Cmax of Fentanyl, Cmax is defined as the maximum drug concentration in plasma and was determined from individual plasma concentration versus time data. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were drawn pre-dose; 15 and 30 minutes; and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours post-dose. Fentanyl concentration assays were performed using a fully validated and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method. Results are reported for patients with and without mucositis., Pre-dose to 12 hours post-dose
Tmax of Fentanyl, Tmax is defined as the time to reach the maximum concentration of fentanyl in plasma and was determined from individual concentration versus time data. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were drawn pre-dose; and 15 and 30 minutes; and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours post-dose. Fentanyl concentration assays were performed using a fully validated and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method. Results are reported for patients with and without mucositis., Pre-dose to 12 hours post-dose|AUC0-last of Fentanyl, AUC0-last is defined as the area under the plasma concentration-time curve from time-zero to the time of the last quantifiable concentration of fentanyl, was calculated using the linear trapezoidal rule, and was determined from individual concentration versus time data. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic analysis were drawn pre-dose; and 15 and 30 minutes; and 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 hours post-dose. Fentanyl concentration assays were performed using a fully validated and sensitive liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method. Results are reported for patients with and without mucositis., Pre-dose to 12 hours post-dose
RATIONALE: One dose of fentanyl sublingual spray may be effective in relieving pain in opioid-tolerant cancer patients.

PURPOSE: This phase III trial is studying the side effects of fentanyl sublingual spray and to see how well it works in treating opioid-tolerant cancer patients with or without oral mucositis.

OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To compare the absorption/distribution kinetics of a single dose of fentanyl sublingual spray in opioid-tolerant cancer patients with or without oral mucositis.
* To evaluate the safety and tolerability of this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients fast for at least 8 hours before and at least 4 hours after and no water is allowed for at least 1 hour before and at least 1 hour after study drug administration. Patients receive a single dose of fentanyl sublingual spray while in an upright position in clinical care recliners or beds, and remain in an upright posture for at least 4 hours after administration. Patients are instructed not to swallow for at least 5 minutes after administration and not to expectorate the drug.

After study drug administration, 10 blood samples are collected over a 12-hour period for pharmacokinetic and other analyses.