Ixazomib and Dexamethasone Versus Ixazomib, Dexamethasone and Lenalidomide, Randomized With NFKB2 Rearrangement
This randomized phase II trial studies how well ixazomib and dexamethasone or ixazomib, dexamethasone, and lenalidomide work based on the presence of the rearrangement of a gene called nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells 2 (NFKB2) in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has returned after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Ixazomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking enzymes called proteasomes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Lenalidomide may stimulate the immune system against cancer cells and may also prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. It is not yet known whether ixazomib and dexamethasone, or ixazomib, dexamethasone, and lenalidomide are more effective in treating multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ixazomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Response rate of very good partial response (VGPR) or better, Estimates of the complete response (CR) + VGPR rates will be presented with 2-sided 95% exact binomial confidence intervals., At 112 days (4 cycles)
Overall response rate (CR + VGPR + partial response [PR]), stable disease or progression, Analyzed based on the response-evaluable population. Overall response rate will be presented with 2-sided 95% exact binomial confidence interval in the subset of high-risk patients determined by cytogenetics., At 112 days (4 cycles)|CR, stringent CR, and VGPR rate, At 224 days (8 cycles)|Combined CR + VGPR rate, At 224 days (8 cycles)|PR rate, At 224 days (8 cycles)|Time to response (TTR), Analyzed based on the response-evaluable population. TTR will be analyzed using standard survival analysis techniques based on Kaplan-Meier estimates. TTR may also be measured in the population of patients with a confirmed response., From the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of the first documentation of a confirmed response, assessed up to 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), Analyzed based on the response-evaluable population. DOR will be analyzed using standard survival analysis techniques based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., From the date of first documentation of a confirmed response to the date of first documented progressive disease (PD), assessed up to 30 days post-treatment|Incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), From the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of first documentation of PD, assessed up to 30 days post-treatment|Progression-free survival, From the date of first dose of study treatment to the date of first documented PD or death, assessed up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicity information recorded will include the type, severity, and the probable association with the study regimen. Tables will be constructed to summarize the observed incidence by severity and type of toxicity. Additional safety analyses may be performed to most clearly enumerate rates of toxicities and to further define the safety profile of Id or IRd combinations. Treatment-emergent events will be tabulated., Up to 30 days post-treatment
Gene expression profile, Gene expression will be associated with poor response to Id or IRd. Differential gene expression will be computed by pairwise t-tests on the variance-stabilized counts followed by correction for multiple testing using the Benjamini-Hochberg method., Up to 30 days post-treatment|Transcribed mutations via RNA-sequencing, The sequence of mutations associated with poor response to Id or IRd will compared with the mutational analysis of all samples against the results obtained from time 0., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To test whether the NFKB2 rearrangement can guide the selection of treatment (ixazomib \[ixazomib citrate\] plus dexamethasone \[Id\] or ixazomib plus lenalidomide and dexamethasone \[IRd\]) by conducting the following comparisons:

I. To compare the response rate at 4 cycles between patients treated with Id and patients treated with IRd and confirm the lack of significant difference in overall response.

II. To compare the response rate at 4 cycles between non-rearranged and rearranged NFKB2 treated with Id and confirm that NFKB2 rearrangement is associated with reduce response rate.

III. To compare the responses rate at 4 cycles of patients with rearranged NFKB2 treated with Id or IRd and confirm that adding lenalidomide increases the response rate in this population.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine time to treatment failure (TTF).

II. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events (AE) in IRd treated cohort.

III. To identify novel transcribed mutations associated with Id and IRd resistance in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).

IV. To determine the prevalence of NFKB2 rearrangement in relapsed/refractory MM patients screened in the study.

V. To determine the prevalence of NFKB2 rearrangement according to the type of previous therapies received in all patients screened in the study.

VI. To determine the toxicity profile of the study drugs according to the presence of NFKB2 rearrangement.

VII. Delineate transcribed mutations associated with relapse or refractoriness to Id or IRd treatment by ribonucleic acid (RNA)-sequencing.

OUTLINE:

ARM A (UNMUTATED NFKB2 REARRANGEMENT): Patients receive ixazomib orally (PO) on days 1, 8, and 15 and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

Patients with mutated NFKB2 rearrangement are randomized in to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM B (MUTATED NFKB2 REARRANGEMENT): Patients receive ixazomib and dexamethasone as in arm A.

ARM C (MUTATED NFKB2 REARRANGEMENT): Patients receive ixazomib and dexamethasone as in arm A and lenalidomide PO daily on days 1-21.

In all arms, cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may proceed to autologous stem cell transplant after 4 cycles of treatment.

After completion of study, patients are followed up monthly.