Implementation of Nutrition Education Videos for Patients Undergoing Radical Cystectomy
By doing this study the investigators hope to learn if educational videos focusing on nutrition for bladder cancer patients are a good and effective way to help people improve their nutrition and recovery after radical cystectomy (RC).
Bladder Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Educational Videos
Evaluate content of three educational video series, Evaluate the content of three video series focusing on practical solutions to nutritional problems common to patients undergoing a radical cystectomy through iterative process using Center for Disease Control's Clear Communication Index. The Center for Disease Control's Clear Communication Index uses 4 questions and 20 scored items to asses how materials enhance and aid people's understanding of information in seven areas - main message and call to action, language, information design, state of the science, behavioral recommendations, numbers, and risk. The range of scores is 0 to 100 with a score of 90 or higher considered a passing score., Week 2|Patient Feedback Regarding Videos, After viewing the videos semi-structure interviews of participants will be conducted to obtain feedback regarding the videos content and design., Week 2|Patient Attention During Videos, Eye tracking of participants will be used to assess attention of participants during the videos in order to best understand how participants are viewing the videos and responding to them., Week 2|Test feedback instrument with patients, Use a pretest developed instrument measuring nutrition knowledge to test participants knowledge before and after watching the videos, Week 2|Assess implantation of video series, Online survey of viewers will be used to gain feedback on how the videos were received by those who watched them, Week 2
Bladder Cancer is the fifth most common cancer in the USA. The primary treatment for invasive bladder cancer is chemotherapy followed by RC. Patients undergoing this surgery are at risk for complications. Being malnourished can increase the risk of mortality by three times. The patients also suffer from taste alterations after chemotherapy and gastrointestinal disturbances such as diarrhea and constipation. These can lead to poor nutritional intake and malabsorption of nutrients.

This study is being done to develop an educational video series for patients undergoing RC and assess their impact. The videos are created to address the nutritional needs of these patients and improve their outcomes after surgery.