CD19/CD22 Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T Cells With or Without NKTR-255 in Adults With Recurrent or Refractory B Cell Malignancies
This phase I trial studies the side effects of CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells when given together with chemotherapy and NKTR-255, and to see how well they work in treating patients with CD19 positive B acute lymphoblastic leukemia that has come back or does not respond to treatment. A CAR is a genetically-engineered receptor made so that immune cells (T cells) can attack cancer cells by recognizing and responding to the CD19/CD22 proteins. These proteins are commonly found on diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and B acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and fludarabine phosphate, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. NKTR-255 is an investigational IL-15 receptor agonist designed to boost the immune system's natural ability to fight cancer. Giving CD19/CD22-CAR T cells and chemotherapy in combination with NKTR-255 may work better in treating patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma or B acute lymphoblastic leukemia.
B Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|CD19 Positive|Minimal Residual Disease|Philadelphia Chromosome Positive
BIOLOGICAL: Chimeric Antigen Receptor T-Cell Therapy|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Fludarabine Phosphate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: NKTR-255
Incidence and severity of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) following chemotherapy preparative regimen and infusion of CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, Safety data will be analyzed per standard methods and interpreted descriptively for each dose cohort. Safety data will be summarized for each dose cohort separately and for all dose cohorts combined. Adverse events will be assessed using the CTCAE version 4.03 for type and severity of event. Serious Adverse Events will be summarized for each dose cohort and for all dose cohorts combined. Reasons for discontinuation of study therapy will be tabulated., Up to 28 days|Maximum tolerated dose of CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells defined as the dose level immediately below the level at which the enrollment is stopped due to a dose limiting toxicity, Will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., Up to 28 days|Rate of successful manufacture and expansion of the CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells to satisfy the targeted dose level and meet the required release specifications outlined in the Certificate of Analysis, In addition to aiming to evaluate up to 6 subjects at a given dose level with respect to toxicity, the number of subjects which can successfully manufacture the targeted dose number will be determined., Up to 15 years
Overall survival, Will be assessed by dose cohort., From the start of the preparative regimen until death, assessed for up to 15 years|Progression free survival, Will be assessed by dose cohort., From the start of the preparative regimen until the documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed for up to 15 years|The ability to achieve a clinical response after administration of CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, Will be assessed by the Response Criteria for Lymphoma and the Response Criteria for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia., Up to 15 years
Alterations in early B cell development induced by immune pressure exerted via CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, Will be evaluated., Up to 15 years|CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell properties, Will explore correlations with CAR T cell efficacy and persistence., Up to 15 years|Establish the utility of chromatin structure and epigenomic technology to characterize chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cell therapies, Investigators will attempt to establish parameters for how best to utilize the technology in CAR research to: establish basis for blood therapeutic monitoring; derive blood biomarkers for prediction of the safety and efficacy of CAR cell therapy; and develop metrics for CAR T product release criteria that can be used during the manufacturing of the product., Up to 15 years|Frequency of CD22+ expression on leukemia cells, Will correlate with clinical response to CAR T cells., Up to 15 years|Persistence of CD19/CD22 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells blood, bone marrow, and cerebral spinal fluid, Will be assessed by flow cytometry. Will be analyzed and reported as time from T cell infusion., Up to 15 years|Relapse with loss or diminished expression of CD19, CD22 and/or NKTR-255, Will be evaluated., Up to 15 years|Immunogenicity of NKTR-255, Will be evaluated when administered post CD19/CD22 CAR T cell infusion., Up to 15 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the feasibility of producing CD19/CD22 CAR T cells meeting the established release criteria.

II. Assess the safety of administering escalating doses of autologous CD19/CD22 CAR T cells that meet established release specifications in adults with B cell hematologic malignancies following a cyclophosphamide/fludarabine conditioning regimen.

III. Assess the safety and feasibility of administering repeated doses of NKTR-255 intravenously after CD19/CD22-CAR T cell infusions in adults with ALL using a dose escalation design.

IV. Determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of NKTR-255 when administered following CD19/CD22-CAR T cell infusion in adults with ALL

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the ability of CD19/CD22 CAR T cells to mediate clinical activity in adults with DLBCL and adults with ALL.

II. Characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of NKTR-255 when administered post CD19/CD22 CAR T cell infusion.

III. Explore the rate of relapse, progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in subjects receiving CD19/CD22 CAR T cells, followed by up to 6 cycles of NKTR-255