IV Contrast-Enhanced Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) in Radiotherapy
The purpose of this study is to find out if giving intravenous (IV) contrast (a liquid that helps with the visibility of organs and blood vessels that is given through the vein with the use of a hollow needle) during a Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT- a type of computerized X-ray) can help people who have image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) for the treatment of abdominal and pelvic tumors.
Pelvic Cancer|Abdominal Cancer
DRUG: Omnipaque 300mg/mL Solution for Injection|RADIATION: Cone Beam CT|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: 0.9% Saline
Physician Survey of attitude about the utility of contrast-enhanced cone beam CT, The Radiation Oncologist treating physician will complete a physician survey using a Likert scale regarding attitude about the utility of contrast enhanced cone beam CT., Up to 18 Months|Blinded Match between contrast and non-contrast enhanced CBCT, After completion of study procedures of all enrolled subjects, images from both contrast-enhanced and non-contrast cone beam CT will undergo blinded matching by two additional study physicians. The magnitude of proposed shifts (measured in millimeters in x-, y- and z- axes) for each cone beam CT will be recorded and interrater reliability will be assessed for concordance., Up to 18 Months
The goal of this pilot study is to determine the feasibility and utility of administering IV contrast during a Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) in subjects who have image guided radiation therapy (IGRT) for the treatment of abdominal and pelvic tumors. Participant duration is one visit.

Subjects will be required to fast for at least 2 hours prior to study procedures, as determined by the treating physician based on the site to be irradiated. An 18- to 22-gauge peripheral IV will be placed in the subject's arm prior to being brought to clinical treatment room. The patient will be placed in position for radiotherapy as per standard of care and will be connected to IV contrast injector. Standard of care IGRT techniques will be performed to confirm correct positioning. Iodinated IV contrast will be administered and the contrast enhance cone beam CT will be initiated. Treatment will then be administered with the patient in the position determined by non-contrast cone beam CT, as per standard of care. Immediately after completion of treatment of the subject, the study physician will complete physician survey of attitude about the utility of contrast-enhanced cone beam CT.