Predictive Value of Geriatric Oncology Screening and Geriatric Assessment in Older Patients With Solid Cancers
A Randomized Clinical Trial examining the effects of Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment as an add on to oncologic treatment. Participants included are cancer patients found eligible for oncologic treatment, age 70 or more, and screened frail with the Geriatric 8 screening tool.
Frailty|Cancer|Age
OTHER: Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and follow-up
physical function for patients receiving palliative oncologic treatment, measured by 30 seconds Chair Stand Test, number of repetitions in a 30 seconds time period., 3 months|unplanned hospital admissions for patients receiving adjuvant oncologic treatment, number of unplanned hospitalisations including admissions to Oncologic Department, Emergency Department and Medical Departments. Data will be retrieved trough review of electronic medical records., 6 months
Physical functional for patients receiving curative oncologic treatment, measured by 30 seconds Chair Stand Test, number of repetitions in a 30 seconds time period., 3 months|Physical functional for patients receiving curative oncologic treatment, measured by 30 seconds Chair Stand Test, number of repetitions in a 30 seconds time period., 6 months|Physical functional for patients receiving palliative oncologic treatment, measured by 30 seconds Chair Stand Test, number of repetitions in a 30 seconds time period., 6 months|number of unplanned hospital admissions for patients receiving palliative oncologic treatment, Number of unplanned hospitalisations including admissions to Oncologic Department, Emergency Department and Medical Departments. Data will be retrieved trough review of electronic medical records., 6 months|Health-related Quality of life, Measured by EORTC-QLQ-C30, 12 months|Health-related Quality of life, Measured by EORTC-QLQ-ELD14, 12 months follow-up|Elderly Functional Index Score (ELFI-score), Self reported functioning score. It is a composite score derived from the three scales "physical functioning", "Role functioning" and Social Functioning", from the quality of life questionnaire EORTC-QLQ-C30 and the scale "Mobility" from the quality of life questionnaire EORTC-QLQ-ELD-14. The range is (12-48), with a higher score being a better outcome., 6 months|Number of patients who experience oncologic treatment toxicity, Treatment toxicity grade 3+ evaluated with Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, 6 months|Number of patients with adherence to initial oncologic treatment plan, Registration of dose reductions, discontinuations and delays of intended cancer treatment., 6 months|Degree of Polypharmacy (PP), Degree of polypharmacy. Polypharmacy is defined as daily use of more than 5 prescription drugs., 3 months|Number of potential Inappropriate Medications (PIM), Using the Screening Tool for Older Persons Prescriptions (STOPP) criteria. Number of PIM will be registered for each patient, 3 months|Number of Potential Drug Interactions (PDI), Using Stockley's Drug Interaction Database. Number of PDI will be registered for each patient, 3 months|Overall survival, Measured from Geriatric 8 screening to time of death, 12 months|Cancer specific survival, Measured from Geriatric 8 screening to time of death in patients with residual cancer, 12 months
This study aims to examine the effects of Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and interventions on prognosis in the older frail cancer patient in a Randomized Clinical Trial design.

Patients screened frail with the Geriatric 8 screening tool, aged 70 or more, and found eligible for oncologic treatment, will be included. We plan to enrol a total of 322 cancer patients for 12 months. Participants will be allocated randomly to either interventional or control group.

Participants in the interventional group will be offered a Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment and intervention at the start-up of cancer treatment. The Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment will be an add on to standardized cancer treatment offered at the Oncologic Outpatient Clinic at Odense University Hospital.

Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment will be performed by a team consisting of a doctor, nurse and physiotherapist. If needed, referral to a dietician or an occupational therapist for further evaluation will be made. The health issues are assessed using validated tests based on a Danish version of the Geriatric Core Dataset (G-CODE). Follow-up on Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment is scheduled for one month after initial evaluation.

The randomized groups will be compared with respect to primary and secondary endpoints.