A Comparison of Single Versus Double Evacuation for Treatment of Hydatidiform Mole
Hydatidiform mole is a common complication of pregnancy with an incidence of 1in 400 pregnancies in India. Although this is a benign condition , it is having the malignant potential too. A repeat curettage after evacuation of hydatidiform mole was generally advocated till 1990s. A thorough curettage at the time of initial evacuation was not performed because of larger size of uterus and risk of perforation. Subsequently a number of studies assessed the usefulness of repeat curettage and found it was unnecessary and not cost effective . However all these studies are retrospective in design and conducted in developed countries where hydatidiform mole is diagnosed earlier because of wider use of ultrasonography. Thus there is a need to perform a well designed prospective study to compare the effectiveness of single evacuation with double evacuation in treatment of hydatidiform mole for prevention of Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia.This study compares the effectiveness of single evacuation versus double evacuation for treatment of hydatidiform mole for prevention of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia .
Hydatidiform Mole
PROCEDURE: Suction and evacuation|PROCEDURE: Suction and evacuation
Proportion of patents diagnosed as GTN following treatment in each group, Six months following evacuation
Maternal complications,, Six months|Time interval of normalization of HCG, Six months following evacuation|Duration of hospital stay, Two weeks following admission
Hydatidiform mole is a common complication of pregnancy with an incidence of 1in 400 pregnancies in India. Although this is a benign condition , it is having the malignant potential too. A repeat curettage after evacuation of hydatidiform mole was generally advocated till 1990s. A thorough curettage at the time of initial evacuation was not performed because of larger size of uterus and risk of perforation. Subsequently a number of studies assessed the usefulness of repeat curettage and found it was unnecessary and not cost effective . However all these studies are retrospective in design and conducted in developed countries where hydatidiform mole is diagnosed earlier because of wider use of ultrasonography. Thus there is a need to perform a well designed prospective study to compare the effectiveness of single evacuation with double evacuation in treatment of hydatidiform mole for prevention of Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia.This study compares the effectiveness of single evacuation versus double evacuation for treatment of hydatidiform mole for prevention of gestational trophoblastic neoplasia .