Triplet Combination of Cytotoxics as First-line Treatment for Metastatic Gastric Cancer
This parallel, randomized, open-label study will evaluate the effect on overall survival of irinotecan on oxaliplatin and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) in patients with HER2-negative and pMMR metastatic gastric cancer. Irinotecan will be administered as intravenous infusion of 150 mg/m2 every 2 weeks. Oxaliplatin will be given 85 mg/m2 and 5-FU will be given 400mg/m2 iv and 2400mg/m2 civ 48 hours fortnightly. Treatment will continue until disease progress or untolerable toxicity appears. The target sample size is 350-400 patients.
Metastatic Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log or the date of last follow-up., 2 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease or date of death, whichever occurs first. For target lesions (TL), PD was defined as at least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) of TLs, taking as a reference the smallest SLD recorded since the treatment started, or the appearance of one or more lesions. For non-target lesions (NTL), PD was defined as an unequivocal progression of existing NTLs. Participants were censored at the last date of tumor measurement, the last date in the study drug log, or the date of last follow-up., 1 year|Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) Determined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), For TLs, a CR was defined as the disappearance of all TLs and a PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SLD of the TLs, taking as a reference the baseline SLD. For NTLs, a CR was defined as the disappearance of all NTLs and normalization of tumor marker levels., 24 weeks|Duration of Response, Duration of response was defined for responders as the time from the date on which the CR or PR was first recorded to the date on which PD is first noted. Participants were censored on the date of death, the date of last tumor measurement, the last date in study drug log, or the date of last follow-up., 1 year|European Organisation For the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ C-30) Questionnaire Scores, EORTC QLQ-C30: included functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), global health status, symptom scales (fatigue, pain, nausea/vomiting) and single items (dyspnoea, appetite loss, insomnia, constipation/diarrhea and financial difficulties). Most questions used 4 point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 2 questions used 7-point scale (1 'very poor' to 7 'Excellent'). Scores averaged, transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score equals (=) better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., 2 years|EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire-Stomach Cancer Specific (QLQ STO22) Questionnaire Scores, The QLQ-STO22 is a gastric cancer quality of life questionnaire. There are 22 questions concerning disease, treatment related symptoms, side effects, dysphagia, nutritional aspects, and questions about the emotional problems of gastric cancer (dysphagia, pain, reflux, eating restrictions, anxiety, dry mouth, body image, and hair loss). The questions are grouped into five scales and 4 single items which are related to the symptoms of the disease. Most questions used 4-point scale (1 'Not at all' to 4 'Very much'; 1 question was a yes or no answer). A linear transformation was used to standardize all scores and single-items to a scale of 0 to 100; higher score=better level of functioning or greater degree of symptoms., 2 years|Treatment associated toxicities, WHO CTC 3.0, 2 years
Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to FOLFOXiri group and FOLFOX group. Stratification factors include ECOG PS, disease extent and pathological subtypes. Efficacy will be evaluated every 3-4 cycles with RECIST. Toxicity will be assessed with WHO CTC 3.0 every 2 weeks.