Confirmatory Study of Topical HyBryte™ vs. Placebo for the Treatment of CTCL
To evaluate the use of HyBryte, a topical photosensitizing agent, to treat patients with patch/plaque phase cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides).
CTCL/ Mycosis Fungoides|CTCL|Mycosis Fungoides|Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Hypericin|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants with a Treatment Response in the Modified Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (mCAILS) score, A treatment response is defined as a ≥50% improvement in the cumulative mCAILS score of the index lesions at Week 18 when compared to the mCAILS score at baseline.

The Modified Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (mCAILS) score measures: Erythema (or redness) on a scale of 0 (no redness) to 8 (very red), Scaling on a scale of 0 (no scaling) to 8 (all of the lesion is covered by a very rough surface), Plaque Elevation on a scale of 0 (no evidence of plaque above normal skin level) to 3 (plaque shows marked elevation above normal skin level) and Surface Area on a scale of 0 (no lesion/surface area is 0 cm\^2) to 18 (the lesion is larger than 300 cm\^2). A lower score means a better outcome., 18 weeks
Patch Lesion Response Rates, The proportion of patch lesions achieving a treatment response at Week 18. A treatment response is defined as a ≥50% improvement in mCAILS score when compared to the mCAILS score at baseline for individual lesions.

The Modified Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (mCAILS) score is measured as previously described., 18 weeks|Plaque Lesion Response Rates, The proportion of plaque lesions achieving a treatment response at Week 18. A treatment response is defined as a ≥50% improvement in mCAILS score when compared to the mCAILS score at baseline for individual lesions.

The Modified Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (mCAILS) score is measured as previously described., 18 weeks
The primary objective of this Phase 3 study is to evaluate the ability of an 18-week course of HyBryte and visible light to induce a Treatment Response in patients with patch/plaque phase CTCL compared to patients receiving placebo and visible light.The study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of HyBryte (0.25% hypericin) gel or placebo gel applied twice weekly for 18 weeks. Treated lesions will be covered with opaque material (such as opaque clothing), followed 21 (±3) hours later by the administration of visible light. All of the participant's lesions that are readily available for exposure to the visible light source will be treated and 3 to 5 index lesions in each patient will be prospectively identified and documented for modified Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Severity (mCAILS) evaluation. Participants will be followed every 4 weeks for a total of 12 weeks following their last light session.