Radiation Therapy With or Without Thalidomide in Treating Patients With Brain Metastases
Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of radiation therapy with or without thalidomide in treating patients who have brain metastases. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs such as thalidomide may stop the growth of brain metastases by stopping blood flow to the tumor. It is not yet known whether radiation therapy is more effective with or without thalidomide in treating brain metastases.
Tumors Metastatic to Brain
RADIATION: radiation therapy|DRUG: thalidomide|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Overall survival, The log-rank statistic will be used., Up to 6 years|Time to tumor progression, Cumulative incidence model will be used to analyze the data. A multivariate Cox model analysis will be performed., Date of randomization to documentation of progression, assessed up to 6 years|Time to neuro-cognitive progression as assessed by the Mini Mental State Exam, Cumulative incidence model will be used to analyze the data., Up to 6 years
Cause of death distribution, Up to 6 years|Frequency of toxicities, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v3.0, Up to 6 years|Quality of life as measured by the Spitzer Quality of Life Index (SQLI), 6 months|Quality of life as measured by the SQLI, 12 months
OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare the overall survival of patients with multiple brain metastases treated with radiotherapy with or without thalidomide.

II. Compare the time to tumor progression in patients treated with these regimens.

III. Compare the time to neuro-cognitive progression in patients treated with these regimens.

IV. Compare the cause of death distribution in patients treated with these regimens.

V. Compare the frequency of toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. VI. Evaluate and compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to recursive partitioning analysis class (I vs II) and planned chemotherapy after whole brain irradiation (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily 5 days a week for 3 weeks. Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I. Beginning on the first day of radiotherapy, patients receive oral thalidomide once daily.

Treatment with thalidomide continues for 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at completion of radiotherapy, and then every 2 months for 1 year.

Patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 332 patients (166 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 14.5 months.