UARK 98-026 TT II: Multiple Myeloma Evaluating Anti-Angiogenesis With Thalidomide and Post-Transplant Consolidation Chemotherapy
This study has been designed to evaluate whether "anti-angiogenesis" therapy with thalidomide and whether additional chemotherapy after transplant will be beneficial. Another objective is to find out what kinds of side effects occur with this combination of treatment and how often they occur.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Thalidomide|DRUG: Ara-C|DRUG: BCNU|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Cytoxan|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Filgrastim|DRUG: Recombinant GM-CSF|DRUG: Interferon-alpha-2b|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Vincristine
Overall Survival, Overall Survival at six years after initiating protocol therapy, 6 Years
Treatment will be given in 4 phases or steps: Induction, Transplant 1 and 2, Consolidation, and maintenance. Induction is designed to induce (or bring about) myeloma into remission. Each patient enrolled on this study will be randomly assigned to receive the above treatment alone or in combination with a drug called thalidomide. Some patients may be eligible to receive the transplant as an outpatient, based on general health and other factors.After recovery from the transplant phase of the study (approximately 6 weeks), patients originally assigned to thalidomide will resume taking it and will continue taking it throughout the rest of the study treatment. All patients will receive post-transplant consolidation treatment, which in earlier studies has been found to be helpful in maintaining patients response after transplant. Therefore, all patients will receive a combination of drugs called "D PACE" which consists of Dexamethasone, Cis-Platinum, Adriamycin, Cyclophosphamide, and Etoposide. If you are also taking thalidomide, you will continue taking it throughout, and the treatment is called "DT PACE" to include the thalidomide. No sooner than 4 weeks, and no later than 12 weeks after consolidation and if your myeloma remains in remission after consolidation therapy is complete, you will begin the last phase of the study, which is maintenance. Maintenance is designed to keep your myeloma in remission long-term.