Health-promoting Lifestyle in a Genetic Counseling Clinic
This was a cross-seThis was a cross-sectional study, which aimed to describe the health-promoting lifestyle of breast cancer patients and family members in a Chinese genetic counseling clinic, and to explore its various levels with different socio-economic variables. 259 patients conformed to the inclusion and exclusion criteria were enrolled. Participants were sent a questionnaire web-link to be invited to finish this survey. 140 participants were finally included in this study. Finally, a good level of health-promoting lifestyle of breast cancer patients and family members was acquired. More education and intervention should be tailored to enhance and encourage health-promoting lifestyle behaviors in participants with low monthly family income. Additionally, developing nutritional curriculum and strengthening the publicity of nutritional popular science were priorities in the future improvement measures.ctional study
Breast Cancer|Genetic Testing
GENETIC: genetic testing
Chinese Health-promoting lifestyle profile-Ⅱ, HPLP-Ⅱ is an scale instrument used to evaluate a person's health-promoting lifestyle behaviors, which contains 52 items and has been translated into Chinese in 1997.It contains 6 subscales: self-actualization, health responsibility, physical activity, nutrition, interpersonal relationships and stress management. A Likert 4-scale is used to measure each item, and never to regularly signifies 1-4. The total score ranges from 52 to 208. Higher scores mean better health-promoting behaviors., The primary outcome was measured during one month after the genetic test.
Purpose: This study aimed to describe the health-promoting lifestyle of breast cancer patients and family members in a Chinese genetic counseling clinic, and to explore its various levels with different socio-economic variables.

Method: This was a cross-sectional study. The participants in this study originated from a genetic counseling clinic of a cancer center in Shanghai, China. 259 patients conformed to the inclusion and exclusion criteria were screened and contact from November 2019 to March 2022. Participants agreed to participate were sent a questionnaire web-link to be invited to finish this survey. Two questionnaires were included in the link, one referring to the socio-economic information, the other referring to the health-promoting lifestyle. Chinese Health-promoting lifestyle profile-Ⅱ(HPLP-Ⅱ) was used to evaluate the health-promoting lifestyle.