Differentiated Resistance Training of the Paravertebral Muscles in Patients With Unstable Spinal Bone Metastasis Under Concomitant Radiotherapy
Standard indications for palliative radiation of bony metastases include pain, spinal cord compression, and impending pathologic fractures.

Palliative radiation therapy serves to reduce pain, improve quality of life, and avoid complications. Tailored training of the paravertebral musculature may support Radiation therapy and improve above named factors. DISPO-2 was designed to investigate the impact of tailored physical exercise in patients with unstable vertebral metastases as compared to manual therapy (massage etc.). The trial includes patients with painful unstable bony metastases, patients with spinal cord compression or impending pathological fractures are excluded. The investigations are carried out in a prospective randomized controlled phase-II parallel group design.
Vertebral Bony Metastases
OTHER: Isometric resistance training
feasibility of isometric exercise in unstable vertebral bony metastases, completion of all isometric exercises until 12 weeks post RT, 12 weeks post completion of radiotherapy
progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is assessed 2 years post completion of radiotherapy, 2 years post completion of radiotherapy|fracture-free survival (FFS), FFS is assessed 2 years post completion of radiotherapy, 2 years post completion of radiotherapy|bone density, bone density is assessed 12 weeks post completion of radiotherapy using follow-up CT scan of the spine, 12 weeks post completion radiotherapy|pain reduction, pain is evaluated using the VAS pain scale (0-100 points) at completion and 12/ 24 weeks post completion of radiation, Immediately after completion of radiotherapy, 12 and 24 weeks post completion of radiotherapy|Quality of life, Quality of life is assessed using the EORTC BM22 questionnaire at 12 and 24 weeks post completion of treatment, 12 and 24 weeks post completion of therapy|Fatigue, Fatigue is assessed using the EORTC FA13 questionnaire, 12 and 24 weeks post completion of therapy
Standard indications for palliative radiation of bony metastases include pain, spinal cord compression, and impending pathologic fractures. Palliative radiation therapy serves to reduce pain, improve quality of life, and avoid complications. Tailored training of the paravertebral musculature may support radiation therapy and improve above named factors. DISPO-2 was designed to investigate the impact of tailored physical exercise in patients with unstable vertebral metastases as compared to manual therapy (progressive muscle relaxation). The trial includes patients with painful bony metastases, patients with spinal cord compression or impending pathological fractures are excluded. The investigations are carried out in a prospective randomized controlled phase-II parallel group design.

Patients are randomized to one of the following groups: patients in arm A carry out daily physical training consisting of four different isometric exercises under the guidance and supervision of a physiotherapist. Training starts day one (first radiotherapy session), 10 daily units of 30 min each are scheduled during radiotherapy. Patients are expected to continue training until 12 weeks post completion of radiotherapy at home. Patients in arm B (control group) receive 10 daily sessions of 15 min progressive muscle relaxation starting from day one of radiotherapy. Follow-up of the patients is scheduled at 12 weeks post completion of radiotherapy incl. CT of the spine and physical examination.