Effect of Immunonutrients on Oral Mucositis in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Patients After Chemoradiotherapy
The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of immunonutrion compared with standard nutrition in reducing oral mucositis in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Locally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Enteral immunonutrition|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Standard enteral nutrition
The incidence of severe oral mucositis, Incidence of grade 3-4 oral mucositis, 7 weeks
The latency period of severe oral mucositis, Total duration from the start of radiotherapy to the severe oral mucositis, 7 weeks|The duration period of severe oral mucositis, The number of days of severe oral mucositis during the oral mucositis observation period, 7 weeks|Assessment of immune state, T-lymphocyte subsets, 4 months|Serum hypersensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) level, Change in high sensitivity C-reactive protein from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Serum Interleukin-6 (IL-6) level, Change in serum level of Interleukin-6 from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Hemoglobin level, Change in hemoglobin level from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Serum albumin level, Change in hemoglobin level from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Serum Pre-Albumin level, Change in hemoglobin level from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Nutritional risk, Change in nutritional risk determined by the by the nutrition risk screening-2002 (NRS-2002) from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Nutrition status, Change in nutritional status determined by the Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (PG-SGA) from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|Physical functional status, Changes in handgrip strength from baseline to end of radiotherapy, 4 months|overall survival rate (OS), compare OS between two groups, at 2 years after randomisation|progression-free survival rate (PFS), compare PFS between two groups, at 2 years after randomisation|Locoregional recurrence free survival rate (LRRFS), compare LRRFS between two groups, at 2 years after randomisation|Distance metastasis-free survival rate (DMFS), compare DMFS between two groups, at 2 years after randomisation|Quality of life (QoL) assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, EORTC QLQ-C30 is a specific quality of life assessment scale based on EORTC QLQ-C 30, with 35 items. All of the scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100. A EORTC QLQ-C30 is a specific quality of life assessment scale, with 30 items. All of the scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100. More global and functional scales is better. less symptom scales is better., 4 months|Quality of life (QoL) assessed by the EORTC-QLQ-H&N35 Questionnaire, EORTC QLQ-H\&N35 is a specific quality of life assessment scale based on EORTC QLQ-C 30, with 35 items. All of the scales and single-item measures range from 0 to 100. High scores represent increased (worse) symptoms., 4 months|Number of participants with adverse events, Analysis of acute and late adverse events (AEs) are evaluated., up to 2 years after randomisation
Oral mucositis is the most common adverse reaction in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma receiving chemoradiotherapy, of which 40-50% of patients are severe (grade 3-4). Oral mucositis usually results in pain, dysphagia, reduced feeding, and malnutrition. Severe malnutrition in turn increases the risk of severe oral mucositis. Persistent severe oral mucositis will lead to delay and interruption of treatment, impairing patients'quality of life and prognosis. It's reported that nutritional intervention can not only reduce the risk and severity of oral mucositis and improve the nutritional status of patients with head and neck tumors, but also improve patients' tolerance to radiotherapy, quality of life, and prognosis.

Immunonutrition refers to the addition of high content of immune nutrients on the basis of sufficient calories, which not only ensures the supply of nutrition, but also takes into account the effects of anti-inflammation, regulating immunity, improving treatment tolerance, improving prognosis and so on. It has been reported that, comparing with standard enteral nutrition, the incidence of severe oral mucositis and esophagitis in patients with head and neck tumors treated with immunonutrition was lower, suffering less weight loss, and the antitumor immune response was enhanced. The 3-year OS and PFS were significantly improved in patients with good compliance.

It remains to be seen whether or not NPC patients receiving chemoradiotherapy can be benifit from immunonutritional therapy. Therefore, we conducted a prospective, multi-center, randomized controlled clinical study in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma who received radiotherapy and chemotherapy without metastases, to further improve the quality of life and prognosis of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma.