Psilocybin With Psychotherapy for Improving Chronic Pain in Cancer Patients Requiring Opioids
This phase II trial studies whether psilocybin with psychotherapy is safe and if it works for improving chronic pain in cancer patients who require opioids to manage their pain. Psilocybin is taken from the mushroom Psilocybe mexicana. Psilocybin acts on the brain to cause hallucinations (sights, sounds, smells, tastes, or touches that a person believes to be real but are not real). This may impact a patient's "total pain", a view that accounts for the psychological, spiritual, and social factors that contribute to their experience of pain. Psychotherapy uses methods such as discussion, listening, and counseling to help patients change the way they react to environmental triggers that may cause a negative reaction. Giving psilocybin with psychotherapy may be safe and helpful for improving chronic pain in cancer patients who require opioids to manage their pain.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging|OTHER: Interview|DRUG: Psilocybine|BEHAVIORAL: Psychotherapy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AE assessments will be performed at each treatment session and all subsequent in-person and virtual visits. This will be clinician-observed events. These evaluations will utilize the established Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. AEs will be summarized by attribution and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies, where the grade 3+ AE rate will be estimated with 90% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method. Additionally, a continual safety monitoring plan will be utilized to ensure study suspension should the AE rates exceed pre-defined thresholds., From start date of intervention to 30 days after the last intervention|Change in Vital signs, Continuous Vital signs will be assessed and summarized by timepoint using the appropriate descriptive statistics. The change in these measures will be modeled as a function of time and a random subject effect using linear mixed models, where tests about the appropriate contrasts of model estimates will be used to identify significant changes relative to pre-treatment levels. All model assumptions will be verified graphically., Up to baseline, dosing sessions 1 and 2 up to day 84|Incidence of clinically important changes in ICG parameters, To assess any changes in EKG records from baseline EKG to day 28 EKG, At baseline and day 28|Change in risk for suicide, Will be assessed using the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale. Will be summarized by timepoint using the appropriate descriptive statistics. The change will be modeled as a function of time and a random subject effect using linear mixed models, where tests about the appropriate contrasts of model estimates will be used to identify significant changes relative to pre-treatment levels. All model assumptions will be verified graphically., At baseline, dosing sessions 1, 2, 3, 5, and 7, and days 28, 56, and 84|Change in cognitive function, A Montreal Cognitive Assessment will be provided prior to the first dosing session, at two-hour intervals during the first two dosing sessions and subsequent dosing sessions if a dose reduction occurred, and once during subsequent visits., At dosing sessions 1-3 and days 28, 56, and 84|Recruitment rate, Recruitment will be measured as a percentage of participants who were contacted for prescreening that were enrolled. Will be estimated with 90% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method., Up to day 84|Retention rate, Retention rate will be measured as a percentage of participants who enrolled that completed the trial, determined by completion of visit 19. Will be estimated with 90% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method., Up to day 84
Change in average pain intensity, The reported average pain will be assessed via the Brief Pain Inventory-Short Form, which includes multiple pain-related questions using an 11-point Numerical Rating Scale. A decrease by 30% or 2 points is regarded as clinically meaningful. Will be summarized by timepoint (baseline and by micro-dose session) using the appropriate descriptive statistics and graphical summaries. The log of each outcome will be modeled as a function of timepoint and a random subject effect using a linear mixed model. Tests about the appropriate contrasts of model estimates will be used to evaluate changes of interest. All model assumptions will be verified graphically., At baseline and days 3, 7, 28, 56, and 84|Change in rescue opioid requirement, Will be measured in Oral Morphine Equivalents. Will be assessed via participant self-report with medication log and further verified with pill count. Will be summarized by timepoint (baseline and by micro-dose session) using the appropriate descriptive statistics and graphical summaries. The log of each outcome will be modeled as a function of timepoint and a random subject effect using a linear mixed model. Tests about the appropriate contrasts of model estimates will be used to evaluate changes of interest. All model assumptions will be verified graphically., At baseline and days 3, 7, 28, 56, and 84
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of low dose psilocybin therapy in patients with chronic cancer pain who require opioids.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To obtain preliminary evidence for efficacy of low dose psilocybin therapy in reducing pain and opioid requirement in participants with chronic cancer pain.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate potential mechanisms of action for psilocybin in pain control, including its effects on resting brain network activity, inflammation, and psychological changes processes.

II. To obtain preliminary evidence for efficacy of psilocybin therapy on additional outcomes related to pain control, physical function, and opioid requirement in participants with chronic cancer pain.

III. To obtain preliminary evidence for efficacy of low dose psilocybin therapy in alleviating psychological symptoms associated with chronic cancer pain.

IV. To evaluate potential mechanisms of action for low dose psilocybin therapy in pain control, including its effects on the following: resting brain network activity, inflammation, psychological processes and psychedelic effects.

OUTLINE:

Patients attend two preparatory psychotherapy sessions. Patients then receive psilocybin orally (PO) twice a week (BIW) for 4 weeks (8 doses total) in the absence of unacceptable toxicity and attend three integration psychotherapy sessions over 1.5 hours each during psilocybin dosing sessions 2, 4, and 6. Patients may optionally attend additional psychotherapy sessions as needed during follow-up. Additionally, patients undergo functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and collection of blood and urine samples throughout the study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at days 28-34, 56, and 84.