Phase II Trials of Letermovir Prophylaxis in Patients With RRMM Undergoing Elranatamab Therapy
This is an open-label, single arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy of letermovir in the prevention of clinically significant CMV infection in adult, CMV-seropositive relapsed/refractory MM patients undergoing BsAbs therapy.
Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma (RRMM)
DRUG: Letermovir
Proportion of subjects with clinically significant CMV infection during 6 cycles of elranatamab treatment, Clinically significant CMV infection is defined as the occurrence of either one of the following outcomes:

1. onset of CMV end-organ disease or
2. initiation of anti-CMV pre-emptive therapy based on documented CMV viremia\* and the clinical condition of the subject. Initiation of pre-emptive therapy refers to the practice of initiating therapy with the following approved anti-CMV agents when active CMV viral replication is documented: ganciclovir, valganciclovir, foscarnet, and/or cidofovir.

   * Viral load threshold for initiating pre-emptive therapy is viral DNA ≥ 500 IU/mL in 2 consecutive assessments separated by at least 1 day, or, single viral DNA ≥ 1,000 IU/mL, From Cycle 1 Day 1 to completion of Cycle 6 (Week 24; each cycle is 28 days)
Proportion of subjects with clinically significant CMV infection during 12 cycles of elranatamab treatment, Clinically significant CMV infection is defined as the occurrence of either one of the following outcomes:

1. onset of CMV end-organ disease or
2. initiation of anti-CMV pre-emptive therapy based on documented CMV viremia\* and the clinical condition of the subject. Initiation of pre-emptive therapy refers to the practice of initiating therapy with the following approved anti-CMV agents when active CMV viral replication is documented: ganciclovir, valganciclovir, foscarnet, and/or cidofovir.

   * Viral load threshold for initiating pre-emptive therapy is viral DNA ≥ 500 IU/mL in 2 consecutive assessments separated by at least 1 day, or, single viral DNA ≥ 1,000 IU/mL, From Cycle 1 Day 1 to completion of Cycle 12 (each cycle is 28 days)|Incidence of CMV disease during the first 6 and 12 cycles of elranatamab, From Cycle 1 Day 1 to completion of Cycle 6 and Cycle 12, respectively (each cycle is 28 days)..|Incidence of CMV viremia during the first 6 and 12 cycles of elranatamab, Virus detection of any titer. CMV viremia refers to CMV DNA levels in the plasma (=CMV DNAemia)., From Cycle 1 Day 1 to completion of Cycle 6 and Cycle 12, respectively (each cycle is 28 days).|Toxicity, Type, frequency, seriousness and severity of adverse events (AEs), and relationship of AEs to study treatment., From Cycle 1 Day 1 to study completion, an average of 1 year.|Tolerability, Study treatment adherence rate, including elranatamab dose and schedule modifications, From Cycle 1 Day 1 to study completion, an average of 1 year.
This is an open-label, single arm, multicenter study to evaluate the efficacy of letermovir in the prevention of clinically significant cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in adult, CMV-seropositive relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (MM) patients undergoing Elranatamab therapy.

Elranatamab is bispecific antibody (BsAb), and as BsAbs prolong survivals of MM patients, supportive care is becoming increasingly important to ensure good quality of life and sustain treatment response. Infection control constitutes a major pillar of such supportive care. BsAbs are already very expensive, thus dealing with complications secondary to desultory use will ultimately tantamount to significant financial burden in any given healthcare system. Therefore, implementing risk adaptive prophylactic measures and establishing active monitoring know-hows is important.