Mobile Self Management and Support for Adolescents and Young Adults With Cancer
This study is the user testing phase of a mobile application intervention which will be designed to promote positive coping skills, illness resilience, and social support, and to serve as a complement to patient-physician interactions in adolescents and young adults (AYA) with sarcoma. User testing will be conducted with a prototype of the app. Participants will be AYA ages 13-25 with sarcoma (N=16). Study participation involves the AYAs downloading and using the app for 30 days. During the 30 days, participants will interact with the app by inputting their current mood, receiving supportive feedback from the app, reading messages, and doing brief activities (such as relaxation activities, etc.). Participants will also participate in an online focus group focused around the user experience. Before and after the 30 days of user testing, participants will complete a few brief questionnaires about their behavior, how their symptoms affect their life, and how they receive support from others. These questions will take around 20 minutes to complete at each administration.
Sarcoma
BEHAVIORAL: Pocket Coach for AYA with Cancer
Feasibility, Determined by the number of days participants use the program. Program usage will be assessed on the back end of the technology platform, which tracks how often each participant opens the app and uses any of the features. Intervention will be deemed feasible if participants use the program on at least two thirds of the 30 days in the study period (i.e., 20 out of the 30 days)., 30 days (from day 1 through day 30 of the 30-day intervention period)
Change in level of mindfulness, Assessed by the change in the total score on the Child and Adolescent Mindfulness Measure (CAMM) from pre-intervention to post-intervention. Calculated by subtracting the pre-intervention score from the post-intervention score. The CAMM is a 10-item measure whose total score can range from 0-40. Higher scores correspond to higher levels of mindfulness., Pre-intervention to post-intervention (a span of 30 days)
This study is the user testing phase of a mobile application intervention which will be designed to promote positive coping skills, illness resilience, and social support, and to serve as a complement to patient-physician interactions in adolescents and young adults (AYA) with sarcoma. User testing will be conducted with a prototype of the app. Participants will be AYA ages 13-25 with sarcoma (N=16). Study participation involves the AYAs downloading and using the app for 30 days. During the 30 days, participants will interact with the app by inputting their current mood, receiving supportive feedback from the app, reading messages, and doing brief activities (such as relaxation activities, etc.). Participants will also participate in an online focus group focused around the user experience. Before and after the 30 days of user testing, participants will complete a few brief questionnaires about their behavior, how their symptoms affect their life, and how they receive support from others. These questions will take around 20 minutes to complete at each administration.