"Answers in Hours" A Randomized Controlled Trial Using Microbiome Metagenomics for Bile Duct Cultures
This trial evaluates whether testing of bile with nanopore sequencing results in earlier detection of bacteriobilia (bacteria in bile) that may lead to surgical site infections in patients undergoing surgery for benign or malignant pancreatic tumors. Surgical site infections are a significant source of poor outcomes in patients undergoing surgery for pancreatic tumors. In most patients who develop this kind of infection, the bacteria identified as causing the infection is also frequently found to be in the bile at time of surgery. Usage of nanopore sequencing for detection of bacteria in the bile of patients undergoing surgery may allow doctors to prevent surgical site infections or treat them sooner or more effectively.
Benign Pancreatic Neoplasm|Malignant Pancreatic Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Laboratory Procedure|DEVICE: Nanopore Sequencing
Number of Participants With Surgical Site Infections, Assessed by incidence of surgical site infections (SSI), classified using American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP) definitions. Diagnostics tests to evaluate for SSI included physical examination, laboratory testing, and imaging such as computed tomography (CT) and ultrasound (US). Patients with complicated hospital courses returned for clinical visit after approximately 2 weeks with cross sectional CT imaging and laboratory testing with further follow up visits as clinically indicated. In the instance of an uneventful hospital course, patients returned at 4 weeks from their date of discharge for a clinical visit with CT imaging and laboratory testing. After this first routine follow-up appointment with surgery, patients continued to follow with medical oncology and with the surgical clinic on an as needed basis., Up to 90 days|Improved Antibiotic Stewardship - Number of Antibiotics, Assessed by the total number of antibiotics administered., Up to 90 days|Improved Antibiotic Stewardship - Duration, Assessed by the number of days patients were on antibiotics., Up to 90 days
Timeliness of Sample Analysis, Assessed by the time from sample collection to completion of sample analysis, reported in hours., Up to 90 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To improve antibiotic stewardship (reducing duration of peri-operative prophylactic antibiotic regimen, reducing administration of broad-spectrum antibiotic) by providing surgical team with rapid Oxford Nanopore (ONT) sequencing data in the early post-operative setting.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To reduce the cost of care through reduction in surgical site infection (SSI) and improved antibiotic stewardship.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo the collection of bile samples during standard of care surgery. Samples undergo routine laboratory testing.

ARM II: Patients undergo the collection of bile samples during standard of care surgery. Samples undergo nanopore sequencing and routine laboratory testing.

After completion of study, patients' medical records are reviewed for 30 days.