The Safety and Efficacy of Pemetrexed Rechallenge With Bevacizumab
For patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and a good performance status (PS), pemetrexed and cisplatin has been recommended for first-line NSCLC treatment. Recently, results from the PARAMOUNT trial showed that patients with nonsquamous NSCLC who had a good PS and had not progressed after completing four cycles of pemetrexed-cisplatin induction therapy benefitted from pemetrexed continuation maintenance therapy. Furthermore, pemetrexed with bevacizumab continuous maintenance might be better treatment option, considering the results from AVAPEARL trial. Pemetrexed rechallenge has been reported to be effective in some patients. Therefore, in order to investigate the safety and efficacy of pemetrexed rechallenge with bevacizumab,we conducted this study.
Advanced Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed with bevacizumab
progression free survival, Within the study period and until tumor proression, an expected average of 16 weeks
response rate, The response will be assessed while participants received the pemetrexed with bevacizumab, an expected average to the maximum response of 4 - 16 weeks|overall survival, From date of the start of pemetrexed with bevacizumab until date of death from any cause, up to 3 years|time to treatment failure (TTF), From date of the start of pemetrexed with bevacizumab until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 36 months|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, From date of the start of pemetrexed with bevacizumab until the participants stop this therapy, an expected average of 16 weeks and up to 3 years
For patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and a good performance status (PS), pemetrexed and cisplatin has been recommended for first-line NSCLC treatment. Recently, results from the PARAMOUNT trial showed that patients with nonsquamous NSCLC who had a good PS and had not progressed after completing four cycles of pemetrexed-cisplatin induction therapy benefitted from pemetrexed continuation maintenance therapy. Furthermore, pemetrexed with bevacizumab continuous maintenance might be better treatment option, considering the results from AVAPEARL trial. Pemetrexed rechallenge has been reported to be effective in some patients. Therefore, in order to investigate the safety and efficacy of pemetrexed rechallenge with bevacizumab,we conducted this study.