Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Low- and Intermediate-Risk Prostate Cancer
This clinical trial studies stereotactic body radiation therapy in treating patients with low- and intermediate-risk prostate cancer. Stereotactic body radiation therapy may be able to send x-rays directly to the tumor and cause less damage to normal tissue.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy|RADIATION: four fraction split-course SBRT
Late toxicity greater than or equal to grade 2 as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 criteria, Will be tested using a continuity corrected chi-square test, 2 years
Biochemical failure as defined by the Phoenix definition, Up to 5 years|Protocol completion rate, The portion of patients completing the planned protocol with no unacceptable protocol violations is anticipated to be greater than 90%. A completion rate of 70% is deemed unacceptably low., Up to 5 years|Patient-reported outcomes, International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) and Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite urinary Assessment (EPIC) urinary and bowel assessments will be used to collect patient-reported outcomes.

* IIEF is a widely used instrument for the evaluation of male sexual function. It is has been recommended as tool for clinical trials of erectile dysfunction and for diagnostic evaluation of erectile dysfunction severity. 15 questions 1=very low (worst) to 5=very high (best).
* The EPIC urinary and bowel assessments are comprehensive instruments designed to evaluate urinary and bowel symptoms, thereby providing a unique tool for assessment of quality of life issues important in prostate cancer management. 9 questions 0=no problem to 5=big problem, Up to 5 years|Acute toxicity greater than or equal to grade 2 as defined by the CTCAE version 4 criteria, Up to 90 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate, in terms of late toxicity, the safety of stereotactic radiation therapy using the proposed fractionation schedule.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate, in terms of acute toxicity, the safety of stereotactic radiation therapy using the proposed fractionation schedule.

II. To determine stereotactic treatment efficacy through biochemical failure (Phoenix criteria).

III. To determine the protocol completion rate. IV. To describe patient-reported outcomes using International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) and EPIC Urinary and Bowel Assessment questionnaires.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo standard daily fractions of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) over 7-8.5 weeks.