Single Fraction Real-time High-Dose-Rate Brachytherapy in Patients With Low and Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer
High-dose rate brachytherapy (HDR-BT) is an advanced technology theorized to be more advantageous than LDR-BT and External Beam Radiotherapy (EBRT), to the patient himself, and in terms of resource allocation. Studies of HDR-BT monotherapy have encouraging results in terms of biochemical control, patient survival and toxicity, but there are still certain limitations that preclude recommending HDR-BT monotherapy outside the setting of a clinical trial.

The primary endpoint of this study is to evaluate the safety, tolerance and impact on quality of life (QoL) of the BT-HDR 19Gy administered in single fraction in patients with low and intermediate risk prostate cancer. Secondary endpoint is to measure the efficacy, in terms of cancer control and satisfaction of the patients undergoing the experimental treatment.

Forty nine patients will be recruited for the experimental procedure Quality of Life, tolerance, gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity will be assessed using standardized procedures and scales. Patient satisfaction with the procedure will be appraised using five-category predetermined Likert scale questions.

Two different types of intermediate analyses will be performed: with 15 and 30 recruited patients.

The experimental treatment tested in this study is very innovative. Since prostate cancer is the most frequent cancer in men in Spain, this trial results are very likely to have a major impact on the standard therapy for prostate cancer in our National Health Service, allowing for a higher number of Hospitals within our country and other countries starting protocols of HDR BT 19Gy in single fraction.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: MRI-TRUS fusion guided Single Frac HDR
Safety measured by i) urinary retention rate and duration ii) maximum International Prostate Symptom Score and time to normalize, Data to be collected are:

i) urinary retention rate and duration ii) maximum International Prostate Symptom Score and time to normalize, 12 months|Quality of Life measured by alidated instruments including International Prostate Symptom Score and the urinary, bowel and sexual domains of EPIC, Quality of life will be measured through validated instruments including International Prostate Symptom Score and the urinary, bowel and sexual domains of EPIC, 12 months
Acute toxicity measured by urinary retention rate, International Prostate Symptom Score over time, rectal toxicity and genitourinary toxicity, Data to be collected: urinary retention rate, International Prostate Symptom Score over time, rectal toxicity and genitourinary toxicity, 24 months|Efficacy, measured by PSA, Patients will be followed with PSA at every follow-up;, 24 months|Patient satisfaction measured with Likert scale question, Patient Satisfaction will be measured with Likert scale question, 24 months
Treatment:

The patient´s treatment will consist of MRI-TRUS fusion single HDR brachytherapy fraction (1 fraction of 1900 cGray).

Brachytherapy performed under general anesthesia as an outpatient procedure

TRUS-MRI fusion:

T2 axial volumetric sequence (VISTA) is imported directly from the picture archiving and communication systems (PACS). Then MR images are reconstructed and segmented. Target volumes (prostate gland, dominant intraprostatic lesions (DILs) Organs at risk (OARs) urethra and rectum are delineated.

A transrectal sagittal volumetric ultrasound image is immediately acquired every 2 degrees, a rapid reconstruction algorithm converts the series of 2D images into a 3D volume, which is then displayed in axial, sagittal and coronal views and transferred to the module of fusion with the MRI.

The MRI images and the real-time sonography examination are displayed on a split-screen with the possibility of overlaying the images live in one image. A graphical user interface is used for rigid manual registration of the ultrasound and MRI volumes. This interface allows for displacements in the three dimensions and rotations, until both images are correctly superimposed.

Then the contoured structures are transferred to the US dataset, and these contours are slightly modified until a perfect matching with the US images is achieved.

Dose prescription:

Ultrasound images with the catheters in place will be exported to Oncentra Prostate. The prostate, Foley catheter and anterior rectal wall will be contoured. Catheters will be reconstructed on the planning system. Anatomy based inverse planning will be used for dwell time optimization.

The homogeneity parameters used for optimization aim are:

-For prostate V100 \> 95%, V150 \<35%, V200 \< 6%, where Vn is the fractional volume of the organ that receives n% of the prescribed dose.

The dose constraints for the organ at risk will be:

* Urethral dmax \< 110% and
* Rectal 1cc \< 60% of prescribed dose.

Endpoints

Feasibility of higher doses administration, toxicity and efficacy will be measured