RL-MPV Followed by BBC HCT Using Autologous Stem Cells and Maintenance Therapy With Nivolumab for Newly Diagnosed PCNSL
The purpose of this study is to determine the efficacy and safety of the new treatment proposed in this study. Conducting a prospective study "CNS-2015" in patients with PDLBCL CNS made it possible to achieve 2-year EFS, DFS and OS of 83%, 83% and 88%, respectively. The presence of early relapses of the disease has now led to the need to find an alternative program for patients with PDLBCL CNS. In the new "CNS-2021" protocol, lenalidomide was included in the R-MPV program in order to intensify the induction stage. In the conditioning regimen, thiotepa was replaced by carmustine, due to its significant CNS bioavailability. In order to possibly prevent early relapses, an anti-PD-1 inhibitor (nivolumab) was used as maintenance therapy.
Primary CNS Lymphoma
DRUG: Rituximab, Methotrexate, Vincristine, Procarbazine, Lenalidomide
frequency of adverse events, to evaluate the frequency of adverse events (safety and efficacy) of the use of RL-MPV followed by high-dose chemotherapy using carmustine, cyclophosphamide and busulfan with stem cell rescue in patients with newly diagnosed PCSNL., Time Frame: 1-year event-free survival and acute treatment-related toxicity.]
response rates, to evaluate response rates with the combination of lenalidomide and R-MPV as induction chemotherapy., Time Frame: after 56 days (after 4 cycles - each cycle is equal to 14 days)
Patients will receive 4 cycles of RL-MPV (rituximab, methotrexate (MTX), procarbazine, vincristine, and lenalidomide (RL-MPV) as induction. The conditioning regimen prior to autologous blood stem cell transplantation includes high doses busulfan, thiotepa, and cyclophosphamide. After 3 months after autologous blood stem cell transplantation, maintenance therapy with nivolumab 3 mg/kg every 2 weeks for 6 months will be started.Patients will be out of the study at the time of death. All patients believe in the possibility of survival within 3 months throughout their lives. Survival status can be obtained by phone call, storage visit, or medical records (eg doctor's note/lab results from a clinic or storage visit).