Photoradiation with Verteporfin to Facilitate Immunologic Activity of Pembrolizumab in Unresectable, Locally Advanced or Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial tests how well photoradiation with verteporfin and pembrolizumab plus standard of care chemotherapy works in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable), that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) or to other places in the body (metastatic). Photoradiation uses light activated drugs, such as verteporfin, that become active when exposed to light. These activated drugs may kill tumor cells. Vertoporfin may also increase tumor response to immunotherapy. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Chemotherapy drugs, such as modified fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin (mFOLFIRINOX), work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Photoradiation with verteporfin and pembrolizumab plus standard of care chemotherapy may kill more tumor cells in patients with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage II Pancreatic Cancer AJCC V8|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC V8|Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Ultrasound|DRUG: Fluorouracil|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Leucovorin|PROCEDURE: Lymph Node Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Photodynamic Therapy|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Verteporfin
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per immune-modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) during protocol treatment among evaluable patients., Up to 2 years
Duration of response (DOR), DOR will be defined as the time from the date of first documented CR or PR to the date of first documented disease progression per iRECIST or death due to all causes, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of first documented disease progression per iRECIST or death due to all causes, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of death due to all causes, whichever occurs first., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. AEs and the maximum grade for each type of AE will be summarized for each patient. Frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns., Up to 90 days after last dose of study drug (treatment cycles are usually 29 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate overall response rate (ORR) per immune-mediated Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) criteria in patients with unresectable pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) who have failed first line treatment treated with the combination photodynamic priming (PDP) and pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate duration of response (DOR) per iRECIST criteria in patients treated with the combination of PDP and pembrolizumab.

II. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) per iRECIST criteria in patients treated with the combination of PDP and pembrolizumab.

III. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients treated with the combination of PDP and pembrolizumab.

IV. To evaluate toxicity profile per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0 as assessed by treating clinicians of the combination of PDP and pembrolizumab.

OTHER OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the local and systemic immune response by evaluation of tumor directed cytotoxic lymphocytes within the primary and metastatic tumor sites using endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) guided fine needle aspiration before and after PDP.

II. To evaluate the biomarkers generated by the lymphocyte cytotoxicity assays using harvested lymphocytes from these sites.

III. To evaluate systemically circulating tumor directed cytotoxic lymphocyte sub-populations before and after PDP.

IV. To evaluate quality of life using Quality of Life Questionnaire-Pancreatic Cancer 26 (QLQ PAN26), European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive verteporfin intravenously (IV) and undergo a biopsy and intratumoral photoradiation over 60-90 minutes using EUS or computed tomography (CT) guidance on day 0. Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive standard of care oxaliplatin IV over 2-6 hours, leucovorin IV over 15 minutes - 2 hours, irinotecan IV over 90 minutes, and fluorouracil IV on days 3, 15 and 29 of cycle 1 only, then on days 1, 15, and 29 of remaining cycles. Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may optionally undergo lymph node biopsy on day 2 or 3 of cycle 1. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection, CT, positron emission tomography (PET)/CT and optional PET/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 and 90 days and every 3 months to progression then every 6 months for up to 3 years after registration.