The Clinical Study of Adjuvant Chemotherapy on Intestinal and Urethral Flora in Patients With Gastric and Colon Cancer
The human intestine is colonized with a complex microbial community and forms a super organism with the human body. Intestinal microorganisms include more than 1,000 kinds of bacterias, and their flora is very complex and functions are very diverse. The intestinal flora affects the body's nutrition, immunity and metabolism through interaction with the human body and the external environment, and is closely related to multiple systems. When the flora structure and function are changed, it will lead to the occurrence of various diseases or increase the risk of disease. In recent years, the role of intestinal microbes in tumorigenesis and development, as well as the role of diagnosis and treatment have been paid more and more attention. Abnormal intestinal flora can not only promote tumorigenesis, but also affect radiochemotherapy and immunotherapy effects. It is worth noting that the huge impact of the intestinal flora on immunotherapy suggests that immune checkpoint inhibitors can maximize the efficacy by protecting the balance and diversity of the intestinal microecology. Therefore, in this study, quantitative analysis of the diversity and abundance of intestinal, urinary tract flora, and urine components before and after adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with gastric and bowel cancer was performed. The link between treatment efficacy and prognosis.
Gastric Cancer|Colon Cancer
DRUG: adjuvant chemotherapy
The change of diversity of intestinal flora in faeces during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.|The change of diversity of urethral flora in urine during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.|The change of abundance of intestinal flora in faeces during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.|The change of abundance of urethral flora in urine during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.|The change of concentration of purine metabolites in urine during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.|The change of concentration of P-hydroxyphenylalanine metabolites in urine during chemotherapy, The 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy, and the 1st day after the completion of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, six months.
The change of the number of Gastrin in blood during chemotherapy, the 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, 6 months.|The change of the number of CD4+T cell and CD8+T cell in blood during chemotherapy chemotherapy, the 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, 6 months.|The change of the number of Interleukin(IL)-2,Interleukin(IL)-4,Interleukin(IL)-6, in blood during chemotherapy, the 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, 6 months.|The change of the number of tumor necrosis factor(TNF)-α in blood during chemotherapy, the 1st day before the start of each cycle of chemotherapy(each cycle is 21 days,except for the FOLFOX regimen of colon cancer is 14 days),through chemotherapy completion, 6 months.
The human intestine is colonized with a complex microbial community and forms a super organism with the human body. Intestinal microorganisms include more than 1,000 kinds of bacterias, and their flora is very complex and functions are very diverse. The intestinal flora affects the body's nutrition, immunity and metabolism through interaction with the human body and the external environment, and is closely related to multiple systems. When the flora structure and function are changed, it will lead to the occurrence of various diseases or increase the risk of disease. In recent years, the role of intestinal microbes in tumorigenesis and development, as well as the role of diagnosis and treatment have been paid more and more attention. Abnormal intestinal flora can not only promote tumorigenesis, but also affect radiochemotherapy and immunotherapy effects. It is worth noting that the huge impact of the intestinal flora on immunotherapy suggests that immune checkpoint inhibitors can maximize the efficacy by protecting the balance and diversity of the intestinal microecology. Therefore, in this study, quantitative analysis of the diversity and abundance of intestinal, urinary tract flora, and urine components before and after adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with gastric and bowel cancer was performed. The link between treatment efficacy and prognosis.