Copper Cu 64 Anti-CEA Monoclonal Antibody M5A PET in Diagnosing Patients With CEA Positive Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies copper Cu 64 anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) monoclonal antibody M5A positron emission tomography (PET) in diagnosing patients with CEA positive cancer. Diagnostic procedures, such as copper Cu 64 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody M5A PET, may help find and diagnose CEA positive cancer that may not be detected by standard diagnostic methods.
Breast Cancer|Colon Cancer|Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Gallbladder Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Liver and Intrahepatic Biliary Tract Cancer|Lung Cancer|Metastatic Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer|Rectal Cancer|Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
PROCEDURE: radionuclide imaging|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: Cu 64 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody M5A IV
Tumor Uptake of 64Cu-DOTA-hT4.66-M5A at Day 1, Tumor uptake measured by SUVmax of 64Cu-DOTA-hT4.66-M5A at day1 for hottest lesion from each patient. For tumors of at least 2 cm in diameter SUV (=tumor activity concentration/injected activity per unit body weight)., At day 1|Tumor Uptake of 64Cu-DOTA-hT4.66-M5A at Day 2, Tumor uptake measured by SUVmax of 64Cu-DOTA-hT4.66-M5A at day 2 for hottest lesion from each patient. For tumors of at least 2 cm in diameter SUV (=tumor activity concentration/injected activity per unit body weight)., At day 2
Number of Participants With Human Anti-human Antibody (HAHA) Positive Response to 64Cu Labeled M5A Antibody, Approximately 5 ml (1 teaspoon) of blood in a red top tube will be drawn at 1 month post study drug infusion and 3 months post study drug infusion. Response at either 1 or 3 months post study drug infusion constitutes a positive response., At 1 and 3 months post study drug infusion|The Average Increase of Tumor-to-blood (T:B) Ratio From Day 1 to Day 2, Scan results were compared to known sites of disease as defined by sites identified on CT scans, MRI scans, FDG PET scans, or sites identified at surgery that were histologically positive for cancer. The 64Cu SUVs on both day 1 and 2 scans were evaluated in tumors and selected nontumor organs and tissues (blood pool, liver, spleen, and kidney). Tumor uptake was measured in terms of SUVmax values, while organ uptake to assess biodistribution was measured in terms of SUVmean values. Ratios of tumor-to-blood activity concentration (T:B) were calculated as the ratio of tumor SUVmax to average SUV (SUVmean) measured in the blood pool., At day 1 and day 2
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the ability of 64Cu labeled M5A antibody (copper Cu 64 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody M5A) to localize CEA positive cancers (such as gastrointestinal, lung, medullary thyroid and breast cancers), as determined by PET imaging.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the frequency of titer of the human anti-human antibody (HAHA) response to 64Cu labeled M5A antibody.

II. To determine the safety of administration of 64Cu labeled M5A antibody.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive copper Cu 64 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody M5A intravenously (IV) on day 0 and then undergo PET on day 1 and day 2.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 1 and 3 months.