Tailored Home-Based Exercise Program for Multiple Chronic Conditions
A home-based, tailored, technology-enhanced home-based exercise program (iHBE) using a combination of the integrated mobile technologies (wearable device and phone application) and tailored home-based exercise will be pilot tested. Participants will choose one of the four home-based exercise options \[National Institute of Aging (NIA) Go4Life (an exercise and physical activity campaign from the NIA), Iyengar-style yoga, walking, and modified Otago exercise\] based on participants' preference and goals. The integrated mobile technologies system will allow the investigators to extract heart rate data directly from the wearable device to the research server. This data will be used to provide appropriate and personalized feedback on physical performance. The survey and notification to the participants on the smartphone.
Cancer|Hypertension|Diabetes
OTHER: Tailored Technology-Enhance Home-based exercise program (iHBE)
Change in Fatigue as Assessed by Self-reported Fatigue Questionnaire, Patient-Reported Outcomes Measures Information System (PROMIS) Short Form V1.0-Fatigue 6a. A 6-items; self-reported fatigue (frequency, duration, intensity) and the impact on physical, mental, and social activities, has five response options (1 or never to 5 or always). The overall score range from 6 (no fatigue) to 30 (extreme fatigue). Higher score means a greater fatigue, Pre- and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks|Change in Resilience as Assessed by Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale, Connor-Davidson Resilience scale: 10 item self-report rating scale 0 (not true at all) to 4 (true nearly all the time). The overall score range from 0 (no resilience) to 40 (High Resilience). The higher score means a better resilience, Pre- and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks|Change in Physical Well Being, Physical well being as assessed by 36 item self-report instrument. The overall score derived from the physical functioning, role limitation-physical, and bodily pain domains. The overall score range from 0-400, with a score 400 reflecting the highest rating of physical health., Pre- and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks|Change in Mental Well Being, Mental component of the Short Form Survey (SF-36), the 36 item self-report instrument. The overall score was derived from the mental health, and role limitation-emotional domains. The total score range from 0 to 200, with a score of 200 indicating high mental well being, Pre- and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks
Physical Activity, The physical activity will be measured in a form of average step count/day measured by a wrist-worn wearable device., 12 weeks|Change in Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor Level (in Serum), The level of Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor in serum was measured by ELISA. The level will be measured in nanograms/milliliter., Pre-and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks|Change in Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor Level (in Sweat), Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor level in sweat collected through the sweat pad. The level will be measured in nanograms/milliliter., Pre- and post-intervention, up to 12 weeks
The benefits of physical activity on managing chronic illnesses and multiple symptoms are well established. However, increasing the physical activity of persons living with Multiple Chronic Conditions (MCC), especially low -income cancer survivors with MCC, is challenging. Home-based exercise improves physical activity and symptoms among persons with the single chronic disease. One major challenge of the home-based exercise is the motivation and adherence. The mobile technologies (e.g., wearable device and smartphone application) have been used to improve motivation and monitor a person physical activity. Guided by the society to cells framework and previous preliminary findings, the investigators developed a technology-enhanced home-based exercise program using a combination of the integrated mobile technologies (wearable device and phone application) and tailored home-based exercise. Participants will choose one of the four home-based exercise options \[National Institute of Aging (NIA) Go4Life, Iyengar-style yoga, walking, and modified Otago exercise\] based on participants' preference and goals. The integrated mobile technologies system will allow the investigators to extract heart rate data directly from the wearable device to the research server. This data will be used to provide appropriate and personalized feedback on physical performance and trigger algorithms to send the survey and notification to the participants in real time. This pilot project will examine the feasibility of this technology-enhanced home exercise tailored to participants' goals and preferences. The intervention will leverage the cancer survivorship phase (post-treatment) to motivate self-care by combining tailored existing evidence-based physical activity programs and mobile technology for participants to engage in the resilience-enhancing physical activity. Identification of BDNF's role as one of the exercise outcomes provide a novel target for an intervention and increase the investigators' understanding of the underlying mechanism of symptoms and resilience. This study aims to examine the feasibility and acceptability of the iHBE program among low-income cancer survivors living with co-morbid conditions. Eight participants who have completed treatment for a solid tumor cancer with at least one comorbidity (e.g., diabetes and/or hypertension) will be assigned to an open-label trial of the idea. The investigators will gather feedback on goal setting, problem-solving strategies, exercise choices, and tracking mechanisms, program feasibility, and acceptability and modify the intervention as needed.