Ex-vivo Investigation of Beta Probe for Prostate Cancer Resection and Evaluation of PSMA-PET for Diagnosis of Intraprostatic Lesions
68Ga-PSMA is a radiopharmaceutical used with PET imaging for the detection of prostate cancer under a compassionate IND in patients who have presented with biochemical failure. In this study, the use of 68Ga-PSMA-11 will be extended to newly diagnosed patients with high risk prostate cancer. Patients enrolled to this study will undergo a 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT or PET/MRI scan for research purposes (in addition to the routine CT or MRI that is routinely done for staging), and a second 68Ga-PSMA-11 administration just prior to surgery for experimental ex-vivo beta probe testing of resected tissue. Immediately following resection of the prostate, the intact tissue will be scanned using a PET camera designed for animal research in order to record the 68Ga-PSMA-11 distribution in the isolated tissue at higher resolution than can be attained using whole-body PET imaging. The experimental beta probe will then be use to measure 68Ga-PSMA-11 counts of the resected tissue.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Experimental beta probe|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: PSMA-PET
Proportion of patients where prostate cancer was detected using the beta probe on excised prostate tissue, 1 day
Proportion of patients who had cancer detected by both the standard of care imaging (CT or MRI) and the 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET (CT or MRI) imaging, 1 day|Proportion of patients who had cancer detected by the beta probe on excised prostate tissue compared with surgical observations, 1 day|Proportion of patients who had cancer detected by the beta probe on excised prostate tissue compared with clinical tissue histopathology observations, 1 day|Comparison of pre-operative 68Ga-PSMA-11 (CT or MRI) lesions measurements with post-operative ex-vivo PET of prostate tissue, 1 day
Primary Objective To assess beta ray detection of prostate cancer ex-vivo using experimental beta probe immediately after prostate cancer removal as determined by pathologist.

Secondary Objectives

* Compare preoperative standard of care staging via CT or MRI to 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET (CT or MRI) findings.
* Compare preoperative 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET (CT or MRI) lesion measurements with postoperative high-resolution PET of ex-vivo tissue.
* To compare the findings of each of the 68Ga-PSMA-11 detection methods to the surgical observations and the clinical tissue histopathology findings.

Exploratory Objective Correlation of beta probe measurements with preoperative 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET (CT or MRI) lesion measurements, postoperative PET/CT ex-vivo images, surgical observations, and pathology findings.