BCMA Nano Antibody CAR-T Cells for Patients With Refractory and Relapsed Multiple Myeloma
This clinical study is an exploratory study, mainly to study the safety and efficacy of BCMA nano-antibody CAR-T in the treatment of MM. In this study, a 3 + 3 dose gradient climbing design was used. Three dosage groups, 5 x 106 / kg, 7.5 x 106 / kg and 1.5 x 107 / kg, were divided into three groups. Patients were enrolled in the sequence from low to high doses. When each dose group was completed, the next dose group could be enrolled if there was no more than 3-level toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity. If the dose group had more than 3-level toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity, two patients were enrolled to observe if there was any toxicity. Sexual occurrence, if two patients in each group developed grade 3 or more toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity, the dose group was the dose-limiting group, and the dose group in front of the group was the maximum tolerated dose, at which the initial efficacy was observed. Nine patients were enrolled in the hill climbing test, and six patients were enrolled in the follow-up preliminary efficacy study, with an estimated 15 enrolled.
Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: BCMA CAR-T Cells
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Any adverse events associated with BCMA nanoscale CAR-T cell therapy during the trial period, 2 years
The aim of this study is to study the safety and efficacy of BCMA nanoantibody CAR-T in the treatment of MM. BCMA CAR is composed of BCMA nano-antibody, CD8 strand region, transmembrane region and 4-1BB costimulatory domain, and CD3-_T cell activation domain. BCMA nano-antibody CAR-T cells were prepared by lentivirus infection of T cells. In this study, a 3 + 3 dose gradient climbing design was used. Three dosage groups, 5x106 / kg, 1x107 / kg and 1.5x107 / kg, were divided into three groups. Patients were enrolled in the sequence from low to high doses. When each dose group was completed, the next dose group could be enrolled if there was no more than 3-level toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity. If the dose group had more than 3-level toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity, two patients were enrolled to observe if there was any toxicity. Sexual occurrence, if two patients in each group developed grade 3 or more toxicity or unpredictable severe toxicity, the dose group was the dose-limiting group, and the dose group in front of the group was the maximum tolerated dose, at which the initial efficacy was observed. Nine patients were enrolled in the hill climbing test, and six patients were enrolled in the follow-up preliminary efficacy study, with an estimated 15 enrolled. After transfusion, adverse events were closely monitored and therapeutic effects were evaluated on the 28th day after transfusion. Follow-up was conducted every 6 weeks within 6 months and every 10 weeks after 6 months. To evaluate the safety and efficacy of BCMA nano antibody CAR-T in the treatment of refractory and relapsed MM.