Vorinostat in Combination With Bortezomib, Doxorubicin and Dexamethasone (VBDD) in Patients With Refractory or Relapsed Multiple Myeloma (MM)
Primary objective of the study is the determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of Vorinostat (V), given in combination with fixed doses of Doxorubicin (D), Bortezomib (B) and Dexamethasone (D).

Secondary objectives are:

Assessment of safety and tolerability of VBDD; efficacy data of VBDD.
Multiple Myeloma in Relapse
DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD), The Maximal Tolerated Dose (MTD) is estimated as the highest dose at which less than two DLTs in 6 patients are observed in the first cycle. MTD estimation is based on the phase I part of the trial. However, the number of DLT's in the first cycle of the phase II patients will be inspected and discussed as well. The primary target variable is the occurrence of any dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in MM patients during the first 28 days of treatment., 28 days (within first treatment cycle)
Response, complete remission (CR, including stringent CR \[sCR\]), very good partial response (vgPR), partial remission (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD). These parameters will be evaluated according to IMWG criteria., up to 1 year after inclusion of the last patient|Rates of Adverse Events (AE),Serious Adverse Events and AEs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation, throughout time of treatment (6 months) + 3 months after end of treatment (Follow-up).

Rates of AE, Serious AE and AEs leading to permanent treatment discontinuation will be provided with accompanying 2-sided 95% confidence intervals. Safety parameters will be analyzed descriptively.

An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient administered any dose of VBDD study drugs and is defined in detail in the clinical trial protocol. An AE can be any unfavorable sign (incl. an abnormal lab and ECG-findings etc.), symptom, or disease related or not to the study drug., 9 months|Quality of Life, Assessment with Quality of Life-Questionnaire SF-12, during screening period (within 28 days) before start of treatment and at EOT (whether after the completion of the anticipated 6 cycles of chemotherapy or at an earlier time point if patient has to stop treatment because of clinical reasons)|Duration of Response, Clinical assessment, up to one year after inclusion of the last patient|Progression-free survival (PFS), estimation by using Kaplan-Meier method, up to 1 year after inclusion of the last patient|Overall survival (OS), estimation by using Kaplan-Meier method, up to 1 year after inclusion of the last patient
A first cohort of three patients will be treated at the starting dose level of Vorinostat 100 mg/d, on day 1-4, 8-11, and 15-18 in combination with BDD.

The dose level of Vorinostat will be escalated in each new cohort:

if no dose limiting toxicity (DLT) has been observed in the previous dose level in 3 patient, the second cohort of 3 new patients will be treated with Vorinostat 200 mg/d and the third cohort will be given Vorinostat with 300 mg/d.

Bortezomib will be administered intravenously (i.v.) 1.3mg/m2 d1, 8, 15. Doxorubicin will be administered i.v. with a total dose of 18 mg/m2 per cycle (9 mg/m2, d1 and 8).

Dexamethasone will be administered per os (p.o.) with 40mg (first cycle) and 20mg (all other subsequent cycles) on d1, 8, 15, 22.