Photodynamic Therapy for Cholangiocarcinoma
Comparison of the bile duct patency with photodynamic therapy (PDT) and regular Endoscopic Retrograde Cholangiopancreatography(ERCP) stents in unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma Non-resectable
DRUG: Hematoporphyrin
Bile duct patency, Patency period of the stents after treatment, 3years (every 3 months or obstruction appears)|Median survival time, The time of the half of the patients survived after initial therapy, 3years (every 3 months）
Overall survival, The time from initial therapy to death or the end of the study, 5years (every 3 months）|Karnofsky Performance Scale, The Karnofsky Performance Scale scores range from 0 (death) to 100 (normal). The lower the Karnofsky score, the worse likelihood of survival. However, the premature termination of the study does not allow for a meaningful analysis of the scale where 100% means no complaints with no evidence of disease, 80% is a normal activity with effort and some signs or symptoms of the disease. pre-operation, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months after the operation, 1year (baseline and every 3 months）|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire C30, EORTCQLQ-C30 score used to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. EORTCQLQ-C30 score contains 30 questions, the first 28 questions include 1-4 points, the lower the score, the better; but the latter two questions include 1-7 points, the higher the score, the better. pre-operation, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months after the operation, 1year (baseline and every 3 months）|The change of weight in kilograms, Weight changes of the patient before and after PDT treatment, pre-operation, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months after the operation, 1year (baseline and every 3 months）|Beck Anxiety Inventory, BAI is a 21-item self-reported questionnaire that measures the existence and severity of symptoms of anxiety. Each of the 21 items on the BAI tool represents an anxiety symptom. A total score of 0 - 7 is interpreted as a "Minimal" level of anxiety; 8 - 15 as "Mild"; 16 - 25 as "Moderate", and; 26 - 63 as "Severe", pre-operation, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months and 12 months after the operation, 1year (baseline and every 3 months）|Cumulative treatment costs, The overall treatment costs from initial PDT to death or the end of the study, 5years (baseline and in each year）
Cholangiocarcinoma is a malignant tumor originating from the bile duct epithelium, accounting for about 70% of the malignant tumors of the bile duct system. Patients have no obvious clinical symptoms in the early stage. After late diagnosis, the effective treatment is surgical resection and \& or liver transplantation, and chemotherapy is only used as adjuvant or palliative treatment. Some types of cholangiocarcinomas, such as hilar cholangiocarcinomas, are difficult to achieve radical resection due to their anatomical location, early invasions and are prone to recurrence with a poor long-term efficacy after surgery. Therefore, the comprehensive treatment of cholangiocarcinoma by multiple means urgently needs to be explored. In recent years, photodynamic therapy (PDT), as a new local treatment method, has attracted increasing attention.

This study investigates the bile duct patency and effectiveness of photodynamic therapy compare with ordinary ERCP treatment for cholangiocarcinoma including the median survival, overall survival, and other indicators of side effects.