Cilengitide, Temozolomide, and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme
Cilengitide may stop the growth of cancer by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Giving cilengitide together with temozolomide and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells. This randomized phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of cilengitide when given together with temozolomide and radiation therapy and to compare how well they work in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma
DRUG: cilengitide|DRUG: temozolomide|RADIATION: radiation therapy|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Dose Limiting Toxicities of EMD + RT and TMZ, pts will be evaluated from first dose through end of initiation cycle. (6 weeks of RT+TMZ +EMD and 4 weeks of EMD alone) to review dose limiting toxicity (DLT) using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (Phase I)

DLT defined as: Known TMZ hematological toxicities will not be considered dose limiting.

Nonhematological toxicities Grades 3-4 severity (except nausea and vomiting without sufficient antiemetic prophylaxis), 10 weeks|Maximum Tolerated or Tolerable Dose (MTD) - 3 Pre-defined Doses, pts will be evaluated from first dose through end of initiation cycle. (6 weeks of RT+TMZ +EMD and 4 weeks of EMD alone) to review any dose limiting toxicity (DLT) using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 (safety run-in)

DLT defined as: Known TMZ hematological toxicities will not be considered dose limiting.

cohorts at these 3 defined doses: 500mg, 1000mg and 2000mg MTD defined as: dose producing DLT in 2 out of 6 patients or dose level below the dose which produced DLT in \>/= 2 out of 3 patients, or in \>/= 3 out of 6 patients If no MTD (maximum tolerable dose) was defined through 3 steps of dose escalation, phase 2 will proceed with a randomized treatment allocation of the two pre-specified dosage arms: low dose; 500mg and high dose; 2000mg, 10 weeks|Overall Survival (Phase II), The overall survival is calculated from time of histological diagnosis to death occurance - median based on all 112 patients, all dose levels, up to 36 months
Overall Survival Based on Dose Level - Phase 2, survival calculated from date of initial histologic diagnosis and occurence of death. Pts at 500mg dose compared against Pts treated at 2000mg dose. Calculated using median, Up to 3 years|Frequency of Hematologic and Nonhematologic Adverse Events, The proportion of patients with grade 3 and grade 4 hematologic and non hematologic adverse events per CTCAE 4.0, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the safety profile of EMD 121974 (cilengitide) when administered as a one-hour infusion twice a week concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy for newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. (Safety Run-In)

II. To estimate overall survival in newly diagnosed patients with glioblastoma multiforme treated with EMD 121974 concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate and compare overall survival between a low dose treatment group and a high dose treatment group in newly diagnosed patients with glioblastoma multiforme treated with EMD 121974 concurrently with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy. (Phase II)

II. To determine the toxicity of EMD 121974 (cilengitide) when it is administered in conjunction with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide with radiation therapy in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme. (Phase II)

III. To evaluate the molecular profile of individual patients and correlate molecular expression profiles with clinical outcomes. (Phase II)

IV. To characterize tumor blood volume, tumor blood flow, and permeability ratios using perfusion MR in newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme and follow these parameters during treatment with EMD 121974 (cilengitide). (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter, safety run-in study of cilengitide followed by a randomized phase II study.

Safety Run-In:

INITIATION COURSE: Patients receive cilengitide IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 4. Treatment repeats weekly for 10 weeks. Patients also receive oral temozolomide and undergo radiotherapy one hour later on days 1-5 of weeks 1-6.

MAINTENANCE COURSES: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5 in courses 1-6. Patients also receive cilengitide IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of cilengitide (3 Pre-defined study dose levels are defined as: 500, 1000 and 2000mg). The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 3 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. If no MTD (maximum tolerable dose) is defined through three steps of the dose escalation process, we will pursue the phase II safety/efficacy study with randomized treatment allocation. Patients will be randomized into one of two pre-specified treatment dosage arms, 500mg group or 2000mg group.

PHASE II:

Patients are stratified according to age (50 and under vs over 50), Karnofsky performance score (60%-80% vs 90%-100%), and tumor status (measurable vs nonmeasurable). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive radiotherapy and temozolomide as in safety run-in initiation course and cilengitide at the lower dose as in safety run-in initiation and maintenance courses.

ARM II: Patients receive radiotherapy and temozolomide as in safety run-in initiation course and cilengitide at the higher dose as in safety run-in initiation and maintenance courses.

Patients are followed every 2 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 9-112 patients (9-18 for safety run-in and 94 \[47 per treatment arm\] for phase II) will be accrued for this study within 1.5-37 months