Real-world Evaluation of the HistoSonics Edison System for Treatment of Liver Tumors Across Multidisciplinary Users (BOOMBOX: Master Study)
The goal of this observational study is to collect information on the use of the HistoSonics Edison System for the treatment of liver tumors. The main aim is to understand how different patient characteristics and procedural characteristics may affect histotripsy success at 36 hours post-histotripsy procedure. Sub-studies to the BOOMBOX: Master Study will investigate specific populations and/or clinical questions with more stringent enrollment criteria, standardized testing criteria, and/or follow-up schedule. Any participant enrolled in the BOOMBOX: Master Study that also qualifies for a sub-study may enroll in the sub-study in parallel; sub-studies will be described in separate sub-study protocols. The BOOMBOX: Master Study will collect information about participants before, during, and after the histotripsy treatment procedure. All participants will be followed per standard clinical follow-up based on each site's clinical practice for up to 5 years after the initial histotripsy procedure or until completion of their follow-up in a sub-study, whichever is longer.
Liver Neoplasms|Primary Liver Cancer|Secondary Liver Cancer|Tumor Liver|Benign Liver Tumor
DEVICE: HistoSonics Edison System
Histotripsy Technical Success, Histotripsy technical success, defined as completion of histotripsy on the target tumor(s) according to the histotripsy treatment plan, assessed by the treating physician on CT or MR imaging at ≤36 hours post-histotripsy treatment procedure. The histotripsy treatment plan will include identification of the intended complete or partial treatment of the tumor(s). The histotripsy treatment zone must provide target tumor coverage greater than or equal to the degree of treatment intended., ≤36 hours post-histotripsy treatment procedure
BOOMBOX: Master Study is an observational, single arm, non-randomized, prospective master study. Following histotripsy treatment of liver tumor(s), subjects will undergo imaging ≤36 hours post-histotripsy treatment procedure to determine histotripsy success. Subjects will then be followed per standard clinical follow-up as determined at each site with regular review of adverse event data for up to 5 years or until completion of their follow-up in a sub-study, whichever is longer.

As an observational study, the master protocol does not direct the use of the HistoSonics Edison System towards any specific clinical intent or any specific disease state. Rather, it will uniformly enroll patients and capture real-world standard-of-care data on the usage of the HistoSonics Edison System as implemented by the treating physician on all subjects treated with histotripsy that meet the study criteria and agree to participate in the study. Sub-studies to the master protocol will investigate specific populations and/or clinical questions with more stringent enrollment criteria, standardized testing criteria, and/or follow-up schedule. Any subject enrolled in the master study who also qualifies for a sub-study may enroll in the sub-study in parallel to the master study.