Tecemotide Following Concurrent Chemo-radiotherapy for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, Phase 3 trial in subjects with unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have demonstrated either stable disease or objective response following primary concurrent chemo-radiotherapy (CRT), comparing overall survival (OS) time in subjects treated with tecemotide versus subjects treated with tecemotide-matching placebo.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Tecemotide|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide (CPA)|DRUG: Saline (sodium chloride)
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as the time (in months) from randomization to death. Data has been presented in terms of number subjects who died and number of censored subjects., Time from date of randomization until death, assessed maximum up to 16 months
Time to Symptom Progression (TTSP), TTSP was measured from date of randomization to date of disease progression (defined based on RECIST v1.1), using the lung cancer symptom scale (LCSS), a validated questionnaire consisting of an observer scale and a subject scale used to specifically measure symptom changes relevant to quality of life (QoL) for individuals undergoing treatment for lung cancer. Subject scale was used as a tool to determine TTSP. It was a 9-item questionnaire used to document subject-reported outcomes for a variety of lung cancer associated symptoms. The average symptomatic burden index (ASBI) was used to determine differences in the treatment groups. ASBI was the mean of the 6 symptom scores derived from the LCSS questionnaire. Symptom progression was defined as an increase (worsening) of the ASBI score of 10% of the scale breadth (10 mm on a scale of 0-100 mm) from the baseline score on at least 2 consecutive assessments during the period when assessments are performed every 3 weeks and every 6 weeks., Time from date of randomization until progressive disease (PD), assessed up to 16 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from date of randomization until date of the first documentation of PD or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD, whichever occurred first. PFS was assessed as per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (SLD), taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. Subjects without event were censored on the date of last tumor assessment., Time from date of randomization until PD or death, assessed up to 16 months|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP was measured from the date of randomization to the date of tumor progression. Date of tumor progression was date of radiological diagnosis of PD, performed as per RECIST 1.1. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression. For participants alive without tumor progression at time of analysis, the time between date of randomization and date of last trial treatment was calculated and used as a censored observation in the analysis. Subjects dying from causes other than PD was censored at time of death., Time from date of randomization until PD, assessed up to 16 months|Number Subjects With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Serious TEAEs, National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC)Grade 3/4 TEAEs, TEAEs Leading to Permanent Discontinuation, TEAEs Leading to Death, Injection Site Reactions (ISRs), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any new untoward medical occurrences/worsening of pre-existing medical condition, whether or not related to study drug. A serious TEAE was an AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs occurred between the first dose of study drug and up to 42 days after the last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. Number of Subjects With TEAEs, Serious TEAEs, NCI-CTC Grade 3/4 TEAEs, TEAEs Leading to Permanent Discontinuation, TEAEs Leading to Death, and ISRs were reported., Time from first dose up to 42 days after the last dose of the trial treatment: assessed maximum up to 16 months
This is a multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized, Phase 3 trial in subjects with unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who have demonstrated either stable disease or objective response following primary concurrent chemo-radiotherapy (CRT), comparing overall survival (OS) time in subjects treated with tecemotide versus subjects treated with tecemotide-matching placebo.