Study on Single-cell Regulons Atlas of Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma
The first purpose of this study is to reveal the gene regulatory network of pancreatic cancer by analyzing single-cell transcriptome sequencing data and to draw a pancreatic cancer regulator map. In addition, bulk transcriptome sequencing data are combined to construct and verify the genetic prognostic model of pancreatic cancer regulators, providing clinical tools for accurate prognostic stratification and personalized treatment of pancreatic cancer patients. The second purpose of this study is to explore the molecular mechanism by which the key oncogene in the gene prognostic model promotes pancreatic cancer advance. New ideas and scientific basis are provided for finding potential molecular targets for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Thus, the investigators included a Tissue Microarray (TMA)-based cohort of 68 PDAC patient tissue samples. TMA was obtained from OUTDO BIOTECH (Shanghai, China). The study was approved by the institutional review board, and ethics document number is YB M-05-01.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC)|Molecular Prognostic Model|Regulons
Intensity of immunofluorescence staining, In this study, 68 pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma tissues were used to detect the gene expression by multiple immunofluorescence staining, From January 2019 to January 2024
The first purpose of this study is to reveal the gene regulatory network of pancreatic cancer by analyzing single-cell transcriptome sequencing data and to draw a pancreatic cancer regulator map. In addition, bulk transcriptome sequencing data are combined to construct and verify the genetic prognostic model of pancreatic cancer regulators, providing clinical tools for accurate prognostic stratification and personalized treatment of pancreatic cancer patients. The second purpose of this study is to explore the molecular mechanism by which the key oncogene in the gene prognostic model promotes pancreatic cancer advance. New ideas and scientific basis are provided for finding potential molecular targets for the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Thus, the investigators included a Tissue Microarray (TMA)-based cohort of 68 PDAC patient tissue samples. TMA was obtained from OUTDO BIOTECH (Shanghai, China). The study was approved by the institutional review board, and ethics document number is YB M-05-01.