Immediate Versus Deferred Androgen Deprivation Therapy,Goserelin for Recurrent Prostate Cancer After Radical Radiotherapy
This is a prospective, multicentre, open-labelled, randomized controlled trial comparing the efficacy of immediate versus deferred androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) using goserelin (Zoladex®) in men with recurrent prostate cancer after radical radiotherapy.

1100 patients will be accrued from participating Canadian Urological Oncology Group sites in an estimated time of 3 years. First analysis is planned for 7 years after study recruitment is completed.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Goserelin Acetate
Time to androgen independent disease (AID). AID is defined as the time from randomization to AID or last follow-up., Every 6 months
Time to complications of advanced malignancy (CAM) and number of CAMs experienced are secondary outcome measures., The time to CAM will be defined as the interval from randomization to the first CAM., Every 6 months|Quality of life, Measured at each 6 - month follow-up visit using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC)., Every 6 months|Cause Specific Survival., The following will be considered as endpoints in assessing cause-specific survival: (1) Death adjudicated as due to prostate cancer (2) Death due to complications of ADT, irrespective of the status of malignancy., Every 6 months|Overall survival, Defined as the time from randomization to the time of death (from any cause) or to the last follow-up., Every 6 months
Recurrent prostate cancer after radical radiation therapy is a common problem with often a long interval from biochemical failure to the time of symptomatic relapse. Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is the most commonly used intervention following radiation failure and currently is often started immediately after the recognition of biochemical failure in the absence of symptoms. ADT is associated with side effects that can impact on quality of life. It is unclear whether ADT reduces prostate-specific mortality. There is currently insufficient evidence on the timing of ADT with respect to prevention of prostate cancer death and quality of life and cost particularly for men with fast and slow prostate specific antigen (PSA) doubling times.

The general objective of the ELAAT trial is to determine the optimal timing of ADT in men with recurrent prostate cancer after radical radiotherapy.

Consenting patients who have undergone prior radical radiotherapy for prostate cancer and are now experiencing a recurrence will be screened for eligibility. If they are determined to be eligible, patients will be stratified according to PSA doubling time, pre-radiation Gleason Score, previous radical prostatectomy and clinical centre. After stratification, patients will be randomized to immediate versus deferred ADT based on the 1:1 ratio between the two arms.

Patients will be followed indefinitely and assessed formally at 6 month intervals after the date or randomization. Patients will be assessed for recurrent disease (biochemical failure), new primary cancer, complications of advanced malignancy, quality of life and overall survival.