Cognitive Behavioral Stress Management (CBSM) & Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to test a stress management program for men with early-stage prostate cancer.
Stress
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive behavioral stress management|BEHAVIORAL: Psychoeducational Control
Change in Perceived Stress Management Abilities as measured by the Measure of Current Status Questionnaire, The Measure of Current Status questionnaire is a 23-item questionnaire each scored on a range of 0-4. The total score ranges from 0-92 with the higher score corresponding to greater perceived abilities., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in post-traumatic event perceptions as measured by the Benefit Finding Scale questionnaire, The Benefit Finding Scale questionnaire is a 17-item measure capturing perception of a traumatic event (e.g., cancer diagnosis for participants) with each item scored on a scale of 1 to 5. The total score ranges from 17-85 with the higher score corresponding to greater perceived benefit., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in optimism as measured by the Life Orientation Test - Revised questionnaire, The Life Orientation Test - Revised questionnaire measures participant's optimism. The total score ranges from 0-24 with the higher score corresponding to greater levels of optimism., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in immune cell count, Immune cell count (including T-cell (Cluster of Differentiation (CD) 3+) and T-helper cells (CD 3+ CD 4+) will be evaluated from blood samples. Both values will be evaluated in count per cubic millimeter., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in immune cell percentage, Immune cell percentage (including T-cell (Cluster of Differentiation (CD) 3+) and T-helper cells (CD 3+ CD 4+) will be evaluated from blood samples. Both values evaluated in count per cubic millimeter over total cell count per cubic millimeter., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in natural killer cell percentage, Natural killer cell (CD56+CD3-) percentage is evaluated from blood samples. Values are evaluated in count per cubic millimeter over total cell count per cubic millimeter., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in natural killer cell count, Natural killer cell (CD56+CD3-) count is evaluated from blood samples. Values are evaluated in count per cubic millimeter., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in natural killer cell cytotoxicity as captured by activity percentage, Natural killer cell (CD56+CD3-) cytotoxicity is evaluated from blood samples. Cells are stimulated through exposure to a reactive cell line and the percentage of cells active are counted and divided by total cells present per cubic millimeter., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in ratio of natural killer cell cytotoxicity as captured by Lytic Index, Natural killer cell (CD56+CD3-) cytotoxicity is evaluated from blood samples. Cells are stimulated through exposure to a reactive cell line and quantified as the ratio of responsive to unresponsive cells required to kill 10% of the target cell line., Baseline, up to 18 months|Change in count of natural killer cell cytotoxicity as captured by Kinetic Lytic Index, Natural killer cell (CD56+CD3-) cytotoxicity is evaluated from blood samples. Cells are stimulated through exposure to a reactive cell line and incubated for four hours total. Kinetic lytic index is quantified as the count of targeted cells killed during incubation. An average count of these cells will be calculated., Baseline, up to 18 months
The purpose of this study is to test a stress management program for men with early-stage prostate cancer.