Study of Durvalumab and Tremelimumab as First-line Treatment in Patients With Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This is a randomized, open-label, multi-center, global, Phase III study to assess the efficacy and safety of durvalumab plus tremelimumab combination therapy and durvalumab monotherapy versus sorafenib in the treatment of patients with no prior systemic therapy for unresectable HCC. The patients cannot be eligible for locoregional therapy
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab (Regimen 1)|DRUG: Tremelimumab (Regimen 2)|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Durvalumab (Regimen 1)|DRUG: Durvalumab (Regimen 2)
Overall Survival (OS) - Treme 300 mg x1 Dose + Durva 1500 mg vs Sora 400 mg, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause, regardless of whether the participant withdrew from randomized therapy or received another anticancer therapy. Any participant not known to have died at the DCO date was censored based on the last recorded date on which the participant was known to be alive. If the last known date alive or if the date of death was after the DCO date, participants were censored at the DCO date. This primary outcome measure presents OS analysis of Treme 300mg x1 dose + Durva 1500 mg vs Sora 400 mg at the time of the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021)., From the date of randomization until death due to any cause, assessed up to the data cut-off date (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).
Overall Survival (OS) - Durva 1500 mg vs Sora 400 mg, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause, regardless of whether the participant withdrew from randomized therapy or received another anticancer therapy. Any participant not known to have died at the DCO date was censored based on the last recorded date on which the participant was known to be alive. If the last known date alive or if the date of death was after the DCO date, participants were censored at the DCO date. This secondary outcome measure presents OS analysis of Durva 1500 mg vs Sora 400 mg at the time of the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021)., From the date of randomization until death due to any cause, assessed up to the data cut-off date (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Overall Survival (OS) at 18, 24, and 36 Months After Randomization, Percentage of participants who were alive at fixed time points (18, 24, and 36 months) after randomization. The estimated percentage of survival along with the 95% confidence interval were calculated using Kaplan-Meier technique on the full analysis set., At 18, 24, and 36 months post-randomization. Assessed at the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021).|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1 \[RECIST 1.1\] using Investigator assessments) was defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of objective disease progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression, regardless of whether the patient withdrew from study treatment or received another anticancer therapy prior to progression. Progression (i.e., PD) was defined as a at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of TLs, taking as reference the smallest previous sum of diameters (nadir) - this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm from nadir., Tumor scans performed at baseline, every 8 weeks for the first 48 weeks following randomization, and every 12 weeks thereafter until RECIST 1.1-defined progression. Assessed up to DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months)|Time To Progression (TTP), TTP was defined as the time from randomization until objective tumor progression in the absence of death. If participants died without tumor progression, they were censored at the time of death., From the date of randomization until objective tumor progression, assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR (per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the Investigator) was defined as the number (%) of participants with at least 1 confirmed visit response of CR or PR until progression, or the last evaluable assessment in the absence of progression. Participants who go off treatment without progression, receive a subsequent therapy, and then respond will not be included as responders in the ORR. Complete response (ie., CR) was defined as disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) since baseline. Any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis diameter to \<10 mm. Partial response (ie., PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameter of TL, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From the date of randomization until objective tumor progression, assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Number (%) of participants with a Best Objective Response (BoR) of CR, PR, or SD. Complete response (ie., CR) was defined as disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) since baseline. Any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis diameter to \<10 mm. Partial response (ie., PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameter of TL, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. Stable disease (ie., SD) was defined as neither sufficient decrease in sum of diameters to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progression., From the date of randomization until objective tumor progression or date of death, assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Duration of Objective Response (DoR), Time from the date of first documented confirmed response (complete or partial response) until the first date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression. Complete response (ie., CR) was defined as disappearance of all target lesions (TLs) since baseline. Any pathological lymph nodes selected as TLs must have a reduction in short axis diameter to \<10 mm. Partial response (ie., PR) was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameter of TL, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., From the date of first documented response until the first date of documented progression or death, assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Overall Survival (OS) by PD-L1, Overall survival by baseline PD-L1 expression levels (positive vs. negative). PD-L1 expression level is based on the Tumor and Immune Cell Positivity (TIP) score method as: PD-L1 Positive (TIP ≥ 1%) or PD-L1 Negative (TIP \< 1%)., From the date of randomization until death due to any cause, assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|EORTC QLQ-C30 Time to Global Health Status/QoL Deterioration, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 30-item core quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30), which consists of 30 questions combined to produce a global health status/QoL scale. Higher scores indicate better health. A clinically meaningful deterioration is defined as a decrease in the score from baseline of ≥10. Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first clinically meaningful deterioration that is confirmed at a subsequent visit or death by any cause in the absence of a clinically meaningful deterioration, regardless of whether the patient discontinues study drug(s) or receives another anticancer therapy., At baseline and every 8 weeks for the first 48 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter until death or the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021), assessed up to approximately 46 months.|EORTC QLQ-HCC18 Time to Symptom (Abdominal Pain) Deterioration, EORTC 18-item hepatocellular cancer health-related quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-HCC18) is an 18-item questionnaire design used along with the 30-item EORTC QLQ-C30, which includes 8 symptom scales such as fatigue, jaundice, body image, nutrition, pain, fever, sex life and abdominal swelling. A high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problem. A clinically meaningful deterioration is defined as an increase in the score from baseline of ≥10. Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first clinically meaningful deterioration that is confirmed at a subsequent visit or death by any cause in the absence of a clinically meaningful deterioration, regardless of whether the patient discontinues study drug(s) or receives another anticancer therapy., At baseline and every 8 weeks for the first 48 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter until death or the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021), assessed up to approximately 46 months.|EORTC QLQ-HCC18 Time to Symptom (Shoulder Pain) Deterioration, EORTC 18-item hepatocellular cancer health-related quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-HCC18) is an 18-item questionnaire design used along with the 30-item EORTC QLQ-C30, which includes 8 symptom scales such as fatigue, jaundice, body image, nutrition, pain, fever, sex life and abdominal swelling. A high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problem. A clinically meaningful deterioration is defined as an increase in the score from baseline of ≥10. Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first clinically meaningful deterioration that is confirmed at a subsequent visit or death by any cause in the absence of a clinically meaningful deterioration, regardless of whether the patient discontinues study drug(s) or receives another anticancer therapy., At baseline and every 8 weeks for the first 48 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter until death or the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021), assessed up to approximately 46 months.|EORTC QLQ-HCC18 Time to Symptom (Abdominal Swelling) Deterioration, EORTC 18-item hepatocellular cancer health-related quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-HCC18) is an 18-item questionnaire design used along with the 30-item EORTC QLQ-C30, which includes 8 symptom scales such as fatigue, jaundice, body image, nutrition, pain, fever, sex life and abdominal swelling. A high score for a symptom scale/item represents a high level of symptomatology/problem. A clinically meaningful deterioration is defined as an increase in the score from baseline of ≥10. Time to deterioration is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of the first clinically meaningful deterioration that is confirmed at a subsequent visit or death by any cause in the absence of a clinically meaningful deterioration, regardless of whether the patient discontinues study drug(s) or receives another anticancer therapy., At baseline and every 8 weeks for the first 48 weeks and then every 12 weeks thereafter until death or the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021), assessed up to approximately 46 months.|Presence of ADA for Durvalumab, Number of participants with Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) response to Durvalumab. ADA positive post-baseline only was also referred to as treatment-induced ADA. Treatment-emergent ADA was defined as the sum of treatment-induced ADA and treatment-boosted ADA. Results are reported as number of participants with ADA responses to Durvalumab for each indicated category., Samples were collected on Day 1 (Week 0), Week 12 and at 3 months after the last dose of durvalumab. Assessed until the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021, to a maximum of approximately 46 months).|Presence of ADA for Tremelimumab, Number of participants with Anti-Drug Antibody (ADA) response to Tremelimumab. ADA positive post-baseline only was also referred to as treatment-induced ADA. Treatment-emergent ADA was defined as the sum of treatment-induced ADA and treatment-boosted ADA. Results are reported as number of participants with ADA responses to Tremelimumab for each indicated category., Samples were collected on Day 1 (Week 0), Week 12 and at 3 months after the last dose of tremelimumab. Assessed up to approximately 46 months after the first randomization.|Summary of Durvalumab Concentration Over Time, Blood sample were collected at pre-specified timepoints and Durvalumab concentrations in serum (ug/mL) were reported over time., To evaluate the PK of Durvalumab, samples were collected pre-dose at week 4 and week 12 and post-dose at week 12. Assessed at the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021).|Summary of Tremelimumab Concentration Over Time, Blood sample were collected at pre-specified timepoints and Tremelimumab concentrations in serum (ug/mL) were reported over time., To evaluate the PK of Tremelimumab, samples were collected at week 0 (post-dose), week 4, and week 12. Assessed at the final analysis DCO (27Aug2021).
The study population includes patients 18 years of age or older with advanced HCC, Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer stage B not eligible for locoregional therapy or stage C, and Child-Pugh A classification liver disease. Patients must not have received any prior systemic therapy for unresectable HCC.

Patients in all treatment arms may continue receiving their originally assigned treatment, at the Investigator's discretion, until progression

Patients in all arms with confirmed PD who, in the Investigator's opinion, continue to receive benefit from their assigned treatment and meet the criteria for treatment in the setting of PD may continue to receive their assigned treatment.

If a patient discontinues study drug(s) due to disease progression, the patient will enter survival follow-up. Patients who have discontinued treatment due to toxicity or symptomatic deterioration or who have commenced subsequent anticancer therapy, will have tumor assessments until confirmed PD and will be followed for survival