A Study of PTS100 in Primary HCC Patients
This study is being performed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of 30% PTS100 of total tumor volume as intra-tumoral injection therapy in primary Hepatocellular Carcinoma patients who are ineligible for operation or local regional therapy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Para-Toluenesulfonamide
Objective Response Rate (ORR), To evaluate the efficacy, measured by objective response rate (ORR) of pooled treatment groups based on the modified RECIST (mRECIST) criteria at concluding visit., 4-week post treatment
Local disease control rate (LDCR), Local disease control rate (LDCR) of pooled treatment groups based on the modified RECIST (mRECIST) criteria at concluding visit., 4-week post treatment|Time to treated tumor progression (TTTTP), Time to treated tumor progression (TTTTP) of pooled treatment groups, 4-week post treatment, then every 2 months follow up with imaging will be continued for 12 months|Three-year overall survival (OS), Three-year overall survival of pooled treatment groups, Time from first IP administration to patient death or to the date of 3 years after first IP administration|Time to tumor stage progression (TSP), Time to tumor stage progression of pooled treatment groups, Time from first IP administration to every 2 months follow up with imaging will be continued for 12 months|Difference in ORR between group 1 and group 2, Difference in ORR between 20% group and 30% group at concluding visit, 4-week post treatment|Difference in LDCR between group 1 and group 2, Difference in LDCR between 20% group and 30% group at concluding visit, 4-week post treatment|Difference in TTTTP between group 1 and group 2, Difference in TTTTP between 20% group and 30% group at concluding visit, 4-week post treatment to every 2 months follow up with imaging will be continued for 12 months|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events, Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Enrollment to 4-week post treatment|FACT-Hep quality of life score, To evaluate the health-related Quality of life, assessed by change in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep, version 4, Traditional Chinese). The FACT-Hep, version 4, Traditional Chinese Scale is a patient completed questionnaire consisting 45 items that assesses health related quality of life (HRQL) in HCC patients. The FACT-Hep, version 4, Traditional Chinese consists of the 27-item FACT-G assessing generic HRQL concerns and 18-item Hepatobiliary Subscale assessing disease-specific issues. Instrument scoring yields a range from 0 to 180 with higher scores representing better patient status. This questionnaire should be completed by patient prior to any procedures being performed at the visit, if possible. The form should then be checked by site staff for completeness., 4-week post treatment and every 2 months follow up will be continued for 12 months|EQ-5D-5L quality of life score, To evaluate the health-related Quality of life, assessed by change in EuroQol 5 dimensions 5 level (EQ-5D-5L). It comprises the same 5 dimensions (mobility, self care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression). Each dimension has 5 levels. However, this results have no arithmetic properties and should not be used as a cardinal score. This questionnaire should be completed by the patient prior to any procedure being performed at the visit, if possible. The form should then be checked by site staff for completeness., 4-week post treatment and every 2 months follow up will be continued for 12 months
BCLC stage B patients who are ineligible for operational or current locoregional therapy. Enrolled patients are assigned to 30% of total tumor volume. PTS100 is administrated via intratumoral injection. The required total dose is given in separate injection days, with maximal daily dose up to 10 mL at first IP administration, and is adjusted based on each patient's tolerability along the treatment. The treatment course lasts up to completion of the total dose, and the efficacy is evaluated 28 days afterwards.