Self-monitoring and Reminder Texts to Increase Physical Activity After Cancer: a Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial
Epidemiologic data consistently indicate that colorectal cancer survivors can improve their quality-of-life and prognosis by engaging in physical activity. This study aims to build on this epidemiologic work and translate the findings to inform and change patient behavior. The specific aims are to: (1) Develop a mobile technology physical activity intervention among colorectal cancer patients who have completed therapy. (2) Conduct a 3-month pilot randomized controlled trial utilizing mobile technology to increase physical activity among 40 men and women who have completed standard cytotoxic chemotherapy for primary stage I-III colorectal cancer at the UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center. Participants in the intervention arm will receive a Fitbit速 for self-monitoring, interactive text messages, and educational print materials; participants in the control arm will receive educational print materials at baseline and will be given a Fitbit速 after completion of the 3-mo. follow-up assessment.
Colon Cancer|Rectum Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Digital Health Physical Activity Intervention Group
Physical activity, Change in total physical activity assessed via ActiGraph GT3X+ accelerometers, 12-weeks
Fitbit wear time (# days with data / # days of observation), 12-weeks|Response to text messages (# of messages responded to / # of messages that asked for a response), 12-weeks|Quality-of-life (SF--36), 12-weeks|Colorectal cancer-specific quality-of-life (FACT-C), 12-weeks
Epidemiologic data consistently indicate that colorectal cancer survivors can improve their quality-of-life and prognosis by engaging in physical activity. This study aims to build on this epidemiologic work and translate the findings to inform and change patient behavior. The specific aims are to: (1) Develop a mobile technology physical activity intervention among colorectal cancer patients who have completed therapy. (2) Conduct a 3-month pilot randomized controlled trial utilizing mobile technology to increase physical activity among 40 men and women who have completed standard cytotoxic chemotherapy for primary stage I-III colorectal cancer at the UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center. Participants in the intervention arm will receive a Fitbit速 for self-monitoring, interactive text messages, and educational print materials; participants in the control arm will receive educational print materials at baseline and will be given a Fitbit速 after completion of the 3-mo. follow-up assessment.