Pathway of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome Relief After Surgery: a Feasibility Study
Currently, no standard exists for the treatment and management of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS)- a common disorder that affects patients who have had part of their bowel removed due to colorectal cancer. Decisions about which treatment patients receive is at the discretion of local clinicians, leading to a variation in both clinical practice and the outcomes of these patients. As a result, there is a need for research to assess what treatments are most effective in treating or managing LARS to establish a consensus and develop a treatment pathway in the UK. This study aims to assess the feasibility of undertaking such a trial utilising a novel 'trial within cohorts (TWiCs)' study design, with a view to informing the design of a full-scale trial.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
DEVICE: Sacral NeuroModulation|DEVICE: Trans-Anal Irrigation|OTHER: Optimised Conservative Management
Recruitment rate of to cohort arm of study, The total number of participants enrolled into the study over the recruitment period., 9 months|Assess characteristics of patients recruited to the cohort, We will record basic demographics, medical history and prevalence of relative symptoms of participants enrolled in the cohort study to describe the characteristics of no- minor- and major- LARS patients, 9 months|Prevalence of 'major LARS' in the patient cohort, The number of participants in the cohort that meet the criteria for 'major low anterior resection syndrome (LARS)', as measured by the LARS scoring tool. LARS scoring tool produces a score from 0 - 42, which represents the severity of symptoms, where 0 is least severe and 42 is most severe. Score =\>30 is considered 'major LARS'. LARS score will be measured at 5 times at 3-monthly intervals over 12 months., 12 months|Onset of 'major LARS' symptoms in relation to surgery, The time (in months) from resection surgery to onset of 'major LARS' symptoms, as reported by the LARS scoring tool., Time from surgery to onset of major LARS, up to 10 years.|Onset of 'major LARS' symptoms in relation to radiotherapy treatment, The time (in months) from completing radiotherapy treatment to onset of 'major LARS' symptoms, as reported by the LARS scoring tool., Time from ending radiotherapy treatment to onset of major LARS, up to 10 years.|Recruitment rate to randomised trial part of the study, The total number of cohort participants that are enrolled into the randomised trial part of the study, over the recruitment period., 9 months|Proportion of randomised participants that are allocated to each trial arm, The proportion of randomised participants that meet the criteria for, and are allocated to, each of the three trial arms (transanal irrigation; sacral neuromodulation; optimised conservative management)., 9 months|Describe variation in clinical practice across UK sites, Where possible, we will record patient's previous treatments and interactions with health services in relation to their bowel dysfunction symptoms. This will be used to describe the variation in UK clinical practice in terms of diagnosis, management and treatment pathways., Up to 10 years prior to recruitment|Compliance of participants to the study programme, The proportion of participants that complete and return follow-up questionnaires (four questionnaires at 3-month intervals)., 12 months|Adherence of participants to the treatment programme, The proportion of patients that continue to receive the treatment assigned to them at the end of the follow-up period., 12 months
Change in LARS score, LARS score will be measured at 5 time points (at 3-monthly intervals from baseline to 12 months) to assess severity of bowel dysfunction. Self-reported by participants using the LARS scoring tool (min 0, max 42) where higher score denotes greater severity of symptoms., 12 months.|Change in EuroQuol 5-Dimension Health-related Quality of Life instrument (5-level) (EQ-5D-5L), Patient-reported quality of life will be measured using the EuroQuol 5-Dimension Health-related Quality of Life instrument (5-level) (EQ-5D-5L) at 5 time-points (3-monthly intervals from baseline to 12 months). Quality of life total score will be calculated (min 5; max 25), where reduction in total score represents improvement in quality of life., 12 months|Change in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Colorectal Quality of Life Questionnaire, Quality of life will be self-reported by participants using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Colorectal Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-CR29) at 5 time-points (3-monthly intervals, from baseline to 12 months). Quality of life total score will be calculated (min 26; max 104) where reduction in total score represents improvement in quality of life., 12 months|Change in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire, Quality of life will be self-reported by participants using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30). This will be recorded at 5 time-points (3-monthly intervals, from baseline to 12 months). Total score will be calculated (min 30; max 128), where reduction in total score represents improvement in quality of life., 12 months|Change in medical outcome profile score, Measure Yourself Medical Outcome Profile (MYMOP) 2 will be used to record patient-reported medical outcome profile at 5 time-points (3-montly intervals from baseline to 12 months). Change in patient-reported severity (min 0; max 5) will be measured, where change ≥ 1.0 is considered clinically significant., 12 months|Patient-reported adverse events, We will record any adverse events reported by randomised patients in relation to each of the treatments they receive, which impairs their adherence to the study protocol, treatment programme or safety., 12 months|LARS treatment history, Treatments offered to manage individual patient's LARS symptoms will be recorded, along with duration of treatment and reasons for stopping. This will be used to support the description of standard care variation and patient characteristics., 12 months
Rectal cancer (cancer of the lower part of the bowel) is one of the most prevalent forms of cancer, and affects approximately 14,000 people each year in the UK. The treatment for the majority of these patients is surgical removal of the affected part of the bowel, following which the bowel is joined back together. Some patients may also require chemotherapy and radiotherapy. One consequence of the treatment of bowel cancer is a severe form of bowel dysfunction called major Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS).

LARS is a constellation of symptoms including incontinence to stool, urgency and frequency of bowel movements and incomplete evacuation; it is diagnosed using the LARS scoring tool. Major LARS can have a huge impact on the persons quality of life resulting in social isolation. Currently there are no guidelines for the management of LARS. The aim of the POLARiS study is to investigate three different treatments for major LARS; optimised conservative management, a combination of diet, medication, bowel retraining and pelvic floor exercises; transanal irrigation, washing out the back passage of stool with warmed water; and sacral nerve stimulation where an electrical impulse delivered to the sacral nerve to help with bowel function. This feasibility study aims to test the study design ahead of a larger fully powered randomised control trial. The study will firstly recruit any consenting adult who has had surgery for rectal cancer (called an anterior resection) and who does not have a stoma, into a cohort and then follow up those patients every 3 months with bowel function and quality of life assessments. Any patient found to have major LARS (LARS score over 30) will be invited into the randomised control trial where the above three treatments will be tested.