Intervention for Human Papillomavirus Vaccine Acceptance in Mexican Mothers
Randomized clinical trial with two groups, with a test-retest model, with single-blind approach, using a probabilistic sampling and the population was mothers of girls aged 9 to 12 years from a public elementary school in the state of Puebla. The objective was to determine the effect of the intervention "Vaccine for HPV Prevention" aimed at the acceptance of the HPV vaccine in mothers of girls aged 9 to 12 years old in the urban area of the State of Puebla.
Papillomavirus Infections|Papillomavirus Vaccines
BEHAVIORAL: HPV Prevention Vaccine|OTHER: Placebo
knowledge of HPV, To measure knowledge of the HPV vaccine, the valid and reliable questionnaire designed by Xolocotzi, Marín, Gómez \& Valenzuela (2011), applied in the Mexican context, was used. For the purposes of this study only dimension four called prevention, diagnosis and treatment was used, consisting of 8 items (28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 33, 33, 34 and 35), with a dichotomous response pattern of true and false. The result translates into, the greater the number of correct answers, the greater the knowledge of the HPV vaccine, the reliability of the instrument was through the Kuder-Richardson 20 coefficient, obtaining an rtt = .833., 3 months|Positive and negative beliefs about HPV and the vaccine, A valid and reliable instrument, adapted to the Mexican context, was used to measure the factors that influence the acceptance or refusal of the HPV vaccine in mothers of girls. It consists of 40 questions grouped into six dimensions: general information about HPV (items 9-15, Cronbach's alpha .60); beliefs about HPV and the vaccine (items 16-31, alpha .58); information mechanisms (items 1-8, alpha .80); perceived benefits (items 20-22, alpha .74); barriers (items 23-26, 39-40, alpha .74); and acceptance of the vaccine (items 32-38, alpha .90). Responses are presented on a dichotomous scale (Yes/No) or in a four-point Likert format (1=strongly disagree, 4=strongly agree). The results are standardized on a 100-point scale, where higher values reflect greater knowledge, perceived benefits or acceptance of the vaccine. Overall, the instrument has a Cronbach's Alpha of .70, indicating acceptable internal reliability., 3 months|Acceptance of the human papillomavirus vaccine, A valid and reliable instrument, adapted to the Mexican context, was used to measure the factors that influence the acceptance or refusal of the HPV vaccine in mothers of girls. It consists of 40 questions grouped into six dimensions: general information about HPV (items 9-15, Cronbach's alpha .60); beliefs about HPV and the vaccine (items 16-31, alpha .58); information mechanisms (items 1-8, alpha .80); perceived benefits (items 20-22, alpha .74); barriers (items 23-26, 39-40, alpha .74); and acceptance of the vaccine (items 32-38, alpha .90). Responses are presented on a dichotomous scale (Yes/No) or in a four-point Likert format (1=strongly disagree, 4=strongly agree). The results are standardized on a 100-point scale, where higher values reflect greater knowledge, perceived benefits or acceptance of the vaccine. Overall, the instrument has a Cronbach's Alpha of .70, indicating acceptable internal reliability., 3 months
Acceptability of human papillomavirus vaccine, Mothers should increase their intention to vaccinate their daughters against the human papillomavirus (HPV) with the bivalent or quadrivalent vaccine by approaching their nearest health centers. The impact of this intervention will be measured through vaccination application rates, calculated based on attendance lists from the educational institutions involved. The vaccination rate will be determined by dividing the number of vaccinated students by the total number of eligible students listed in these institutions., 12 months
Introduction: Human papillomavirus is a serious health problem worldwide, being immunization the viable prevention strategy to combat the infection, however, there is a low acceptance of the vaccine in mothers to immunize their daughters, derived from social, economic, cultural and educational aspects. Objective: To determine the effect of the intervention "Vaccine for HPV Prevention" aimed at the acceptance of the HPV vaccine in mothers of girls aged 9 to 12 years old in the urban area of the State of Puebla. Methodology: Randomized clinical trial with two groups, with a test-retest model, with a single-blind approach, a probabilistic sampling was used and the population was 10 mothers of girls from 9 to 12 years old from a public elementary school in the state of Puebla.