Prehabilitation During Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy for Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is determine whether a trimodel prehabilitation program (combined with physical exercise, nutrition supplement and mental support) during neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy can help patients with rectal cancer to achieve better postoperative outcomes include perioperative complication rate, functional outcomes and quality of life.
Rectal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Physical exercise|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutrition supplement|BEHAVIORAL: Mental support
Functional outcome, Walking capacity measured by 6-minute walking distance (6MWD), at baseline, before surgery, 4 weeks and 8 weeks after surgery
perioperative complication, measured by comprehensive complication index (CCI), recorded from the day of surgery to 30 days after surgery|Nutrition status, measured by BMI and SMI, at baseline, before surgery, 4 and 8 weeks after discharge|Patient-reported outcome measures, using SF-36, at baseline, before surgery and 30days after discharge|immune function markers, specific immnue cells like CD4/CD8, cytokines, peripheral blood test., at baseline, before surgery, 4 and 8 weeks after discharge
This study is a prospective, single-center, randomized control trial. Including criteria were (1) Age between 18 and 80 years; (2) Histologically confirmed rectal adenocarcinoma；(3) Performance status (ECOG) 0-2; (4) Undergoing/scheduled for neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy lasting at least 4 weeks. (5) Fried frailty score ≥2. Patients operated as emergency, pregnant or with comodities constraining physical exercise or causing disturbance of consciousness are excluded.

All particapants were recruited and randomly assigned to receive trimodel prehabilitation program or standard care. All patients were treated with an ERAS protocol. The primary end-point is postoperative complications within 30 days. Complications were diagnosed and classified according to the Clavien-Dindo classification and comprehensive complication index was calculated. The secondary end-points were functional walking capacity, hospital length of stay, nutrition status, patient-reported health related quality of life and immune function markers. The study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. Written informed consent was obtained for patients to participate the study. This study followed the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) reporting guideline.