Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (MK-2870) Versus Pemetrexed and Carboplatin Combination Therapy in Participants With Epidermal Growth Factor (EGFR)-Mutated, Advanced Nonsquamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Who Have Progressed on Prior EGFR Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors (MK-2870-009)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate sacituzumab tirumotecan versus pemetrexed in combination with carboplatin for the treatment of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-mutated advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Participants in this study have NSCLC that has continued to progress on prior treatment with EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs).

The primary hypotheses of this study are that sacituzumab tirumotecan is better than platinum-based doublet chemotherapy (pemetrexed and carboplatin) in regard to progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab tirumotecan|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: H1 Receptor Antagonist|DRUG: H2 Receptor Antagonist|DRUG: Acetaminophen (or equivalent)|DRUG: Dexamethasone (or equivalent)|DRUG: Steroid Mouthwash (dexamethasone or equivalent)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-Free Survival is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) based on blinded independent central review (BICR) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PFS for all randomized participants will be reported., Up to approximately 51 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Overall survival for all randomized participants will be reported., Up to approximately 51 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The objective response rate (ORR) is defined as a confirmed complete response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or partial response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR. The overall response rate for all randomized participants will be reported., Up to approximately 51 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR, duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions., Up to approximately 51 months|Change from Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status (Item 29) and Quality of Life (Item 30) Combined Score, The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the Global Health Status (GHS) question "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" (Item 29) and the Quality of Life (QoL) question "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" (Item 30) are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates a better level of function. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|Change From Baseline in the Dyspnea (Item 8) Score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a cancer specific health-related quality-of life (QoL) questionnaire. Participant responses to the question "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates increased severity of symptoms. Change from baseline in dyspnea (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8) will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|Change from Baseline in the Cough (Item 31) Score, on the EORTC Lung-Cancer specific Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ-LC13), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates increased severity of symptoms. Change from baseline in cough (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31) will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|Change from Baseline in the Chest Pain (Item 40) Score, on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher value indicates increased severity of symptoms. Change from baseline in chest pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40) score will be presented., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30) Combined Score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to Items 29 and 30 ("How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?") are scored on a 7-point scale (1=Very Poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. TTD in Global Health Status (GHS)/Quality of Life (QoL) is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease from baseline in combined GHS/QoL score. The TTD in GHS/QoL (Items 29 and 30) combined score will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|TTD in the Dyspnea (Item 8) Score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30, EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire developed to assess the QoL of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question for Item 8 "Were you short of breath?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease from baseline in score. The TTD in dyspnea score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8) will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|TTD in the Cough (Item 31) Score, on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question for Item 31 "How much did you cough?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease from baseline in score. The TTD in cough score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 31) will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|TTD in the Chest Pain (Item 40) Score, on the EORTC QLQ-LC13, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 is a lung cancer-specific supplemental questionnaire used in combination with the EORTC QLQ-C30. Participant responses to the question for Item 40 "Have you had pain in your chest?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. TTD is defined as the time from baseline to the first onset of a ≥10-point decrease from baseline in score. The TTD in chest pain score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 40) will be reported., Baseline and up to approximately 6 years|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who experience one or more AEs will be reported., Up to approximately 6 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. The number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be reported., Up to approximately 6 years
Participants will be randomized 1:1 into two arms:

* Sacituzumab tirumotecan
* Pemetrexed plus Carboplatin

Participants will receive treatment until any of the criteria for discontinuation of study intervention are met.