Hormone Therapy Plus Radiation Therapy With or Without Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Hormones can stimulate the production of prostate cancer cells. Hormone therapy may fight prostate cancer by reducing the production of androgens. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to damage tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known whether hormone therapy plus radiation therapy is more effective with or without combination chemotherapy for prostate cancer.

PURPOSE: Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of hormone therapy plus radiation therapy with or without combination chemotherapy in treating patients who have prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: bicalutamide|DRUG: estramustine phosphate sodium|DRUG: etoposide|DRUG: flutamide|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone [LHRH] agonist|RADIATION: Radiation therapy|DRUG: warfarin
Overall Survival (5-year Rate Reported), Survival time is defined as time from randomization to date of death from any cause and is estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. Patients last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact. This analysis was planned to occur when all patients had been potentially followed for 5 years., From the date of randomization to the date of death or last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 5 years.
Rate of Biochemical Failure at 5 Years, Biochemical failure uses the American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) definition of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) rises on three consecutive occasions, with biochemical failure date being midway between the last non-rising PSA and the first rise in PSA. Time to biochemical failure is defined as time from randomization to biochemical failure, last known follow-up (censored), or death (competing risk). Biochemical failure rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method., From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 5 years. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 13.3 years.|Rate of Local Progression at 5 Years, Local progression is defined as documented clinical local and/or regional progression. Time to local progression is defined as time from randomization to local progression, last known follow-up (censored), or death (competing risk). Local progression rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method., From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 5 years. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 13.3 years.|Rate of Distant Metastasis at Five Years, Distant metastasis (DM) is defined as documented metastatic disease. Time to distant metastasis is defined as time from randomization to distant metastatic disease, last known follow-up (censored), or death (competing risk). Distant metastasis rates are estimated using the cumulative incidence method., From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 5 years. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 13.3 years.|Disease-free Survival Rate at 5 Years, Disease-free survival (DFS) was measured from the date of randomization to the date of documentation of progression (local, distant, biochemical failure), death, or last follow-up (censored). The Kaplan-Meier method was used to estimate DFS rates., From randomization to last follow-up. Analysis occurs after all patients have been potentially followed for 5 years. Maximum follow-up at time of analysis was 13.3 years.
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the efficacy of androgen suppression and radiotherapy with or without subsequent paclitaxel, estramustine, and etoposide, in terms of overall and disease-free survival, biochemical and local control, and freedom from distant metastasis, in patients with localized high-risk prostate cancer.
* Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to prostate-specific antigen level (≤ 10 ng/mL vs 11-100 ng/mL), tumor stage (T1-2 vs T3-4), Gleason score (7 vs 8-10), and prior hormone use (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to one of two treatment arms.

All patients receive androgen suppression comprising a luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist AND bicalutamide OR flutamide for 4 months. Beginning 8 weeks after the initiation of androgen suppression, all patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 7-8 weeks. Patients who received prior androgen suppression therapy count time to radiotherapy from start date of prior hormonal therapy.

* Arm I: Patients continue androgen suppression therapy (LHRH agonist only) for approximately 20 more months after radiotherapy is completed.
* Arm II: Patients continue therapy as in arm I and receive chemotherapy beginning 28 days after completing radiotherapy. Chemotherapy comprises oral estramustine 3 times daily and oral etoposide twice daily on days 1-14 and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on day 2. Chemotherapy repeats every 21 days for 4 courses.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 1,440 patients will be accrued for this study within 6 years.