A Study of Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (Sac-TMT, MK-2870) as Monotherapy and in Combination With Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Participants With Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (MK-2870-011/TroFuse-011)
Researchers want to know if sacituzumab tirumotecan given alone or with pembrolizumab can treat triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The main goal of this study is to learn if people treated with sacituzumab tirumotecan alone or with pembrolizumab live longer overall or without the cancer growing or spreading compared to people treated with chemotherapy.
Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab tirumotecan|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Rescue Medication|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Carboplatin
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) (sac-TMT versus treatment of physician's choice (TPC); sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) based on blinded independent central review (BICR) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD., Up to ~37 months|Overall Survival (OS) (sac-TMT versus TPC), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~61 months
Overall Survival (OS) (sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus treatment of physician's choice (TPC); sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus sac-TMT), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~61 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) (sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus sac-TMT), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD., Up to ~37 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR., Up to ~37 months|Duration of Response (DOR), For participants who demonstrate a confirmed Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR, DOR is defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until progressive disease (PD) or death, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD., Up to ~37 months|Change from baseline in global health status/quality of life scores, on the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status., Baseline and up to ~61 months|Change from baseline in physical functioning score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30 (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions about their physical functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better level of physical functioning., Baseline and up to ~61 months|Change from baseline in emotional functioning score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30 (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions about their emotional functioning are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better level of emotional functioning., Baseline and up to ~61 months|Change from baseline in fatigue score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30 (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to questions about their fatigue are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better level of function., Baseline and up to ~61 months|Change from baseline in diarrhea score, on the EORTC QLQ-C30 (sac-TMT versus TPC; sac-TMT plus pembrolizumab versus TPC), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the question "Have you had diarrhea?" are scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A lower score indicates a better level of function., Baseline and up to ~61 months|Number of participants who experience one or more adverse events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~61 months|Number of participants who discontinue study treatment due to an AE, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~61 months
Researchers want to know if sacituzumab tirumotecan given alone or with pembrolizumab can treat triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). The main goal of this study is to learn if people treated with sacituzumab tirumotecan alone or with pembrolizumab live longer overall or without the cancer growing or spreading compared to people treated with chemotherapy.