The Effects of Two Different Ventilation Strategies on Lung Ventilation: An Ultrasonographic Evaluation.
This study will be performed in robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy patients in Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty Monoblock Operating Room. Since robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is a surgical procedure which requires long-term mechanical ventilation, excessive trendelenburg position (30-45 °) and pneumoperitoneum; these interventions may lead to respiratory complications such as ventilation difficulty and aeration loss in patients. Nowadays, lung ultrasonography has been used in anesthesia practice and intensive care units in order to determine lung aeration loss. In this study, the investigators aimed to compare the possible aeration loss in lung parenchyma during pressure controlled ventilation and volume controlled ventilation which are frequently used in anesthesia practice in patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Pressure Controlled Ventilation|OTHER: Volume Controlled Ventilation
The difference between LUS Scores at T5 in patients ventilated with VCV and PCV, Lung Ultrasonography will be applied to patients after surgery in the recovery room at T5. Two different groups' LUS scores will be calculated and compared., (T5) 60 minutes after patients come to the recovery room.
The difference between LUS Scores at T2 in patients ventilated with VCV and PCV, Lung Ultrasonography will be applied to patients after intubation. Two different groups' LUS scores will be calculated and compared., (T2) 5 minutes after intubation|The difference between LUS Scores at T3 in patients ventilated with VCV and PCV, Lung Ultrasonography will be applied to patients at Trendelenburg position after the surgical prosedure is finished. Two different groups' LUS scores will be calculated and compared., (T3) 5 minutes after the surgical procedure is finished|The difference between LUS Scores at T4 in patients ventilated with VCV and PCV, Lung Ultrasonography will be applied to patients at supin position after the surgical prosedure is finished. Two different groups' LUS scores will be calculated and compared., (T4) 5 minutes after taking the patient to supin position
This study will be performed in robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy patients in Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty Monoblock Operating Room. Since robot-assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy is a surgical procedure which requires long-term mechanical ventilation, excessive trendelenburg position (30-45 °) and pneumoperitoneum; these interventions may lead to respiratory complications such as ventilation difficulty and aeration loss in patients. Nowadays, lung ultrasonography has been used in anesthesia practice and intensive care units in order to determine lung aeration loss. In this study, the investigators aimed to compare the possible aeration loss in lung parenchyma during pressure controlled ventilation and volume controlled ventilation which are frequently used in anesthesia practice in patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy.