Durvalumab and Lurbinectedin for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effects of durvalumab and lurbinectedin in treating patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer that has come back (relapsed) or has not responded to previous treatment with chemotherapy and immunotherapy (refractory). Monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Lurbinectedin is in a class of medications called alkylating agents. It works by slowing or stopping the growth of cancer cells in the body. Giving durvalumab and lurbinectedin may help kill more tumor cells and help patients live longer.
Platinum-Resistant Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Platinum-Sensitive Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Refractory Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Lurbinectedin
6-month survival rate (Group 1), The proportion of successes for 6-month overall survival (OS) rate will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the exact binomial method., At 6 months|6-month progression-free survival rate (Group 2), The proportion of successes for 6-month PFS rate will be estimated by the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Ninety percent confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated according to the exact binomial method., At 6 months
Response rate, Proportion of patients with a confirmed tumor response per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) and Immune (i)RECIST criteria. Response rate and 90% confidence intervals will be reported or each treatment group separately., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Medians and 90% confidence intervals will be reported for each treatment group separately., From registration to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS), OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan Meier. Medians and 90% confidence intervals will be reported for each treatment group separately., From registration to death from any cause, assessed to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be monitored using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine AE patterns. AEs will be summarized separately for each treatment group., Up to 30 days post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate whether the combination of durvalumab with lurbinectedin can increase the 6-month progression-free survival in patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer who have progressed after initial combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy. (Group A and B)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the safety and adverse event profile of each treatment group in patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer who have progressed after initial combination of chemotherapy and immunotherapy.

II. To assess in a preliminary fashion antitumor efficacy of this approach by assessing overall survival, progression-free survival, and response rate for each treatment group.

CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVE:

I. Blood and tissue will be banked for future studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive durvalumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1 and lurbinectedin IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients without disease progression are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks until disease progression, and then every 3 months thereafter for up to 5 years from enrollment. After completion of study treatment, patients with disease progression are followed every 3 months for up to 5 years from enrollment.