Hypofractionated External-beam RadiOtherapy for Intact Cervical Cancer (HEROICC-Trial): A Feasibility Study
External radiation given in 25 fractions or so together with weekly chemotherapy and followed by 3 or 4 fractions of brachytherapy is the standard of care for patients with locally advanced cervical cancer.

This study investigates the role of shortened external radiotherapy regimen (hypofractionated radiotherapy) by randomizing patients to this experimental regimen versus the standard of care.The purpose of this study is to access the feasibility of patient accrual to this trial in the Canadian setting and to provide an initial evaluation of cancer response and treatment tolerability.
Cervical Cancer
RADIATION: External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) + High-dose rate (HDR) Brachytherapy Experimental|RADIATION: External beam radiotherapy (EBRT) + High-dose rate (HDR) Brachytherapy Standard of Care|DRUG: Concurrent Chemotherapy
Investigate the feasibility in the Canadian Health Care System, This trial aims to investigate its feasibility in the Canadian health care system. Feasibility will be defined as the ability to consent and randomize 48 patients over 3 years from date of site activation., 3 years
Tumour response based on imaging, Tumour response rate on Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) images will be graded as proposed in the EMBRACE 2 protocol, 3.5 years
Quality of Life (QoL) - Bowel and urinary quality of life as measured by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) questionnaire., QoL will be measured by the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) questionnaire. EPIC was initially created for assessment of QoL in patients with prostate cancers. This questionnaire was used in the NRG RTOG 1203 protocol (NCT01672892) and comprehensively assesses bowel function and bother (bowel summary domain) and urinary function, bother, incontinence and irritation/obstruction (urinary domain).

The EPIC questionnaire contains 32 questions measuring patient function. Each question has a response option ranging from 0 or 1 (best) to 3, 4, or 5 (worst). The responses then correlate to a scoring scale of 0 to 100, where 0 is the best and 100 is the worst. The values vary from 0 to 100 for each question. The scores can then be added to come up with an overall quality of life score., 8 years|Quality of Life (QoL) is measured by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) and Core 30 (QLQ-C30) QoL questionnaires, Two European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QoL questionnaires (Core 30 (QLQ-C30). QLQ-C30 is used for all cancers and has several symptom scales, five functional scales (physical, emotional, social, role, cognitive) and a global health status scale.

The QLQ-C30 responses are regarding function and symptoms are on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Also included are questions about overall health and quality of life. Responses are on a scale of 1 (very poor) to 7 (excellent)., 8 years|Quality of Life (QoL) - acute vaginal and sexual symptoms as measured by the cervical cancer module (QLQ-CX24), QoL will be measured by the cervical cancer module (QLQ-CX24). QLQ-CX24 includes cancer - and treatment - related items and symptoms regarding sexuality. Acute and late vaginal and sexual QoL will be assessed using the QLQ-CX24 vaginal and sexual domains respectively.

The QLQ-CX24 responses are regarding function and symptoms of sexual and vagina health. It is based on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much)., 8 years|Quality of Life (QoL) - late vaginal and sexual symptoms as measured by the cervical cancer module (QLQ-CX24), QoL will be measured by the cervical cancer module (QLQ-CX24). QLQ-CX24 includes cancer - and treatment - related items and symptoms regarding sexuality. Acute and late vaginal and sexual QoL will be assessed using the QLQ-CX24 vaginal and sexual domains respectively.

The QLQ-CX24 responses are regarding function and symptoms of sexual and vagina health. It is based on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much)., 8 years|Acute and late toxicity, This outcome is assessed by physicians during each follow-up appointment, and scored according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 (18). Clinically relevant toxicities of gastrointestinal, genitourinary, vaginal and non-specific general symptoms (i.e. fatigue, malaise and pain) will be collected. Hematological disorders will also be collected through weekly blood work checks. Acute toxicities will be collected at baseline, and then weekly during radiotherapy/chemoradiotherapy and at 3 months after completion of radiation. Late toxicities will be collected from 3 months after completion of radiation onwards until the end of follow-up., 3 years and 3 months|Assessment of cancer down staging throughout EBRT., To be assessed through volumetric comparison of gross tumor volume (GTV) and high risk clinical target volume (HR-CTV) contours in the pre-EBRT and brachytherapy MRI scans., 3 years|Progression-free survival, Defined as time from date of randomization to date of progression, date of death from any cause, or date of last follow-up, whichever occurs first. Cancer progression can be identified during physical exam, biopsy, or imaging of any kind., 8 years|Locoregional progression-free survival, Defined as time from date of randomization to date of locoregional progression, date of death from any cause, or date of last follow-up, whichever occurs first., 8 years|Metastasis-free survival, Defined as time from date of randomization to date of development of metastasis, date of death from any cause, or date of last follow-up, whichever occurs first., 8 years|Cervical cancer-specific survival, Defined as time from date of randomization to date of death attributed to cervical cancer, or date of last-follow-up, whichever occurs first., 8 years|Overall survival, Defined as time from date of randomization to date of death from any cause, or date of last follow-up, whichever occurs first., 8 years
External radiation given in 25 fractions or so together with weekly chemotherapy and followed by 3 or 4 fractions of brachytherapy is the standard of care for patients with locally advanced cervical cancer.

This study investigates the role of shortened external radiotherapy regimen (hypofractionated radiotherapy) by randomizing patients to this experimental regimen versus the standard of care.The purpose of this study is to access the feasibility of patient accrual to this trial in the Canadian setting and to provide an initial evaluation of cancer response and treatment tolerability.