Sorafenib, Gemcitabine, and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Unresectable and/or Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of sorafenib, gemcitabine, and capecitabine and to see how well they work in treating patients with unresectable and/or metastatic kidney cancer. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving sorafenib together with gemcitabine and capecitabine may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Objective Response for BAY 43-9006 in Combination With Gemcitabine and Capecitabine Evaluated by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 9 years
Median Number of Months of Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be measured from the time of the patient's initial best response (PR or CR) until documented progression., From the time of the patient's initial best response (PR or CR) until documented progression, assessed up to 9 years|Number of Participants Who Survived (Overall Survival), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from start of treatment to death from any cause., Up to 9 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of sorafenib administered in combination with gemictabine and capecitabine in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.

II. Determine the objective response rate for sorafenib in combination with gemictabine and capecitabine in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma.

III. Determine the duration of overall survival and progression free survival in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, non-randomized, phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive sorafenib\* orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8, and capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of sorafenib, gemcitabine, and capecitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. An additional 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

Note: \*Patients who complete at least 3 courses of treatment with objective response or stable disease but are deemed poor candidates for continued chemotherapy may continue treatment with sorafenib

PHASE II: Patients receive sorafenib 200mg orally twice a day on days 1-21, gemcitabine 750 mg/m2 intravenously on days 1 \& 8, and capecitabine 415 mg/m2 orally twice a day on days 1-14 of each 21 day cycle, as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I.

After completion of study treatment patients are followed periodically.