Melphalan and Stem Cell Transplant Before Total-Body Irradiation and Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Stage I-III Multiple Myeloma
In this study donor bone marrow transplantation is divided into a two step process to try to significantly reduce the side effects of the procedure yet still provide patients with multiple myeloma the benefits of this procedure
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: melphalan|PROCEDURE: autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|PROCEDURE: autologous bone marrow transplantation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|RADIATION: total-body irradiation|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: mycophenolate mofetil|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic allogeneic lymphocytes
PFS, The current study will be regarded as potentially efficacious if the observed 3-year PFS rate among all patients treated exceeds 30%. The Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimate of PFS will be used., From the date of transplant until the time of progression, relapse, death, or the date the patient was last known to be in remission, up to 3 years|Decrease in the short-term transplant-related mortality, Day 100 after allograft|Establish stable allogeneic engraftment (mixed or full donor chimerism), At day 56 after allografting
Overall survival, Estimated by the method of Kaplan and Meier. Confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 3 years|Relapse rate, Summarized using cumulative incidence estimates. Confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 3 years|Response rate, Confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 3 years|Ability to convert mixed to full donor chimerism with DLI, Confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate engraftment of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) identical peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) allografts given after conditioning with total-body irradiation (TBI) (200 cGy) and post-grafting immunosuppression with cyclosporine (CSP)/mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) in myeloma patients initially cytoreduced with high-dose melphalan.

II. To evaluate non-relapse mortality at day 100 post allografting. III. To evaluate the efficacy of this allografting strategy in terms of long-term progression free survival (PFS).

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive high-dose melphalan intravenously (IV) over 15-20 minutes on day -2.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo autologous bone marrow or PBSC transplantation (PBSCT) on day 0.

NON-MYELOABLATIVE CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Beginning 40-120 days after autologous transplant, patients undergo TBI on day 0.

TRANSPLANTATION: Patients undergo donor PBSCT on day 0.

IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients receive cyclosporine IV twice daily (BID) on days -1 and 0 and orally (PO) BID on days 1-80 with taper based on evaluation of disease response and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0-27.

POST-TRANSPLANTATION DONOR LYMPHOCYTE INFUSION (DLI): Beginning 4 weeks after immunosuppression, patients achieving persistent or progressive disease may undergo DLI over 30 minutes every 4 weeks for up to 3 treatments.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 3 years.