Evaluation of a Cardiovascular Active Prevention in Chronic Myeloid Leukemia on the Cardiovascular Morbi-mortality
According to the French National Cancer Institute, 35 000 new hematologic cancers are observed in France representing 10% of the new cancers. Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) is a cancer involving the bone marrow and blood cells, the median age at diagnosis is 53 years in the Western world. The prognosis is worse than many other cancers with net survival at 5 years of 26%.

Since the approval of imatinib, additional tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) have been approved by the European Medicine Agency, including the second-generation TKIs nilotinib, dasatinib, and bosutinib and the third-generation TKI ponatinib. Despite their effect on the evolution of CML, there is increasing of cardiovascular toxicities which can impact patient morbidity and mortality. The majority of the cardiovascular toxicities are associated with the second- and third-generation TKIs. Nilotinib and ponatinib cardiovascular toxicity including arterial and venous thromboembolism has decrease the benefit/risk ratio, 10% of patients treated with nilotinib 300 mg twice daily and 15.9% treated with 400 mg twice daily experienced a vascular complication including myocardial infarction /ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular accidents, or peripheral arterial disease. Regarding ponatinib, serious arterial occlusive adverse reactions occurred in 19% of patients.

In an attempt to reduce major adverse cardiovascular events MACE due to nilotinib and ponatinib, currently, then approach is driven by usual clinical practice without any robust published evidence. The investigators aim to perform a national clinical trial, multicenter, prospective, randomized, with two parallel comparative arms: experimental group with cardiovascular active prevention vs non active cardiovascular active prevention based on usual clinical practice. Our hypothesis is that active prevention of cardiovascular toxicities with optimal medical treatment improves the benefit-risk ratio in CML patients. The primary objective is Event Free Survival (EFS) at month 24.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML)
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Optimal medical treatment|COMBINATION_PRODUCT: usual clinical practice
Improvementof the Event Free Survival (EFS) rate in CML patients with an active and systematic prevention for cardiovascular risk., The Event Free Survival (EFS) is based on the analysis of the time to an event occurrence., 24 months
At admission eligible patients are proposed to participate. Written consent is signed after complete oral and written explanation of the protocol is signed.

The efficacity of the cardiovascular active prevention will be studied by comparing the rate of Event free Survival between patients in the Experimental Arm Versus usual Clinical practices

The duration of participation for a subject is equal to 2 years