Pemetrexed and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Relapsed Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma （PCNSL）
In this trial, we will treat relapsed PCNSL with temozolomide, pemetrexed. Our objective was to assess our treatment strategies' availability based on response rates, progression-free survival (PFS), median PFS, and toxicity.
Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: Pemetrexe|DRUG: Temozolomide
complete response (CR), Contrast MRI was performed to assess treatment response at 3-month interval for 2 years and thereafter every 6 months for next 3-5 years and then annually. The treatment response was reassessed according to International PCNSL Collaborative Group' criteria\[1\].

\[1\] Abrey LE, Batchelor TT, Ferreri AJ, Gospodarowicz M, Pulczynski EJ, Zucca E, et al. Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma. International Primary CNS Lymphoma Collaborative Group. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:5034-43., 2 years
Failure-free survival (PFS), Contrast MRI was performed to assess treatment response. PFS was defined as the time from initial diagnosis until disease progression. PFS and median PFS were analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit curve., 2 years|Toxicity, Toxicity was graded according to the Word Health Organization (WHO) classification.

For example:hematotoxicity,nausea,fatigue, abnormal liver function, alopecia, peripheral nerve damage, and constipation et al., 2 years|Overall response rate (ORR), The disease control rate,This is the equivalent to Overall response rate, was (CR+ PR+SD).CR:complete respons; PR:partial response; SD:stable disease., 2 years
The best reported outcomes of PCNSL treatment are high-dose methotrexate-based chemotherapy combined with whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT). Despite aggressive therapy, however, nearly 50% of patients will relapse within 24 months of diagnosis. Furthermore, the application of high-dose methotrexate-based regimen is complex, needing be hydrated, alkalified and detoxified, and treatment-related toxicity mortality is severe. In an attempt to improve upon these poor results and reduce treatment-related side effects, we will treat about 15-20 relapsed PCNSL patients who was fail in high-dose methotrexate-based chemotherapy. Our objective is to assess our treatment strategies' availability based on response rates, progression-free survival (PFS), median PFS, and toxicity.