Intrafractional Vaginal Dilation in Anal Cancer Patients Undergoing Pelvic Radiotherapy
A commercially available vaginal dilator set will be used as measuring device. The grading of vaginal stenosis will be determined as difference of the diameter of vaginal dilator to the baseline. A reduction of the diameter of \<20% is defined as vaginal stenosis Grade 1, a reduction of 20-35% as Grade 2, a reduction of \>35-49% as Grade 3 and a reduction \>/=50% as Grade 4. The investigators hypothesize that the rate of vaginal stenosis Grade 1 or higher 12 months after radiotherapy is lower in the group using extended vaginal dilation during radiotherapy (Arm A). Rates of vaginal stenosis of 50% have been observed in previous patient collectives and the investigators hypothesize that a reduction to 25% is possible in the experimental group.
Anal Cancer
DEVICE: special tampon with a diameter of 28mm|DEVICE: standard tampon with a diameter of 12-13mm
incidence and grade of vaginal fibrosis, during and after radiotherapy, clinical symptoms are assessed and graded, Up to 12 months after start of (chemo)radiotherapy
clinical symptoms and toxicity according to the CTC AE version 5.0. criteria, during and after radiotherapy, clinical symptoms are assessed and graded according to the CTC AE v5.0 criteria, weekly during radiotherapy, at each follow-up visit|clinical feasibility of daily use of a special tampon, daily assessment of the clinical feasibility of daily use of a special tampon, continously during radiotherapy|assessment of the compliance for the use of a vaginal dilatator, patients will be instructed to use a vaginal dilator 3 times a week, at each follow-up visit patients are asked about the frequency of vaginal dilator use, continously at every follow-up visit|assessment of quality of life, EORTC-QLQ30/-ANL27 questionnaires are used to assess quality of life, baseline, 6-8 weeks after and 6/12 months after finishing radiotherapy
The study is designed as a prospective, randomized, two-armed, single-center phase-II-trial. 60 patients will be included in the study. Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be randomized into one of the two arms, which differ only in the diameter of a tampon used for vaginal dilatation during treatment. All patients will receive standard (chemo)radiotherapy with a total dose of 45-50,4 Gy (single dose 1,8-2 Gy) to the pelvic and inguinal (if required) lymphatic drainage with a boost to the anal canal up to 54-60 Gy (single doses 1.8-2.2 Gy). The primary objective is the assessment of the incidence and grade of vaginal fibrosis 12 months after (chemo)radiotherapy for anal cancer depending on the extent of intrafractional vaginal dilatation. Secondary endpoints are clinical symptoms and toxicity according to the Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 5.0, assessment of clinical feasibility of daily use of a tampon for vaginal dilatation, assessment of the compliance for the use of a vaginal dilatator and quality of life assessed with the EORTC-QLQ30/-ANL27 questionnaires.