Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer Treated With ABLAtivE Stereotactic MRI-guided Adaptive Radiation Therapy
Ablative dose magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) guided hypofractionated radiation therapy delivered using daily adaptive dose planning has shown to improve overall survival, relative to patients receiving lower radiation doses, in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer, without increasing the rate of serious gastrointestinal toxicity. The next step is to determine how these results compare to chemotherapy alone.

This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial (2:1) comparing induction chemotherapy followed by ablative Stereotactic MR-guided on-table Adaptive Radiation Therapy (SMART) versus chemotherapy alone in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients. Overall survival outcomes at 2-years will be evaluated.
Pancreatic Cancer
RADIATION: MRIdian
Overall Survival (OS), To demonstrate superior 2-year overall survival from date of randomization in ablative MRIdian SMART versus no ablative MRIdian SMART in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients without disease progression after induction chemotherapy.

A Kaplan-Meier survival curve will be used to report the fraction of subjects living throughout the study, 2-years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), To demonstrate superior progression-free survival at 2 years from date of randomization in ablative MRIdian SMART therapy versus no ablative MRIdian SMART therapy in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients without disease progression after induction chemotherapy.

A Kaplan-Meier survival curve will be used to report percentage of patients living with pancreatic cancer without disease progression, 2-years|Local Control (LC), To compare local control at 2 years from date of randomization in ablative MRIdian SMART therapy versus no ablative MRIdian SMART therapy in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients without disease progression after induction chemotherapy.

A Kaplan-Meier curve will be used to report percentage of patients with local control of pancreatic cancer, 2-years|Regional Control (RC), To compare regional control at 2 years from date of randomization in ablative MRIdian SMART therapy versus no ablative MRIdian SMART therapy in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients without disease progression after induction chemotherapy.

A Kaplan-Meier curve will be used to report percentage of patients with regional control of pancreatic cancer, 2-years|Distant Metastasis Free Survival (DMFS), To compare distant metastasis free survival at 2 years from date of randomization in ablative MRIdian SMART therapy versus no ablative MRIdian SMART therapy locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients without disease progression after induction chemotherapy

A Kaplan-Meier survival curve will be used to report percentage of patients living with pancreatic cancer without distant metastasis, 2-years|Patient Reported Quality of Life (QoL) using EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, To determine changes in patient-reported quality of life in patients diagnosed with locally advanced pancreatic cancer randomized post-chemotherapy with no disease progression in both study groups.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 Scoring Manual will be followed for scoring.

The QLQ-C30 consists of 28 four-level Likert items (on a scale of 1 - "Not at all" to 4 - "Very much"), and two seven-level Likert items which are scored according to the EORTC scoring guidelines into the 15 domains (Overall health and quality of life on a scale of 1 - "Very Poor" to "7 - Excellent").

High scores in the 28 four-level Likert items indicate worse symptoms and health related QoL.

High scores in the two seven-level Likert items indicate better health and quality of life related QoL., 3-months, 12-months, 24-months|Patient Reported Quality of Life (QoL) using EORTC QLQ-PAN26 questionnaire, To determine changes in patient-reported quality of life in patients diagnosed with locally advanced pancreatic cancer randomized post-chemotherapy with no disease progression in both study groups.

The EORTC QLQ-C30 Scoring Manual will be followed for the supplemental QLQ-PAN26 module.

The QLQ-PAN26 consists of 26 four-level Likert items (on a scale of 1 - "Not at all" to 4 - "Very much") which are scored according to draft scoring procedures supplied by EORTC to obtain seven multi-item scale scores consisting of two to four items and nine single-item scores.

Higher scores indicate worse symptoms, function and health related QoL., 3-months, 12-months, 24-months|Treatment-related toxicity, To evaluate acute grade 3 or greater treatment-related toxicity (assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5) from randomization in patients diagnosed with locally advanced pancreatic cancer randomized post-chemotherapy with no disease progression in both study groups., 90 days
Ablative dose magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) guided hypofractionated radiation therapy delivered using daily adaptive dose planning has shown to improve overall survival, relative to patients receiving lower radiation doses, in patients with locally advanced pancreatic cancer, without increasing the rate of serious gastrointestinal toxicity. The next step is to determine how these results compare to chemotherapy alone.

This is a prospective, randomized controlled trial (2:1) comparing induction chemotherapy followed by ablative Stereotactic MR-guided on-table Adaptive Radiation Therapy (SMART) versus chemotherapy alone in locally advanced pancreatic cancer patients. Overall survival outcomes at 2-years will be evaluated.