Pediatric Behavioral Informatics to Prevent Cancer
The goal of this study is to do formative research which will lead ultimately to the development of a computer-based system called Tailored Information for Diet and Exercise or TIDE for short. TIDE will target energy balance behaviors to prevent the onset of obesity in children. The system will be used by physicians and parents/primary care givers in pediatric primary care practices with the aim of improving parent-pediatrician interactions related to counseling and anticipatory guidance on energy balance behaviors. The aim of this study is to develop a one-two page, paper-pencil proxy questionnaire that is used to query the parent of the child in the waiting room and assesses topic areas related to energy balance behaviors (EBB). The questionnaire will be referred to as the energy balance behaviors questionnaire (EBB-Q). This will require focus groups, cognitive testing of the questionnaire, and survey administration.
Obesity
sugar-sweetened beverages, Behavioral outcome measure of the amount of sugar-sweetened beverages consumed., one time point (baseline only)
BMI, weight status as defined by body mass index (BMI), one time point (baseline only)
Physical activity, amount of time spent in moderate or greater physical activity, one time point (baseline only)|fruit and vegetables, amount of fruit servings and vegetable servings consumed per day., one time point (baseline only)|screen time, amount of time spent watching television or recreational videos or computers, one time point (baseline only)
The goal of this study is to do formative research which will lead ultimately to the development of a computer-based system called Tailored Information for Diet and Exercise or TIDE for short. TIDE will target energy balance behaviors to prevent the onset of obesity in children. The system will be used by physicians and parents/primary care givers in pediatric primary care practices with the aim of improving parent-pediatrician interactions related to counseling and anticipatory guidance on energy balance behaviors. The aim of this study is to develop a one-two page, paper-pencil proxy questionnaire that is used to query the parent of the child in the waiting room and assesses topic areas related to energy balance behaviors (EBB). The questionnaire will be referred to as the energy balance behaviors questionnaire (EBB-Q). This will require focus groups, cognitive testing of the questionnaire, and survey administration.