Study of Selinexor Plus DRd for Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This is a single-arm, phase II, open-label trial to investigate the effects of selinexor (S) in combination with daratumumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (DRd) for first-line treatment of multiple myeloma (MM).

FDA has approved selinexor plus dexamethasone in multiple myeloma after four prior therapies, and DRd is also already approved by the FDA for multiple myeloma. This study will use all four (S-DRd) together to treat MM as an initial treatment.
Multiple Myeloma|Myeloma Multiple|Kahler Disease|Myeloma, Plasma Cell|Myeloma-Multiple|Myelomatosis|Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Selinexor|DRUG: Dexamethasone Oral|DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Complete Response Rate (CR), percentage of patients who had complete response. Complete response is when patients achieve a negative immunofixation on the serum and urine and who also have an appearance of a soft tissue plasmacytomas and achieve less than or equal to 5 percent (%) plasma cells in the bone marrow., 6 months|Stringent Complete Response Rate (sCR), percentage of patients who had stringent complete response. Patients with a stringent complete response in addition to the criteria that is required to have a complete response are required to have a normal free light chain ratio in the serum and absence of clonal cells in the bone marrow determined by either immunofluorescence or immunohistochemistry., 6 months|Safety of Selinexor plus DRd, frequency (incidence rate) of adverse effects, 3 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), percentage of patients who had either CR or sCR or very good partial response (VGPR) or partial response (PR)., 3 years|Time to Next Treatment (TTNT), the median interval between the date of study treatment initiation and the date of start of a new treatment, 3 years|Duration of Response, the median time from first documented evidence of PR, CR,or sCR to date of progression or death or last date of contact for patients who did not progress or die, 3 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), the median time from randomization until the date of disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), regardless of whether the subject withdraws from the assigned study treatment, 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), the median time from randomization until death due to any cause or date of last contact for alive patients, 3 years|Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), number of patients who had CR or sCR and had: absence of phenotypically abnormal clonal plasma cells from bone marrow aspirates using Adaptive Technologies NGS Platform, 3 years
Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable disease with high death rates as a result of developing resistance to treatments. Even with the advent of novel therapies, myeloma patients ultimately progress from frontline therapy. Common treatments include glucocorticoids, chemotherapy, proteasome inhibitors (PIs), Immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs), stem cell transplants, and radiation therapy. Optimal frontline therapy with deeper remissions translates to improved overall survival and progression free survival. The purpose of this study is to investigate and improve upon reported outcomes in the frontline setting.

Selinexor has shown potent anti-myeloma activity in preclinical models of MM and Phase 1, Phase 2 clinical studies as well as in a randomized phase 3 clinical trial called BOSTON. Selinexor was approved by the US FDA in July 2019 in combination with dexamethasone for the treatment of adult patients relapsed/refractory (RR) MM who have received at least four prior therapies and whose disease is refractory to at least two proteasome inhibitors, at least two immunomodulatory agents, and an anti-CD38 (anti-cluster of differentiation 38) monoclonal antibody. In June 2020, Selinexor was approved as a monotherapy by the FDA for adult patients with relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) after at least 2 lines of systemic therapy.

Treatment with combination therapies including daratumumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone has shown improvement in response rates, time to progression, and survival. Daratumumab is an approved CD38-directed cytolytic antibody used as a monotherapy for patients with heavily pre-treated MM, and in combination with lenalidomide and dexamethasone. The risk of death or disease progression was 44% lower and increased overall response rate (ORR) of 92.9% was observed in patients with newly diagnosed MM that received the triplet combination of daratumumab, lenalidomide, and dexamethasone (DRd) compared to lenalidomide and dexamethasone alone (Rd).

Tolerability of the DRd combination in patients was consistent between DRd and Rd treatments. The safety profile of DRd was shown to be consistent with known safety profiles of daratumumab and Rd. Higher rates of infections (upper respiratory tract infection and pneumonia) and neutropenia in DRd treated patients than in Rd treated patients were observed. However, grade 3 or 4 infections were similar between DRd and Rd treatment groups and were managed by standard of care. After exposure to DRd for a median of 34 months, no new safety concerns were observed in the extended follow-up of the POLLUX phase III study.

Preclinical data demonstrated that patient-derived MM cells were sensitized to the combination of Selinexor and daratumumab compared to the single agents. Clinical data demonstrate an ORR of 74% in patients with relapsed myeloma treated with Selinexor, daratumumab, and dexamethasone.

The rationale for the combination of Selinexor, lenalidomide, daratumumab, and dexamethasone (S-DRd) in the current study is based on the following: preclinical synergistic activities observed with Selinexor and dexamethasone, the preclinical activity of Selinexor combined with both lenalidomide and daratumumab; as well as the clinical experience of the combination of Selinexor and lenalidomide/dexamethasone can be safely combined with 92% ORR in patients with relapsed myeloma; and the combination of Selinexor and daratumumab/dexamethasone can also be safely combined with an ORR of 74%. There is an urgent need to induce more efficient, deeper and durable responses in patients with newly diagnosed MM.