Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation, Metformin Hydrochloride, and a Standardized Dietary Supplement in Treating Patients With Pancreatic Cancer That Cannot be Removed by Surgery
This pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of gemcitabine hydrochloride, nab-paclitaxel, metformin hydrochloride, and a standardized dietary supplement in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Metformin hydrochloride, used for diabetes, may also help kill cancer cells. Dietary supplements (curcumin, vitamin D, vitamin K2, vitamin K1, B-6, high selenium broccoli sprouts, epigallocatechin gallate, L-carnitine, garlic extract, genistein, zinc amino chelate, mixed toxopherols, ascorbic acid, D-limonene) can block different targets in the cancer cell simultaneously and may slow down cancer growth. Giving gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, and metformin hydrochloride with a dietary supplement may work better in treating patients with pancreatic cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Paclitaxel Albumin-Stabilized Nanoparticle Formulation|DRUG: Metformin Hydrochloride|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Therapeutic Dietary Intervention|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Feasibility of the combination of gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, metformin hydrochloride, and a dietary supplement, Feasibility is defined at 1 or fewer patients experiencing a dose limiting toxicity within the first 6 patients., Up to 24 months|Compliance of the combination of gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, metformin hydrochloride, and a dietary supplement (percent of patients who are fully compliant), The percent of patients who are fully compliant in the first week will be estimated with a 95% confidence interval. The compliance will be measured similarly for each course prior to study treatment discontinuation. The impact of less than full compliance (both during the lead-in period and during chemotherapy) on the biomarkers and outcome, and qualitatively study patient reasons and specific supplement patterns related to non-compliance will be explored., Up to 24 months|Toxicity of the combination of gemcitabine hydrochloride, paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, metformin hydrochloride, and a dietary supplement (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology for Adverse Events criteria version 4), Summarized using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology for Adverse Events criteria version 4. Tables will summarize the highest grade per patient that is possibly related to treatment, and the number of patients requiring dose modifications will also be presented., Up to 24 months
Progression-free survival, Evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 24 months|Overall survival, Evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 24 months|Time to treatment failure, Evaluated using the Kaplan-Meier methods., Up to 24 months
Analysis of biological correlates (Peripheral blood will be evaluated), Peripheral blood will be evaluated. Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize the baseline levels and the changes from baseline (i.e. after treatment) in order to examine whether observed patterns are consistent with hypothesized patterns., Up to 24 months|Quality of life, assessed using the FACT-G questionnaire, Standard descriptive methods will be used to summarize the baseline levels and the changes from baseline (i.e. after treatment) in order to examine whether observed patterns are consistent with hypothesized patterns., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the compliance, toxicity and feasibility of administering gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine), nab-paclitaxel (abraxane), metformin hydrochloride (metformin), and the dietary supplement (DS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the response rate associated with this combination therapy in pancreatic cancer patients.

II. To assess the progression-free survival and overall survival of all patients who start protocol therapy, and describe the outcomes based on measures of compliance during the lead-in week, and compliance with supplement during chemotherapy.

III. To collect and analyze peripheral blood and pre-treatment biopsy samples for an exploratory analysis of biological correlatives.

IV. To assess quality of life utilizing the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) questionnaire.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride and paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive metformin hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) starting day -6 and dietary supplement PO BID starting day -3. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months.