P53MVA and Pembrolizumab in Treating Patients With Recurrent Ovarian, Primary Peritoneal, or Fallopian Tube Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53 (p53MVA) and pembrolizumab work in treating patients with ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer that has come back (recurrent). Vaccines made from a gene-modified virus may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving p53MVA and pembrolizumab together may work better in treating patients with ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.
Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Fallopian Tube Carcinoma|Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Ovarian Carcinoma|Recurrent Platinum-Resistant Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Modified Vaccinia Virus Ankara Vaccine Expressing p53|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Number of Patients Achieving Complete or Partial Response, Clinical response was assessed using the modified irRECIST criteria. Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of all lesions, 2 consecutive observations, ≥ 4 wks apart; Partial Response (PR) - ≥50% decrease in tumor burden from baseline, 2 consecutive observations, ≥ 4 wks apart. Response = CR+PR., Up to 24 months
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. From initial treatment until progression or death. Progression is defined using Immune-related response criteria (irRECIST, irRC), as at least 25% increase in tumor burden compared with nadir (at any single time point) in two consecutive observations at least 4 wks apart., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. From the time of initial treatment until death from any cause., From start of the treatment until death, assessed up to 24 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical response was assessed using the modified irRECIST criteria. Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of all lesions, 2 consecutive observations, ≥ 4 wks apart; Partial Response (PR) - ≥50% decrease in tumor burden from baseline, 2 consecutive observations, ≥ 4 wks apart; Stable Disease (SD) - 50% decrease in tumor burden from baseline cannot be established, nor 25% increase compared with nadir. Clinical benefit = CR+PR+ stable disease \[SD\] \> 6 months., Up to 24 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess response rate (complete responses and partial responses) after treatment with p53MVA and pembrolizumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess median progression free survival (PFS), clinical benefit (complete response, partial response lasting \> 6 months), overall survival (OS), safety and tolerability.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate if the CD8+ T cell signal exceeds that detected in the single agent p53MVA trial.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53.

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3 weeks and modified vaccinia virus ankara vaccine expressing p53 subcutaneously (SC) every 3 weeks for up to 3 vaccines. Cycles with pembrolizumab repeat every 3 weeks for up to 49 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1-3 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter.