The Effect of an RBAC Supplement (BRM4) on NAFLD
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of Rice Bran Arabinoxylan Compound (RBAC) on outcome variables in persons with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This nutritional supplement is made from a water soluble extract of rice bran that has been partially hydrolyzed by the action of a natural enzyme complex extracted from Shiitake mushroom.
Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: rice bran arabinoxylan compound (RBAC)|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Placebo
Change from baseline in liver function test, Liver function tests as defined by serum ALT, AST and ALP, Baseline, 45 days and 90 days|Change from baseline in metabolic markers, Metabolic markers as defined by lipid profile, Baseline,45 days and 90 days|Change from baseline in immunological markers, Immunological markers as defined by TNF-α, LT-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF RI, IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-2, IL-15, IL-8, TNF RII, IL-4, IL-5, IL-17, IL-23, IL-10, IL-13, and IL-18., Baseline,45 days and, 3 months
Change from baseline in systolic blood pressure, Systolic blood pressure will be measured to the nearest even digit by use of the Microlife Deluxe upper arm blood pressure monitor. Three readings will be made with the subjects seated after they have rested for five minutes. The average of the three readings will be used in the analysis., Baseline,45 days and 3 months|Change from baseline in Diastolic blood pressure, Diastolic blood pressure will be measured to the nearest even digit by use of the Microlife Deluxe upper arm blood pressure monitor. Three readings will be made with the subjects seated after they have rested for five minutes. The average of the three readings will be used in the analysis., 45 days and 90 days|Pulse, Pulse will be measured to the nearest even digit by use of the Microlife Deluxe upper arm blood pressure monitor. Three readings will be made with the subjects seated after they have rested for five minutes. The average of the three readings will be used in the analysis., Baseline,45 days and 3 months|Change from Baseline in Quality of Life, The SF-36v2™ Health Survey (15) provides psychometrically-based physical and mental health summary measures and a preference-based health utility index. It is a generic measure that does not target a specific age, disease, or treatment group., Baseline,45 days and 3 months
The purpose of this study is to investigate the effects of Rice Bran Arabinoxylan Compound (RBAC) on outcome variables in persons with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). This nutritional supplement is made from a water soluble extract of rice bran that has been partially hydrolyzed by the action of a natural enzyme complex extracted from Shiitake mushroom. Given that these micronutrients may be important for regulating the immune system, investigators will investigate the impact of RBAC on the following variables among 20 adults (18+ years of age and over) diagnosed with NAFLD:

1. albumin
2. 4-hydroxynonenal
3. lipids
4. liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), and alkaline phosphatase (ALP)
5. malondialdehyde
6. γ-glutamyltransferase
7. cytokines (TNF-α, LT-α, IL-1α, IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-RI, TNF-RII, IFN-γ, IL-12, IL-2, IL-15, IL-8, IL-4, IL-5, IL-17, IL-23, IL-10, IL-13, and IL-18)
8. lymphocytes
9. platelets

Specifically, subjects will participate in a 3-month, two-group, randomized intervention, where one group (n=10) will take 1 gram/day RBAC and the other group (n=10) will take a placebo to compare differences in outcomes between the two groups. The results of the study are intended to address the multi-faceted physiological problems of NAFLD patients by testing the efficacy of a nutritional supplement intervention on multiple outcomes in this population.