Sequential Paclitaxel Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy as 1st Line Treatment for Elderly Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer
Elderly patients with metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinomas have poor prognosis and majority of them were intolerable to combined chemotherapy in China. In the investigators phase II clinical trial proceeded before, the paclitaxel treatment showed good tolerance and efficacy to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Radiotherapy has been indicated as a definitive treatment for unresectable or medically inoperable tumors in ESCC patients. However, not only the combination with chemotherapy, but also the boundaries of the clinical target volume (CTV) are not internationally defined. The investigators then initiated a prospective phase II clinical trial with sequential paclitaxel/cisplatin and radiotherapy as the 1st line treatment in elderly metastatic esophageal carcinoma to observe the efficacy and safety of the combination.
Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer|Elderly Patients
OTHER: Sequential chemotherapy （paclitaxel 80mg/m2 d1,d8) and radiotherapy
progression free survival, the follow-up visit of PFS will be performed every 2 cycles, 1 year
overall survival, OS means that from the first dose of treatment drug to death or lost, the follow-up visit will be performed every 3 months till death or lost, 2 years
disease control rate, 1 year|adverse events, 2 years|quality of life, 2 years
Elderly patients with metastatic esophageal squamous cell carcinomas have poor prognosis and majority of them were intolerable to combined chemotherapy in China. In the investigators phase II clinical trial proceeded before, the paclitaxel treatment showed good tolerance and efficacy to esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Radiotherapy has been indicated as a definitive treatment for unresectable or medically inoperable tumors in ESCC patients. However, not only the combination with chemotherapy, but also the boundaries of the clinical target volume (CTV) are not internationally defined. The investigators then initiated a prospective phase II clinical trial with sequential paclitaxel/cisplatin and radiotherapy as the 1st line treatment in elderly metastatic esophageal carcinoma to observe the efficacy and safety of the combination.