Study of Bemcentinib Plus Pacritinib In Patients With Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma
This is a Phase Ib/II, open-label, single institution dose-escalation, safety, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamic and efficacy study.
Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: bemcentinib|DRUG: pacritinib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death (any cause), whichever occurs first. Subjects completing study follow-up or initiating a new anticancer therapy prior to documented PD will be censored in the PFS analysis at the last known date the subject was documented progression free prior to completing follow-up or initiating the new therapy., Up to 48 months|Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is defined as the proportion of patients who have a partial or complete response to therapy., Up to 48 months
Overall Survival (OS), The time from randomization to death from any cause, Up to 48 months|Clinical Benefit Rate, The percentage of patients with metastatic cancer who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease to a therapeutic intervention, Up to 48 months
Specific Aim 1. Determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of pacritinib in combination with bemcentinib in patients with advanced lung adenocarcinoma. We propose a prospective, open-label, phase Ib trial to evaluate safety, tolerability and MTD of pacritinib (JAK2 inhibitor) in combination with bemcentinib (AXL inhibitor) in patients with treatment refractory lung adenocarcinoma. The primary objectives of the phase Ib study are to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), pharmacokinetics/pharmacodynamics (PK/PD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) and efficacy of oral pacritinib in combination with bemcentinib. This phase Ib part of the study will use a Bayesian Optimal Interval (BOIN)70 design to determine MTD. This Bayesian dose-finding approach combines the ease of implementation of the traditional "3+3" design with the improved performance of more complex model-based designs in terms of accurately identifying the MTD. Compared to the modified probability toxicity interval design, it has a substantially lower risk of overdosing patients and generally has a higher probability of correctly selecting the MTD. In the phase Ib part of the study, subjects with advanced lung adenocarcinoma will be treated with pacritinib in combination with bemcentinib at increasing doses until MTD for combination treatment has been established. Six dose levels of combination treatments will be considered.