Training Endoscopists to Perform On-site Rapid Cytological Evaluation for EUS-FNA of Solid Pancreatic Lesions
In China, there is a serious shortage of pathologists who can perform on-site cytological diagnosis. As a result, there are few centers that can conduct ROSE in China, which limits the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA to a certain extent. Previous research reports on whether endoscopists could be trained for ROSE were controversial, which may be related to the lack of standardization of the training of endoscopists. There is no training program for training endoscopists to systematically process pathological specimens, operate microscopes, read the adequacy of cytological specimens, and evaluate the atypia of cytological specimens in China. Therefore, our center intends to carry out a training for endoscopists to compare the improvement of endoscopists' ROSE operating ability before and after the training, and to evaluate the practice of each endoscopist to perform on-site rapid cytology specimens of solid pancreatic lesions.
Pancreatic Cancer
Accuracy of endoscopists for interpretation of cytologic specimen adequacy and primary diagnosis of malignancy, The interpretation results of endoscopists will be compared with that of cytopathologist., 10 months
The results of standard specimens-processing, microscope-operating training on endoscopists, Comparison of the score that endoscopists are graded before and after the standard training, 3 months
In China, there is a serious shortage of pathologists who can perform on-site cytological diagnosis. As a result, there are few centers that can conduct ROSE in China, which limits the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA to a certain extent. Previous research reports on whether endoscopists could be trained for ROSE were controversial, which may be related to the lack of standardization of the training of endoscopists. There is no training program for training endoscopists to systematically process pathological specimens, operate microscopes, read the adequacy of cytological specimens, and evaluate the atypia of cytological specimens in China. Therefore, our center intends to carry out a training for endoscopists to compare the improvement of endoscopists' ROSE operating ability before and after the training, and to evaluate the practice of each endoscopist to perform on-site rapid cytology specimens of solid pancreatic lesions.