A Pilot Study to Determine the Safety of the Combination of Ontak in Combination With CHOP in Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
The standard treatment for PTCL is CHOP (cyclophosphamide (C), adriamycin (H), vincristine (O), and prednisone (P)) chemotherapy. This study is attempting to determine whether adding other treatments to CHOP therapy will improve the chance of the disease going into remission or staying in remission. Because other drugs for T-cell lymphoma have not yet been given with CHOP, this study is looking at combining CHOP with ONTAK. ONTAK has been FDA approved for treatment of Cutaneous T cell Lymphoma and works by specifically binding to a protein on the surface of the tumor cells and killing the cell without causing damage to other types of cells in the body. Studies have shown that ONTAK has helped patients with PTCL who have failed chemotherapy.
Peripheral T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Ontak|DRUG: CHOP (cyclophosphamide (C), adriamycin (H), vincristine (O), and prednisone (P)) chemotherapy
Number of Patients That Achieved a Complete Response or a Partial Response (PR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, After 4 years|Number of Patients That Achieved a Complete Response (CR), Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, After 4 years
The standard treatment for PTCL is CHOP (cyclophosphamide (C), adriamycin (H), vincristine (O), and prednisone (P)) chemotherapy. This study is attempting to determine whether adding other treatments to CHOP therapy will improve the chance of the disease going into remission or staying in remission. Because other drugs for T-cell lymphoma have not yet been given with CHOP, this study is looking at combining CHOP with ONTAK. ONTAK has been FDA approved for treatment of Cutaneous T cell Lymphoma and works by specifically binding to a protein on the surface of the tumor cells and killing the cell without causing damage to other types of cells in the body. Studies have shown that ONTAK has helped patients with PTCL who have failed chemotherapy.