Combination Therapy of Gemcitabine and Trabectedin in L-sarcomas
L-sarcomas represent about one third of all adult soft tissue sarcomas (24 % liposarcomas and 12 % leiomyosarcomas). Approval for the induction of trabectedin into the treatment armamentarium of advanced and/or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas after treatment failure with anthracyclines and/or ifosfamide depended mainly on its activity in the L-sarcomas (Garcia-Carbonero 2004, Le Cesne 2005, and Demetri 2009). Significant activity has been described for the use of gemcitabine and especially the combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel mainly in leiomyosarcomas and liposarcomas (Maki 2007). However, the combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel is associated with significant toxicity. Pulmonary toxicity and refractory peripheral oedema are the most common severe adverse events. The aim of the present phase I study will be to examine safety data of this promising treatment combination of gemcitabine and trabectedin in L-sarcomas.
Leiomyosarcoma|Liposarcoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine + Trabectedin
To assess the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of gemcitabine and trabectedin (Yondelis®) in patients with advanced and/or metastatic leiomyosarcoma and liposarcoma., 12 months
To assess the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) of the combination of gemcitabine and trabectedin (Yondelis®) in patients with advanced and/or metastatic leiomyosarcoma and liposarcoma., 12 months
L-sarcomas represent about one third of all adult soft tissue sarcomas (24 % liposarcomas and 12 % leiomyosarcomas). Approval for the induction of trabectedin into the treatment armamentarium of advanced and/or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas after treatment failure with anthracyclines and/or ifosfamide depended mainly on its activity in the L-sarcomas (Garcia-Carbonero 2004, Le Cesne 2005, and Demetri 2009). Significant activity has been described for the use of gemcitabine and especially the combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel mainly in leiomyosarcomas and liposarcomas (Maki 2007). However, the combination of gemcitabine and docetaxel is associated with significant toxicity. Pulmonary toxicity and refractory peripheral oedema are the most common severe adverse events. The aim of the present phase I study will be to examine safety data of this promising treatment combination of gemcitabine and trabectedin in L-sarcomas.