Bevacizumab for Symptomatic Vestibular Schwannoma in Neurofibromatosis Type 2 (NF2)
People who have neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) can have tumors that grow on the auditory nerves and cause hearing loss. These tumors are called vestibular schwannomas (VSs), or acoustic neuromas. People with NF2 can also get schwannomas in other parts of their body, as well as tumors called meningiomas and ependymomas. Because VSs can cause hearing loss, many people with NF2 will have treatment to preserve their hearing. This treatment usually involves surgery. Because surgery has risks and is not able to help everyone with VSs, other methods of treatment are being explored. One area of exploration is looking to see if there is a drug that can be taken that might prevent the VSs from growing larger and causing hearing loss or brainstem compression. This study is exploring whether a drug that is approved by the FDA and is currently used to treat other tumors might also work to treat VSs. Based on people who have taken this drug to treat VSs already, there is some reason to think that it might be helpful to certain people with NF2. People enrolled in this study will receive the drug one time every three weeks for one year by infusion. This study will follow subjects over the course of the year that the person is taking the drug and for six months after the drug is stopped. This study is recruiting people who have NF2 and are currently having symptoms of tinnitus, dizziness, and/or hearing loss from their VSs. If you have NF2 and are currently having symptoms caused by your VSs, you may be eligible to participate.
Vestibular Schwannoma|Neurofibromatosis Type 2
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Proportion of Patients With Hearing Response, A hearing response was defined as increased word recognition score above the 95% critical threshold that is maintained across two sequential evaluation time points. The word recognition score (WRS) is the percentage of phonetically-balanced, monosyllabic words that a patient can accurately repeat presented at either most comfortable level or most intelligible level.The proportion of patients with hearing response in the target ear was estimated using a binomial distribution along with 95% confidence intervals., Baseline to 12 months
Incidence of Serious or Life Threatening Toxicities, The number of patients with serious or life threatening toxicities (CTCAE grade 3 or above), Up to 6 months post-treatment|Radiographic Response, The proportion of participants with radiographic response as measured by a \>/= 20% reduction in tumor volume from baseline on MRI imaging will be estimated using a binomial distribution., Baseline to 6 months post-treatment|Median Percent Change in Target Vestibular Schwannoma Volume Using Volumetric MRI, The median percent change in the volume of the target vestibular schwannoma using volumetric MRI, Baseline to 12 months|Number of Participants With Changes in Function of the Auditory System, The primary distortion product optoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) measurement will be treated non-parametrically (present or absent across time) DPOAE's will be considered present at the frequency of F2 when the distortion product is 6dB above the noise floor. Variables will be analyzed for differences using t-tests if the effects and sample sizes warrant, but this may not be advisable given the small numbers to be accrued., Baseline to 6 months post-treatment|Percent Change in Median Vascular Permeability (Ktrans), Correlation assessment were planned for imaging parameters and hearing response based on the estimated changes in Ktrans: a MRI measure of vascular permeability. Only 1/14 participants had complete Ktrans data that was amenable to analysis at baseline and week 72. Hence, these statistical analyses were not possible., Baseline to week 72|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Total Score, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. The total score is the median of the all the individual items., Baseline|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Component Scores, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. Scores are commonly reported as a physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS). The PCS and MCS score have been transformed to the T-score metric, which has a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10 for the U.S. general population., Baseline|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Total Score, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 1 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. The total score is the median of the all the individual items., 6 months|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Component Scores, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. Scores are commonly reported as a physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS). The PCS and MCS score have been transformed to the T-score metric, which has a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10 for the U.S. general population., 6 months|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Total Score, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. The total score is the median of the all the individual items., 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Component Scores, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. Scores are commonly reported as a physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS). The PCS and MCS score have been transformed to the T-score metric, which has a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10 for the U.S. general population., 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Total Score, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. The total score is the median of the all the individual items., 18 months|Quality of Life Assessed Using Health Survey Short Form-36 (SF-36) - Component Scores, The SF-36 is a patient reported outcome. SF-36 (v.1) was administered and was scored according to instructions found on the RAND website. The range of scores is 0 - 100, with a higher value indicating a more favorable health state. Scores are commonly reported as a physical component summary (PCS) and mental component summary (MCS). The PCS and MCS score have been transformed to the T-score metric, which has a mean of 50 and a standard deviation of 10 for the U.S. general population., 18 months|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Speech and Spatial Qualities Questionnaire (SSQ), The SSQ is a 49 item patient-reported outcome with three subscales: speech understanding (14 questions), spatial location of sounds (17 questions), and the qualities of sounds (18 questions) as they appear to the patient with hearing impairment. Each response is recorded on an 11 point scale (0 - 10), with the anchor points "not at all" (= 0) and "perfectly" (=10). A higher score indicates better hearing. The median score is reported for each subscale. The minimum and maximum scores for the median of each subscale would be 0 and 10, respectively., baseline|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Speech and Spatial Qualities Questionnaire (SSQ), The SSQ is a 49 item patient-reported outcome with three subscales: speech understanding (14 questions), spatial location of sounds (17 questions), and the qualities of sounds (18 questions) as they appear to the patient with hearing impairment. Responses are recorded on a scale from 0 - 10, with the anchor points "not at all" (= 0) and "perfectly" (=10). A higher score indicates better hearing. The median score for each subscale is reported. The minimum and maximum scores for the median of each subscale would be 0 and 10, respectively., 6 months|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Speech and Spatial Qualities Questionnaire (SSQ), The SSQ is a 49 item patient-reported outcome with three subscales: speech understanding (14 questions), spatial location of sounds (17 questions), and the qualities of sounds (18 questions) as they appear to the patient with hearing impairment. Responses are recorded on a scale from 0 - 10, with the anchor points "not at all" (= 0) and "perfectly" (=10). A higher score indicates better hearing. The median score for each subscale is reported. The minimum and maximum scores for the median of each subscale would be 0 and 10, respectively., 12 months|Quality of Life as Assessed by the Speech and Spatial Qualities Questionnaire (SSQ), The SSQ is a 49 item patient-reported outcome with three subscales: speech understanding (14 questions), spatial location of sounds (17 questions), and the qualities of sounds (18 questions) as they appear to the patient with hearing impairment. Responses are recorded on a scale from 0 - 10, with the anchor points "not at all" (= 0) and "perfectly" (=10). A higher score indicates better hearing. The median score for each subscale is reported. The minimum and maximum scores for the median of each subscale would be 0 and 10, respectively., 18 months|Quality of Life Assessed by the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (TRQ), The TRQ is a 26 item patient reported outcome. It is scored using a 5 point Likert scale (0-4). The responses are summed, resulting in a range of 0 - 104 with higher scores indicating more distress related to tinnitus., baseline|Quality of Life Assessed by the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (TRQ), The TRQ is a 26 item patient reported outcome. It is scored using a 5 point Likert scale (0-4). The responses are summed, resulting in a range of 0 - 104 with higher scores indicating more distress related to tinnitus., 6 months|Quality of Life Assessed by the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (TRQ), The TRQ is a 26 item patient reported outcome. It is scored using a 5 point Likert scale (0-4). The responses are summed, resulting in a range of 0 - 104 with higher scores indicating more distress related to tinnitus., 12 months|Quality of Life Assessed by the Tinnitus Reaction Questionnaire (TRQ), The TRQ is a 26 item patient reported outcome. It is scored using a 5 point Likert scale (0-4). The responses are summed, resulting in a range of 0 - 104 with higher scores indicating more distress related to tinnitus., 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. The primary objective of this study is to determine the activity of bevacizumab for treatment of symptomatic vestibular schwannomas (VS) defined as progressive hearing loss in patients with neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) based on objective hearing response.

SECONDARY OJBECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety and tolerability of bevacizumab in this patient population on an every three week dosing schedule of 7.5mg/kg for 12 months of therapy.

II. Assess the rate of radiographic response (\>= 20% reduction in volume). III. Determine the growth rate of VS using volumetric MRI analysis in comparison to 1-dimensional and 2-dimensional measurements.

IV. Assess changes in function of the auditory system during bevacizumab treatment.

V. Assess the vascular permeability (Ktrans), relative cerebral blood volume/flow, mean transit time, and mean vessel diameter from perfusion-weighted MRI.

VI. Assess the change in circulating endothelial cells, circulating progenitor cells, and plasma angiogenic proteins in subjects receiving bevacizumab treatment.

VII. Observe the impact of bevacizumab on non-VS tumors in patients with NF2 via whole body MRI.

VIII. Explore hearing related QOL measures throughout treatment. IX. Explore the effect of treatment with bevacizumab on auditory function using distortion product optoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) (to be evaluated at NCI only).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive bevacizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-90 minutes once every 3 weeks. Courses repeat every 6 weeks for up to 48 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.