Adjuvant Whole Breast Radiotherapy (RT) With Intensity Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) and a Simultaneous Integrated Boost Versus Conventional RT and a Sequential Boost
The IMRT-MC2 study is a prospective, two armed, multicenter, randomized phase-III-trial comparing intensity modulated radiotherapy with integrated boost to conventional radiotherapy with consecutive boost in patients with breast cancer after breast conserving surgery. 502 patients will be recruited and randomized in two arms: patients in arm A will receive IMRT in 28 fractions delivering 50.4 Gy to the breast and 64.4 Gy to the tumor-bed by an integrated boost, while patients in arm B will receive conventional radiotherapy of the breast in 28 fractions to a dose of 50.4 Gy and a consecutive boost in 8 fractions to a total dose of 66.4 Gy. Primary aim of the study is the assessment of the cosmetic outcome and local control after breast radiotherapy. The study hypothesis is that intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) is, in spite of the reduced treatment duration, at least equivalent to conventional therapy.
Breast Cancer
RADIATION: IMRT with an simultaneous integrated boost
cosmetic results, The cosmetic outcome will be assessed by two independent investigators using the Harvard criteria (excellent, good, fair, poor). Additional parameters to be evaluated are skin color, teleangiectasy, scars, shrinking and asymmetry. Evaluation will also be carried out using a quantitative digitizer scoring system based on standardized photodocumentations of the breast, as described by Vrieling et al.. by calculation of a breast retraction assessment (BRA) score., 2 years|local recurrence rates, 5 years
fraction of patients surviving (overall survival), ratio of number of patients alive to total number of patients treated, 15 years|fraction of patients surviving without tumor recurrence (disease-free survival), ratio of patients alive without tumor recurrence to total number of patients treated, 15 years|quality of life, EORTC questionnaires QLQ-C30 and QLQ-BR23, 2 years|occurence of secondary malignancies, ratio of patients with occurence of secondary malignancies to total number of patients treated, 15 years
The IMRT-MC2 study is a prospective, two armed, multicenter, randomized phase-III-trial comparing intensity modulated radiotherapy with integrated boost to conventional radiotherapy with consecutive boost in patients with breast cancer after breast conserving surgery. 502 patients will be recruited and randomized in two arms: patients in arm A will receive IMRT in 28 fractions delivering 50.4 Gy to the breast and 64.4 Gy to the tumor-bed by an integrated boost, while patients in arm B will receive conventional radiotherapy of the breast in 28 fractions to a dose of 50.4 Gy and a consecutive boost in 8 fractions to a total dose of 66.4 Gy. Primary aim of the study is the assessment of the cosmetic outcome and local control after breast radiotherapy. The study hypothesis is that intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) is, in spite of the reduced treatment duration, at least equivalent to conventional therapy.