PROACTIVE: Surgical Resection Outcomes in Locally Advanced and Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer After Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy
This clinical trial tests how well surgical resection after chemotherapy given before surgery to make the tumor smaller (neoadjuvant) works to treat pancreatic cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) and that cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). In general, surgery is considered the most effective treatment for pancreatic cancer, especially when the cancer is localized and has not spread to other organs. However, most patients with pancreatic cancer are not candidates for surgical removal because the cancer has grown into or close to nearby arteries, veins, or organs and there is a concern of damaging these nearby structures. Researchers want to find out if surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy can be done safely to completely remove the tumor in patients with locally advanced and unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Locally Advanced Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer American Joint Committee on Cancer v8|Unresectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Distal Pancreatectomy|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Pancreaticoduodenectomy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|PROCEDURE: Total Pancreatectomy
R0 resection rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients with negative resection margins after undergoing surgery., At time of surgery
Overall survival, Determined from the date of registration to the date of death due to any cause., Up to 2 years|Disease-free survival, Determined from the date of registration to the date of progression prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, recurrence (locoregional and/or distant) after resection, and death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years|Time to locoregional recurrence, Determined from the date of registration to the date of locoregional recurrence after resection., Up to 2 years|Time to distant metastases, Determined from the date of registration to the date of metastases prior to surgery, metastases detected during surgery, or distant recurrence after resection., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Evaluate the R0 resection in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall survival (OS) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

II. To measure disease free survival (DFS) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

III. To evaluate the correlation between post-neoadjuvant/preoperative radiological staging and pathologic staging.

IV. To estimate time to distant metastases (TDM) in patients in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the correlation between post-neoadjuvant/preoperative radiological staging and pathologic staging.

II. To evaluate objective response rate (ORR) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy.

III. To assess if mutations on next-generation sequencing (NGS) testing and the change in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) pre- and post-operative is predictive of DFS or OS in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

IV. To evaluate the rate of unresectability in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy.

V. To evaluate pathologic tumor response and rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

VI. To evaluate correlation between R0 resection rate and pathologic treatment response and survival outcomes.

VII. To evaluate number of cycles of perioperative chemotherapy received in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

VIII. To evaluate the adverse event profile in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

IX. To evaluate the physical functioning, nausea/vomiting, and diarrhea, as measured with the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

X. To evaluate the average operative time in minutes in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

XI. To evaluate the estimated blood loss (mL) in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

XII. To assess the length of hospital, stay in for patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

XIII. To evaluate the incidence of thrombosis in patients with locally advanced pancreatic adenocarcinoma treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgery.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo laparoscopy followed by surgical resection with pancreaticoduodenectomy, distal pancreatectomy, or total pancreatectomy at the discretion of the surgeon within 2-8 weeks following completion of standard of care neoadjuvant chemotherapy regimen. Patients undergo computed tomography (CT) and blood sample collection throughout the study and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) during screening. Patients also undergo tissue collection at time of surgical resection on study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for the first year, then every 6 months until 2 years.