An Investigational Immuno-therapy Study of Temozolomide Plus Radiation Therapy With Nivolumab or Placebo, for Newly Diagnosed Patients With Glioblastoma (GBM, a Malignant Brain Cancer)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate patients with glioblastoma that is MGMT-methylated (the MGMT gene is altered by a chemical change). Patients will receive temozolomide plus radiation therapy. They will be compared to patients receiving nivolumab in addition to temozolomide plus radiation therapy.
Brain Neoplasms
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Temozolomide|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|OTHER: Nivolumab Placebo
Progression-free Survival (PFS) Determined by BICR, The time from randomization to the date of the first documented tumor progression or death by any cause. PFS will be determined by a Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) assessed based on Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. Specifically, RANO response criteria indicates that within the first 12 weeks of completion of radiotherapy, progression can only be assessed if the majority of the new enhancement is outside of the radiation field or if there is pathologic confirmation of progressive disease., From randomization to the date of the first documented tumor progression or death by any cause. (up to approximately 4.5 years)|Overall Survival (OS), The time from the date of randomization to the date of death. who have not died by the end of the study will be censored to last known date alive. OS is assessed in the randomized population with no corticosteroids at baseline population and in the overall randomized population., From randomization to date of death (up to approximately 4.5 years)
Overall Survival (OS) Rates at 12 Months, Overall Survival (OS) rate is defined as the percentage of participants surviving at 12 months, From randomization to 12 months after first dose|Overall Survival (OS) Rates at 24 Months, Overall Survival (OS) rate is defined as the percentage of participants surviving at 24 months, From randomization to 24 months after first dose|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on Investigator Assessment, The time from randomization to the date of the first documented tumor progression or death by any cause. PFS will be determined by investigator assessment based Radiologic Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria. Specifically, RANO response criteria indicates that within the first 12 weeks of completion of radiotherapy, progression can only be assessed if the majority of the new enhancement is outside of the radiation field or if there is pathologic confirmation of progressive disease., From randomization to the date of the first documented tumor progression or death by any cause. (up to approximately 4.5 years)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate patients with glioblastoma that is MGMT-methylated (the MGMT gene is altered by a chemical change). Patients will receive temozolomide plus radiation therapy. They will be compared to patients receiving nivolumab in addition to temozolomide plus radiation therapy.