Development and Application of Molecular Evaluation Instrument for Lung Cancer Diagnosis and Treatment
The precise diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer is not only a major national strategic need but also an urgent demand from the general public. The "three stages" of precise diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer include early diagnosis, effective treatment, and precise evaluation. Currently, invasive methods are mainly used in these three stages of clinical practice. The non-invasive molecular diagnosis of early-stage lung cancer and the molecular evaluation of treatment efficacy are critical core issues in lung cancer clinical diagnosis and treatment. In response to this problem, this project aims to use exhaled breath as a sample to develop a scientific instrument with independent intellectual property rights, which integrates early-stage diagnosis of lung cancer and evaluation of treatment efficacy. We will also conduct related application research to meet the needs of the public and contribute to the health of the entire population.
Lung Cancer
OS, Time from randomization to death (from any cause), From date of diagnosis until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|PFS, The time between the initiation of randomization and the occurrence (any aspect) of tumor progression or death (from any cause), From date of diagnosis until the date of first documented progression from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|ORR, Refers to the proportion of subjects whose tumors shrink by a certain amount and remain for a certain period of time, including those with CR+PR, The proportion of patients who achieved a 30%(usual) reduction in tumor volume while maintaining the minimum required duration was calculated at month 24 of the study|DOR, Is the time from the first documented response (CR or PR) to the first documented disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, The time from first diagnosis of CR or PR to diagnosis of PD was calculated at 24 months of study
The precise diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer is not only a major national strategic need but also an urgent demand from the general public. The "three stages" of precise diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer include early diagnosis, effective treatment, and precise evaluation. Currently, invasive methods are mainly used in these three stages of clinical practice. The non-invasive molecular diagnosis of early-stage lung cancer and the molecular evaluation of treatment efficacy are critical core issues in lung cancer clinical diagnosis and treatment. In response to this problem, this project aims to use exhaled breath as a sample to develop a scientific instrument with independent intellectual property rights, which integrates early-stage diagnosis of lung cancer and evaluation of treatment efficacy. We will also conduct related application research to meet the needs of the public and contribute to the health of the entire population.