The Association of Ferrtin and Homocysteine Etc. With RI and MS in Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
The purpose of this study is to study the association of serum ferritin and homocysteine levels with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome in women with polycystic ovary syndrome The polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disease, affecting 5-10% of women with reproductive age. Insulin resistance and metabolic disturbance are well-known long-term consequence of women with PCOS. Recent evidence suggests that increased body iron might be involved in the pathogenesis of insulin-resistance disorders, furthermore, hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic and thromboembolic disorder. The investigators plan to retrospectively review the medical records of female patients who visited the Reproductive Endocrinology Clinic at the Wan Fang Medical Center at Taipei Medical University from Jan 1, 2008, to November 30, 2011.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
Serum ferritin levels in obese and non-obese women., The pathogenesis of increased iron stores correlated with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome among obese and non-obese premenopausal women was different. The hypertriglyceridemia in women with PCOS might be associated with iron metabolism., the patients have PCOS who visited the Reproductive Endocrinology Clinic at the WanFang Medical Center from Jan 1, 2008 to Nov 30, 2011.
The purpose of this study is to study the association of serum ferritin and homocysteine levels with insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome in women with polycystic ovary syndrome The polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disease, affecting 5-10% of women with reproductive age. Insulin resistance and metabolic disturbance are well-known long-term consequence of women with PCOS. Recent evidence suggests that increased body iron might be involved in the pathogenesis of insulin-resistance disorders, furthermore, hyperhomocysteinemia is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerotic and thromboembolic disorder. The investigators plan to retrospectively review the medical records of female patients who visited the Reproductive Endocrinology Clinic at the Wan Fang Medical Center at Taipei Medical University from Jan 1, 2008, to November 30, 2011.