A Study of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 in Patients With Metastatic Prostate Adenocarcinoma and Healthy Volunteers
This is a single-blind, randomized, cross-over design. Patients with metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma; newly diagnosed, high-risk patients with prostate adenocarcinoma; and healthy subjects will be administered a single intravenous dose of each of the study drugs 99mTc MIP 1404 and 99mTc MIP 1405 administered approximately 14 to 21 days apart.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: 99mTc MIP 1404|RADIATION: 99mTc MIP 1405
Safety of Administered dose, The safety data will be summarized for all patients receiving at least one dose of study drug. Summary tables, including change from pre dose to post dose where applicable, will be presented for the following safety endpoints:

* Treatment emergent adverse events
* Clinical Laboratory Evaluations
* Physical examination, vital signs, and ECGs, From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)|Pharmacokinetics of Administered Dose, Standard PK parameters of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be calculated, including but not limited to: clearance, distribution half-life, elimination half-life, mean residence time and maximum concentration. These PK parameters will be listed by subject and summarized. Blood clearance and urinary recovery over time will be displayed in figures. Urine metabolites and impurities of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be listed by subject and summarized.

The PK population will be used in the analysis of pharmacokinetics and metabolism., From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)|Biodistribution of Administered Dose, Percent of injected activity (%IA) in a set of source organs will be determined by comparing a reference whole body scan to subsequent whole body scans to determine percentage of administered activity for source organs at the various scanning times. This biodistribution data will then be used to mathematically model source organ residence times, which will be used to estimate radiation absorbed dose to target organs. Percent injected activity and estimated residence times will be summarized by organ., : From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)
Excretion of administered dose, Standard PK parameters of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be calculated, including but not limited to: clearance, distribution half-life, elimination half-life, mean residence time and maximum concentration. These PK parameters will be listed by subject and summarized. Blood clearance and urinary recovery over time will be displayed in figures. Urine metabolites and impurities of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be listed by subject and summarized.

The PK population will be used in the analysis of pharmacokinetics and metabolism., From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)|Dosimetry of administered dose, To calculate the estimated radiation dosimetry to normal organs based on the pharmacokinetic and normal tissue distribution in patients with confirmed metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma and in healthy volunteers, From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)|Metabolism of administered dose, Standard PK parameters of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be calculated, including but not limited to: clearance, distribution half-life, elimination half-life, mean residence time and maximum concentration. These PK parameters will be listed by subject and summarized. Blood clearance and urinary recovery over time will be displayed in figures. Urine metabolites and impurities of 99mTc-MIP-1404 and 99mTc-MIP-1405 will be listed by subject and summarized.

The PK population will be used in the analysis of pharmacokinetics and metabolism., From the time of signed ICF through 2 weeks post injection of the second study drug administration (up to 8 weeks total for each subject)
This trial is a single-blind, randomized, cross-over design. Up to six patients with confirmed metastatic prostate adenocarcinoma; six newly diagnosed, high-risk patients with prostate adenocarcinoma; and up to six healthy volunteers will receive 20.0 (± 3) mCi of intravenously administered 99mTc MIP 1404 or 99mTc MIP 1405. Whole-body planar scintigraphic images will be acquired at various times post-injection over 24 hours. A pelvic SPECT/CT image will be acquired on the first day. Blood and urine will be collected for pharmacokinetic measurements and metabolic analysis over 24 hours. Each patient will receive an initial study drug administration and a second study drug administration approximately 14 to 21 days after the first. A final follow-up visit will occur approximately 2-3 weeks after the second study drug.