Pneumococcal Pneumonia Vaccine Series (PCV20 and PPSV23) in Patients With Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia Associated Immunodeficiency, PROTECT CLL Trial
This phase II trial tests whether the pneumococcal pneumonia vaccine series (PCV20 and PPSV23) works to mount an effective immune response in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. PCV20 and PPSV23 are both vaccines that protect against bacteria that cause pneumococcal disease. Giving these vaccinations as series may make a stronger immune response and prevent against pneumococcal infections in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pneumococcal 20-valent Conjugate Vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: Pneumococcal Polyvalent Vaccine|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of patients who achieve the protocol defined change in antibody titers, Will examine the proportion of patients who achieve the protocol defined change in antibody titers from baseline in at least 10 of 19 S.pneumoniae serotypes shared between pneumococcal 20-valent conjugate vaccine (PCV20) and pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine (PPSV23) at Study Visit 2 and 3. The observed proportion and an exact 95% binomial confidence interval will be reported. A one sample exact binomial test will be performed at one-sided alpha = 0.05. The null hypothesis is that the proportion is 50% or lower., At 30 and 90 days post-PCV20 vaccination
Proportion of patients who have a two-fold increase of immunoglobulin levels, Will examine the proportion of patients who have a two-fold increase of immunoglobulin levels from baseline at Study Visit 2 and 3 and do not develop pneumonia within five years post-PPSV23 vaccination. The observed proportion and an exact 95% binomial confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years post- PPSV23 vaccination|Proportion of vaccinated patients who have a two-fold increase in at least 10 of 19 S. pneumonia serotypes shared between PCV20 and PPSV23 vaccines, Will examine the proportion of vaccinated patients who have a two-fold increase in at least 10 of 19 S. pneumonia serotypes shared between PCV20 and PPSV23 vaccines and do not develop pneumonia within five years post PPSV23 vaccination. The observed proportion and an exact 95% binomial confidence interval will be reported., Up to 5 years post PPSV23 vaccination|Proportion of patients who have a two-fold increase in antibody titers to an individual serotype vaccination, Will examine the proportion of patients who have a two-fold increase in antibody titers to an individual serotype at Study Visit 2 and 3 post PPCV20 vaccination. The observed proportion and 95% exact binomial confidence intervals will be reported for each serotype., At 30 and 90 days post-PCV20 vaccination|Proportion of patients who maintain adequate immune response, Will examine the proportion of patients who maintain adequate immune response, defined as two-fold increase in antibody titers from baseline in 10/19 of S. pneumoniae serotypes, from PPSV23 vaccination to time of last follow-up at 5 years. Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to analyze time-to-pneumonia from baseline until five years after PPSV23 vaccination., Up to 5 years post PPSV23 vaccination
Number of patients that contract pneumonia, Kaplan-Meier methods will be used to analyze time-to-pneumonia from baseline until five years after study entry, stratified by therapeutic strategy., Up to 5 years post PPSV23 vaccination|Proportion of venetoclax treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients who achieve a two-fold increase in antibody titers, Will examine the proportion of Venetoclax treated CLL patients who achieve a two-fold increase in antibody titers from baseline in at least 10 of 19 S. pneumonia serotypes shared between PCV20 and PPSV23 vaccines at Study Visit 2 and 3., At 30 and 90 days post PCV20 vaccination
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the proportion of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients who mount an effective immune response to streptococcus pneumonia after receiving both pneumococcal 20-valent conjugate vaccine (PCV20) and pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine (PPSV23) vaccinations. (Primary Analysis)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To improve the immunoglobulin levels and decrease the incidence of pneumonia in patients with CLL-associated immunodeficiency. (Primary Analysis) II. To evaluate the rate of decreased pneumonia as assessed by an immune response to streptococcus (S.) pneumoniae after PCV20 and PPSV23 series versus PCV20 alone. (Primary Analysis) III. To investigate the immune response to individual S. pneumoniae serotypes included in both the PCV20 and PPSV23 vaccinations. (Primary Analysis) IV. Evaluate the length of time an effective immune response is maintained, and if the recommendation of 5 years is adequate for CLL patients. (Primary Analysis)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess rate of pneumonia in CLL patients based on therapeutic strategy (i.e., BTKi, venetoclax, chemo-immunotherapy).

II. To evaluate the number of venetoclax treated CLL patients who mount an effective immune response to S. pneumoniae 30 days following both PCV20 and PPSV23 vaccinations. (Pilot Arm)

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (PRIMARY ARM): Patients receive pneumococcal 20-valent conjugate vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 and pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine IM on day 60 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (PILOT ARM): Patients who have received or are receiving venetoclax therapy, receive pneumococcal 20-valent conjugate vaccine IM on day 1 and pneumococcal polyvalent vaccine IM on day 60 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then every 6 months for 5 years.