A Phase 2 Multi-Center Study of Entinostat (SNDX-275) in Patient With Relapsed or Refractory Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of entinostat, SNDX-275, in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Entinostat
Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response Based on the Participant's Best Response That is Documented Within the First 6 Cycles of Protocol Therapy, Best Overall Response was defined as Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). Tumor response was assessed by the Investigators using the International Working Group revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson, Pfistner et al. 2007). CR was defined as complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present before therapy, and normalization of those biochemical abnormalities definitely assignable to HL. PR was defined as: At least a 50% decrease in sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD) of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses, No increase in the size of other nodes, No new sites of disease., Up to 6 months
Percentage of Participants With Best Overall Response Based on the Participant's Best Response Documented Through the Entire Course of Protocol Therapy, Best Overall Response was defined as Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). Tumor response was assessed by the Investigators using the International Working Group revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma (Cheson, Pfistner et al. 2007). CR was defined as complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present before therapy, and normalization of those biochemical abnormalities definitely assignable to HL. PR was defined as: At least a 50% decrease in sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD) of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses, No increase in the size of other nodes, No new sites of disease., Regimen 1 and 2 median follow-up 36.6 months; Regimen 3 median follow-up 18.4 months|Duration of Objective Response for Participants Achieving CR or PR, Duration of objective response was defined as the number of days from the start date of CR or PR (whichever status is recorded first), until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease was objectively documented., Regimen 1 and 2 median follow-up 36.6 months; Regimen 3 median follow-up 18.4 months|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAE) and Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. A Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) is an AE that occurred after receive study drug. Any changes from baseline in vital signs, electrocardiogram results, and laboratory parameters assessed by the investigator to be clinically significant were reported as AEs. A SAE is defined as an AE that: is fatal, is life threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, is another significant medical hazard, such as new malignancy., First dose to within 30 days of the last dose of study drug (Up to 34 months)
This study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of entinostat, SNDX-275, in patients with relapsed or refractory Hodgkin's lymphoma.