The Effect of Interpersonal Relationships Psychotherapy on Breast Cancer Patients
This study is planned to examine the effect of Interpersonal Relationship Psychotherapy on depression, interpersonal emotion regulation and multidimensional perceived social support levels of breast cancer patients with depression risk.
Breast Cancer Patients Diagnosed
OTHER: PSYCHOTHERAPY
Beck Depression Screening Scale for Primary Care, Each question has four answers. The lowest possible score is zero and the highest possible score is three. A total maximum score of 21 and a minimum score of zero can be achieved. Depression scores of breast cancer patients are expected to decrease after treatment. It is expected to fall below 4 points., Through study completion, an average of 6 months|Interpersonal relationships emotion regulation scale, The highest score that can be obtained from the scale is 100 and the lowest score is 20. The high score obtained from each sub-dimension of the scale indicates that the individual has the characteristic evaluated by the relevant sub-dimension. Scores obtained from the scale were found to be related to the total score of the Difficulties in Emotion Regulation Scale and also to depression and anxiety.An increase in the interpersonal relations emotion regulation scale score is expected in breast cancer patients after treatment. This increase shows that it has a positive effect on individuals' emotion regulation., Through study completion, an average of 6 months|Multidimensional Perceived Social Support Scale:, The lowest score that can be obtained from the scale is "12" and the highest score is "84". An increase in the total score of the scale means an increase in the level of perceived social support. Social support scores of breast cancer patients are expected to increase after treatment., Through study completion, an average of 6 months
There are not enough studies showing the effect of IPT, which is an evidence-based psychotherapy that works on problem areas such as role change that may occur with the disease and provides support for recognizing and using social support mechanisms, on cancer patients. This study is thought to make a significant contribution to the literature, especially in terms of making family support, which has an important place in social support systems, available to patients, intervening in interpersonal emotion regulation problems that may occur in patients and affecting depression levels.