Histotripsy (HistoSonics®) for Liver Tumours
Histotripsy is a promising non-invasive technique that uses high-intensity ultrasound waves to disrupt tissue without damaging surrounding structures. It works by using high-intensity ultrasound waves to create microscopic bubbles within the tumour tissue. These bubbles rapidly expand and collapse, generating shock waves that disrupt the tissue. The technique is highly precise and can be targeted to specific areas of the liver, allowing for selective destruction of tumour cells while minimizing damage to healthy tissue. This study will enrol 20 patients with liver tumours (be it primary or secondary liver tumours), monitor their post-operative adverse events, and study the changes in tumour size and volume after treatment. Histotripsy will be performed under general anaesthesia, with real-time monitoring by ultrasound, and deliver high-intensity ultrasound waves in single session or multiple sessions. Similar to other minimal invasive treatments, patients will be admitted 1 day prior, then receive Histotripsy on the next day and stay overnight for observation. Patients will be discharged on the 3rd day if unremarkable. During the hospital stay, blood samplings will be taken for evaluation around 2-4 times in total depending on the length of hospital stay.
Liver Tumour
RADIATION: Histotripsy
Changes in tumour features, Changes in tumour size and volume before and after intervention, up to 36 months|Post procedure adverse events and complication, Post procedure adverse events and complication, The whole duration of hospital stay, normally 3 days on average
Histotripsy is a promising non-invasive technique that uses high-intensity ultrasound waves to disrupt tissue without damaging surrounding structures. It works by using high-intensity ultrasound waves to create microscopic bubbles within the tumour tissue. These bubbles rapidly expand and collapse, generating shock waves that disrupt the tissue. The technique is highly precise and can be targeted to specific areas of the liver, allowing for selective destruction of tumour cells while minimizing damage to healthy tissue. This study will enrol 20 patients with liver tumours (be it primary or secondary liver tumours), monitor their post-operative adverse events, and study the changes in tumour size and volume after treatment. Histotripsy will be performed under general anaesthesia, with real-time monitoring by ultrasound, and deliver high-intensity ultrasound waves in single session or multiple sessions. Similar to other minimal invasive treatments, patients will be admitted 1 day prior, then receive Histotripsy on the next day and stay overnight for observation. Patients will be discharged on the 3rd day if unremarkable. During the hospital stay, blood samplings will be taken for evaluation around 2-4 times in total depending on the length of hospital stay.