Safety and Feasibility of PD-1 Blockade in the Treatment of dMMR or MSI-H Rectal Cancer
Colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer worldwide and the second leading cause of cancer mortality in the United States. The current standard of care (SOC) for locally advanced rectal cancer includes neoadjuvant chemotherapy and radiation followed by surgery. However, great variability exists in patient's response to neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy with only about 20-25% of patients achieving a complete response while other patients achieve a partial or no treatment response. The purpose of this study is to test the investigational agent, Pembrolizumab, in combination with SOC radiation and Capecitabine (or 5-Fluorouacil) in treatment of patients with mismatch repair deficient locally advanced rectal cancer.
Rectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: External beam radiation|DRUG: Capecitabine
Rate of adverse events (AEs) as defined by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v5.0, Safety endpoint will be defined by rate of AEs as defined by the CTCAE v5.0, 30 days after intervention|Proportion of participants able to complete planned neoadjuvant treatment protocol, Tolerability as defined by proportion of participants that are able to complete the planned neoadjuvant treatment protocol, 45 days after intervention|Feasibility as defined by proportion of participants with any delay in planned surgery of more than 30 days, Feasibility as defined by proportion of participants with any delay in the planned surgery of more than 30 days, 115 days after intervention|Treatment response as measured by AJCC tumor regression grade (TRG), Treatment response as measured by pathologic assessment of treatment response using the AJCC TRG following surgical resection.

AJCC TRG grading ranges from 0-3:

0 (complete response): no viable cancer cells

1. (near complete response): single cells or rare small groups of cancer cells
2. (partial response): residual cancer with evident tumor regression but more than single cells or rare small groups of cancer cells
3. (poor or no response): extensive residual cancer with no evident tumor regression., at time of surgical resection, an average of 10 weeks after radiation|Treatment response as measured by MRI tumor regression grade, Treatment response as measured by MRI tumor regression grade.

The MRI tumor regression grade uses the following scale:

1. No/minimal fibrosis visible (tiny linear scar) and no tumor signal
2. Dense fibrotic scar (low signal intensity) but no macroscopic tumor signal (indicates no or microscopic tumor)
3. Fibrosis predominates but obvious measurable areas of tumor signal visible
4. Tumor signal predominates with little/minimal fibrosis
5. Tumor signal only: no fibrosis, includes progression of tumor, 4-6 weeks before intervention|Treatment response as measured by Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) blood test, Treatment response as measured by CEA levels, 4-6 weeks before intervention
This study investigates the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of Pembrolizumab, an immunotherapy agent, in combination with SOC radiation and Capecitabine (or 5-Fluorouacil) in treatment of patients with mismatch repair deficient locally advanced rectal cancer. Pembrolizumab is an investigational (experimental) drug that works by enhancing the functional activity of the target lymphocytes (immune cells) to facilitate tumor regression and ultimately immune rejection. Pembrolizumab in combination with radiation and Capcitabine (or 5-Fluorouacil) is experimental because it is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for this specific indication.

The primary objective of this study is to determine the safety, tolerability and feasibility of neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with capectiabine (or 5-Fluorouracil ) in the treatment of patients with MMR-d locally advanced rectal cancer

The secondary objective of this study is to determine the treatment response in MMR-d rectal cancer patients treated with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy and Pembrolizumab.