Ramucirumab and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of EGFR Mutant Recurrent or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well ramucirumab and pembrolizumab work in treating EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer that has come back (recurrent) or spread to other places in the body (metastatic) while on systemic therapy. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Ramucirumab, a drug which has anti-angiogenic and pleotropic immunomodulatory effects and may synergize with the effect of an anti-PD-1 agent. The study investigates the effect of targeted anti-antitumor activity of immune checkpoint inhibitor pembrolizumab and immune-suppressive activity of VEGF-inhibitor ramicirumab to evaluate the efficacy and the tolerability of the combination.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Overall response rate, Response rate will be evaluated with computed tomography (CT) scans every 2 cycles and tumor measurements using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria. Immune RECIST (iRECIST) will also be assessed., Up to 2 years
Incidence of adverse events, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 will be used for adverse event grading. Attributions of causality will be assessed by the primary treating physician. Frequency and severity of adverse events and tolerability of the regimen will be collected and summarized by descriptive statistics for each of the disease cohorts., Up to 2 years|Clinical benefit rate (complete response + partial response + stable disease), Clinical benefit rate will be evaluated with CT scans every 2 cycles and tumor measurements using RECIST 1.1 criteria. iRECIST will also be assessed., Up to 2 years|Progression-free survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be calculated to estimate progression-free survival., From the date of study registration to the date of progressive disease, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be calculated to estimate overall survival., From the date of study registration to the date of death, assessed up to 2 years
Tumor immunoprofile, Measured by immunohistochemistry, including tumor infiltrating lymphocytes and T cell receptor (TCR) immunosequencing (immunoSEQ) and relationship to clinical outcomes, including response rate. TCR immunoSEQ data will be summarized for each patient for T-cell clonality difference, descriptive statistics and confidence interval will be obtained across patients., Baseline|Circulating immune cell profiles in response to treatment and in relation to clinical response, Measured using 10-color 65 marker multiplex Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act-certified IMMUNOME flow cytometry profile on peripheral blood samples. For immune cell subpopulation data by flow cytometry, will identify differences between the paired peripheral blood mononuclear cell samples from the same patients., Up to 2 years|Change in circulating VEGF levels, Will evaluate correlation with clinical response. A bivariate plot will be used to describe the relationship between response rate and peak VEGF via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay over time., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate response rate of the combination of ramucirumab and pembrolizumab in EGFR mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate safety, tolerability, and survival for patients receiving pembrolizumab and ramucirumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize predictive immunologic biomarkers of response in tissue and peripheral blood of patients receiving ramucirumab and pembrolizumab combination therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 35 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.