Gemcitabine Plus Bevacizumab in Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Breast Cancer
To determine how long Gemcitabine and Bevacizumab will stop the cancer from growing in patients with advanced breast cancer.
Metastatic Breast Cancer|Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Time, PFS was measured from date of first dose to first date of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. For each participant who was not known to have died or to have had PD as of the data inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis, PFS duration was censored for that analysis at the date of the participant's last progression-free tumor assessment before that cut-off date., Baseline to measured PD or death from any cause. Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks during therapy and every 2 months during post-therapy until documented PD (up to 34 months).
Overall Tumor Response Rate (ORR), Response defined per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria: complete response (CR)=disappearance of all target lesions; partial response (PR)=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; progressive disease (PD)=20% increase in sum of longest diameter of target lesions; stable disease=small changes that do not meet above criteria. ORR=proportion of participants who achieved a confirmed best response of CR or PR (responders). ORR=number of participants with CR or PR /number of participants qualified for tumor response analysis (per protocol population)., Baseline to measured PD. Tumor assessments were performed every 8 weeks (q 8 weeks) during therapy and q 2 months during post-therapy until documented PD (up to 34 months).|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs); Pharmacology Toxicities, A listing of serious adverse events (SAEs) and other non-serious AEs is located in the Reported Adverse Event module., Baseline, every cycle (every 14 days) up to 34 months|1-Year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, OS was measured from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause. For each participant who was not known to have died as of the data inclusion cut-off date for a particular analysis, OS duration was censored for that analysis at the date of participant's last study contact prior to that cut-off date. The 1-year survival rate (percentage of participants who were alive at 1 year) was estimated from OS data., Baseline to death from any cause, 1 year
To determine how long Gemcitabine and Bevacizumab will stop the cancer from growing in patients with advanced breast cancer.