Phase 2 Haplotype Mismatched HSCT in Patients With Hematological Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to determine if haplotype-mismatched HSCT is associated with an improvement in treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate at 6 months.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Myelodysplasia|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
RADIATION: Total Body Irradiation|DRUG: Thiotepa|DRUG: Fludarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Rabbit ATG|DRUG: Palifermin
Treatment-related Mortality (TRM) Rate at 6 Months After Transplantation, To determine if haplotype-mismatched HSCT is associated with a ≤40% treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate at 6 months after transplantation; a TRM ≥60% being considered unacceptable. The percent of patients with the exact 95% confidence interval who had treatment-related mortality within 6 months of their transplant is presented., thru 6 months after transplant
Regimen-related Toxicity, The number of unique patients who had adverse events that were possibly/probably/definitely related to treatment/regimen., Up to 1 year|Time to Neutrophil Engraftment, Time to neutrophil engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of neutrophil is defined as the time from transplant until absolute neutrophil count (ANC) \> 500 uL for 3 consecutive days. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year|Time to Platelet Engraftment, Time to platelet engraftment will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. The time to engraftment of platelets is defined as the time from day 0 to the first of seven consecutive days after transplantation during which the platelet count is at least 20 x109/l without transfusion support. Only patients who achieved engraftment of platelets will be included in the analysis. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be provided., Transplant (Day 0) up to 1 year|Acute Graft vs. Host Disease (GvHD), Number of unique patients who had acute Graft vs. Host Disease (GvHD) diagnosed while on the study., Up to 1 year|Chronic Graft vs. Host Disease (GvHD), Number of unique patients who had chronic Graft vs. Host Disease (GvHD) diagnosed while on the study., Up to 1 year|Frequency of Infection, Number of unique patients with bacterial and/or viral infections reported., Day 0 through 1 year post transplantation
The purpose of this study is to determine if haplotype-mismatched HSCT is associated with an improvement in treatment-related mortality (TRM) rate at 6 months.