A Phase I/II Study of ODX (Osteodex) in Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC)
This phase I/IIa study is a multi-center, prospective, open-label study evaluating safety and biological efficacy of up to six dose levels of Osteodex of patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Osteodex is a poly-bisphosphonate containing three known substances; dextran, alendronate and guanidine.

The objective of the study is to define the maximum tolerable dose of Osteodex when given every third week. The following objectives will also be evaluated: overall survival, PSA response, response markers related to bone metabolism (S-ALP and U-NTx), Quality of Life and assessment of pharmacokinetic parameters.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic
DRUG: Osteodex
To define the maximum tolerable dose (MTD) of Osteodex., The MTD will be defined as the dose that is a predecessor to the dose where dose limiting toxicity (DLT, e.g., lack of recovery to baseline of serum creatinine (S-Cr), clinically significant abnormalities in test results for haematology, liver function, electrolytes, calcium, clinically significant ECG changes) occurs within 3 weeks after administration for at least 1 among 4 subjects. In case such dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is not observed for any doses the maximum dose at 1.5 mg/kg will be defined as the MTD., up to 21 weeks
Evaluation of overall survival, Baseline and 21 weeks|PSA response, Baseline and 21 weeks|Response markers related to bone metabolism (S-ALP and U-NTx), Baseline and 21 weeks|Quality of Life, FACT-P questionnaire, Baseline and 21 weeks|Assessment of blood half life, pre-infusion and 30 min, 1 hr, 2 hrs, 3 hrs and 6 hrs post infusion
Males, diagnosed with CRPC, who fulfil the inclusion criteria and does not have any exclusion criteria, will be asked to participate in the study. The subject will be informed orally and in writing about the study procedures and give written informed consent, prior to study start. At the screening visit the following examinations are performed: Physical examination, medical history and concomitant medication. Heart rate, blood pressure, weight, body temperature and respiratory rate are measured. Blood samples are drawn and urine sample is collected. ECG is performed. At the next visit, baseline, the subject is examined physically and heart rate, blood pressure, weight, body temperature and respiratory rate are measured, ECG is performed, blood samples drawn and urine sample collected. FACT-P questionnaire is filled out by the subject. Adverse events and concomitant medication is documented and the first dose of the investigational product is given. The subject will be consecutively assigned to the dose cohorts, starting with the lowest dose cohort, cohort one out of seven cohorts.

Then the subject is surveyed during 24 hours at the hospital. Prior to discharge from the hospital the same examinations are done as described above.

The duration of the study for the individual subject will be approximately 25 weeks from screening to the follow-up visit 3 weeks after the last dose. Each subject will receive at least 4 doses and maximum 7 doses of investigational product.

A Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) will be designated and will be responsible to monitor/review all study related safety data. After review of safety data the DMC will provide recommendation as to whether the dose escalation can proceed as planned according to the protocol.