A Study of Amivantamab in Participants With Previously Treated Advanced or Metastatic Gastric or Esophageal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to investigate the activity of amivantamab in gastric cancer (GC) and esophageal cancer (EC) participants (Phase 2a), and to characterize the preliminary antitumor activity of amivantamab in selected GC and EC population (Phase 2b).
Stomach Neoplasms|Esophageal Neoplasms
DRUG: Amivantamab
Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by investigator per RECIST version 1.1. As per RECIST version 1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes must have short axis measures less than (\<)10 millimeter (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-progressive disease (PD). For non-target lesions, PD: unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression., From start of the treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to 9 months)
Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per RECIST Version 1.1, DCR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR or PR or stable disease (SD) for at least 6 weeks as defined by RECIST version 1.1. As per RECIST version 1.1 CR was defined as disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes must have short axis measures \<10 mm. PR was defined as \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD. For non-target lesions, PD: unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, and no appearance of new lesion(s)., From start of the treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to 9 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) as Per RECIST Version 1.1, DOR was defined as time between date of first documented response (CR/PR) and date of first documented progression or death, whichever occurred first. CR was defined as disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes short axis measures \<10 mm. PR was defined as \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (tumor lesions-longest diameter and nodes-short axis) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD. For non-target lesions, PD: unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. There was no participant who had event (CR/PR) in Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort, hence data could not be collected and analyzed for this cohort., From the date of first documented response up to date of first documented PD or death (up to 9 months)|Time to Response (TTR) as Per RECIST Version 1.1, TTR was defined as time from date of first amivantamab administration to date of achieving objective response (CR/PR) as assessed by investigator per RECIST v1.1 among participants who achieved objective response. Per RECIST v1.1, CR: disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes must have short axis measures \<10 mm. PR: \>=30% decrease in sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-PD. For non-target lesions, PD: unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions was also considered progression. There was no participant who had event (CR/PR) in Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort, hence data could not be collected and analyzed for this cohort., From first dose of study treatment until first documentation of CR or PR (up to 9 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) as Per RECIST Version 1.1, PFS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug until the date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), whichever comes first, based on investigator assessment using RECIST Version 1.1., From day of first dose (Day 1) until PD or death (up to 9 months)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) Based on National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) Version 5.0, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant administered a medicinal (investigational or non-investigational) product. An AE does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the intervention. TEAEs was defined as AEs occurring at or after first dose of study drug up to 30 days after last dose or until the start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first. TEAEs were graded according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0. Grade 1- Mild; Grade 2- Moderate; Grade 3- Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; Grade 4- Life-threatening consequences; Grade 5- Death related to AE. All TEAEs including serious and non-serious events are reported in this outcome measure., From start of the treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after last dose or start of new anticancer therapy, whichever occurred first (up to 9 months)|Maximum Observed Serum Concentration (Cmax) for Amivantamab, Cmax was defined as the maximum observed serum concentration of amivantamab. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for Cmax was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 24, 26, 48, 72, 96 and 168 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1; pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Time to Reach Maximum Observed Serum Concentration (Tmax) for Amivantamab, Tmax was defined as the time to reach maximum observed serum concentration of amivantamab. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for Tmax was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 24, 26, 48, 72, 96 and 168 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1; pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Area Under the Curve From Time (0) to Time (168h) (AUC [0-168h]) for Amivantamab, AUC (0-168h) was defined as area under the serum concentration time-curve from time zero to the time point 168 hours. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for AUC (0-168h) was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 24, 26, 48, 72, 96 and 168 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Area Under the Curve From Time Zero to End of Dosing Interval (AUCtau) for Amivantamab, Area under the serum concentration curve from time 0 to end of dosing interval (AUCtau), where dosing interval was 336 hours was reported. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for AUCtau was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 2a Gastric Cancer and Esophageal Cancer Cohorts: Serum Trough Concentrations (Ctrough) of Amivantamab, Ctrough of amivantamab in GC and EC cohorts were reported. Ctrough was defined as pre-dose serum drug concentration. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\])., Pre-dose at 0 hour: Days 8 and 15 of Cycle 1; Days 1 and 15 of Cycles 2, 3 and 4; Day 1 of Cycles 6 and 8 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 2a Esophageal Cancer Higher Dose Cohort: Serum Trough Concentrations (Ctrough) of Amivantamab, Ctrough of amivantamab in phase 2a EC higher dose cohort was reported. Ctrough was defined as pre-dose serum drug concentration. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method., Pre-dose at 0 hour: Day 15 of Cycle 1; Days 1 and 15 of Cycles 2 and 3; Day 1 of Cycles 6 and 8 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 2a Gastric Cancer Cohort: Terminal Elimination Half-Life (t1/2) for Amivantamab, Terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) was the time measured for the serum concentration of a drug to decrease by half of its initial concentration. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method., Pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Phase 2a Esophageal Cancer and Overall Combined Cohorts: Terminal Elimination Half-Life (t1/2) for Amivantamab, Terminal elimination half-life (t1/2) was the time measured for the serum concentration of a drug to decrease by half of its initial concentration. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for EC cohort and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for t1/2 was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Apparent Clearance at Steady State (CLss) of Amivantamab, Clearance was a measure of the rate at which a drug was metabolized or eliminated by normal biological processes. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for CLss was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Apparent Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss) of Amivantamab, Volume of distribution was defined as the theoretical volume in which the total amount of drug would need to be uniformly distributed to produce the desired serum concentration of a drug. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for Vss was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Accumulation Ratio (AR) of AUCtau for Amivantamab, Accumulation ratio for AUC was calculated as AUC (0-336h) for Cycle 2 Day 1 divided by AUC (0-168h) for Cycle 1 Day 1. The concentrations of amivantamab were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive ELISA method. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for each cancer type (GC and EC) and overall participants (GC and EC combined cohorts: Amivantamab \[1050/1400 mg\]). As planned, data for AR of AUCtau was not collected and analyzed for Phase 2a EC higher dose cohort., Pre-dose, 0, 24, 26, 48, 72, 96 and 168 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 1; pre-dose, 0, 2, 24, 48, 72, 168 and 336 hours post-dose on Day 1 of Cycle 2 (each cycle was of 28 days)|Number of Participants With Anti-Amivantamab Antibodies, Number of participants with anti-amivantamab antibodies were reported. Serum samples were assessed for anti-drug antibodies., From start of the treatment (Day 1) up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to 9 months)
The purpose of this study is to investigate the activity of amivantamab in gastric cancer (GC) and esophageal cancer (EC) participants (Phase 2a), and to characterize the preliminary antitumor activity of amivantamab in selected GC and EC population (Phase 2b).