INO-3107 With Electroporation (EP) in Participants With HPV-6- and/or HPV-11-Associated Recurrent Respiratory Papillomatosis (RRP)
This is a Phase 1/2 open-label, multicenter trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity, and efficacy of INO-3107 in subjects with HPV-6 and/or HPV-11-associated recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP). The trial population will include participants who have been diagnosed with either Juvenile-Onset RRP (J-O RRP) as defined by age at first diagnosis \<12 years or with Adult- Onset RRP (A-O RRP) as defined by age at first diagnosis ≥12 years. A safety run-in will be performed with up to six participants with a one week waiting period between each enrolled participant.
Respiratory Papillomatosis
DRUG: INO-3107|DEVICE: CELLECTRA™ 2000
Percentage of Participants with Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can include any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal (investigational) product, whether or not related to the medicinal (investigational) product. A serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose: 1. Results in death. 2. A life-threatening event; however, this does not include an event that, had it occurred in a more severe form, might have caused death. 3. Requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization. 4. Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity. 5. Results in a congenital anomaly/birth., Screening up to Week 52 (up to approximately 1 year)
The Number of RRP Surgical Interventions in the 52 Weeks Post Day 0 Compared to the Number of RRP Surgical Interventions in the Year Prior to Day 0 Dosing, Screening up to Week 52 (up to approximately 1 year)|Change in RRP Staging Assessment Scores Over Time, An RRP Staging Assessment score will be determined using a modified Derkay staging tool. It includes both a subjective functional assessment of clinical parameters and an anatomic assessment of disease distribution. The anatomic score can then be used in combination with the functional score to measure an individual patient's clinical course and response to the therapy over time., Screening, Day 0, Weeks 6, 11, 26, 52 (up to approximately 1 year)|Change from Baseline in Interferon-gamma Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Spot (IFN-γ ELISpot) Response Magnitude for IFN-γ Secreting Cells in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMCs), Baseline, Weeks 6, 9, 11, 26, 52|Change from Baseline in Flow Cytometry Response Magnitude for T-cell Phenotype and Lytic Potential in PBMCs, Baseline, Weeks 6, 9, 11, 26, 52|Change from Baseline in Resected Tumor Tissue Response Magnitude for Pro-inflammatory and Immunosuppressive Elements, Baseline and at subsequent tissue resections, up to Week 52 (up to approximately 1 year)|Change from Baseline in MicroRNA (miRNA) Expression Related to Reduced Frequency of RRP Surgical Intervention, Baseline and Week 6
This is a Phase 1/2 open-label, multicenter trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity, and efficacy of INO-3107 in subjects with HPV-6 and/or HPV-11-associated recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP). The trial population will include participants who have been diagnosed with either Juvenile-Onset RRP (J-O RRP) as defined by age at first diagnosis \<12 years or with Adult- Onset RRP (A-O RRP) as defined by age at first diagnosis ≥12 years. A safety run-in will be performed with up to six participants with a one week waiting period between each enrolled participant.