Evaluate the Efficacy of Radiofrequency Ablation/Vertebroplasty with or Without SBRT for Treating Painful Spinal Vertebral Metastases
This study is a prospective, multicenter, open, practical, randomized controlled, non inferiority effect clinical study initiated by researchers, which aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of radiofrequency ablation/vertebroplasty and radiofrequency ablation/vertebroplasty combined with SBRT in the treatment of painful spinal metastases. This study plans to include about 120 cases in about 3 research centers nationwide, including the Department of bone oncology of Shanghai First People's Hospital (main center, 60 cases), the Department of bone oncology of the Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University (sub center 1, 30 cases), and the Department of bone oncology of Peking University People's Hospital (sub center 2, 30 cases). The patient was diagnosed with spinal metastasis of malignant tumor and had pain of more than 3 points. The subjects with spinal metastasis located at t5-l5 were selected for clinical research. All patients were treated with RFA/PVA minimally invasive surgery. In principle, no more than 2 vertebral bodies were treated. All patients will receive MRI/CT examination of the affected spine within 6 weeks before enrollment to determine the degree of spinal involvement. All patients were randomly divided into experimental group and control group after minimally invasive surgery, the ratio was 1:1. The patients in the experimental group recovered to the original system treatment about two weeks after minimally invasive surgery; The control group began to receive SBRT radiotherapy of the surgical vertebral body in about two weeks, and the radiotherapy time was two weeks. According to the recommendations of the Department of radiotherapy, SBRT radiotherapy should use any of the following dose and grading scheme: 4 times 24gy, 5 times 30Gy, 6 times 36Gy, 7 times 42GY. The patients in the two groups were followed up after treatment, and evaluated at 1, 2 and 4 weeks and 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment. The NRPS pain degree and pafi pain function comprehensive score were evaluated, and the local lesions were evaluated at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after operation. To evaluate the local control of spinal metastases, pain improvement and quality of life changes of the two treatment strategies.
Spinal Metastases|Local Control|Pain Cancer
RADIATION: Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA)/Vertebroplasty+Stereotactic Radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Experimental
Compare the pain control of RFA/PVA and RFA/PVA combined with SBRT radiotherapy for painful spinal metastases., Based on NRPS pain score: Compare the pain scores of two groups of patients at 1, 2, and 4 weeks after treatment, as well as at 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment.

The Numerical Pain Rating (NPR) Scale is used to assess the intensity of a patient's pain. The pain intensity is rated using numbers from 0 to 10, where 0 represents no pain, and 10 represents the most intense pain imaginable. The patient is asked to select a number that best represents their level of pain, or a healthcare provider may assist in understanding the scale and help the patient choose the appropriate number to describe their pain.

Based on the pain score, pain severity is classified as follows:

Mild pain (1-3): Does not affect sleep. Moderate pain (4-6): Affects sleep. Severe pain (7-10): Significantly disrupts sleep. During the course of treatment, patients are expected to take pain medication as needed. Pain assessments should be performed 20 minutes before the patient takes their pain medication each day., 1, 2, and 4 weeks after treatment, as well as at 3, 6, and 12 months
Comparison of local control between RFA/PVA and RFA/PVA combined with SBRT radiotherapy for painful spinal metastases, Evaluate and calculate the DCR of local lesions in two groups of patients at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment based on the MDA bone response standard.

DCR (Disease Control Rate) refers to the proportion of patients with spinal metastatic tumors who achieve the best therapeutic response according to the The MDA Bone Response Criteria (MD Anderson Bone Response Criteria) is a set of imaging-based criteria used to assess the treatment response in patients with bone metastatic tumors. The criteria are typically applied in clinical trials and research studies to evaluate the effect of various treatments (such as chemotherapy.MDA bone response criteria, as assessed by imaging. This includes patients who achieve Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) after treatment.

All patients undergo CT or MRI scans at the designated follow-up time points. The imaging measurements and assessments are performed by the same physician (HJ) who evaluates the results., 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment|Compare the limb function of RFA/PVA and RFA/PVA combined with SBRT radiotherapy in the treatment of painful spinal metastases;, Based on the Combined Pain and Ambulatory Function Index, calculate the comprehensive PAFI pain function of two groups of patients at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment.

Combined Pain and Ambulatory Function Index and Evaluation Time

10 points - Normal walking and recreational activities: No pain or limp. 9 points - Normal walking ability: Mild pain but no limp; no need for walking aids (crutches, cane, walker).

8 points - Walking ability: Moderate pain and mild limp; rarely uses (or prefers not to use) walking aids (crutches, cane, walker).

7 points - Walking ability with walking aids: Severe pain while walking without walking aids; mild pain when using walking aids (crutches, cane, walker).

6 points - Walking ability with walking aids: Moderate pain when using walking aids (crutches, cane, walker).

5 points - Walking with walking aids: Severe pain and significant limping when using walking aids (crutches, cane, walker).

4 points - Unable to walk, using a wheelchair: Can sit in, 1, 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment.
This study is a prospective, multicenter, open, practical, randomized controlled, non inferiority effect clinical study initiated by researchers, which aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of radiofrequency ablation/vertebroplasty and radiofrequency ablation/vertebroplasty combined with SBRT in the treatment of painful spinal metastases. This study plans to include about 120 cases in about 3 research centers nationwide, including the Department of bone oncology of Shanghai First People's Hospital (main center, 60 cases), the Department of bone oncology of the Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical University (sub center 1, 30 cases), and the Department of bone oncology of Peking University People's Hospital (sub center 2, 30 cases). The patient was diagnosed with spinal metastasis of malignant tumor and had pain of more than 3 points. The subjects with spinal metastasis located at t5-l5 were selected for clinical research. All patients were treated with RFA/PVA minimally invasive surgery. In principle, no more than 2 vertebral bodies were treated. All patients will receive MRI/CT examination of the affected spine within 6 weeks before enrollment to determine the degree of spinal involvement. All patients were randomly divided into experimental group and control group after minimally invasive surgery, the ratio was 1:1. The patients in the experimental group recovered to the original system treatment about two weeks after minimally invasive surgery; The control group began to receive SBRT radiotherapy of the surgical vertebral body in about two weeks, and the radiotherapy time was two weeks. According to the recommendations of the Department of radiotherapy, SBRT radiotherapy should use any of the following dose and grading scheme: 4 times 24gy, 5 times 30Gy, 6 times 36Gy, 7 times 42GY. The patients in the two groups were followed up after treatment, and evaluated at 1, 2 and 4 weeks and 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment. The NRPS pain degree and pafi pain function comprehensive score were evaluated, and the local lesions were evaluated at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after operation. To evaluate the local control of spinal metastases, pain improvement and quality of life changes of the two treatment strategies.