PD-1 Inhibitors Combined With VEGF Inhibitors for Locally Advanced dMMR/MSI-H Colorectal Cancer
In this open-label phase II study, patients will be scheduled for neoadjuvant treatment with PD-1 inhibitors (Camrelizumab) plus VEGF inhibitor (Apatinib) for dMMR/MSI-H colorectal cancer staged as locally advanced (cT3-4N+/-M0 for rectal cancer, cT4 or cT3 with extramural extension ≥5mm for colon cancer). Radiological evaluation will be preformed after 4 cycles of treatment. Patients (either with colon or rectal cancer) who achieve complete clinical response will be offered the choice of Watch \& Wait.
Colorectal Cancer|Microsatellite Instability High
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor plus VEGF inhibitors
Clinical complete response or pathological complete response, Clinical complete response or immunotherapy-related pathological complete response (cCR or immunotherapy-related pCR), up to 2 year
Objective Response Rate (ORR, PR+CR), Partial response + complete response, up to 2 year|3-year relapse-free survival, up to 3 years|3-year overall survival, up to 3 years|Surgical complications, within 1 month after surgery|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, up to 2 year
This is an open-label phase II study, with the aim of determining the efficacy of PD-1 inhibitors (Camrelizumab) plus VEGF inhibitor (Apatinib) as a neoadjuvant therapy for dMMR/MSI-H locally advanced colorectal cancer.

Patients will be evaluated for eligibility within 14 days prior to study initiation with CT (for colon cancer) and/or MRI (for rectal cancer).

Patients will be given four cycles of Camrelizumab (200mg iv every 3 weeks) plus Apatinib (250mg QD day1-14) before being evaluated for response. For patients with colon cancer, if a SD/PD is achieved and the tumor is deemed unresectable, they will be offered chemotherapy±radiotherapy, while if a CR or PR is achieved, they will be offered another four cycles of Camrelizumab + Apatinib. After completing 8 cycles of treatment, if a CR is achieved they will be offered the choice of Watch \& Wait. For patients with rectal cancer who have a SD/PD (after 4 cycles), chemoradiotherapy will be offered, while for those with a CR/PR, another four cycles of the treatment will be given. After completing 8 cycles of treatment, if a CR is achieved patients will be offered the choice of Watch \& Wait.