Integrating Family Caregiver Support Into Cancer Clinical Trials
The aim of this study is to assess the effects of integrating family caregiver support into cancer clinical trials on the well-being of the caregiver, the care-recipient and on the cancer clinical trial system.
Cancer|Clinical Trials|Caregivers
BEHAVIORAL: Benjamin Rose Institute (BRI) Care Consultation™ Program
Absolute change in the Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA) score, Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA) will be used to measure caregiver burden. The instrument was designed as a questionnaire with Likert-type responses ranging from strongly agree (1) to strongly disagree. The 24 items form 5 distinct unidimensional subscales that include: family burden (lack of family support; 5 items), financial burden (struggle with bills; 3 items), health burden (caregivers' health decline; 4 items), schedule burden (disruption of daily tasks; 5 items), and caregiving esteem (7 items), a positive subscale that measures enjoyment and importance of caregiving. A higher score on the caregiver's esteem subscale indicates a more positive effect of caregiving while higher scores on the other subscales indicate greater negative effects of caregiving in those domains, 1 year|Absolute change in the scores for the assessment domains included in the Ben Rose Institute (BRI) care consultation program, Assessment of multiple caregiver and patient domains addressed by the BRI Care Consultation program, 1 year
Absolute change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) score, Assesses patient quality of life. There are 27 questions, each of which is answered using a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (Not at all) to 4 (Very much). Questions are phrased so that higher numbers indicate a better health state., 1 year|Absolute change in Patient Reported Outcomes- Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) scores, The Patient Reported Outcome-Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) assesses patient quality of life. PRO-CTCAE items evaluate the symptom attributes of frequency, severity, interference, amount, presence/absence. Each symptomatic AE is assessed by 1-3 attributes. Responses for each attribute (frequency, severity, and/or interference of symptoms) are scored from 1 to 5 with 1+ mild and 5 = death.

1. - Mild
2. - Moderate
3. - Severe
4. - Life-threatening
5. - Death, 1 year
The aim of this study is to assess the effects of integrating family caregiver support into cancer clinical trials on the well-being of the caregiver, the care-recipient and on the cancer clinical trial system. This study will allow us to examine the benefit of adding a personalized support program for the family caregiver of a patients participating in a cancer clinical trial. Findings will assist in strengthening patient/caregiver-centered care management and support programs developed to enhance the quality of life of patients with cancer and the caregivers, reduce barriers to clinical recruitment, and improve retention in clinical trials.