Post-op T-DM1 in HER-2+ Salivary Gland Carcinomas
This research is being done to see how safe and effective the use of the study drug Ado-trastuzumab (T) emtansine (DM1), T-DM1, and standard of care chemoradiation are when used together in treating HER2-positive salivary gland cancer. It will also examine the effectiveness of study drug Ado-trastuzumab (T) emtansine (DM1) on cancer recurrence.
Salivary Gland Cancer|HER2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Ado-trastuzumab (T) emtansine (T-DM1)|RADIATION: Standard of Care Radiotherapy|DRUG: Standard of Care Chemotherapy
2 Year Disease-free survival (DFS) Rate, Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate 2 Year Disease-free survival (DFS) Rate, Time from the date of study registration to first invasive local, regional, distant recurrence, or death due to any cause assessed up to 36 months
Adverse Events, Evaluate adverse events for patient receiving T-DM1, defined as adverse events of all grades utilizing CTCAE v5, Time from study registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive assessed up to 36 months|Overall survival (OS) Rate, Overall Survival (OS) estimated using a Kaplan-Meier or competing risk methodology (whichever is appropriate)., Time from study registration to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive assessed up to 36 months|Distant metastatic-free survival (DMFS) Rate, Distant metastatic-free survival (DMFS) Rate estimated using a Kaplan-Meier or competing risk methodology (whichever is appropriate)., Time from study registration to the earlier of the first occurrence of distant or metastatic disease, or death due to any cause assessed up to 36 months
This is a phase II, open-label, non-randomized, multi-institutional study investigating postoperative or adjuvant human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2)-directed therapy with adjuvant ado-trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) in HER2-positive salivary gland carcinomas (SGC).

This research study is:

* Studying the use of T-DM1 in combination with radiation and chemotherapy; and the use of maintenance T-DM1 alone for up to a year after surgery
* Evaluating the effectiveness, safety, and toxicity of T-DM1

T-DM1 is a specialized antibody targeting HER-2 (a protein that is expressed in some breast and salivary gland cancers). The drug is a HER-2 antibody that is bound to a chemotherapy agent (DM1) and delivered intravenously. T-DM1 then binds cancer cells that express HER-2 and is taken up into the cell to allow DM1 to kill cancer cells in a more targeted way. This allows the use of a targeted treatment along with chemoradiation to treat HER-2 expressing salivary cancers.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved T-DM1 for HER2-positive salivary gland cancer but it has been approved for other uses (for breast cancers that express HER2 protein).

The research study procedures include: screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

This research study involves radiation, chemotherapy, and targeted therapy given after surgery for up to 1-year, and participants will be followed for 3 years.

It is expected that about 55 people will take part in this research study.

Genentech is supporting this research study by providing the research study drug, T-DM1.