Everolimus and Pasireotide (SOM230) in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to estimate the time to disease progression when everolimus and pasireotide are given together in patients with advanced or metastatic HCC who have not had any prior systemic therapy.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Pasireotide
Time to Progression (TTP), Time to progression is defined as the time from study enrollment until radiological progression in a previously embolized lobe, development of new lesions in an untreated lobe, or evidence of extrahepatic progression (based on modified Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria). Patients will be followed until death. Patients that die of causes unrelated to the study drug without evidence of progression will be censored., 3.5 years
Number of Individuals Experiencing Toxicity, Safety determinations are based on the rate of drug-related adverse events (AEs) reported based upon the toxicity as measured by the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0)., 3.5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from study enrollment until death., 3.5 years|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is the rate of complete responses (CRs) + partial responses (PRs) as determined by RECIST (v1.1) and modified HCC RECIST criteria. Responses defined as follows:

CR: disappearance of all clinical/radiological evidence of tumor including any intratumoral arterial enhancement in all target lesions.

Partial Response (PR): at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of viable (contrast enhancement in the arterial phase) target lesions, referencing the baseline sum.

Stable Disease (SD): any cases that do not qualify for either partial response or progressive disease.

Progressive Disease (PD): an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of viable target lesions, referencing the nadir sum, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesions. A new hepatic nodule signals PD when the longest diameter is at least 10 mm and the nodule shows the typical vascular pattern of HCC on dynamic imaging or if at least 1-cm interval growth is seen in subsequent scans., 3.5 years
This open label, single-arm Phase II study will assess time to progression (TTP) and safety of everolimus and pasireotide in patients with advanced or metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and limited prior systemic therapy. Should this regimen demonstrate efficacy, this will support a Phase III randomized clinical trial of this combination therapy. At least 30 patients will be enrolled into this Phase II study. Additionally, given the potential importance of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK and RAS/pAKT pathways, we propose to correlate outcomes with baseline pAKT, p-S6, somatostatin receptor tumor expression, and serum VEGF expression. We anticipate these exploratory analyses will increase understanding of the molecular pathways and their inhibition in this disease. The study will be performed as a University of North Carolina-coordinated, multicenter study.