A Study of HMPL-453 in Patients With Advanced Solid Malignancies
This is a dose escalation study consisting of two stages: Dose-escalation stage (stage 1): Patients will take a single dose of HMPL-453 on Day 1 and will be followed for one week for safety observations. After one week of observation, if no safety issues occur, patients can continue multiple dosing of HMPL-453 QD (quaque die) and start on the DLT (Dose Limited Toxicity) assessment cycles. Each cycle consists of 28-days. Patients are required to draw blood samples for PK and safety analysis at specific time points during the treatment; Dose-Expansion Stage (Stage 2): This stage is to further evaluate the safety, tolerability, PD (pharmacodynamics) profile, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of HMPL-453 at the RP2D (recommended phase 2 dose) in approximately 10 patients with advanced solid tumor.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: HMPL-453
Incidence of DLTs by the NCI CTCAE v4.03, Incidence of DLTs by the NCI CTCAE v4.03, Cycle 1 (DLT assessment window 28 days)
Incidence of AEs and clinically significant laboratory abnormalities, incidence of any AEs associated to treatment, From first dose to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of HMP 453, From first dose to day 56 of multiple dosing period|time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax), time to reach maximum concentration (Tmax) of HMP 453, From first dose to day 56 of multiple dosing period|terminal half-life (t1/2), terminal half-life (t1/2) of HMP-453, From first dose to day 56 of multiple dosing period|area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-t), area under the concentration-time curve (AUC0-t) of HMP453, From first dose to day 56 of multiple dosing period|apparent clearance (CL/F), apparent clearance (CL/F) of HMP 453, From first dose to day 56 of multiple dosing period|Serum phosphate level increases, to evaluate the fluctuate level of Serum phosphate level, From first dose to Day 21 of the last treatment cycle|Objective response rate (ORR), per RECIST, Every 8 weeks while being treated with HMPL-453 (expected average of 16 weeks)|Duration of response (DoR), from the date of response to progress or death, Every 8 weeks while being treated with HMPL-453 (expected average of 16 weeks)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), the response rate of PR (partial response) +CR(complete response) +SD （stable disease）, Every 8 weeks while being treated with HMPL-453 (expected average of 16 weeks)|Change in tumor size, per RECIST to evaluate the change of target and non-target lesions, Every 8 weeks while being treated with HMPL-453 (expected average of 16 weeks)|Progression free survival (PFS), Per RECIST 1.1, Every 8 weeks while being treated with HMPL-453 (expected average of 16 weeks)
Dose-escalation stage (stage 1): Patients participating in the dose-escalation stage will take a single dose of HMPL-453 on Day 1 and will be followed for one week for safety observations. After one week of observation, if no safety issues occur, patients can continue multiple dosing of HMPL-453 QD and start on the DLT assessment cycles. Each cycle consists of 28-days. Patients are required to draw blood samples for PK and safety analysis at specific time points during the treatment.

The 3+3 design will be employed for the dose escalation and MTD ( maximum tolerated dose) determination. To limit the number of patients being exposed to potentially ineffective doses, one patient will be enrolled and dosed in the initial dose cohort. If there are no DLT or less than grade 2 toxicities of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Event ( CTC AE ) occur in the first treatment cycle, then the study will be escalated to the next dose cohort. Otherwise, the trial will revert to a standard 3+3 design.

Dose-Expansion Stage (Stage 2): This stage is to further evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics (PK) profile, and preliminary anti-tumor activity of HMPL-453 at the RP2D in approximately 60 patients with advanced solid tumor. Patients with FGFR ( Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor) dysregulated advanced solid tumors, including but not limited to advanced urothelial bladder cancer, advanced cholangiocarcinoma (patients with cancers of the gallbladder or ampulla of Vater are not eligible) and others solid tumors are preferred to be enrolled.

Expansion stage will begin after dose-escalation stage is completed and the MTD/RP2D has been determined. Patients will receive HMPL-453 with 28-day treatment cycles until disease progression, death, intolerable toxicity, no longer benefiting from the study treatment per investigator's discretion, or withdrawal of consent, whichever comes first.