Characterizing and Addressing Financial Toxicity in AYAs With Cancer
The overall aims of this study are to address two important gaps in care for AYA cancer patients: 1) a financial toxicity measurement tool to assess AYA-specific needs, and 2) an intervention for mitigating financial toxicity in this population. Aim 1 involves adapting the COSTA measure and assessing the psychometric properties of the measure for a racial/ethnically diverse group of AYAs. Aim 2 and 3 involve the development and pilot testing of our novel financial education/ navigation (FE/FN) intervention.
Cancer in Adolescence
BEHAVIORAL: Patient Financial Education / Navigation
Number of (OR percentage of) participants who completed the intervention, This is to assess the feasibility of intervention completion. Intervention completion is defined as participants who have demonstrated contact with community partners at any time before the end of 6 months., Up to 6 months|Percentage of eligible participants who consented to be in study, This is to measure interest and the need for help by community partners that can provide patient financial education and navigation., Up to 6 months
Comprehensive Score of Financial Toxicity (COST measure), The COST is a patient-reported outcome measure that describes the financial distress experienced by cancer patients. It is a 11-item questionnaire with a score range of 0-44. Lower COST values indicate higher toxicity. Higher scores indicate lower financial toxicity ., Baseline, 6 months
Financial toxicity is the harmful personal financial burden faced by patients due to healthcare needs. A prevalent adverse outcome of cancer therapy, financial toxicity is associated with poorer health outcomes and increased mortality in adults with cancer. Among cancer survivors, financial burden disproportionately impacts adolescents and young adults (AYA: 15 - 39 years). Lack of financial security, insurance gaps or under-insurance, and interruptions in education or careers caused by cancer therapy make AYA cancer survivors particularly vulnerable to financial burden. Financial toxicity of cancer care is an actionable factor impacting outcomes among vulnerable AYA populations. In order to improve outcomes and reduce the burden of care among these populations, targeted, appropriate measures and then, age-specific interventions are needed. The study includes the following aims: Aim 1 involves the adaptation of the COST measure and assessment of the psychometric properties of the measure for a racial/ethnically diverse group of AYAs. The study team will administer COST and additional AYA-specific financial toxicity candidate items to N=150 AYAs. The study will assess validity of original COST through confirmatory factor analysis; assess reliability through test/retest; conduct exploratory factor analysis on modified COST incorporating added items; and describe AYA-reported acceptability of AYA financial toxicity assessment.

In Aim 2, an adapted FN/FE intervention will be adapted for a racial/ethnically diverse group of AYAs. 6 focus groups (6 - 8 per group) will be conducted with a diverse AYAs and caregivers, and brief stakeholder discussions to understand unique AYA FE/FN needs and inform intervention refinement.

Aim 3 will include a pilot test of our novel FE/FN intervention to AYAs. A FE/FN intervention will be delivered to at least N=30 AYAs, and assess feasibility by evaluating program completion (6-months), participant-reported acceptability. Evidence of efficacy will be recorded by measuring improvement in average financial toxicity score between baseline and 6-month time points.