Sapanisertib and Metformin in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Relapsed or Refractory Cancers
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of sapanisertib and metformin in treating patients with cancers that have spread to other parts of the body (advanced/metastatic), have come back (recurrent), or do not respond to treatment (refractory). Sapanisertib and metformin may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Metformin|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Sapanisertib
Incidence of serious adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Descriptive statistics will be provided on the grade and type of toxicity by dose level., Up to 4 years|Clinical and laboratory values, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Vital sign measurements, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|GI symptoms, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Incidence of neurotoxicity, Descriptive statistics will be provided on the grade and type of toxicity by dose level., Up to 4 years
Incidence and grade of adverse events, Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Descriptive statistics will be provided on the grade and type of toxicity by dose level., Up to 4 years|Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, Descriptive statistics will be provided on the grade and type of toxicity by dose level., Up to 4 years|Death during study, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Withdrawals from study due to adverse events, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Change in treatment regimen due to adverse events, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Establishment of recommended phase 2 dosage, Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 42 days|Best tumor responses by dose level, Will be measured according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Progression free survival by dose level, Will be measured according to RECIST version 1.1. Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|Overall survival by dose level, Will be measured according to RECIST version 1.1. Wilcoxon's Signed-Rank Test and Fisher's exact test will be used. A mixed model accounting for patient effects will be used to analyze longitudinal data (including biomarker data) over time., Up to 4 years|The peak plasma concentration (Cmax), Will be determined by observation of the data., Up to 4 years|The area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC), The AUC from 0 to 24 hours postdose (AUC0-24) will be calculated using the linear trapezoidal., Up to 4 years|Elimination half-life (t1/2), Will be calculated by 0.693/k, Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability and to determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the combination of sapanisertib (TAK-228) with metformin in patients with advanced cancers refractory to standard therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical tumor response of this combination. II. To characterize the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of metformin and TAK-228.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

Patients receive metformin orally (PO) 1-3 times daily on days 1-42 and sapanisertib PO daily on days 15-42 of cycle 1. Patients then receive metformin PO daily and sapanisertib PO daily on days 1-28 of cycle 2 and beyond. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30 days.