A Study of Brentuximab Vedotin Treatment in Chinese Adults With CD30-Positive Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma
The main aim is to check the long-term side effects of treatment with Brentuximab Vedotin and to see if that treatment improves symptoms of cluster of differentiation antigen 30 (CD30-Positive) Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma in Chinese adults.

Participants will receive brentuximab vedotin through the vein on day 1 of each 21 day cycle up to maximum 16 cycles.
T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Brentuximab vedotin
Overall Response Rate (ORR) Lasting at Least 4 Months in Participants With CD30+ MF or pcALCL, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) that lasts at least 4 months. CR is defined as complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease and PR is defined as regression of measurable disease. ORR will be determined based on Global Response Score (GRS) which consisted of a skin assessment by the investigator using the modified severity-weighted assessment tool (mSWAT), nodal and visceral involvement using computed tomography (CT) scan, and for the participants with mycosis fungoides (MF) only, detection of circulation Sezary cells. Response Criteria will be based on International Society for Cutaneous Lymphomas (ISCL), United States Cutaneous Lymphoma Consortium (USCLC) and European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Consensus guidelines (Olsen, 2011)., Up to 48 weeks
Complete Response (CR) Rate, CR rate is defined as the percentage of participants with CR. CR is defined as complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease. CR will be determined based on GRS which consisted of a skin assessment by the investigator using the mSWAT, nodal and visceral involvement using computed tomography (CT) scan, and for the participants with MF only, detection of circulation Sezary cells. Response Criteria was based on ISCL, USCLC and EORTC Consensus guidelines (Olsen, 2011)., Up to 48 weeks|Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants who achieve complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). CR is defined as complete disappearance of all clinical evidence of disease and PR is defined as regression of measurable disease. ORR will be determined based on GRS which consisted of a skin assessment by the investigator using the mSWAT, nodal and visceral involvement using CT scan, and for the participants with MF only, detection of circulation Sezary cells. Response Criteria was based on ISCL, USCLC and EORTC Consensus guidelines (Olsen, 2011)., Up to 48 weeks|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of response will be assessed in participants with CR or PR and is defined as the time between first documentation of response and PD. Response criteria will be based on ISCL, USCLC and EORTC Consensus guidelines (Olsen, 2011)., Up to 48 weeks|Number of Participants with Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a drug; it does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (eg, a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a drug, whether or not it is considered related to the drug. TEAE is defined as an adverse event with an onset that occurs after receiving study drug. SAE is any AE that results in death, is life-threatening, requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of an existing hospitalization, results in significant disability or incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect or is a medically important event. TEAE and SAE will be determined as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5.0., From first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Changes from Baseline in Participant's Vital Sign: Systolic and Diastolic Blood Pressure, Vital signs will include seated blood pressure (systolic and diastolic) measurements., Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Changes from Baseline in Participant's Vital Sign: Heart Rate, Vital signs will include heart rate (beats per minute) measurements., Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Changes from Baseline in Participant's Vital Sign: Body Temperature, Vital signs will include body temperature (degree celsius) measurements., Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change From Baseline in Participant's Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status Scale, ECOG scale will be used to assess performance status of participants. Grades range from 0 (fully active) to 5 (dead) where Grade 0: Normal activity. Grade 1: Symptoms but ambulatory. Grade 2: In bed \<50% of the time. Grade 3: In bed \>50% of the time. Grade 4: 100% bedridden. Grade 5: Dead. Lower grades indicate improvement., Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Hematology Parameter: Hemoglobin, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Hematology Parameter: Leukocyte with Differential Absolute Neutrophil Count (ANC), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Hematology Parameter: Platelet Count, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Alkaline Phosphatase (ALP), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Total Bilirubin, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Calcium, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Creatinine, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Lipase, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Chloride, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Gamma Glutamyl Transferase (GGT), Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Glucose, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Magnesium, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Phosphate, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Potassium, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Sodium, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)|Change from Baseline in Serum Chemistry Parameter: Amylase, Baseline up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 48 weeks)
The drug being tested in this study is called brentuximab vedotin (SGN-35). Brentuximab vedotin is being tested to treat people who have CD30-positive cutaneous T-Cell lymphoma.

The study will enroll approximately 10 patients. Participants will receive a single treatment i.e., brentuximab vedotin monotherapy:

• Brentuximab vedotin 1.8 mg/kg

Participants will be administered with brentuximab vedotin by intravenous (IV) infusion given for approximately 30 minutes on Day 1 of each 21-day cycle up to 16 cycles followed by the end of treatment (EOT) visit 30 days after receiving the final dose of study drug. Participants with progressive disease (PD) at any time during the study will be discontinued from study drug.

This multi-center trial will be conducted in China. Participants will remain in this study for approximately 56 weeks.