Pilot Study of Fisetin to Improve Fatigue Among Older Adult Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to find out if taking a Fisetin supplement can decrease fatigue among older cancer survivors.
Fatigue
DRUG: Fisetin followed by Placebo|DRUG: Placebo followed by Fisetin
Change in Pittsburgh Fatigability Scale (PFS), 10-item PFS score is a measure of perceived fatigability in older adults and can serve as an adjunct to performance-based fatigability measures for identifying older adults at risk of mobility limitation in clinical and research settings. Total score range is 0-50 with higher score indicating greater fatigue., Baseline to Week 2|Change in Pittsburgh Fatigability Scale (PFS), 10-item PFS score is a measure of perceived fatigability in older adults and can serve as an adjunct to performance-based fatigability measures for identifying older adults at risk of mobility limitation in clinical and research settings. Total score range is 0-50 with higher score indicating greater fatigue., Baseline to Week 4|Change in Pittsburgh Fatigability Scale (PFS), 10-item PFS score is a measure of perceived fatigability in older adults and can serve as an adjunct to performance-based fatigability measures for identifying older adults at risk of mobility limitation in clinical and research settings. Total score range is 0-50 with higher score indicating greater fatigue., Baseline to Week 6|Change in Pittsburgh Fatigability Scale (PFS), 10-item PFS score is a measure of perceived fatigability in older adults and can serve as an adjunct to performance-based fatigability measures for identifying older adults at risk of mobility limitation in clinical and research settings. Total score range is 0-50 with higher score indicating greater fatigue., Baseline to Week 12
Change in Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement System (PROMIS), PROMIS Fatigue Short-Form 7a - Item responses are rated on a five-point scale ranging from "never" to "always." Total score range is 5-35 with a higher scores indicating more fatigue., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6, Baseline to Week 12|Change in Pepper Assessment Tool for Disability (PAT-D), The (PAT-D) is a 19-item survey to assess domains of physical function in older adults. Responses are made on a five-point Likert scale ranging from "usually did with no difficulty" to "unable to do." Total score range is 19-95 with lower scores indicating better mobility and ability to perform activities of daily and instrumental activities of daily living., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Change in Expanded Short Physical Performance Battery (eSPPB), eSPPB is used to objectively assess lower extremity physical function. This validated measure comprises a short walk, narrow walk, repeated chair stands, and balance tests. Total score range is 0-12 with higher scores indicating better physical performance. Lower scores on the eSPPB have been associated with increased risk of disability, hospitalization and worse survival among older adults with and without cancer., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Change in 6-minute Walk Distance, Distance participant is able to walk in 6-minute will be measured. The 6-minute walk accurately assesses submaximal exercise capacity and is an independent predictor of mortality and is correlated with peak V02 testing., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Change in Fried Frailty Phenotype Score, Frailty score is calculated using the Frailty Index Calculation form. Score range is 0-5 with a higher score indicating frailty., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Change in Longitudinal Aging Study Amsterdam (LASA) Sedentary Behavior Questionnaire, 10-item questionnaire used to measure sedentary behavior. The average time per 24 hours spent on each individual sedentary activity will be recorded in hours and/or minutes. This will be done for an average weekday as well as for an average weekend day. Ranges from 0-24 hours with a higher score indicating more sedentary behavior., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Change in PROMIS Global Health Short Form, PROMIS Global Health Short Form is a 10-item instrument assesses the extent to which patients experience problems with fatigue over the past 7 days using a 5-point Likert scale. The fatigue subscale provides a raw score, ranging from 4 to 20. Raw scores are converted to T-scores using the PROMIS conversion tables. Higher scores reflect greater fatigue., Baseline to Week 2, Baseline to Week 4, Baseline to Week 6|Medication Adherence Rate, Empty bottles from home will be returned. The number of pills taken is calculated by subtracting the count of the number of pills remaining from the total number of pills dispensed. The drug adherence rate is then calculated by dividing the number of pills taken by the number of pills they were supposed to take., Week 2, Week 5
Prospective double-blind placebo controlled, 14-day cross-over trial of patients aged 65 and over with a history of cancer with self-reported fatigue. Participants will be randomized and provided with Fisetin pills or placebo to take twice daily on two consecutive days for two consecutive weeks. Participants will return on day 14 for a blood draw followed by a 14 day wash-out. At the four-week visit participants will receive a cross-over placebo-controlled dosing regimen over two weeks. Follow-up phone calls for safety assessment and adherence review will occur at weeks 1 and 5. Follow-up assessments will be completed at 2, 4 and 6 weeks, and a post-treatment phone call assessment completed at 12 weeks.