Study of Ibrutinib in Combination With Rituximab in Previously Untreated Subjects With Follicular Lymphoma
This is an open-label, Phase 2 study designed to assess the efficacy and safety of ibrutinib combined with rituximab in previously untreated subjects with Follicular Lymphoma (FL).
Follicular Lymphoma|B-cell Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|DRUG: rituximab
Overall Response Rate (ORR): Proportion of Subjects Achieving the Best Overall Responses of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Number of subjects achieving the best overall responses of CR or PR prior to the initiation of the next line of antineoplastic therapy as assessed by investigator per the Cheson et al, 2007 criteria. Target lesions are measured by CT, unless MRI is used as the assessment modality for lesions in anatomical locations not amenable to CT. CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. PR is defined as \>=50% decrease in the sum of the product of the diameters of up to 6 largest dominant masses., Subjects in Arm 1 will have imaging assessments every 12 weeks for the first 8 assessments, then every 24 weeks. Subjects in Arm 2 will have imaging assessments starting at week 9, then every 12 weeks for 8 assessments, then every 24 weeks.
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the interval between the date of the first documented response (CR, PR) and the date of the first documented evidence of progressive disease (PD) or death. DOR will be analyzed for the subjects who achieve an overall response during the duration of study., Up to 45 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time interval between the date of the first dose and the date of the earliest occurrence of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. PD is characterized by any new lesion or increase by \>=50% of previously involved sites from nadir., Up to 45 months|Overall Survival (OS), Subjects will be followed for survival information up to three years after the last dose of study treatment, until new treatment or death, whichever occurs first. OS is defined as the duration of time from the date of the first dose to the date of death from any cause., Up to 45 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Frequency, severity, and relatedness of treatment-emergent adverse events (AEs) Frequency of treatment-emergent AEs requiring discontinuation of study drug or dose reductions, Up to 45 months
This is an open-label, Phase 2 study designed to assess the efficacy and safety of ibrutinib combined with rituximab in previously untreated subjects with FL.

There are two study treatment arms.

Subjects enrolled into main study treatment arm will receive ibrutinib continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. In addition, subjects will receive rituximab once weekly for four doses for the first four weeks of study treatment.

Subjects enrolled into the exploratory study treatment arm will receive ibrutinib continuously as a single agent for the first eight weeks, then ibrutinib concurrently with rituximab once weekly for four doses. After the rituximab treatment, subjects will receive ibrutinib continuously until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.