Whole-Brain Tumor Burden Metrics with Inflammatory and Molecular Markers to Predict Postoperative Neurocognitive Decline in Glioma
Although surgical resection improves overall survival in patients with diffuse Low-grade gliomas (DLGG), it can also result in deterioration of neurocognitive function, which are poorly understood and lack effective predictive models. This study aims to develop a model using whole-brain tumor burden metrics, inflammatory and molecular markers for predicting high risk of neurocognitive decline (ND) postoperatively. The study involved 192 patients with left frontal DLGG. MRI data were analyzed to derive whole-brain tumor burden metrics, including tumor radiomics, whole-brain cortical thickness, myelin content, and network characteristics. postoperative inflammatory and molecular markers were collected. Postoperative follow-up neurocognitive function was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment at 3 months and 1 year. Machine learning models were constructed using Pycaret.
Glioma|Glioma : Oligodendroglioma or Astrocytoma
neurocognitive function was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, p neurocognitive function was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment, 3 month
Although surgical resection improves overall survival in patients with diffuse Low-grade gliomas (DLGG), it can also result in deterioration of neurocognitive function, which are poorly understood and lack effective predictive models. This study aims to develop a model using whole-brain tumor burden metrics, inflammatory and molecular markers for predicting high risk of neurocognitive decline (ND) postoperatively. The study involved 192 patients with left frontal DLGG. MRI data were analyzed to derive whole-brain tumor burden metrics, including tumor radiomics, whole-brain cortical thickness, myelin content, and network characteristics. postoperative inflammatory and molecular markers were collected. Postoperative follow-up neurocognitive function was assessed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment at 3 months and 1 year. Machine learning models were constructed using Pycaret.