Phase 2 Study of S-1 as 2nd Line Therapy in Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether S-1 is effective as 2nd line therapy in slowing tumor activity in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who have previously received 1st line treatment with a gemcitabine regimen. The study is also looking at the safety of S-1.
Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: S-1
Overall tumor response rate (ORR - the proportion of patients with objective evidence of PR or CR), Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for 6 mos. Tumor assessmentswill be obtained at baseline) and at the end of every even cycle.
To evaluate the duration of response (DR), progress-free survival (PFS), and survival rate, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery for 6 mos. Pts will be followed for survival status every 2 months following PD for up to 6 mos.|To investigate the effect of S-1 on Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS), weight, and analgesic consumption, KPS and wt measured at baseline; w/in 24 hrs pr study drug on Day 1 of each cycle after Cycle 1; end of study treatment. Info on analgesics gathered at least 7 days prior to Day 1 of Cycle 1 and continuing through end of treatment.|To evaluate CA19-9 decline, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for 6 mos. CA19-9 levels will be collected at basleine, Day 1 of each cycle, and at the end of treatment.|To evaluate the safety profile of S-1, AEs will be reported from the time a patient signs informed consent through the period of patient follow-up Blood/urine will be collected at baseline; Days 8&15; w/in 24 hrs of study drug on Day 1 of each cycle after Cycle 1; at end of study treatment.|To investigate the relationship of S-1 plasma levels (components and metabolites) with safety and efficacy parameters, Each cycle will last 21 days (14 days treatment, 7 days recovery) for 6 mos. Blood samples to be obtained 1.5 ± 0.5 h, 5 ± 1 h, 7 ± 1 h postdose on Day 1 of Cycle 1 only.
Metastatic pancreatic cancer is relatively unresponsive to chemotherapy. This is true for the nucleoside analogue gemcitabine, with a response rate of approximately 10%, as well as for 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Even when gemcitabine is combined with other chemotherapeutic drugs or biological agents, the overall tumor response rate remains basically unchanged. S-1 is a new generation oral fluoropyrimidine that combines Tegafur (5-fluoro-1-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-2,4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione \[FT\]), an oral prodrug of 5-FU, with two modulators, Gimeracil (5-chloro-2,4-dihydroxypyridine \[CDHP\]), which inhibits 5-FU degradation by dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) inhibition, and Oteracil potassium (Oxo), which inhibits 5-FU phosphorylation in the digestive tract. This combination of 3 compounds is designed to achieve enhanced antitumor activity while decreasing gastrointestinal toxicity.