Adjuvant Therapy With Abemaciclib + SOC ET vs. SOC ET in Clinical or Genomic High Risk, HR+/HER2- EBC
Patients with breast cancer, who have completed first line therapy (e.g., radiotherapy, chemotherapy, surgery), and who have to be identified with having a high risk of recurrence of cancer, will be eligible for the study. This patient group is currently offered a standard of care chemotherapy plus endocrine therapy (ET). The study investigates whether the patient group with high-risk early breast cancer benefits from treatment with the medication abemaciclib in combination with ET compared to ET alone.
Breast Cancer Female
DRUG: Abemaciclib 50 MG; 150mg 1-0-1 per os
invasive disease-free survival (iDFS), superiority in invasive disease-free survival (iDFS) of abemaciclib + endocrine therapy vs. standard-of-care endocrine therapy in patients with HR+/HER2- high risk breast cancer., at end of study, 3-6 years after start of study treatment
overall survival (OS), assessment of overall survival (OS) and distant DFS (dDFS) in both arms, at end of study, 3-6 years after start of treatment|differences in overall survival (OS) and dDFS, differences in overall survival (OS) and dDFS between arms, at end of study, 3-6 years after start of study treatment|subgroup and multivariable survival analyses, subgroup and multivariable survival analyses, at end of study, 3-6 years after start of study treatment|CNS metastases, occurrence of CNS metastases, at end of study, 3-6 years after start of study treatment|EORTC QLQ-C30, quality of life (QoL), at end of study, on average 3-6 years after start of treatment|EORTC QLQ-BR23, quality of life (QoL), at end of study, on average 3-6 years after start of treatment|EQ-5D-5L, quality of life (QoL), at end of study, on average 3-6 years after start of treatment
The WSG ADAPT trial program is one of the first new generation trials addressing the issue of individualization of (neo)-adjuvant decision-making in early breast cancer (EBC) in a subtype-specific manner. The first WSG ADAPT umbrella trial (NCT01779206) aimed to establish early predictive molecular surrogate markers for response after a short 3-week induction treatment.

The goals of the WSG ADAPT trial program - early response assessment and subtype-specific therapy tailoring to those patients who are most likely to benefit - have contributed to the positive national and international feedback regarding the ADAPT-concept as a whole.

The aim of this ADAPTlate phase-III-trial is to gain further knowledge of the group of patients at intermediate to high risk for disease recurrence, who have completed definite locoregional therapy (with or without neoadjuvant or adjuvant chemotherapy). With ADAPTlate it is planned to investigate if the intermediate to high-risk patient group identified during the screening phase derives additional benefit from treatment with abemaciclib in combination with ET compared to ET alone.