Normalizing Antibody Detection in First-void Urine
The aim of this study is to develop robust analytical protocols for the monitoring of vaccine induced immunity against the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) in first-void urine samples and to examine fluctuations of urinary HPV-specific antibodies and potential normalization markers in different cohorts.
Human Papillomavirus Infection
DEVICE: Sampling
Concentration of total and HPV-specific IgG (immunoglobulin G) in first-void urine., To follow-up levels of total and HPV-specific antibodies in first-void urine at repeated measurements and compare levels of total and HPV-specific antibodies in first-void urine between young men, pre-adolescent girls, post-menopausal women, and women on a contraceptive or ovulatory cycle., Within six months after completion of the study
Concentration of total and HPV-specific IgG (immunoglobulin G) in serum., To compare levels of total and HPV-specific antibodies in serum at repeated measurements and look into correlation between total and HPV-specific antibodies in serum and first-void urine., Within six months after completion of the study|HPV DNA status of first-void urine samples., To test for the presence of HPV DNA in first-void urine samples from different cohorts of men, girls and women vaccinated against HPV., Within six months after completion of the study|Other biomarkers/analyses., To test various biomarkers (e.g. total IgG, IgG subclasses, total protein, total human DNA...) in first-void urine samples from different cohorts of men, girls and women vaccinated against HPV and perform other relevant analyses within the scope of the study.

To test various biomarkers (e.g. total IgG, IgG subclasses, total protein, total human DNA...) in first-void urine samples from different cohorts of men, girls and women vaccinated against HPV and perform other relevant analyses within the scope of the study., Within six months after completion of the study
To date, invasive clinician-collected cervical samples, blood, and vaginal samples are still the primary methods to monitor disease and immune responses to vaccine-preventable genital tract infections. Replacing these samples with a specimen that is non-invasive and can be self-collected at home could have important acceptance and feasibility advantages and could facilitate the logistics of clinical trials and future epidemiological studies. Initial results of experiments using first-void urine samples for immune response monitoring are promising. However, overall standardization and normalization of fluctuation in signals are necessary for it to become a suitable genital tract liquid biopsy in vaccine research. Therefore, the aim of this study is to normalize antibody detection in first-void urine by reducing sample variability, using the human papillomavirus (HPV) as a model.

A total of 150 participants will be included, consisting of six different cohorts, including a group of pre-adolescent girls (n=25), a group of young women using ovulation-influencing contraceptives (n=25), a group of young women using non-ovulation-influencing contraceptives (n=25), a group of young women using no contraceptives (n=25), a group of post-menopausal women (n=25), and a group of men (n=25). Participants will be followed over a period of 36 days, and will be asked to self-collect 6 to 21 first-void urine samples (depending on cohort) using a Colli-Pee 20mL (Novosanis). Moreover, participants will have two scheduled visits (day 1 and 36 of the study) at the study site, where each time a blood collection (1x 5-10cc) will be performed.

Collected first-void urine and serum samples will be analyzed for menstrual cycle-related fluctuations and between-group differences in HPV-specific antibody levels. Moreover, to compare immunological with viral endpoints, HPV DNA detection and genotyping will be performed on the first-void urine sample and samples will be tested for various biomarkers that might be valuable for the normalization of inter- and intra-individual variability.