Nivolumab and Relatlimab in Treating Participants With Advanced Chordoma
This phase II trial studies how well nivolumab and relatlimab work in treating participants with chordoma that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab and relatlimab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread.
Chordoma|Locally Advanced Chordoma|Metastatic Chordoma|Unresectable Chordoma
BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab|BIOLOGICAL: Relatlimab
Objective response rate (ORR) defined as the number of subjects with a best objective response (BOR) of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the number of subjects, BOR is defined as the best response designation, as determined by the principal investigator, recorded between the date of randomization and the date of objectively documented progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 or the date of subsequent therapy (including tumor-directed radiotherapy and tumor-directed surgery), whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years
Response rate by Choi criteria, Up to 2 years|Progress free survival (PFS) time, At 4 months and 6 months|Clinical benefit rate as defined by adding CR, PR, and stable disease (SD), Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the clinical benefit of the combination of nivolumab and relatlimab in patients with advanced chordomas by objective response rate (ORR).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Ascertain the safety of nivolumab in combination with relatlimab in subjects with metastatic or locally advanced/unresectable chordoma by the frequency of adverse events (AEs).

II. Assess the clinical benefit of the combination of nivolumab and relatlimab in patients with advanced chordomas by progression free survival (PFS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare response rate (RR) and clinical benefit rate (CBR) in patients whose tumors are PD-L1+ and PD-L1- at baseline.

II. Compare RR and CBR in patients whose tumors are LAG-3+ and LAG-3- at baseline.

III. In the patients who are PD-L1 positive, compare RR and CBR in patients with 1% and 5% tumor membrane staining.

III. Determine the response to treatment based on the baseline mutation load. IV. Determine the ORR and CBR via Choi criteria.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes and relatlimab via infusion over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up within 100 days.