Assessment of Breast Cancer-Related Arm Lymphedema
Lymphedema is a serious complication of breast cancer treatment. Reported prevalence of lymphedema following treatment for breast cancer varies, ranging from 7-45%. The reason for the wide variation in the reported incidence of lymphedema is the different measurement techniques used and the absence of an agreed diagnostic criteria. Nowadays, the common method include limb circumference measurement、volume measurement、bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) and self-report. Each of these methods has advantages and disadvantages. A variety of publications have demonstrated the ability of bioimpedance to diagnose subclinical lymphedema. As a new method for detecting lymphedema, some study have also shown indocyanine green（ICG）lymphography can have a certain value for the detection of subclinical lymphedema. Early detection can reduce the incidence of late-stage lymphedema in postoperative patients. Therefore, we want to explore the ability of these methods. We are going to perform baseline arm circumference measurements and bioelectrical impedance measurements for all preoperative breast cancer patients in our center. In addition, the arm circumference measurement、volume measurement、bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) 、self-report and indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography will be performed on patients who go to the lymphedema clinic after breast cancer surgery. First, we want to establish the threshold and reference value range based on the impedance value of patients with lymphedema and people without lymphedema.Second, we are going to examine the relationship between the most commonly used methods of lymphedema and also to test which method is more sensitive for the diagnosis of clinical and subclinical lymphedema. Finally, we want to explore the ability of ICG lymphography in detecting sub-clinical lymphedema.
Breast Cancer
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: ICG lymphography、CM、VD、Bioelectrical impedance technology、self-report|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Bioelectrical impedance technology、CM
Sensitivity and specificity of indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography, Sensitivity means the ability of detecting patients with true lymphedema. Specificity means the ability of detecting non-lymphedema patients., 2017-2022|The incidence of lymphedema, The incidence of lymphedema assessed by different methods when patients first visit clinic, 2017-2022|The cutoff value of BIS, studies on the threshold value established by Inbody 720 device have been extremely limited. We aimed to determine its reference range and cutoff values., 2017-2022|The occurrence of lymphedema after follow-up, Patients who don't develop lymphedema when the first visit to the lymphedema clinic, the occurrence of lymphedema after follow-up., 2017-2022
Breast cancer is a common malignant disease that threatens the health of women. As a serious complication of breast cancer treatment, lymphedema is caused by chronic accumulation of lymph fluid in the interstitial spaces of the affected limb or surrounding areas. Reported prevalence of lymphedema following treatment for breast cancer varies, ranging from 7-45%. One reason for the wide variation in the reported incidence of lymphedema is the different measurement techniques used and the absence of an agreed diagnostic criteria. Nowadays, the common method include limb circumference measurement、volume measurement、bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) and self-report. Each of these methods has advantages and disadvantages. A variety of publications have demonstrated the ability of bioimpedance to diagnose subclinical lymphedema. As a new method for detecting lymphedema, some study have also shown indocyanine green（ICG）lymphography can have a certain value for the detection of subclinical lymphedema. Early detection can reduce the incidence of late-stage lymphedema in postoperative patients. Therefore, we want to explore the ability of these methods. We are going to perform baseline arm circumference measurements and bioelectrical impedance measurements for all preoperative breast cancer patients in our center. In addition, the arm circumference measurement、volume measurement、bioimpedance spectroscopy (BIS) 、self-report and indocyanine green (ICG) lymphography will be performed on patients who go to the lymphedema clinic after breast cancer surgery.First, we want to establish the threshold and reference value range based on the impedance value of patients with lymphedema and people without lymphedema.Second, we are going to examine the relationship between the most commonly used methods of lymphedema and also to test which method is more sensitive for the diagnosis of clinical and subclinical lymphedema. Finally, we want to explore the ability of ICG lymphography in detecting sub-clinical lymphedema.