Study of Sequential CAR-T Cell Treating Leukemia Children
The investigators will conduct a phase II clinical trial of sequential chimeric antigen receptor T cell targeting at different B-cell antigens in refractory or relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia children in Beijing Boren Hospital. The study will be approved by the institutional review board of Beijing Boren Hospital, and informed consent will be obtained in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. All these participants will be matched the diagnostic criteria for (r/r) B-ALL according to the WHO classiﬁcation and complete morphological evaluation, immunophenotype analysis by flow cytometry (FCM), cytogenetic analysis by routine G-banding karyotype analysis and leukemia fusion gene screening by multiplex nested reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Participants will be eligible if they are heavily treated B-ALL who failed from re-induction chemotherapy after relapse or continued MRD+ for more than three months, and had positive CD19 and CD22 expressions on leukemia blasts by FCM (\>95% CD19 and \>95% CD22). After CAR T-cell infusion, clinical outcomes including overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), adverse effects and relapse will be evaluated.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, in Relapse|Refractory Acute Lymphoid Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: chimeric antigen receptor T cell
Objective response rate (ORR), according to NCCN, Complete response (CR), CR with incomplete blood count recovery(CRi) ., during three months (±1 week) post CD19 CAR T-cell infusion
The investigators will conduct a phase II clinical trial of sequential chimeric antigen receptor T cell targeting at different B-cell antigens in refractory or relapsed B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia children in Beijing Boren Hospital. The study will be approved by the institutional review board of Beijing Boren Hospital, and informed consent will be obtained in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. All these participants will be matched the diagnostic criteria for (r/r) B-ALL according to the WHO classiﬁcation and complete morphological evaluation, immunophenotype analysis by flow cytometry (FCM), cytogenetic analysis by routine G-banding karyotype analysis and leukemia fusion gene screening by multiplex nested reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Participants will be eligible if they are heavily treated B-ALL who failed from re-induction chemotherapy after relapse or continued MRD+ for more than three months, and had positive CD19 and CD22 expressions on leukemia blasts by FCM (\>95% CD19 and \>95% CD22). After CAR T-cell infusion, clinical outcomes including overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), adverse effects and relapse will be evaluated.