A Study for the Neoadjuvant Treatment of Breast Cancer
Due to the unique advantages of albumin-bound paclitaxel, several studies in China and abroad have tried to use albumin-bound paclitaxel for neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer up to now. However, comparative studies between paclitaxel and docetaxel are still rare, In this study, a prospective, randomized, open-label, multi-center clinical study was conducted to analyse the efficacy and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel and docetaxel in the neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer, and to further analyse the efficacy and safety of albumin paclitaxel in combination with chemotherapy for postoperative breast cancer in different subtypes of breast cancer patients, in order to obtain more realistic data and provide new treatment options for breast cancer patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Nab paclitaxel
pCR(pathological complete response), defined as ypT0/is, ypN0 (defined as no invasive tumor in breast and axillary lymph nodes, 1year
OS, overall survival, 10 years|DFS, disease-free survival, 2 years|DMFS, distant metastasis-free survival, 2 years|Secondary pCR, defined as ypT0, ypN0 (no invasive or residual carcinoma in situ lesions in breast and axillary lymph nodes, 1 year
ORR, tumor response rate based on imaging assessment in the neoadjuvant therapy (preoperative) stage, 1year|Remission rate of neurotoxicity, 5 years|The incidence of other AEs, 5 years
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy refers to systemic chemotherapy as the first step for treating breast cancer patients before planned local treatment like surgery for those without distant metastasis. It is reported that preoperative neoadjuvant chemotherapy can facilitate breast conservation, render inoperable tumors operable and provide important prognostic information at an individual patient level based on response to therapy.

Previous studies have confirmed that the efficacy of albumin-bound paclitaxel in neoadjuvant therapy and was well tolerated when combined with sequential chemotherapy with anthracyclines .

The GBG69 study was the first to compare the efficacy and safety of nab-paclitaxel (nab-P) and solvent-based paclitaxel in the neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer. The results showed that the pCR rate in the nab-P group was significantly higher than that in the solvent paclitaxel group (38% vs 29% p\<0.001). Long-term follow-up results showed that after 4 years, iDFS was also significantly improved in nab-P-treated patients compared with solvent paclitaxel (84.0% vs 76.3%; HR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.51-0.86; P = 0.0023).

Another phase II study compared docetaxel and albumin paclitaxel in neoadjuvant chemotherapy for HER2-negative early-stage breast cancer. The results showed a slightly higher pCR rate in the nab-P group (docetaxel: 12%; nab-P: 17%). In the Ki67\>20% subgroup, the pCR rates were 16% (docetaxel) vs 24% (nab-P) respectively. demonstrating that albumin-bound paclitaxel (nab-P) appears to demonstrate greater efficacy in breast cancer compared to docetaxel.

However, comparative studies between paclitaxel and docetaxel are still rare, In this study, a prospective, randomized, open-label, multi-center clinical study was conducted to analyse the efficacy and safety of albumin-bound paclitaxel and docetaxel in the neoadjuvant treatment of breast cancer, and to further analyse the efficacy and safety of albumin paclitaxel in combination with chemotherapy for postoperative breast cancer in different subtypes of breast cancer patients, in order to obtain more realistic data and provide new treatment options for breast cancer patients.