Benzoylphenylurea in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of benzoylphenylurea in treating patients who have advanced solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: benzoylphenylurea
Determine Maximum Tolerated Dose of BPU, Toxicity was assessed weekly during the first 2 cycles, and monthly thereafter, using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTCv2). Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as dose delays \>2 weeks, grade 4 haematologic toxicity (except grade 4 neutropenia lasting \<5 days), or grade 3 nonhaematologic toxicity. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity., 4 weeks (1 course of treatment for each subject)
Number of Patients With Adverse Events, every 4 weeks|Area Under the Plasma Concentration Versus Time Curve (AUC) of BPU, 8 weeks|Test for Antitumor Activity in Blood and Tissue, baseline
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of benzoylphenylurea in patients with advanced solid tumors.
* Evaluate the acute and chronic toxicity profile of this regimen in these patients.
* Evaluate the pharmacokinetics and metabolites of this regimen and any potential correlation with pharmacodynamic effects in these patients.
* Determine the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral benzoylphenylurea (BPU) once weekly. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of BPU until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience a dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, 12 additional patients are accrued and treated with BPU as above to confirm the MTD.

Patients are followed for 30 days.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 18-24 patients will be accrued for this study.