Optimised Recovery With Accelerated Nutrition and GI Enhancement
Factors which delay recovery following uncomplicated abdominal surgery include uncontrolled pain, intolerance of diet and poor mobility. Enhanced recovery after Surgery (ERAS) programmes are perioperative care pathways that address systematically these issues (i.e. improved dynamic pain relief, optimised nutritional care and enforced mobilisation) to promote a faster recovery and a shorter stay. The key treatments that improve outcome within an ERAS programme are not known. Moreover there are few acceptable, objective endpoints to assess key outcome variables such as return of GI function. This randomised trial will assess the potential synergy between early recovery of GI function (laxation) and early postoperative oral nutritional support(with associated preoperative preconditioning using carbohydrate/fluid loading). The main overall outcome targets being improved recovery of gastrointestinal function, postoperative nutritional status and physical function. It will validate the use of a novel, objective technique to measure gastric motility (surrogate for GI function). Such refinement of ERAS should result in shorter hospital stay and better use of limited health care resource.
Colorectal Liver Metastases
DRUG: Post operative laxation (Magnesium Oxide)|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Preoperative metabolic conditioning postoperative nutritional supplementation|OTHER: Standard ERAS group
Recovery of gastrointestinal function: Time to pass flatus/stool (hours following the end of surgery), Number of hours post surgery
t ½ Gastric emptying time on the morning of post-operative day 3, Postoperative day 3|Length of hospital stay: nights spent in hospital post-op, Until discharge|Patient activity level: measured by activPAL® activity meter, postoperative day 2 - 7 and day 30 - 37
Factors which delay recovery following uncomplicated abdominal surgery include uncontrolled pain, intolerance of diet and poor mobility. Enhanced recovery after Surgery (ERAS) programmes are perioperative care pathways that address systematically these issues (i.e. improved dynamic pain relief, optimised nutritional care and enforced mobilisation) to promote a faster recovery and a shorter stay. The key treatments that improve outcome within an ERAS programme are not known. Moreover there are few acceptable, objective endpoints to assess key outcome variables such as return of GI function. This randomised trial will assess the potential synergy between early recovery of GI function (laxation) and early postoperative oral nutritional support(with associated preoperative preconditioning using carbohydrate/fluid loading). The main overall outcome targets being improved recovery of gastrointestinal function, postoperative nutritional status and physical function. It will validate the use of a novel, objective technique to measure gastric motility (surrogate for GI function). Such refinement of ERAS should result in shorter hospital stay and better use of limited health care resource.