A Study of Ramucirumab (IMC-1121B) in Combination With Eribulin Versus Eribulin Alone in Participants With Breast Cancer
This is a study to compare the antitumor activity of ramucirumab (IMC-1121B) and eribulin together versus eribulin alone, in participants with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab (IMC-1121B)|DRUG: Eribulin
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as time from date of randomization until the date of objectively determined progression defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) criteria or death from any cause, whichever is first. Progressive disease (PD) defined as ≥20% increase in sum of diameter (SOD) of target lesion with the sum demonstrating an increase of ≥5 mm; appearance of ≥1 new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Participants with no baseline disease assessment were censored at randomization date, regardless of whether or not objectively determined PD or death was observed; participants not known to have died or to have objective progression as of data inclusion cutoff date were censored at last post baseline radiological assessment date or randomization date, if there was no post baseline radiological assessment., Start of treatment until documented disease progression or death from any cause up to 16.5 months
Overall Survival (OS) Randomization to Date of Death From Any Cause, Time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. For participants who were not known to have died as of the data-inclusion cut-off date, OS data were censored on the last date the participants were known to be alive prior to that cut-off date., Randomization to date of death from any cause up to 28.6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Percentage of Participants With Measurable Disease Achieving a Best Overall Response of Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with measurable disease achieving a best overall response of PR or CR as defined by RECIST v.1.1. CR defined as disappearance of all lesions and pathological lymph nodes reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in SOD of target lesions. Participants who did not have any post baseline tumor response assessments for any reason were considered non-responders and included in the denominator when calculating the response rate. ORR for each treatment arm calculated as: \[(CR + PR in the treatment arm) divided by (total number of participants in the treatment arm)\] x 100., Start of treatment until documented CR or PR up to 16.5 months|Duration of Response (DOR) Time of Response to Progressive Disease, DOR was measured from the time criteria were met for first objectively recorded CR or PR until first date criteria for PD was met or death. Response defined using RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR defined as disappearance of all lesions and pathological lymph nodes reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in sum of diameter (SOD) of target lesions. PD defined ≥20% increase in SOD of target lesion with the sum demonstrating an increase of ≥5 mm; appearance of ≥1 new lesions or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions. Participants who were not known to have died and who did not have PD were censored at the date of the last tumor assessment prior to the date of any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., Time from Observed CR or PR to PD up to 12.1 months|Change in Tumor Size (CTS), CTS was defines as the change from baseline measurement of target lesions to the post treatment measurement in participants with measurable disease. Change was assessed using radiographic imagining. Log ratio calculated as: log of (tumor size post baseline) divided by (tumor size at baseline). A negative result indicated a shrinking tumor., Baseline, 6 weeks|Number of Participants With Anti-Ramucirumab Antibodies, The number of participants who developed treatment-emergent antibody responses after baseline. The antibody test can produce positive results in participants without ramucirumab exposure. Treatment emergent anti-ramucirumab antibody positive was defined as: when baseline titer was greater than 0 and post baseline titer was equal to or greater than 4-fold the baseline titer or if the baseline titer was not detected and post baseline titer is equal to or greater than a value of 20., Day 1 of Cycle 1, Cycle 3, Cycle 5 and 30 days after last dose of study drug up to 17.7 months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AE) and Participants Who Died, Participants who died or who had clinically significant events defined as serious AEs (SAEs) and other non-serious AEs (regardless of causality). A summary of SAEs and other non-serious AEs, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., Baseline up to end of treatment and within 30 days of last dose of study drug (22.6 months)
This is a study to compare the antitumor activity of ramucirumab (IMC-1121B) and eribulin together versus eribulin alone, in participants with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.