Informational Meetings for Planning and Coordinating Treatment
This prospective cluster-randomized trial examines the efficacy of a novel communication intervention delivered by trained physician and nurse dyads to parents of children with cancer within the clinicians' practice, to foster alignment of the goals of treatment. The investigators hypothesize that goal alignment will improve quality of life outcomes, in particular for those patients who reach end of life. Findings from the proposed research will provide essential information to promote communication practice standards that can be rapidly translated into practice to improve outcomes for children, particularly those who reach end of life, and parents.
End of Life|Communication|Cancer Metastatic
OTHER: Novel Communication Intervention|OTHER: Enhanced Usual Care Parent Education
Impact of Novel Communication Intervention on number of days enrolled in hospice in children with cancer and estimated 5-year survival < 25%, We will compare days enrolled in hospice between the Novel Communication Intervention vs Enhanced Usual Care Parent Education groups using a Wilcoxon Rank Sum Test for clustered data., Within 12 months of death
Impact of the Novel Communication Intervention on the number and types of high-intensity medical interventions at end of life in children with cancer., High intensity medical interventions include: code status order to attempt cardiopulmonary resuscitation, intensive care unit admission within the last 30 days, IV chemotherapy within last 14 days, greater than 2 emergency department visits within last 30 days, more than 1 hospitalization within last 30 days, not on hospice, admitted to hospice less than 3 days prior to death, intubation or cardiac resuscitation within last 30 days, and death in an acute care setting.

The difference in the use of high-intensity medical interventions at end of life will be tested between the intervention and enhanced usual care groups with a generalized linear mixed model that accounts for subjects clustering within physician/nurse teams via a random effect., Within 30 days of death|Impact of Novel Communication Intervention on quality of life in children with cancer and estimated 5-year survival < 25%, Quality of Life is measured with the Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory- General Module, emotional functioning sub-scale and the Pediatric Quality of Life Cancer Module. Scores range from 0-100, with higher scores indicating better health-related quality of life. Results will be modeled with linear mixed models and compared between the Novel Communication Intervention and Enhanced Usual Care Parent Education groups., Enrollment, then every 4 months until death or maximum of 4 years|Impact of the Novel Communication Intervention on parental hope., The Herth Hope Index score ranges from 12-48, with a higher score corresponding to higher levels of hope. Results from the Herth Hope Index are continuous and will be modeled with linear mixed models and compared between the intervention and enhanced usual care groups., Enrollment, and then every 4 months until death or maximum of 4 years|Impact of Novel Communication Intervention on parental adjustment to caring for a child with cancer., The Parent Experience of Childhood Illness Scale (PECI)-Short Form is used to assess parental adjustment in the primary caregiver of children with chronic illness. It consists of four sub-scales with scores ranging from 0-4. Higher scores indicate poorer coping except for emotional resources, which indicates a higher level of support., Enrollment, and then every 4 months until death or maximum of 4 years|Impact of Novel Communication Intervention on parental satisfaction with healthcare, The Peds QL HCS (Satisfaction with Healthcare) survey is 24-item scale that measures parent satisfaction with care received from their child's oncology healthcare providers. Subscales assess parental satisfaction with:

1. delivery of care;
2. information received on child's diagnosis and treatments;
3. inclusion of family;
4. technical skills in managing their child's symptoms; and
5. attention to their child's emotional needs., Enrollment, and then every 4 months until death or maximum of 4 years
The overall objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a novel communication intervention on quality of life outcomes in children with high-risk cancer. The intervention includes a series of tailored discussions delivered by the child's primary physician/nurse dyad that begins at diagnosis, and integrates visual aids to facilitate conversations with parents about prognosis, hopes, and goals-of-care across the cancer continuum. The central hypothesis is that the intervention will foster alignment of goals of care between providers and parents across the cancer continuum, leading to improved quality of life outcomes. Outcomes include: Enrollment in home hospice care, high-intensity medical interventions, child pain and emotional distress, parental hope, parental uncertainty and distress.