Intravenous vs Oral Analgesia in Cancer Patients With Severe Pain After Successful Titration
Pain is one of the most common and fear symptoms for cancer patients, which seriously affects the quality of life in cancer patients. At present, oral opioid is the most common route to administrate cancer pain. However, the patients do not satisfy the pain administration with oral opioid after successful titration in many cases, especially the cases with severe cancer pain. Patient controlled analgesia (PCA) with hydromorphone can take analgesic effect rapidly. The aim of this trial is to compare the maintenance with hydromorphone PCA intravenously or switch to Sustained-Release Morphine orally after successful titraton with hydromorphone PCA intravenously in severe cancer pain.
Cancer Pain
DRUG: PCA IV Hydromorphone (continuous dose = 0)|DRUG: PCA IV Hydromorphone (continuous dose ≠ 0)|DRUG: Oral morphine
Mean pain score, The Numerical Rating Scale (NRS, a score of 0 means no pain and 10 means the most severe) is used to assess the severity of pain. NRS of 24 hours is assessed every day. The mean pain score is a sum of NRS of day 1 (the day after successful titration of 24 hours) to day 3 divided by 3.

If the NRS of the morphine orally group \>3, the NRS in the hydromorphone PCA intravenously group declines more than 30% compared to morphine orally group, which is regards a positive result., From day1 to day3|Number of Breakthrough cancer Pain (BTcP) episodes, If NRS of the morphine orally group pain score ≤3 , or if NRS in the hydromorphone PCA intravenously group declines less than 30% compared to morphine orally group, number of Breakthrough cancer Pain (BTcP) episodes in the one of both the hydromorphone PCA intravenously group declines less than 30% compared to morphine orally group, which is regards a positive result., From day1 to day3
Number of patients with an average NRS pain score> 3, The Numerical Rating Scale (NRS, a score of 0 means no pain and 10 means the most severe) is used to assess the severity of pain., From day1 to day3|Number of patients with an average NRS pain score> 6, The Numerical Rating Scale (NRS, a score of 0 means no pain and 10 means the most severe) is used to assess the severity of pain., From day1 to day3|Total dosage of opioids, The total dosage of opioids in day 1 to day 3 (day 1 is the day after successful titration of 24 hours), 3 days|Satisfaction score, The satisfaction score of the patients to analgesia was evaluated by 10-point scale: 0 points for dissatisfaction, 10 points for very satisfied, the higher the score, the higher the satisfaction., 3 days|Quality of life of patients, Chinese version of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System., At 24 hours|Number of patients who switched/discontinued therapy due to serious adverse events or lack of pain control, The number of patients who switched/discontinued therapy due to serious adverse events or lack of pain control, 3 days
Pain is one of the most common and fear symptoms for cancer patients, which seriously affects the quality of life in cancer patients. At present, oral opioid is the most common route to administrate cancer pain. However, the patients do not satisfy the pain administration with oral opioid after successful titration in many cases, especially the cases with severe cancer pain. Patient controlled analgesia (PCA) with hydromorphone can take analgesic effect rapidly. The aim of this trial is to compare the maintenance with hydromorphone PCA intravenously or switch to Sustained-Release Morphine orally after successful titraton with hydromorphone PCA intravenously in severe cancer pain.