DSC-MRI in Measuring rCBV for Early Response to Bevacizumab in Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase II trial studies how well dynamic susceptibility contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DSC-MRI) works in measuring relative cerebral blood volume (rCBV) for early response to bevacizumab in patients with glioblastoma that has come back. DSC-MRI may help evaluate changes in the blood vessels within the cancer to determine a patient?s response to treatment.
Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Glioblastoma
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Dynamic Susceptibility Contrast-Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Change in rCBV within enhancing tumor, Will determine whether binary changes (increase vs. decrease) in rCBV is associated with OS. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be generated for both the increased and the decreased rCBV groups. The median survival time of both groups will be estimated and compared with a two-sided log rank test. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the association between changes in rCBV from baseline to 2 weeks and OS or PFS., Baseline to 2 weeks|OS, Will determine if binary changes (increase vs. decrease) in rCBV is associated with OS. The median survival time of both groups will be estimated and compared with a two-sided log rank test. Will determine whether changes in rCBV as a continuous variable within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with OS. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the association between changes in rCBV from baseline to 2 weeks and OS. The hazard ratio and its 95% confidence interval (CI) will be presented. Will determine the as, Up to 5 years
CBF, Will determine if baseline CBF is associated with OS or PFS. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be generated for both the increased and the decreased CBF groups, for either OS or PFS. The median survival time/progression free survival time of both groups will be estimated and compared with a two-sided log rank test. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the association between baseline CBF and OS or PFS. The hazard ratio and its 95% CI will be presented., Baseline|Change in CBF, Will determine if changes in CBF is associated with OS or PFS. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be generated for both the increased and the decreased CBF groups, for either OS or PFS. The median survival time/progression free survival time of both groups will be estimated and compared with a two-sided log rank test. The hazard ratio and its 95% CI will be presented., Baseline to 2 weeks|PFS, Will determine whether binary changes (increase vs. decrease) in rCBV within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with PFS. Will determine whether changes in rCBV as a continuous variable within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with PFS. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the association between changes in rCBV from baseline to 2 weeks and PFS. Kaplan-Meier survival curves will be generated for both the increased and the decreased rCBV grou, Up to 5 years|rCBV, Will determine whether the baseline pre-treatment rCBV measure alone is associated with OS. Univariate Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the association between baseline rCBV and OS. The hazard ratio and its 95% confidence interval will be presented., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether binary changes (increase versus \[vs.\] decrease) in rCBV within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with overall survival (OS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether the baseline pre-treatment rCBV measure alone is associated with OS.

II. To determine whether binary changes (increase vs. decrease) in rCBV within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with progression-free survival (PFS).

III. To determine whether changes in rCBV as a continuous variable within enhancing tumor from baseline to 2 weeks after initiation of anti-angiogenic therapy is associated with OS or PFS.

IV. To determine the association between rCBV and OS when adjusting for the changes in enhancing tumor volume.

V. To determine whether baseline cerebral blood flow (CBF) or change in CBF is associated with OS or PFS.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo DSC-MRI within 3 days before bevacizumab initiation and at day 15.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 4 years.