Panobinostat and Everolimus in Treating Patients With Recurrent Multiple Myeloma, Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma, or Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of panobinostat and everolimus when given together and to see how well they work in treating patients with multiple myeloma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, or Hodgkin lymphoma that has come back. Panobinostat and everolimus may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-cell Lymphoma|Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma|Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma|B-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Hepatosplenic T-cell Lymphoma|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Post-transplant Lymphoproliferative Disorder|Primary Central Nervous System Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|Recurrent Adult T-cell Leukemia/Lymphoma|Recurrent Cutaneous T-cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Mantle Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Recurrent Mycosis Fungoides/Sezary Syndrome|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|T-cell Adult Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
DRUG: panobinostat|DRUG: everolimus|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Number of Phase I Participants With Dose-Limiting Toxicity Events (Phase I), The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) is defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients graded according to NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 3.0. Dose-limiting toxicities include non-hematologic events graded 3 or higher and deemed at least possibly related to treatment. A total of 6 patients treated at the MTD will be sufficient to identify common toxicities at the MTD. The number of patients reporting a dose-limiting event are reported., 4 weeks|Overall Response Rate (Phase II), For myeloma, a complete response(CR, defined as Negative immunofixation(IFE) of the serum and urine, \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow(BM), Disappearance of plasmacytomas), stringent CR(sCR, defined as CR plus Normal serum FLC ratio, Absence of clonal cells in BM), very good partial response(VGPR, defined as PR plus Serum and urine M-component detectable by IFE but not on electrophoresis), partial response(PR, defined as a ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and/or reduction in 24-h urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \<200 mg per 24 h), or minor response(MR, defined as ≥25% but \< 49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24h urine M-protein by 50-89%) noted as the objective status. For lymphoma, a CR(defined as no evidence of measurable disease), or PR(defined as regression of measurable disease and no new sites of disease) noted as the objective status. Percentage of successes will be estimated by 100 times the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients., Up to 12 courses
Overall Survival Time (Phase II), Overall survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years post-treatment|Progression-free Survival (Phase II), Progression-free survival time is defined as the time from registration to progression or death due to any cause. Progression is defined for myeloma as Any one or more of the following: Increase of 25% from lowest value in, Serum M-component (absolute increase must be ≥ 0.5 g/dl), Serum M-component increase ≥ 1 g/dl, if lowest M component was ≥ 5 g/dl,Urine M-component (absolute increase must be ≥ 200 mg/24 h), Bone marrow plasma cell percentage (absolute % must be ≥10%) Or any one or more of the following felt related to the underlying clonal plasma cell proliferative disorder: Development of new soft tissue plasmacytomas or bone lesions, Hypercalcemia (≥11.5 mg/dl) Decrease in hemoglobin of ≥2 g/dl, Serum creatinine level ≥2 mg/dl. Progression is defined for lymphoma as any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years post-treatment|Duration of Response (Phase II), Duration of response is defined as the time from the date at which the objective status is first noted to be (for myeloma) a complete response (CR, defined as Negative immunofixation(IFE) of the serum and urine, \< 5% plasma cells in bone marrow(BM), Disappearance of plasmacytomas), stringent CR(sCR, defined as CR plus Normal serum FLC ratio, Absence of clonal cells in BM), very good partial response(VGPR, defined as PR plus Serum and urine M-component detectable by IFE but not on electrophoresis), partial response(PR, defined as a ≥ 50% reduction of serum M-protein and/or reduction in 24-h urinary M-protein by ≥ 90% or to \<200 mg per 24 h) or minor response(MR, defined as ≥25% but \< 49% reduction of serum M-protein and reduction in 24h urine M-protein by 50-89%); (for lymphoma) a CR(defined as no evidence of measurable disease), or PR(defined as regression of measurable disease and no new sites of disease) noted as the objective status. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., The time from the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR, sCR, VGPR, PR, or minor response to the earliest date progression is documented, assessed up to 2 years post-treatment
Change in Pharmacologic (Pharmacokinetic/Pharmacodynamic) Parameters, Changes in parameters will be both graphically and quantitatively summarized and explored. Standard paired comparisons methodologies (paired t-tests, Wilcoxon signed rank tests and Fisher's exact tests for interval, ordinal and nominal level data, respectively) will be used to assess changes in these variables before and after therapy. In addition, these changes in pharmacologic markers and biological results will be explored in relation to clinical outcome to explore any differences between responders and non-responders., Day 5 and 19 of the first course and then day 1 of each subsequent courses (courses 2-4) prior to the daily dose and 1 and 2 hours after each dose|Changes in Biological Markers, Changes in parameters will be both graphically and quantitatively summarized and explored. Standard paired comparisons methodologies (paired t-tests, Wilcoxon signed rank tests and Fisher's exact tests for interval, ordinal and nominal level data, respectively) will be used to assess changes in these variables before and after therapy. In addition, these changes in pharmacologic markers and biological results will be explored in relation to clinical outcome to explore any differences between responders and non-responders., Baseline to up to 12 courses
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of LBH589 (panobinostat) and RAD001 (everolimus) when used in combination in patients with myeloma or lymphoma. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the therapeutic activity of the combination of LBH589 with RAD001 in patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoma. (Arm A, phase II) III. To evaluate the therapeutic activity of the combination of LBH589 with RAD001 in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. (Arm B, phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the toxicities associated with the combination of LBH589 with RAD001. (Phase I) II. To further describe the toxicities associated with the combination of LBH589 with RAD001 in each arm independently. (Phase II) III. To evaluate overall survival, progression-free survival, and duration of response in each arm independently. (Phase II)

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic interaction of LBH589 and RAD001. II. To assess the correlation between clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) effects with the pharmacologic (pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic) parameters, and/or biologic (correlative laboratory) results.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of panobinostat and everolimus followed by a phase II study. (dose-escalation closed to accrual as of April 6, 2011)

Patients receive panobinostat orally (PO) once daily (QD) or on days 1, 3, 5, 15, 17, and 19 and everolimus PO QD on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.