Testing the Addition of a New Anti-Cancer Drug, Niraparib, to the Usual Treatment (Hormone and Radiation Therapy) for Prostate Cancer With a High Chance of Recurring
This is a phase I-II trial to find the safety and activity of adding a new drug (neratinib) to the usual treatment (radiation combined with male hormone deprivation therapy) in lowering the chance of prostate cancer growing or returning. Niraparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep cancer cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy. Adding niraparib to the usual care may lower the chance of prostate cancer growing or returning.
Prostate Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Niraparib
Maintenance of disease-free state, Will be characterized by PSA values sustained below 0.1 ng/ml until the completion of treatment. A modified intent-to-treat analysis will be conducted. The proportion of patients disease-free at 24 months will be compared in the two treatment arms using a non continuity-corrected chi-square test. As a secondary analysis, a logistic regression model will be fit to adjust for the stratification factors (risk group and type of radiation therapy)., Up to 2 years following the start of antiandrogen therapy
Overall survival, Will consist of comparison of Kaplan-Meier (Kaplan 1958) curves using a logrank test., From randomization until death from any cause, assessed up to 3 years|Prostate cancer-specific survival, Will consist of comparison of Kaplan-Meier (Kaplan 1958) curves using a logrank test., From randomization until death from prostate cancer, assessed up to 3 years|Pathologic complete response (pCR), Will be assessed among patients undergoing 12-core biopsy. Will be compared using a chi-square test., At 24 months|Time to local/regional or distant progression, Cumulative incidence curves will be compared using the Fine-Gray test (Dignam 2008)., Up to 3 years|Time to distant metastases, Cumulative incidence curves will be compared using the Fine-Gray test (Dignam 2008)., From randomization until detection of distant metastatic disease, assessed up to 3 years|Biochemical progression-free survival, Will be defined as PSA \>= 2 ng/ml over the nadir PSA, the presence of local, regional, or distant recurrence, or death from prostate cancer. Will consist of comparison of Kaplan-Meier (Kaplan 1958) curves using a logrank test., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (Phase II), Adverse event (AE) rates in the two treatment arms will be categorized as early (within 90 days of completion of radiotherapy) or late (more than 90 days after the completion of radiotherapy). type, grade, and attribution to treatment. For each type of AE, the worst grade occurring during the early treatment period, late treatment period, or entire treatment period will be determined. For each time period, treatment group comparisons will be conducted using chi-square or Fisher exact tests., Up to 3 years
Exome sequencing of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair genes and detected alterations, Descriptive statistics will be generated summarizing the frequency of gene alterations, mutations, and gene expression levels. The percentage of patients with baseline or post-therapy alterations in targeted genes will be reported and the association between the occurrence of reversion mutations in DNA repair genes and clinical outcomes will be assessed using logistic regression models for dichotomous endpoints (disease-free state, pCR), and Cox regression or competing risk regression modeling for time-to-event data., Up to 3 years|Transcription-wide analysis of gene expression, Will be assessed using a high-density Affymetrix oligonucleotide array to profile the transcriptome of tumor samples. Descriptive statistics will be generated summarizing the frequency of gene alterations, mutations, and gene expression levels. The percentage of patients with baseline or post-therapy alterations in targeted genes will be reported and the association between the occurrence of reversion mutations in DNA repair genes and clinical outcomes will be assessed using logistic regression models for dichotomous endpoints (disease-free state, pCR), and Cox regression or competing risk regression modeling for time-to-event data., Up to 3 years|Single nucleotide polymorphisms, Will be analyzed in whole blood samples previously associated with prostate risk. Plasma samples will be assessed for baseline and post-therapy alterations in a targeted gene panel and for reversion mutations in DNA repair genes as early biomarkers of treatment resistance. Descriptive statistics will be generated summarizing the frequency of gene alterations, mutations, and gene expression levels. The percentage of patients with baseline or post-therapy alterations in targeted genes will be reported and the association between the occurrence of reversion mutations in DNA repair genes and clinical outcomes will be assessed using logistic regression models for dichotomous endpoints (disease-free state, pCR), and Cox regression or competing risk regression modeling for time-to-event data., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the preferred dose of niraparib in combination with radiation and antiandrogen therapy (ADT). (Phase I) II. To compare the disease-free state, defined as prostate specific antigen (PSA) remaining \< 0.1 ng/ml at the end of ADT therapy in men with high risk prostate cancer treated with standard therapy with or without the addition of niraparib. (Phase IIR)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further establish the safety and toxicity profile of standard treatment with radiation and androgen deprivation therapy specifically, two years from initiation of ADT, plus niraparib at the phase II dose.

II. To compare the overall survival, prostate cancer-specific survival, local/regional or distant progression, and distant metastatic disease rates of standard therapy with or without the addition of niraparib.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To identify genomic biomarkers of response to combination therapy with radiation, ADT and PARP inhibition.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of niraparib, followed by a randomized phase II study.

PHASE I: Patients receive niraparib orally (PO) once daily (QD) and receive standard of care gonadotrophin releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist androgen suppression therapy. Treatment with niraparib continues for 12 months, and GnRH agonist therapy for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8 weeks after starting niraparib and GnRH agonist, patients undergo standard of care intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks, depending on type of radiation therapy given, in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on study.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms:

ARM I: Patients undergo standard of care GnRH agonist androgen suppression therapy for 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8-28 weeks after starting GnRH agonist, patients undergo IMRT 5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks depending on type of radiation therapy given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo MRI on study.

ARM II: Patients undergo standard of care GnRH agonist androgen suppression therapy for 24 months, and niraparib PO QD for 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning 8 weeks after starting niraparib, patients undergo standard of care IMRT 5 days per week for about 6-9 weeks depending on type of radiation therapy given in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo MRI on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 3 years, then annually for 3 years.