Ascorbate with Durvalumab in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This is a descriptive, proof of concept, open-label, randomized, 3-arm, window of opportunity trial to evaluate the immunomodulatory role of pharmacological ascorbate with Durvalumab
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Pharmacological ascorbate|PROCEDURE: Surgery (SOC)
CD8+ T cells quantified as the percentage of lymphocytes that are CD8+ T cells, Determine if Pharmacological Ascorbate and durvalumab can potentiate or enhance an immune response in the NSCLC tumor-microenvironment compared to durvalumab alone. This will be evaluated in the surgically resected specimens of patients after receiving neoadjuvant therapy. CD8+ T cells will be quantified as the percentage of lymphocytes that are CD8+ T cells, Following surgical resection which will be performed during weeks 5-9 from the day of randomization.
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) and adverse events (AEs) per CTCAE v5, Assess safety and tolerability of the combination of Pharmacological Ascorbate and Durvalumab in the neoadjuvant setting (Arm:2), Throughout the treatment period, 4 weeks|Pathologic Complete Response (pCR) rate, The proportion of patients with a pathologic complete response, defined as no viable tumor., Up to three years following completion of treatment|Major Pathologic Response (MPR) rate, The proportion of patients with a major pathologic response, defined as residual viable tumor of 10% or less., Up to three years following completion of treatment|Event-Free Survival, Time from randomization to progression of disease that precludes surgery, local or distant recurrence, or death due to any cause., Up to three years following completion of treatment|Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to three years following completion of treatment
Participants in this research study have stage I Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) that was found to be suitable for surgery as a first line treatment.

The usual treatment for this disease is to remove the tumor with surgery, and then evaluate after surgery if other additional treatments such as chemotherapy or targeted therapy are needed.

The purpose of this research study is to compare three different ways of treating stage 1 NSCLC, to see if adding treatment before surgery can reduce the chance of the tumor recurring after surgical removal.

In this study, patients will be randomly assigned to one of three treatments:

* Durvalumab followed by surgical resection of the tumor.
* Durvalumab plus ascorbate (also known as vitamin C), followed by surgical resection of the tumor.
* Surgical resection alone. No therapy prior to surgery. This is the same as standard care (SOC) for this disease.