NEO- and Adjuvant Targeted Therapy in Braf-mutated Anaplastic Cancer of the Thyroid (NEO-ATACT Study)
Anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) is an almost invariable lethal cancer in humans.

Most patients present with a rapid progressive mass in the neck with progressive complaints like dyspnoea, dysphagia or pain. The risk of suffocation is the main reason for rapid surgical intervention, but we know from literature that an oncological resection with clear margins is seldomly achieved. Some patients deteriorate that fast after surgery that radiation therapy and/or chemotherapy is not feasible anymore. Patients with BRAF-mutated ATC already have shown to benefit from targeted BRAF/MEK inhibition. This study aims to increase the number of patients that undergo a successful R0 tumor resection after neo-adjuvant BRAF/MEK inhibitor treatment.
Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: dabrafenib/trametinib
primary endpoint of the study will be R0 resection rate (efficacy)., primary endpoint of the study will be R0 resection rate (efficacy)., after 6-12 weeks braf/mek-inhibition
Neo-adjuvant and adjuvant treatment related toxicity of dabrafenib/trametinib (according to CTCAE v. 5.0), Neo-adjuvant and adjuvant treatment related toxicity of dabrafenib/trametinib (according to CTCAE v. 5.0) during 1 year of treatment with braf/mek-inhibition, during 1 year of treatment with braf/mek-inhibition|30-day postoperative surgical complications, 30-day postoperative surgical complications (within 30 days after surgery), within 30 days after surgery|Histopathological response after neo-adjuvant treatment, Histopathological response after neo-adjuvant treatment: complete response (\<10% tumor cells), partial response (between more than 10% and up to 50% tumor cells), or no response (still more than 50% tumor cells), 6-12 weeks neo-adjuvant braf/mek-inhibition|Locoregional-free survival, Locoregional-free survival, at 2 years|Distant metastasis-free survival, Distant metastasis-free survival, at 2 years|Overall survival, Overall survival, at 2 years
Unmet need ATC is a very serious condition and is, apart from a few exclusive cases, always lethal. Many patients suffer uncontrollable loco-regional disease with even so uncontrollable complaints of airway obstruction, oesophagus obstruction, pain and neck movement impairment. One of the only shown beneficial treatment is complete surgical resection with clear surgical margins combined with radiotherapy and systemic treatment. However, in less than 10-15% of the patients the pathologist reports clear surgical margins. Thereby it is noticeable that surgery often results in serious morbidity, due to an esophagectomy, laryngectomy or trachea resection all accompanied by an extensive reconstruction. All of these come with serious morbidity and seldomly lead to clear margins and better outcome.

Proposed solution A single center, phase II study for the evaluation of safety and efficacy of neo-adjuvant and adjuvant dabrafenib/trametinib treatment in BRAF mutated ATC patients. By introducing neo-adjuvant treatment the hypothesis is that better selection is done for patients who are eligible for complete surgery and that surgery results more often in clear surgical margins after neo-adjuvant treatment. Second benefit of treating patients with combined loco-regional and systemic agents before surgery is that micro/macrometastases (being there in at least 30% of the patients at diagnosis) are already being treated directly after diagnosis. Lastly, adjuvant treatment with dabrafenib/trametinib will hopefully result in reduction of local and distant recurrences after surgery.