Epothilone (Ixabepilone) Plus Capecitabine Versus Capecitabine Alone in Patients With Advanced Breast Cancer
The purpose of this clinical research study is to learn if BMS-247550 added to the approved therapy of capecitabine (Xeloda) provides measurable clinical benefits over capecitabine alone in women with metastatic breast cancer. Patients should have previously received an anthracycline and a taxane. The safety of this treatment will also be studied.
Cancer|Breast Cancer
DRUG: Ixabepilone + Capecitabine|DRUG: Capecitabine
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was defined as the time in months from randomization until the date of death. For those patients who had not died, survival duration was censored at the last date the patient was known to be alive. Median OS with 95% CI estimated using the Kaplan-Meier Product Limit Method., from date of randomization until death
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined for each patient as the time in months from randomization to the date of progression. Patients who died without a reported prior progression were considered to have progressed on their date of death. Patients who did not progress or die were censored on the date of their last tumor assessment., every 6 weeks (± 3 days) from randomization while on treatment until documented progression|Response Rate (RR), RR=number of patients in that group whose best response is "partial"(30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions) or "complete" (disappearance of all target lesions), according to the 4-item Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), divided by the total number of response-evaluable participants, every 6 weeks (± 3 days) from randomization while on treatment until documented progression|Duration of Response, Measured from the time RECIST criteria (described in previous outcome measure) were first met for "complete" or "partial" response until first date of documented disease progression or death. Patients who neither relapsed nor died were censored on the date of last tumor assessment. Median w/ 95% CI estimated using Kaplan Meier Product Limit Method., every 6 weeks (± 3 days) from randomization while on treatment until documented progression|Time to Response, Time to response was defined as the time from the first dose of study therapy until measurement criteria were first met for "partial" or "complete" (whichever status was recorded first) per RECIST criteria (a 4-item scale described in the previous outcome measure)., every 6 weeks (± 3 days) from randomization while on treatment until documented progression|Treatment-Related Safety Summary, Laboratory values, adverse events, and other symptoms were graded using the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTC) Version 3.0, safety was assessed on a continual basis every cycle while on-treatment and every 4 weeks post treatment until toxicities resolved or were deemed irreversible.|Symptom Assessment Score Changes From Baseline for Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast Symptom Index (FBSI), Quality of life, as measured by the FBSI, an 8-item, participant-reported instrument to measure symptoms. Each item has 5 possible responses ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The scoring was conducted according to the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy manual, Version 4; higher scores reflect fewer symptoms., Baseline and prior to each 21-day cycle of treatment, and at first posttreatment follow-up assessment
The purpose of this clinical research study is to learn if BMS-247550 added to the approved therapy of capecitabine (Xeloda) provides measurable clinical benefits over capecitabine alone in women with metastatic breast cancer. Patients should have previously received an anthracycline and a taxane. The safety of this treatment will also be studied.