Adjuvant Axitinib Therapy of Renal Cell Cancer in High Risk Patients
The purpose of this trial is to determine if adjuvant therapy with axitinib will prevent or delay the recurrence of renal cell cancer after surgery to remove the primary tumor in high risk patients.
Clear Cell Renal Carcinoma
DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Placebo
Disease Free Survival (DFS) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Review Committee (IRC), DFS is defined as time interval from the date of randomization to first date of recurrence/relapse (distant or local recurrence of \[RCC\] or occurrence of a secondary malignancy {occurrence of a second primary cancer other than RCC} or death). For participants with no DFS event, DFS was censored at date of last scan prior to time of analyses. Participants alive who did not have post-baseline disease assessments, DFS was censored at randomization. Participants who received further anti-tumor therapy prior to recurrence or occurrence of a secondary malignancy or death, DFS was censored on date of last scan prior to taking anti-tumor medication. Participants who missed 2 or more consecutive tumor scans immediately followed by an event were censored at date of last objective tumor assessment prior to missing/not readable scan., From randomization date up to first date of recurrence or the occurrence of a secondary malignancy or death (up to 5 years)
Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored at the last date the participant was known to be alive. Participants lacking data beyond randomization had their survival times censored at randomization., From randomization date until death due to any cause (up to 5 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. A treatment emergent AE was defined as an event that emerged during the treatment period that was absent before treatment, or worsened during the treatment period relative to the pretreatment state. AEs included both serious and non-serious adverse events., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Treatment Related Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), A treatment related AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a product or medical device; the event had a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. A SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Relatedness was judged by investigator. AEs included both serious and non-serious adverse events., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) By Severity, An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A treatment emergent AE was defined as an event that emerged during the treatment period that was absent before treatment, or worsened during the treatment period relative to the pretreatment state. AE was assessed according to severity as: Grade 1 (mild AE), Grade 2 (moderate AE), Grade 3 (severe AE), Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences) and Grade 5 (death related to AE)., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities By Maximum CTCAE Grade: Hematology, Hematology parameters included anemia, hemoglobin increased, lymphocyte count increased, lymphocyte count decreased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased, and white blood cell count decreased. CTCAE grades: Grade 1 (mild AE), Grade 2 (moderate AE), Grade 3 (severe AE), Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences) and Grade 5 (death related to AE)., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities By Maximum CTCAE Grade: Chemistry, Chemistry parameters included: alanine aminotransferase increased, alkaline phosphatase increased, aspartate aminotransferase increased, blood bilirubin increased, creatine phosphokinase increased, creatinine increased, hypoalbuminemia, hypercalcemia, hypocalcemia, hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, hyperkalemia, hypokalemia, hypernatremia, hyponatremia. CTCAE grades: Grade 1 (mild AE), Grade 2 (moderate AE), Grade 3 (severe AE), Grade 4 (life-threatening consequences) and Grade 5 (death related to AE)., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities: Thyroid Function, Number of participants with thyrotropin levels: \<5 milli-international units per litre (mIU/L), \>=5 to \<10 mIU/L, \>=10 mIU/L are reported., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)|Number of Participants With Laboratory Abnormalities: Urinalysis, Number of participants with urine protein dipstick grading: negative/trace (5 to 20 milligram per deciliter \[mg/dL\]), 1+ (30 mg/dL\]), 2+ (100 mg/dL), 3+ (300 mg/dL) and 4+ (more than 1000 mg/dL) are reported., From Day 1 up to 28 days after last dose (maximum duration of 3 years)
This is a prospective, randomized, double blind placebo controlled Phase 3 trial of oral axitinib starting at 5 mg twice daily given 3 years vs. placebo.

Approximately 700 patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio between axitinib vs placebo.