3-arm Trial to Evaluate Pasireotide LAR/Everolimus Alone/in Combination in Patients With Lung/Thymus NET - LUNA Trial
This was a multicenter, randomized, phase II study evaluating Everolimus or Pasireotide LAR alone or in combination in adult patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) neuroendocrine carcinoma of the lung and thymus
Neuroendocrine Carcinoma of the Lung and Thymus
DRUG: Pasireotide LAR|DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Pasireotide LAR and Everolimus Combination
Percentage of Participants Progression-free at 9 Months Based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors v1.1 (RECIST v1.1), Patients with Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) at Month 9 were to be considered as "progression-free" based on RECIST v1.1. Patients with missing tumor assessment, or with overall lesion response "unknown" at Month 9 were considered as "non progression-free", unless any of the following assessments at Week 48 or Week 52 indicate CR, PR, or SD, in which case the patient was to be considered as progression-free at Month 9. Patients discontinuing the study for any reason prior to the 9 month assessment were to be considered as "non progression-free"., Baseline up to 9 months
Summary of Progression-free Survival (PFS) Based on RECIST v1.1, Time from first study drug administration to objective tumor progression or death from any cause according to RECIST v1.1, Baseline, every 3 months up to 69 months|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Progression-free Survival (PFS), Percent (%) event-free probability estimate is the estimated probability that a patient will remain event-free up to the specified time point. Percent event-free probability estimates are obtained from the Kaplan-Meier survival estimates. Events are time from first study drug administration to objective tumor progression or death from any cause according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline, every 3 months up to 69 months|Summary of Time to Response (Months), Time from start of treatment to the first observed objective tumor response (partial response or complete response) observed according to RECIST v1.1., Every 3 months up to Year 1|Summary of Duration of Response (Months), Date of first objective tumor response to date of tumor progression or death due to any cause., Every 3 months up to Year 1|12-month Disease Control Rate (DCR) and Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the percentage of patients showing a best overall response (BOR) of CR or PR during the core study according to RECIST v1.1 criteria. The best overall response is interpreted as the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence, death from any cause or until the patient withdraws consent, whichever is earliest. DCR was was defined as the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response, partial response or stable disease during 12 months of treatment according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline up to Month 12|Biochemical Response Rate (BRR) for Chromogranin A (CgA) Levels, Percentage of patients showing normalization or a decrease of ≥ 30% of serum CgA concentrations compared to baseline., Baseline up to Week 52|Duration of Biochemical Response (DBR), by Treatment (Full Analysis Set), Time from the first documentation of biochemical response to the first documentation of biochemical progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Biochemical progression is defined as an increase of serum CgA levels ≥ 25% compared to baseline., Baseline up to Month 18|Kaplan-Meier Event-free Probability Estimate Based on CgA Levels, Kaplan Meier estimates are for Duration of biochemical response (DBR) outcome measure. Events are biochemical progressions i.e. an increase of CgA levels \>= 25% compared to baseline or deaths due to any cause. Percent (%) Event-free probability estimate is the estimated probability that a patient will remain event-free up to the specified time point., Baseline, every 3 months up to Month 18|Summary of Biochemical Progression-free Survival Based on CgA Levels by Treatment, Time from the first documentation of biochemical response to the first documentation of biochemical progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Biochemical progression is defined as an increase of serum CgA levels ≥ 25% compared to baseline., Baseline up Month 24|Kaplan-Meier Event-free Probability Estimate for Biochemical Progression-free Survival Based on CgA Levels, Percent (%) Event-free probability estimate is the estimated probability that a patient will remain event-free up to the specified time point. Percent event-free probability estimates are obtained from the Kaplan-Meier survival estimates. Events are biochemical progressions, i.e., an increase of CgA levels \>= 25% compared to baseline or deaths due to any cause., Baseline, every 3 months up to Month 24|Biochemical Response Rate (BRR) for 5HIAA Levels, The percentages are the biochemical response rates i.e. percentage of patients showing normalization i.e. return to within normal ranges, or a decrease of \>= 50% from baseline of 5HIAA concentrations., Baseline up Week 52
This was a prospective, multicenter, randomized, open-label, 3-arm, phase II study with a single-stage design in each arm. The purpose of this study was to test the effectiveness and safety of Everolimus or Pasireotide LAR alone or in combination in adult patients with advanced (unresectable or metastatic) neuroendocrine carcinoma (typical and atypical) of the lung and thymus. It was expected that a total of 120 patients with 40 patients in each arm were to be enrolled into this study. Patients were seen weekly for one month and monthly thereafter. Radiological and biochemical response assessments were performed every 3 months.

Patients with disease control (stable disease or better) in the combination arm or monotherapy with pasireotide LAR and everolimus who had not experienced unacceptable toxicity were permitted to continue treatment in the extension phase of the study and were seen every 3 months. Patients could remain in the extension phase as long as they continued to have clinical benefit and had not fulfilled any of the study discontinuation criteria. All patients had a safety follow-up visit 56 days after last treatment dose.