Immunological Parameters, Neurocognitive Changes, Activity, & Driving Fitness in Patients Undergoing CAR-T Cell Therapy
Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a promising new treatment that re-programs patient immune cells to target and destroy cancer cells. Importantly, CAR T-cell therapy has improved overall response rate and durability in patients with refractory or relapsed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLCBL) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

Toxicities following CAR T-cell therapy remain a major limitation to expanding access to this promising cancer treatment. Biological predictors of CAR-T-related toxicities are currently lacking, and it remains unknown whether CAR-T-related toxicities lead to subsequent impairments in instrumental activities of daily living. The overarching goal of this project aims to link biological predictors of CAR-T-related toxicities to instrumental activities of daily living, such as physical activity and driving performance. The current study proposes to test the hypothesis that CAR T-cell therapy causes changes in immunological and neurological markers that predict changes in physical activity levels and driving performance.
Hematologic Neoplasms
Evaluate the relationship between immunologic markers of CRS and ICANS in hematologic malignancy patients undergoing CAR-T cell therapy, Change in serum inflammatory cytokine (IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, TNF-alpha IFN-gamma, and IL-17A) concentrations from baseline, 6 weeks|Evaluate the relationship between neurologic markers of CRS and ICANS in hematologic malignancy patients undergoing CAR-T cell therapy, Change in number of pathological EEG events from baseline, 6 weeks|Activity level parameters- daily number of steps, Change in daily number of steps from baseline, 6 weeks|On-Road Driving Performance, Change in number of driving safety errors from baseline, 6 weeks
Study specific aims are: (1A) Evaluate changes in serum inflammatory cytokine protein markers in patients receiving CAR T-cell therapy; (1B) Evaluate changes in electroencephalographic and radiologic markers of CAR-T-related toxicities in comparison to neurocognitive function following CAR T-cell therapy; (2A) Assess changes in activity levels using actigraphy/accelerometry to continuously monitor physical activity; and (2B) Assess changes in driving performance using a standardized on-road instrumented vehicle drive.

Patients (n=20) will be recruited into the study if they are diagnosed with relapsed or refractory DLBCL or ALL, and scheduled to undergo commercially-available CAR T-cell therapy.

The following measures will be completed during primary study visits: prior to apheresis (T0) and 8-weeks post CAR-T cell infusion (T6). (1) blood inflammatory proteins; (2) brain wave recordings (or EEG), brain imaging, and neurocognitive assessment; (3) free-living activity levels; and (4) driving performance and safety. EEG will assess neural activity patterns of brain dysfunction; brain imaging will look for brain abnormalities; neurocognitive assessments will evaluate changes in thinking, concentration, and memory. A research-grade activity monitor will be used to assess activity levels. Driving performance and safety will be evaluated using a driving simulator and an on-road vehicle designed to monitor behavior while drivers complete a driving course. Analyses will assess changes between study visits, as well as relationships between immunological, neurological, activity, and driving measures.