Randomized Trial of G-CSF Alone Versus Intermediate-dose Ara-C Plus G-CSF Mobilization in Hodgkin's Lymphoma or Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
The purpose of the study is to compare safety and efficacy of stem cell mobilization using G-CSF (filgrastim) alone vs. intermediate-dose cytosine arabinoside plus G-CSF in Hodgkin's lymphoma and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma patients.
Hodgkin's Lymphoma|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: G-CSF (filgrastim)|DRUG: Cytosine arabinoside with G-CSF (filgrastim)
• The proportion of patients with stem cell yield at least 2 × 10^6 CD34+ cells/kg in each treatment arm., After up to three leukaphereses (7-20 days after starting mobilization regimen).
Peak level of CD34+ cells in peripheral blood (cells/μl)., 7-20 days after starting mobilization regimen.|Total number of harvested CD34+cells/kg., After up to three leukaphereses (7-20 days after starting mobilization regimen).|Number of leukaphereses needed to harvest target amount of stem cells., 7-20 days after starting mobilization regimen.|The proportion of hematologic and non-hematologic complications., 1 month after transplantation.|Duration of neutropenia < 0.5 x10^9/L., 1 month after transplantation.|Number of blood transfusions needed., 1 month after transplantation.|Duration of hospital stay., 1 month after transplantation.|Time of neutrophil and platelet engraftment after autologous stem cel transplantation., 1 month after transplantation.|Duration of thrombocytopenia <50 x 10 ^9/L., 1 month after transplantation.|Number of days of antibiotics therapy., 1 month after transplantation
Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (autoHSCT) is a standard treatment of eligible patients suffering from Hodgkin's Lymphoma or non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (HL, NHL). AutoHSCT allows to further improve results of the therapy. Nowadays, 99% of the procedures are performed using peripheral blood as a source of stem cells. Hence, the crucial point is to harvest adequate number of stem cells allowing hematopoietic recovery. The number of 2 × 10\^6 CD34+ cells/kg is considered the minimal level in autoHSCT. There are two main mobilization strategies being used: based on G-CSF alone or in combination with chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide (CY) at dose range 1.6 g/m2 is mainly used in HL and NHL setting). However, a proportion of patients (5-40%) fail to collect the minimum number of cells required. Novel agents, like plerixafor, CXCR4 inhibitor, may enable effective CD34+ cell harvest in "poor mobilizers". Nevertheless, the optimal first-line and cost-effective protocol for mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells has not been determined so far.

Randomized trials compare chemomobilization with the use of CY + G-CSF to G-CSF alone, which had been conducted so far, did not demonstrate clear advantage of addition of CY to the growth factor. Intermediate-dose cytosine arabinoside (AraC), 1.6 g/m2 plus filgrastim, has been shown to produce very high efficacy as a first or second-line mobilization regimen in patients with lymphoid malignancies. In a retrospective comparison, this strategy was significantly more effective than CY + G-CSF. This suggest that the type of chemotherapy agent added to G-CSF may play role in mobilization efficacy and that the combination of AraC and G-CSF may be more effective than G-CSF used alone. The goal of current study is to verify this hypothesis in randomized controlled trial.