Olaparib +/- Cediranib or Chemotherapy in Patients With Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer
The trial will compare the drugs olaparib and cediranib with standard chemotherapy in platinum resistant ovarian cancer. Patients will be randomised to one of three treatment groups: olaparib only, olaparib and cediranib and the control group paclitaxel. The aim is to compare efficacy of the 3 treatments and also how well each treatment is tolerated including the participants quality of life.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Cediranib|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression free survival, Progression free survival (PFS), measured as time from date of randomisation to RECIST-defined progression or death from any cause (whichever is first), up to 18 months
Adverse events, Adverse events using CTCAE v4.03, up to 18 months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival, 12 & 18 months|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate based on RECIST v1.1, up to 18 months|Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate based GCIG CA125, up to 18 months|Quality of Life Outcomes, Quality of Life Outcomes based on EORTC-QLQ C30, up to 18 months|Quality of Life Outcomes, Quality of Life Outcomes based on EQ5D, up to 18 months|Quality of Life Outcomes, Quality of Life Outcomes based on OV28., up to 18 months
Olaparib is a PARP inhibitor which targets BRCA1/2 mutated tumour cells and cediranib is an anti-angiogenic drug which reduces blood supply to the tumour, suppressing tumour viability. Phase I/II trials of both drugs have shown these are well tolerated alone or in combination in ovarian cancer.

The trial aims to compare the efficacy of the combination and of olaparib alone with paclitaxel chemotherapy and whether the olaparib/cediranib combination is better tolerated thus improving quality of life. Secondly standard paclitaxel chemotherapy must be administered weekly at hospital whereas the olaparib/cediranib combination can be administered at home potentially also improving patient quality of life.

Participants' tumours will be resistant to platinum based therapies. Participants will be randomised into one of the 3 treatment arms after stratification for prior PARP/anti-angiogenic treatments/BRCA status. Participants will be on trial up to 18 months.