Adebrelimab Combined with Chemotherapy and Thoracic Radiotherapy for First-line Treatment of ES-SCLC
This phase III trial compares the effect of adding radiation therapy to the usual maintenance therapy with adebrelimab versus adebrelimab alone in patients who have already received debrelimab plus chemotherapy for the treatment of extensive stage small cell lung cancer.
Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Adebrelimab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
PFS, Up to approximately 36 months|OS, Up to approximately 36 months
ORR, Up to approximately 36 months|DoR, Up to approximately 36 months|DCR, Up to approximately 36 months|6m and 1-year PFS rate, 6 Months and 12 Months|1- and 2-year OS rates, 1 year and 2 years|Adverse events, Safety, incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) per CTCAE 5.0 criteria, Up to approximately 36 months
To detect biomarkers associated with efficacy, Up to approximately 36 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To compare investigator-assessed progression free survival (PFS) between adebrelimab plus radiotherapy and adebrelimab alone.

II.To compare overall survival (OS) between adebrelimab plus radiotherapy and adebrelimab alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I.To assess the ORR (objective response rate)、DoR (Duration of response) 、DCR(Disease control rate) toxicity between the adebrelimab plus radiotherapy arm and the adebrelimab arm.

II.To assess six months and one-year PFS rate、one-year and two-year OS rate between the adebrelimab plus radiotherapy arm and the adebrelimab arm.

III.To assess the safety and tolerability.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I.To detect biomarkers associated with efficacy OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. ARM I: Patients receive adebrelimab IV over 30 minutes. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) on days 1-5 during weeks 1-5 only.

ARM II: Patients receive adebrelimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo computed tomography (CT)、magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or positron emission tomography and computed tomography (PET/CT) scan, throughout the trial. Patients also undergo blood and tissue collection throughout the trial.