RCT Supportive Care Outpatient RIC HCT
The overall goal of this study is to assess the efficacy of the care.coach Avatar™ in improving anxiety and quality of life for patients undergoing outpatient transplant. After care.coach Avatar™ content and scheduling ("digital intervention" or "program") has been optimized for outpatient allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), a randomized controlled trial (RCT) will be conducted of the digital versus usual supportive care program for outpatient HCT recipients. Potential improvements in anxiety and quality of life will be evaluated, with the intent of increasing comfortability with outpatient transplant and expanding the population of eligible patients willing to receive their transplants in an outpatient setting.
Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: care.coach Avatar™
HADS-A, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) - Anxiety subscale, Baseline, Day 20 (D+20) post-transplant
FACT-BMT, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Bone Marrow Transplantation, Baseline, Day 20 (D+20) post-transplant|HADS-A, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) - Anxiety subscale, Baseline, Day 90 (D+90) post-transplant|FACT-BMT, Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Bone Marrow Transplantation, Baseline, Day 90 (D+90) post-transplant
Conversions, Conversion from Outpatient to Inpatient Transplant, Day 20 (D+20) post-transplant, Day 90 (D+90) post-transplant|HADS-D, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) - Depression subscale, Baseline, Day 20 (D+20) post-transplant, Day 90 (D+90) post-transplant
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) is the delivery of multipotent donor-derived stem cells to a recipient patient. It typically involves a lengthy inpatient hospitalization (median 25.8 days). With improving availability of health services, prophylactic medications, and lower infection risk and transfusion requirements, outpatient HCT is becoming more prevalent for patients receiving reduced intensity conditioning (RIC). However, even for outpatient HCT, patients are hospitalized for a median of 8 days. Most symptoms from HCT are concentrated in the first 30-days after the transplant, and these must be better addressed to optimize benefits from outpatient HCT. For patients undergoing HCT, incidence of psychological consequences is higher than in other cancer health states; potential psychological symptoms include stress, anxiety, anger, depression, insomnia, and loneliness. Non-pharmacological approaches for improving quality of life (QOL) and reducing distress among HCT patients include psychoeducational, exercise, and mindfulness interventions. Although post-HCT changes in lifestyle are challenging, the Health Belief Model and Prochaska's Transtheoretical model of change posit that patients preparing for HCT day 0 (notated as D0), when they receive the stem cell infusion, would be highly motivated to learn about psychosocial supports and activities given their readiness for change and taking action. This presents an ideal timeframe for studying a psychosocial health coaching intervention.