Adjuvant PD-1 Inhibitor for Patients With Early-stage Hepatocellular Carcinoma Following Microwave Ablation
For early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma, i.e. Barcelona Clinical Liver Cancer Stage 0, ablation is the standard treatment with a comparable prognosis and less risk of ablation compared with liver resection. However, ablation is demanding on the surgeon and patients often face early recurrence if ablation is not complete. Therefore, it is necessary to find reasonable adjuvant treatment to consolidate the effect of microwave therapy.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: PD-1 Inhibitors
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival was defined as the period from inclusion in the study until tumor recurrence, death from any cause., From date of include in this research until the date of first documented recurrence or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Overall survival, Overall survival was defined as the period from study inclusion until death from any cause., From date of include in this research until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months|Adverse effects, Adverse reactions are defined as any reaction during treatment that is inconsistent with the purpose of the treatment., 6 months
For early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma, i.e. Barcelona Clinical Liver Cancer Stage 0, ablation is the standard treatment with a comparable prognosis and less risk of ablation compared with liver resection. However, ablation is demanding on the surgeon and patients often face early recurrence if ablation is not complete. Therefore, it is necessary to find reasonable adjuvant treatment to consolidate the effect of microwave therapy. There is no consensus on postoperative adjuvant therapy, especially for the management of early-stage HCC. Most scholars believe that HCC in this period does not have high-risk factors for tumor recurrence, thus neglecting the role of adjuvant therapy. Early studies have found that microwave ablation can alter the tumor microenvironment, which is conducive to the action of immune checkpoint inhibitors such as PD-1 inhibitors and even has a synergistic anti-tumor effect. We therefore designed this prospective cohort study to explore the efficacy and safety of adjuvant PD-1 inhibitors after microwave surgery.