DNA Methylation Testing for the Screening of Uterine Cervical Lesion
In our published work, host DNA methylation testing has been proved to be sensitive and specific to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2 or more severe lesions (CIN2+). Its screening effects are independent of high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) status. Based on the results of training and validation sets of our previous work, we perform this multicenter, prospective cohort study in unselected participants asking for cervical cancer screening in a hospital-based community. All eligible participants accept DNA methylation testing, with cytology and/or hrHPV assay. The primary endpoint is the diagnostic accuracy of DNA methylation compared with cytology and/or hrHPV status based on histology results. The accuracy analysis includes sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value.
Cervical Cancer|Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia|DNA Methylation|High-risk Human Papillomavirus|Cytology
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Host DNA methylation testing|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Cervical cytology and/or high-risk human papillomavirus assays
Diagnostic accuracy, The accuracy analysis includes sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value., Two years
In our published work, host DNA methylation testing has been proved to be sensitive and specific to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2 or more severe lesions (CIN2+). Its screening effects are independent of high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) status. Based on the results of training and validation sets of our previous work, we perform this multicenter, prospective cohort study in unselected participants asking for cervical cancer screening in a hospital-based community. All eligible participants accept DNA methylation testing, with cytology and/or hrHPV assay. The primary endpoint is the diagnostic accuracy of DNA methylation compared with cytology and/or hrHPV status based on histology results. The accuracy analysis includes sensitivity, specificity, negative predictive value and positive predictive value.