Trial of Radiation and Gene Therapy Before Nivolumab for Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma and Uveal Melanoma
This is a Phase II trial to determine the efficacy and safety of in situ gene therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab in patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) and metastatic uveal melanoma. In situ gene therapy will consist of adenovirus-mediated expression of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (ADV/HSV-tk) plus Valacyclovir therapy.
Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma Stage IV|Nonsquamous Nonsmall Cell Neoplasm of Lung|Metastatic Uveal Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: ADV/HSV-tk|DRUG: Valacyclovir|RADIATION: SBRT|DRUG: nivolumab
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Determine the ORR of ADV/HSV-tk plus Valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab. Administration of ADV/HSV-tk + Valacyclovir in combination with SBRT before nivolumab represents a novel window of opportunity to enhance nivolumab efficacy by boosting endogenous immune-mediated antitumor activity and neoantigen expression.

The concepts of the irRC are combined with RECIST 1.1 to come up with the modified irRC, which uses unidimensional measurements. For modified irRC, only target and measurable lesions are taken into account. The same assessment method and technique should be used to characterize each identified and reported target lesion(s) at baseline, during the trial, and at EOT. All measurements should be recorded in metric notation., 30 days after the last dose of nivolumab, up to 6 months
Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Determine the OS rate. Months from start of treatment till date of death., 30 days after the last dose of nivolumab, up to 6 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate, Determine the Progression Free Survival (PFS) rate.

Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, using the smallest sum on study (includes the baseline sum) as the reference. In addition to the relative 20% increase, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)

Overall irPD: ≥ 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target and new measurable lesions increases (compared to nadir), confirmed by a repeat, consecutive observation at least 6 weeks (normally it should be done at 8 weeks) from the date first documented.

Documentation of immune-related PD (based on modified irRC) does not mandate discontinuation of the study treatment even after irPD is confirmed with CT scan 6 weeks after the initial observation of irPD., 30 days after the last dose of nivolumab, up to 6 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Estimate the CBR as assessed by RECIST 1.1 and modified immune-related criteria, 30 days after the last dose of nivolumab, up to 6 months
This is a Phase II trial to determine the efficacy and safety of in situ gene therapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab in patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) and metastatic uveal melanoma. In situ gene therapy will consist of adenovirus-mediated expression of herpes simplex virus thymidine kinase (ADV/HSV-tk) plus Valacyclovir therapy. Male or female patients aged ≥18 years with histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic squamous or non-squamous NSCLC whose disease has progressed after a platinum-based chemotherapy and a single-agent immunotherapy OR histologically or cytologically confirmed metastatic uveal melanoma that is immunotherapy naive are eligible to participate in the study. NSCLC patients with EGFR or ALK genomic tumor aberrations are eligible only if they have had disease progression on FDA-approved therapy for these aberrations. ADV/HSV-tk (5 x 1011 viral particles) in a 2-mL total volume will be injected intratumorally on day 0 of the study. Valacyclovir will be orally administered at a dose of 2 g three times daily for 14 days. Valacyclovir treatment will be administered 24 hours after the gene vector injection from day 1 to day 15 of the study. SBRT of 30 gray (Gy; 6 Gy X 5 fractions) will be administered over 2 weeks from day 2 to day 16 of the study. Nivolumab (480 mg) will be administered intravenously over 30 minutes every 4 weeks starting on day 17 of the study and continuing until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or up to 12 months in patients without disease progression. The primary endpoint will be the objective response rate (ORR) of ADV/HSV-tk + Valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab in patients with metastatic squamous or non-squamous NSCLC. Both RECIST 1.1 and modified immune-related response criteria (irRC; derived from RECIST 1.1) will be used to assess treatment response. Secondary endpoints will include a) clinical benefit rate (CBR); b) duration of response (DoR); c) overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) rates; d) safety and toxicity (toxicity will be defined as any treatment-related death or any ≥ grade 3 toxicity excluding alopecia and constitutional symptoms as assessed by the NCI CTCAE v4.03); and e) immune-mediated antitumor activity (assessed by RECIST 1.1 and modified irRC) of ADV/HSV-tk plus Valacyclovir therapy in combination with SBRT used as a window of opportunity treatment before nivolumab.