Study Comparing Therapy for Advanced Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma With and Without Dexamethasone
Patients with relapsed/refractory symptomatic multiple myeloma who meet all inclusion criteria, will be randomized 1:1 to receive either standard of care chemotherapy (IKEMA or ICARIA) and dexamethasone until disease progression ("dexamethasone arm", arm A) or standard of care chemotherapy (IKEMA or ICARIA) and dexamethasone with dexamethasone discontinuation from the 3rd cycle of treatment (after 8 weeks) ("dexamethasone-free arm", arm B).

In most centers, IKEMA and ICARIA schema can be adapted according to the standard of care in each center Choice between the ICARIA and IKEMA schema is at the discretion of the investigator, in compliance with each drug's SmPC, but must be performed before randomisation for the purpose of stratification.
Multiple Myeloma|Relapse Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Dexamethasone
overall response rate (ORR)., Response rate will be evaluated according to the IMWG criteria, after six 28 days cycles of salvage therapy., At the end of Cycle 6 of salvage therapy (each cycle is 28 days)
best overall response rate (ORR), Response rate will be evaluated according to the IMWG criteria, during or after the study treatment at the time of data cutoff. Patients will be followed every 4 weeks (with either a medical visit or only an outpatient blood test) until disease progression and then every 12 weeks until final 2 years., 2 years|Time To Progress (TTP), Time To Progress defined as the duration from the date of randomization to progressive disease, according to the IMWG criteria, 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as the duration from the date of randomization to either progressive disease, according to the IMWG critera or death, at 2 years after randomization., 2 years|Overall survival OS, which is defined as the time between randomization and death due to any cause. Patients, who die, regardless of the cause of death, will be considered to have had an event even if they were lost to follow-up for an extended time, 2 years|Quality of Life (QoL), 2 years
Patients with relapsed/refractory symptomatic multiple myeloma who meet all inclusion criteria, will be randomized 1:1 to receive either standard of care chemotherapy (IKEMA or ICARIA) and dexamethasone until disease progression ("dexamethasone arm", arm A) or standard of care chemotherapy (IKEMA or ICARIA) and dexamethasone with dexamethasone discontinuation from the 3rd cycle of treatment (after 8 weeks) ("dexamethasone-free arm", arm B).

In most centers, IKEMA and ICARIA schema are as follow, but can be adapted according to the standard of care in each center Choice between the ICARIA and IKEMA schema is at the discretion of the investigator, in compliance with each drug's SmPC, but must be performed before randomisation for the purpose of stratification.

1. ICARIA schema:

   * dexamethasone: 40mg (20mg for ≥75yr) on day 1, 8, 15, 22 of each cycle plus
   * isatuximab: 10mg/kg on day 1, 8, 15, 22 in C1 subsequently on day 1, 15; plus
   * pomalidomide: 4mg on days 1-21 of 28-day cycle.
2. IKEMA schema:

   * dexamethasone: 20 mg on day 1-2, day 8-9, day 15-16 and day 22-23 of each cycle;
   * isatuximab: 10 mg/kg on day 1, 8, 15, 22 in C1, then Q2W;
   * carfilzomib: 20 mg/m² on day 1-2; 56 mg/m² day 8-9, day, 15-16 in C1; 56 mg/m² on day 1-2, day 8-9, day 15-16 all subsequent cycles.

In the dexamethasone arm (standard of care):

Dexamethasone: will be given on each cycle

In the dexamethasone-free arm (experimental arm):

Dexamethasone: will be only given on cycle 1 and cycle 2 Supportive care: will be administered according to each participating center's usual practice, in both arms The aim of the current protocol is to investigate whether administration of dexamethasone for a very limited period (2 cycles) combined with standard treatment for relapsed/refractory MM is not inferior to the continuous administration of the combination until disease progression. In this study some patients may have a similar OS while receiving a shorter duration of dexamethasone treatment. This study may allow delivery of a shorter duration of dexamethasone for the treatment of relapsed MM.

The foreseeable risks are those of an earlier relapse in patients receiving a short duration of dexamethasone (8 weeks) compared to the situation where they would have received the dexamethasone until disease progression.