Trial of Oxaliplatin, Cytosine Arabinoside, Dexamethasone With Rituxan (ROAD) in Patients With Relapsed Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma
The goals of this protocol are to determine the effect of oxaliplatin, cytosine arabinoside, and dexamethasone with Rituxan (ROAD) as treatment for patients with relapsed CD20+ B-cell non-Hodgkins lymphoma (NHL).
Lymphoma
DRUG: Oxaliplatin, Cytosine Arabinoside, Dexamethasone With Rituxan (ROAD)
Overall Response Rate After Two Cycles of ROAD, The overall response rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve a response after two cycles of oxaliplatin with rituximab, cytarabine, and dexamethasone (ROAD). A response was considered a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by the NCI Sponsored International Working Group (IWG). CR: Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease-related symptoms if present before therapy, and normalization of those biochemical abnormalities PR: ≥ 50% decrease in SPD of the six largest dominant nodes or nodal masses., Up to 42 days
Overall Survival, Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. The distribution of survival time will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Up to 10 years|Progression-free Survival, The progression-free survival time is defined as the time from registration to progression or death due to any cause. The distribution of progression-free survival will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Progression is defined by the NCI Sponsored IWG as a ≥ 50% increase from nadir in the sum of the products of the greatest diameters (SPD) of any previously identified abnormal node for PRs or nonresponders and/or Appearance of any new lesion during or at the end of therapy., Up to 10 years
Patients with B-cell NHL that comes back after chemotherapy are typically treated with cisplatin, high-dose cytosine arabinoside and dexamethasone (DHAP) or other platinum-based treatments. Recent studies have shown a 37% response rate in patients with large cell lymphoma to immunotherapy with Rituxan. Patients \<75 years old and in otherwise good health may be candidates for high dose therapy with stem cell rescue if they have disease that remains sensitive to chemotherapy. Typically, patients are administered 2 cycles of DHAP or ICE (ifosfamide, carboplatin, and etoposide) and, if the disease responds, they proceed to high-dose therapy with stem cell support. Even patients not considered transplant candidates are also often treated with DHAP or ICE or other salvage regimens. It is likely that the response rate with DHAP alone in patients eligible for transplant is \<59%. Recent studies have attempted to improve on the results from DHAP or ICE by combining them with rituxan. NCCTG has just completed a phase II trial of R-DHAP. Preliminary results of the R-ICE protocol indicate a higher response rate and longer time to progression than traditional ICE.

The problem with DHAP and ICE is that they are associated with significant side effects and specifically, with DHAP the cisplatin often causes kidney problems. In fact, some patients who are considered transplant eligible before DHAP may become transplant ineligible simply by the kidney side effects. Clearly, there is a need to improve the quality of life of patients undergoing treatment and to avoid the kidney problems.