Free Skin Grafting to Reconstruct Donor Sites After Radial Forearm Flap Harvesting
Reconstruction of the donor site after radial forearm flap harvesting is a common procedure in maxillofacial plastic surgery. Unfortunately, free skin graft transplantation faces wound healing impairments such as necrosis, (partial) graft loss, or tendon exposure. Several studies have investigated methods to reduce these impairments and demonstrated improvements if the wound bed is optimized. However, these methods are device-dependent, expansive, and time-consuming. Therefore, the application of platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) to the wound bed could be a simple, cost effective, and device-independent method to optimize wound-bed conditions instead. In this study, PRF membranes were applied between the wound bed and skin graft.
Head and Neck Cancer
PROCEDURE: Platelet-rich fibrin (PRF)
Coverage rate, The coverage rate was measured 10-14 days after surgery with a photo analysis, 10-14 days
Evaluation Score (ES), ES included surgical complications (infection, graft loss..) and was obtained 10-14 days after surgery. Minimum value: 0, maximum value 6. A higher score indicates a worse surgical outcome., 10-14 days
Reconstruction of the donor site after radial forearm flap harvesting is a common procedure in maxillofacial plastic surgery. It is normally carried out with split-thickness or full-thickness free skin grafts. Unfortunately, free skin graft transplantation faces wound healing impairments such as necrosis, (partial) graft loss, or tendon exposure. Several studies have investigated methods to reduce these impairments and demonstrated improvements if the wound bed is optimized, for example through negative pressure wound therapy or vacuum-assisted closure. However, these methods are device-dependent, expansive, and time-consuming. Therefore, the application of platelet-rich fibrin (PRF) to the wound bed could be a simple, cost effective, and device-independent method to optimize wound-bed conditions instead. In this study, PRF membranes were applied between the wound bed and skin graft. Growth factor release could stimulate fibroblast migration, wound healing and angiogenesis. Further more PRF act as a lubricant layer to protect skin graft from tendon motion. This could improve graft in-growth.