Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) in Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This protocol is a single arm phase II multi-center trial evaluating the efficacy of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) in patients with oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with response or stable disease after 4 cycles of first-line chemotherapy. The core hypothesis tested is that SBRT after 4 cycles of first-line chemotherapy is feasible, safe, provides durable local control of treated lesions and improves time to progression compared to historical controls. Patients are eligible for enrollment if they have metastatic NSCLC with ≤5 lesions amenable to SBRT.
Non-Small-Cell Lung Carcinoma|Liver Cancer|Adrenal Cancer
RADIATION: stereotactic body radiation therapy
Progression-free Survival, Actuarial progression-free survival will be determined using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier and will be reported with an exact 95% confidence interval. Using the RECIST criteria including progression of the protocol treated tumors, non-protocol treated tumors and the development of new metastatic disease. Only protocol treated tumors will be determined by RECIST defined as complete lesion disappearance or \<25%or original size; partial \>30% decrease of target lesion; stable \<30% decreased of target lesion and; local failure increase \>20% of target lesion. Non-protocol tumor progression will be determined by the treating physician. Measured by imaging every 3 months., up to 2 years
To Assess Physical Function for This Cohort of Patients, Using the Vulnerable Elders Survey (VES-13) A 13-item self-reporting questionnaire includes age, self-rated health, limitations in physical function and disability to assess for deterioration of physical function/health. Scoring for the VES-13 is as follows: Total scores are summed together based on self-rated health (0-1), physical function (0-2), functional disability (0-4), (range from 0 to 7). A total score of 3 or more identifies participants as vulnerable to the risk of decline of physical function., up to 3 months after treatment|Number of Participants With Local Control, Local control (LC) of SBRT-treated lesions will only be assessed in patients with at least 4-months of radiographic follow-up., up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be reported with an exact 95% confidence interval., up to 4 years|Impact of Treatment on Quality of Life (FACT-L), Using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Lung (FACT-L) a 36-item self-administered questionnaire evaluating physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being; subscales (symptoms, cognitive function, regret of smoking) on a five-point scale from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Maximum score 136. Subscale scores added to obtain total score. The higher the score the greater the impact on the quality of life., up to 3 months after treatment
This protocol is a single arm phase II multi-center trial evaluating the efficacy of Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) in patients with oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with response or stable disease after 4 cycles of first-line chemotherapy. The core hypothesis tested is that SBRT after 4 cycles of first-line chemotherapy is feasible, safe, provides durable local control of treated lesions and improves time to progression compared to historical controls. Patients are eligible for enrollment if they have metastatic NSCLC with ≤5 lesions amenable to SBRT.