Correlation Between Imatinib Trough Concentration and Efficacy in Advanced GIST Patients with Different Genotypes
Imatinib (IM) has significantly enhanced the prognosis of patients (pts) with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). The clinical outcomes may correlate with IM exposure. However, the efficacy threshold, particularly based on different primary KIT mutant, remains undefined. The objective of this study is to establish the efficacy threshold of imatinib (IM) plasma trough concentration (Cmin) at steady-state in Chinese patients with advanced GIST, additionally to define subgroup thresholds based on various primary KIT mutations.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor, Malignant
DRUG: Imatinib
Progression free survival, Progression free survival (PFS) was defined as time from initiation of imatinib treatment until disease progression, as assessed by Choi criteria, or death caused by any reason., through study completion, an average of 1 year
objective response rate, Objective response rate (ORR) was defined as rate of Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR)., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) was defined as time from initiation of imatinib treatment until death caused by any reason., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common mesenchymal tumors of the gastrointestinal tract. The majority of GIST are driven by activating mutuations of KIT (60-70%) or platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRA, 10-15%), in which KIT exon 11 mutation (52-58%) and KIT exon 9 mutation (6-9%) are the most common types of KIT mutations. Patients with different activating KIT mutations have different sensitivity to imatinib therapy. In the first-line therapy, patients with KIT exon 11 mutation receiving Imatinib with standard dose of 400mg/d has the best therapeutic effect. Patients with KIT exon 9 mutation have poor sensitivity to the standard dose of imatinib, while higher doses can lead to better outcomes. The clinical outcomes may correlate with IM exposure. However, the efficacy threshold of imatinib in Chinese patients with advanced GIST remains unclear. The investigators aim to establish the efficacy threshold of imatinib plasma trough concentration (Cmin) at steady-state in Chinese patients with advanced GIST, additionally to define subgroup thresholds based on various primary KIT mutations.