Combination of Bevacizumab, Pertuzumab, and Sandostatin for Adv. Neuroendocrine Cancers
The purpose of this Phase II trial will be to define the activity of a VEGF inhibitor

bevacizumab, HER1/HER2 inhibitor pertuzumab, and sandostatin for patients with

advanced neuroendocrine cancers. In particular, the efficacy of bevacizumab and

pertuzumab treatment is of great interest. The primary endpoint of this trial will be

response rate. Toxicity and progression-free survival will be obtained and evaluated.
Neuroendocrine Carcinoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Sandostatin LAR® Depot
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The Percentage of Patients Who Experience an Objective Benefit From Treatment. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 18 months
Define Toxicity and Safety, To define the toxicity and safety of the combination of bevacizumab, pertuzumab and Sandostatin LAR® when used in patients with advanced low grade neuroendocrine cancer - defined by grade 3/4, treatment-related toxicity, 18 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The Length of Time, in Months, That Patients Were Alive From Their First Date of Protocol Treatment Until Worsening of Their Disease. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 18 months|Overall Survival (OS), The Length of Time, in Months, That Patients Were Alive From Their First Date of Protocol Treatment Until Death, 18 months|Disease Control Rate, The Percentage of Patients Who Experience an Objective Benefit From Treatment or Experience Stable Disease. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI or CT: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), Neither Sufficient Shrinkage to Qualify For PR, Nor Sufficient Increase to Qualify for Progressive Disease; Disease Control Rate = CR + PR + SD., 18 months
* To determine overall response rate of patients with low grade neuroendocrine cancer when treated with the combination of bevacizumab, pertuzumab and sandostatin LAR®.
* To determine the disease control rate (objective response + stable disease), time to treatment progression, progression-free survival, and overall survival in patients with advanced low grade neuroendocrine cancer when treated with bevacizumab, pertuzumab and Sandostatin LAR® treatment.
* To define the toxicity and safety of the combination of bevacizumab, pertuzumab and Sandostatin LAR® when used in patients with advanced low grade neuroendocrine cancer.