Finding the Cause for Post-Transplant Diabetes Mellitus After Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplant
This clinical research studies the physiology and immunology of new-onset post-transplant diabetes mellitus in patients undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Oral glucose tolerance tests (OGTT), hyperglycemic clamps, and immune assays will be used to define the mechanisms associated with abnormal glucose homeostasis following stem cell transplantation. Information from this clinical trial could be used to develop standardized screening procedures or to develop optimal treatment strategies for patients developing post-transplant diabetes mellitus.
Diabetes Mellitus|Cancer
DRUG: Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)|DRUG: 2 OGTTs with and without GLP-1 analogue|DRUG: Hyperglycemic clamp procedure
Pre-transplant insulin secretion will be measured as glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) during a hyperglycemic clamp procedure among patients who do or do not go on to develop PTDM (univariable analysis)., A hyperglycemic clamp procedure will be performed pre-transplant. Pre-transplant will be defined as no more than 28 days before allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. Patients will then be followed for 100 days after transplant for development of diabetes. In univariable analysis, a Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied to compare the population mean difference in GSIS between these two groups., Up to 28 days pre-transplant|Pre-transplant insulin secretion will be measured as glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) during a hyperglycemic clamp procedure among patients who do or do not go on to develop PTDM (multivariable analysis)., A hyperglycemic clamp procedure will be performed pre-transplant. Pre-transplant will be defined as no more than 28 days before allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation. Patients will then be followed for 100 days after transplant for development of diabetes. In multivariable analysis, logistic regression will evaluate whether GSIS is an independent predictor of PTDM after adjusting for the following covariates: gender, conditioning (ablative vs. reduced intensity), or acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) requiring steroids. The estimated odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval of the OR will be provided to measure the effect of the association., Up to 28 days pre-transplant|Post-transplant glucagon secretion will be measured during the oral glucose tolerance test among patients who do or do not develop PTDM (univariable analysis)., Patients will be followed for 100 days after transplant for development of diabetes. In univariable analysis, a Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied to compare the population mean difference in glucagon secretion between these two groups., Up to 100 days after transplant|Post-transplant glucagon secretion will be measured during the oral glucose tolerance test among patients who do or do not develop PTDM (multivariable analysis)., Patients will be followed for 100 days after transplant for development of diabetes. In multivariable analysis, a logistic regression will evaluate whether glucagon secretion is independently associated with PTDM after adjusting for the following covariates: gender, conditioning (ablative vs. reduced intensity), or acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) requiring steroids. The estimated odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval of the OR will be provided to measure the effect of the association., Up to 100 days after transplant|Plasma IL-33 levels will be measured among patients who do or do not develop PTDM (univariable analysis)., Patients will be followed for 100 days after transplant for development of diabetes. In univariable analysis, a Wilcoxon rank sum test will be applied to compare the population mean difference in IL-33 between these two groups., Up to 100 days after transplant|Plasma IL-33 levels will be measured among patients who do or do not develop PTDM (multivariable analysis)., In multivariable analysis, logistic regression will evaluate whether IL-33 is independently associated with PTDM after adjusting for the following covariates: gender, conditioning (ablative vs. reduced intensity), or acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) requiring steroids. The estimated odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval of the OR will be provided to measure the effect of the association., Up to 100 days after transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if changes in islet cell physiology are detectable before or after matched related donor (MRD) hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) in patients developing new-onset post-transplant diabetes mellitus (PTDM).

1. To determine if a compensatory increase in glucose stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) by β-cells precedes PTDM development in patients without diabetes undergoing MRD HCT.
2. To determine if excess glucagon secretion and impaired α-cell response to glucose or GLP-1 contributes to the hyperglycemia of PTDM.

II. To determine if the IL-33/ST2 axis promotes immune/islet cell dysregulation during PTDM.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 2 OGTTs and a standard hyperglycemic clamp procedure prior to HCT. Patients then undergo repeat OGTTs and a hyperglycemic clamp procedure once after HCT between days 80-100.