The Use of FNA and FNB in the Optimization of EUS-assisted Tissue Sampling
Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) with fine needle aspiration (FNA) for cytology and/or fine needle biopsy (FNB) for histology may be used in the diagnostic work-up of intrathoracic and intrabdominal lesion of unknown origin. Certain lesions (such as pancreatic adenocarcinoma) are often well characterized by cytology assessment of FNA-samples while others are not (such as GIST-tumors).

This study is a part observational (early study phase) and part interventional study (late study phase) on the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-assisted tissue sampling by FNA or FNB during a 10-year period on a tertiary endoscopy centre.
Neoplasms
DEVICE: EUS-guided fine needle biopsy sampling (EUS-FNB)
The cellular quality of the EUS-FNA specimens (categorical variable)., Specimens are measured on a standardized 5-grade categorical scale - from 1 (=poor, non-diagnostic yield) to 5 (excellent, completely diagnostic yield). There is no specific unit measured (the variable is not a continuous one). The results from cytology assessment of EUS-derived tissue are compared to the final diagnosis, that is based on the subsequent surgery report. Results from FNA and FNB are regarded equally important. That is why both are treated as Primary Outcomes., Follow up is by time of surgery (in average 2 months after EUS-FNA)|The histological quality of the EUS-FNB specimens (categorical variable)., Specimens are measured on a standardized 5-grade categorical scale - from 1 (=poor, non-diagnostic yield) to 5 (excellent, completely diagnostic yield). There is no specific unit measured (the variable is not a continuous one). The results from pathology assessment of EUS-derived tissue are compared to the final diagnosis, that is based on the subsequent surgery report. Results from FNA and FNB are regarded equally important. That is why both are treated as Primary Outcomes., Follow up is by time of surgery (in average 2 months after EUS-FNB)
Immunohistochemistry profiling of EUS, The immunohistochemical (IHC) profile of tumor material from EUS-samples will be compared to the immunohistochemical profile of tissue derived from surgery of the very same case (categorical variable, Yes (1) = correct IHC-profiling by EUS or No (2) = non-correct IHC-profiling by EUS)., Follow up is by time of surgery (in average 2 months after EUS)
Variables affecting the diagnostic accuracy of EUS-FNA and EUS-FNB in different cases and tumor scenarios will be studied in detail such as the influence of medical equipment used (i.e the different types and sizes of puncture needles), the experience of the endosonographers, cytopathologists and pathologists and the use of rapid on-site evaluation of cytology samples.

Each study case is reviewed post-EUS (according to the schedule precised below) regarding further diagnostic work-up, neoadjuvant treatment, surgery result, clinical follow-up, (neo)adjuvant treatment, and survival. Non-parametrical tests will be applied as the main statistical method.