Study of Panitumumab-Capecitabine-Oxaliplatin In Wild-Type K-Ras Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to determine whether panitumumab in combination with capecitabine/oxaliplatin are effective as first-line treatment in wild-type k-ras, metastatic colorectal cancer patients.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: panitumumab
Objective Response, Response will be evaluated using the RECIST criteria. Response rates will be presented as counts and proportions along with 95% exact confidence intervals.

An Objective Response is defined as either a Complete Response or a Partial Response. Analysis will be performed in the intent-to-treat population, i.e. all eligible patients enrolled in the study., Tumor response will be assessed every 6 weeks through week 18 and every 3 months thereafter, until disease progression.
Overall Survival (OS), OS will be calculated from the date of enrolment to the date of death or last contact, 24 months|Progression-Free Survival(PFS), PFS will be calculated from the date of enrolment to the date of disease progression, or death, or last contact. Deaths without a documented progression will be treated as events at the time of death for the PFS analysis.

Time to event distributions will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Tumor response will be assessed every 6 weeks through week 18 and every 3 months thereafter, until disease progression.|Adverse Events (AE)of all participants will be recorded and assessed upon signature of the informed consent form, until 30 days after the last administration of study treatment., Adverse Events will be graded according to the NCI CTCAE v3.0 criteria and will be reported in a frequency table according to the highest severity grade observed per patient, 18 months|Economic evaluation, The purpose of economic evaluation will be to estimate the total treatment cost of therapy and its componenents from perspective of the health care system and payers. Thus, all resources consumed will be valued to get an idea of the financial implications of therapy., 18 months
This is a single-arm trial in which previously untreated, wild-type k-ras metastatic colorectal cancer patients will receive therapy with the combination of panitumumab with capecitabine and oxaliplatin. During the treatment period of 6 cycles, subjects with evidence of complete response, partial response or stable disease will continue to receive the combination of chemotherapy with panitumumab until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or withdrawal of consent. Those patients with disease stabilization who are not appropriate for chemotherapy may continue with panitumumab alone. Patients with disease progression will be discontinued from chemotherapy and panitumumab and will be followed every 3 months after the last drug administration until death. Tumor response will be assessed according to the RECIST criteria (investigator's read of scans), every 6 weeks through week 18 and every 3 months thereafter, until disease progression. Disease progression will also be evaluated radiographically at the time of clinical suspicion of progression.