Rogaratinib in Patients With Advanced Pretreated Squamous-cell Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (SQCLC)
A recent investigation showed that a substantial proportion of patients with SQCLC (46%) exhibit tumor overexpression of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and are potentially sensitive to FGFR-targeting treatment. Rogaratinib is a novel pan-FGFR inhibitor which showed strong anti-tumor efficacy in pre-clinical models as a single agent in FGFR pathway-addicted tumor models. SQCLC patients overexpressing tumor FGFR mRNA, who will be included into this clinical trial, do not have currently any alternative systemic treatment with a proven and clinically reasonable benefit.

The objective of the trial is to determine clinical activity and safety of rogaratinib in patients with advanced SQCLC overexpressing tumor FGFR1-3 mRNA.
Squamous-cell Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rogaratinib
Progression-free survival (PFS) at 6 months, at 6 months
Objective response (OR), OR is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) achieved by the patient during trial treatment. Tumor response will be evaluated according to RECIST v1.1 criteria.

Patients without any tumor assessment during trial treatment will be regarded as having a non-evaluable response (NE) and shall be considered as failures for this endpoint, At the end of trial treatment, expected at the latest after 4 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from registration until disease progression according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.

Patients not experiencing an event at the time of the analysis, as well as patients starting a subsequent anticancer treatment in the absence of an event, will be censored at the date of their last available tumor assessment showing no evidence of progression before starting a subsequent anticancer treatment, if any., From registration until disease progression according to the RECIST v1.1 criteria or death due to any cause whichever occurs first, up to 4 years.|Overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from registration until death due to any cause. Patients not experiencing an event will be censored at the last date they were known to be alive., From registration until death due to any cause, up to 4 years.|Adverse events (AEs), All AEs will be assessed according to NCI CTCAE v5.0, At the end of trial treatment, expected at the latest after 4 years.
Squamous-cell lung cancer (SQCLC) is a distinct histologic subtype of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that is challenging to treat because of specific clinicopathologic characteristics (older age, advanced disease at diagnosis, central location of tumors) and the absence of molecular alterations, which can be successfully treated with targeted therapy. A recent investigation showed that a substantial proportion of patients with SQCLC (46%) exhibit tumor overexpression of fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) and are potentially sensitive to FGFR-targeting treatment.

Rogaratinib is a novel pan-FGFR inhibitor which showed strong anti-tumor efficacy in pre-clinical models as a single agent in FGFR pathway-addicted tumor models. The clinical experience with rogaratinib comes from two ongoing phase I trials enrolling patients with refractory, locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors who were selected based on tumoral overexpression of FGFR mRNA. Such selection identifies patients with high FGFR tumor target levels due to DNA aberrations in FGFR-encoding genes and due to non-genetic and epigenetic regulation of FGFR expression (incl. promoter activation). To date, rogaratinib has shown to be well tolerated (no dose-limiting toxicity) with promising clinical activity, in particular in bladder cancer.

Despite the constant improvement in the treatment of patients with advanced lung cancer, there is still a high-unmet medical need to develop new and highly active anticancer drugs for patients who have failed standard systemic treatment, and have an otherwise very unfavorable prognosis. SQCLC patients overexpressing tumor FGFR mRNA, who will be included into this clinical trial, do not have currently any alternative systemic treatment with a proven and clinically reasonable benefit.

The objective of the trial is to determine clinical activity and safety of rogaratinib in patients with advanced SQCLC overexpressing tumor FGFR1-3 mRNA.