Functional Recovery of Patients Undergoing Resection and Reconstruction of the Lower Limbs for Bone Tumor.
The aim of the present study is to describe the course of functional recovery of patients with musculoskeletal tumours and undergone resection and reconstruction operations of lower limbs in the first six months post-surgery, differentiating them on the basis of the anatomical level involved.
Bone Neoplasm|Rehabilitation
Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), Person's level of independence. It is measured through 30 questions relating to 30 activities of daily living to be answered by the patient. The total score is reported from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a greater degree of autonomy. A higher score indicates a greater degree of autonomy., at 3 months after surgery|Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), Person's level of independence. It is measured through 30 questions relating to 30 activities of daily living to be answered by the patient. The total score is reported from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a greater degree of autonomy. A higher score indicates a greater degree of autonomy., at 6 months after surgery
Range of motion (ROM), The range of motion of the main joints of the lower limbs (hip, knee or foot), measured with a goniometer, at 3 months after surgery|Rang of motion - 2 (ROM), The range of motion of the main joints of the lower limbs (hip, knee or foot), measured with a goniometer, at 6 months after surgery|Number of participants able to walk, Number of participant that are able to walk and aids used for walking, up to 1 week|Time Up and Go -2 (TUG), Time it takes a person to get up from a chair, walk three metres, turn around, return to the chair and sit down again is measured., at 3 months after surgery|Time Up and Go (TUG), Time it takes a person to get up from a chair, walk three metres, turn around, return to the chair and sit down again is measured., at 6 months after surgery|Muscle Strength, Grades of Muscle Strength from 0 (no contraction) to 5 (best strength), at 3 months after surgery|Muscle Strength-2, Grades of Muscle Strength from 0 (no contraction) to 5 (best strength), at 6 months after surgery|Number of day from surgery to first walking, The number of day that participants needs to recover ambulation after surgery, up to 1 week
Retrospective observational study will be conducted. The evaluation of the patients clinical recovery progress will take place at three different times: during the hospital stay postoperative, at 3 and 6 months after surgery. Different outcome measures will be considered in order to provide a complete picture of the patients functional recovery and their change.