Tucatinib, Trastuzumab, and Capecitabine With SRS for Brain Metastases From HER-2 Positive Breast Cancer
This research study will evaluate how well brain metastases associated with HER-2 positive breast cancer can be controlled using a type of radiation known as stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) when combined with three therapeutic agents, tucatinib, capecitabine, and trastuzumab.

The combined use of SRS with the three drugs is considered investigational.
Brain Metastases|HER2-positive Breast Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Combined use of SRS with Tucatinib, Trastuzumab, and Capecitabine
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), Toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). DLTs are defined as any of the following events:

1. Grade 3 or 4 thrombocytopenia
2. Grade 4 anemia
3. Grade 4 neutropenia lasting more than 7 days
4. Febrile neutropenia
5. Any non-hematologic toxicity of grade 3 or greater (excluding alopecia) despite maximal medical therapy
6. Grade 4 radiation-induced skin changes
7. Any episode of noninfectious pneumonitis., During first 4 weeks following SRS|Incidence of radiation-related toxicities, Toxicities presumed to be due to radiation are defined as:

1. Acute, \< 90 days from treatment start: Expected toxicities include hair loss (for lesions abutting skull), erythema of the scalp (for lesions abutting skull), headache, nausea, and vomiting. Reactions in the ear canals and on the ear should be observed and treated symptomatically. Pin site infection, pin site pain, facial swelling/bruising, and scalp numbness are other common acute effects. Acute toxicity is defined by CTCAE v5.0.
2. Both acute and delayed, \> or = 90 days from treatment start (lethargy, transient worsening of existing neurological deficits) or late (radiation necrosis, cognitive dysfunction, accelerated atherosclerosis, radiation-induced neoplasms) effects of radiotherapy are to be recorded and included in the toxicity evaluation. Late or delayed toxicity is defined by CTCAE v5.0., 30 days of progression or last dose of drug
Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from first dose of study drug until the first date of disease progression or death due any cause. The date of disease progression will be defined as the earliest date of disease progression based on central review. For participants whose disease has not progressed at the time of the analysis, censoring will be performed using the date of the last valid disease assessment. The data will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method. PFS will be considered when there is progression just intracranially, as well as when there is progression intracranially or extracranially., Six months|Overall survival, Time from the beginning of study drug treatment until death due to any cause. For participants who have not died at the time of the analysis, censoring will be performed using the date the patient was last known to be alive. The data will be analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method., One year|Overall response rate (ORR), Proportion of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) 1.1. For ORR analysis in all the treated population, participants with an CR or PR will be counted as successes and all other participants (including those with missing response information) will be counted as failures. ORR will be considered for intracranial and extracranial tumors., One year
This research study will evaluate how well brain metastases associated with HER-2 positive breast cancer can be controlled using a type of radiation known as stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) when combined with three therapeutic agents, tucatinib, capecitabine, and trastuzumab.

The combined use of SRS with the three drugs is considered investigational.