A Phase 2 Study of TRS005 in Patients with CD20-positive R/R DLBCL.
This trial is a multicenter, open-label, single-arm, Phase II Study. Patients with CD20 positive recurrent or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and had failed ≥2 prior lines of standard treatment will be recruited. The purpose of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetic (PK) and immunogenicity characteristics of TRS005 via intravenous drip.
CD20-positive Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: TRS005
ORR, Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR): the presence of at least one confirmed CR/PR. Independent Review Committee (IRC) confirmed ORR per Lugano 2014 criteria will be determined in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)
ORR, Objective Response Rate, Investigator-assessed confirmed ORR per Lugano 2014 criteria will be determined in the intention-to-treat (ITT) population., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|DCR, Disease Control Rate, DCR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease to a therapeutic intervention. Investigator-assessed and IRC confirmed DCR per Lugano 2014 criteria., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|PFS, Progression-free survival, PFS is defined as the time from the start of treatment to progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD. Investigator-assessed and IRC confirmed PFS per Lugano 2014 criteria., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|DOR, Duration of response, DOR is defined as the time from the date of the first documentation of response in participants with confirmed objective tumor response (complete response or partial response) to the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or to death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD. Investigator-assessed and IRC confirmed DOR per Lugano 2014 criteria., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|TTP, Time to progression, TTP is defined as the time from the start of treatment to progressive disease (PD). Investigator-assessed and IRC confirmed TTP per Lugano 2014 criteria., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)|OS, Overall survival, OS is defined as the time from the start of treatment to death due to any cause and will be analyzed by Kaplan-Meier method., 24 months after the end of treatment in the last participant|Number of Participants with Treatment-Related Adverse Events (AEs), AEs will be assigned to preferred term using MedDRA and graded according to CTCAE v5.0., Every cycle (each cycle is 21 days)|Number of Participants with Immunogenicity, ADA will be assessed in all participants. NAb will be assessed in samples that are ADA positive., At the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days)
The participants were screened and examined according to the protocol before enrollment. Participants received TRS005 at a dose of 1.8 mg/kg intravenously on day 1 of each 21-day cycle. The primary endpoints were objective response rate (ORR) assessed by Independent Review Committee (IRC). Participants were assessed for efficacy at the end of cycle 2, cycle 4, cycle 6 and every 4 subsequent cycles (each cycle is 21 days). Tumor responses were assessed by computerized tomography (CT) or positron emission tomography-computerized tomography (PET-CT) scanning per the Lugano 2014 criteria. The safety were assessed per the National Cancer Institute-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5.0.