Thiol-disulfide Homeostasis in Patients With Ovarian Cancer
Ovarian cancer is the third most common after endometrial and cervical cancer in societies with a high standard of living; It is the second most common type of gynecological cancer after cervical cancer in societies with a low standard of living, and it is also the deadliest among gynecological cancers. Dynamic thiol-disulfide homeostasis is an antioxidant system that minimizes oxidative damage and prevents cell damage. In the presence of oxidative stress, the thiol groups combine to form the disulfide structure, and when the oxidative stress condition is over, they are separated into thiol groups again. This homeostasis is impaired in conditions that cause oxidative processes such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancers, rheumatoid arthritis, and chronic kidney failure. This can be determined by measuring the total thiol and native thiol levels. Likewise, the level of ischemia modified albumin increases in the case of oxidative stress. There are studies on this homeostasis in the literature on many types of cancer; There are studies on endometrial cancer and cervical cancer, which are gynecological cancers In this study, the usability of these tests together with other diagnostic tests in the diagnosis of ovarian cancer will be evaluated.
Ovarian Cancer
thiol - disulfide levels, the rate of total thiol, native thiol and total oxidant/antioxidant capacity, April 2021 - January 2022
Ovarian cancer is the third most common after endometrial and cervical cancer in societies with a high standard of living; It is the second most common type of gynecological cancer after cervical cancer in societies with a low standard of living, and it is also the deadliest among gynecological cancers. Dynamic thiol-disulfide homeostasis is an antioxidant system that minimizes oxidative damage and prevents cell damage. In the presence of oxidative stress, the thiol groups combine to form the disulfide structure, and when the oxidative stress condition is over, they are separated into thiol groups again. This homeostasis is impaired in conditions that cause oxidative processes such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancers, rheumatoid arthritis, and chronic kidney failure. This can be determined by measuring the total thiol and native thiol levels. Likewise, the level of ischemia modified albumin increases in the case of oxidative stress. There are studies on this homeostasis in the literature on many types of cancer; There are studies on endometrial cancer and cervical cancer, which are gynecological cancers In this study, the usability of these tests together with other diagnostic tests in the diagnosis of ovarian cancer will be evaluated.