Comparison of Chemotherapy Before and After Surgery Versus After Surgery Alone for the Treatment of Gallbladder Cancer
This phase II/III trial compares the effect of adding chemotherapy before and after surgery versus after surgery alone (usual treatment) in treating patients with stage II-III gallbladder cancer. Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller; therefore, may reduce the extent of surgery. Additionally, it may make it easier for the surgeon to distinguish between normal and cancerous tissue. Giving chemotherapy after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells. This study will determine whether giving chemotherapy before surgery increases the length of time before the cancer may return and whether it will increase a patient's life span compared to the usual approach.
Stage II Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Lymphadenectomy|PROCEDURE: Partial Hepatectomy
Difference in overall survival, Will compare patients with incidental gallbladder cancer (IGBC) who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to and after re-resection with patients who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection. Will be evaluated by stratified log rank test, and Kaplan-Meier analyses will be used to calculate and display the overall survival distributions among all randomized patients on the two study arms (intention-to-treat analysis)., Time from randomization to death or last follow-up, assessed up to 5 years
Incidence of residual disease, Will compare the incidence of residual disease which is defined as the presence of either microscopic or gross malignancy based on pathologic analysis of the re-resection specimen at the time of re-resection between patients with IGBC who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to re-resection and those who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection. Residual disease is defined as the presence of either microscopic or gross malignancy based on pathologic analysis of the re-resection specimen., At the time of re-resection, through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Overall resectability rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients who successfully undergo a re-resection versus all enrolled patients. Descriptive statistics will be performed to calculate the number, proportion of patients, and 95% confidence intervals for the resectability and residual disease outcomes. Patients who do not undergo reoperation or re-resection, have incomplete resections (R2), or who have gross evidence of distant metastases and/or T4 disease will be considered as unresectable for resectability analyses., Up to 5 years|Resectability rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients who successfully undergo a re-resection versus all patients who undergo screening laparoscopy. Descriptive statistics will be performed to calculate the number, proportion of patients, and 95% confidence intervals for the resectability and residual disease outcomes. Patients who do not undergo reoperation or re-resection, have incomplete resections (R2), or who have gross evidence of distant metastases and/or T4 disease will be considered as unresectable for resectability analyses., At the time of diagnostic laparoscopy, through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Resectability rate, Will be defined as the proportion of patients who successfully undergo a re-resection versus all patients who undergo laparotomy. Descriptive statistics will be performed to calculate the number, proportion of patients, and 95% confidence intervals for the resectability and residual disease outcomes. Patients who do not undergo reoperation or re-resection, have incomplete resections (R2), or who have gross evidence of distant metastases and/or T4 disease will be considered as unresectable for resectability analyses., At the time of laparotomy, through study completion, an average of 5 years.|Difference in progression-free survival, Will compare patients given neoadjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin with patients who receive only adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin after re-resection for IGCB. A stratified log rank test, along with Kaplan-Meier curves, will be used to analyze progression-free survival among all evaluable patients., From randomization to first observed radiographic disease progression that is inoperable (either locoregional or distant metastatic), or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the difference in overall survival (OS) for patients given neoadjuvant gemcitabine hydrochloride (gemcitabine) and cisplatin prior to re-resection followed by adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin compared to patients who receive only adjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin after re-resection for incidental gallbladder cancer (IGBC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the incidence of residual disease at the time of re-resection between patients with IGBC who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to re-resection and those who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection.

II. To assess the clinical effect of preoperative chemotherapy compared to upfront re-resection on resectability among 3 cohorts: all enrolled patients, all patients who undergo staging laparoscopy, and all patients who undergo laparotomy.

III. To determine the difference in progression-free survival (PFS) for patients with IGBC who receive perioperative chemotherapy prior to and after re-resection compared to patients who receive only adjuvant chemotherapy after re-resection.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Within 4 weeks of randomization, patients undergo surgery to remove part of the liver, the lymph nodes around the liver, and possibly the bile ducts. Patients then receive gemcitabine intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and cisplatin IV over 30 minutes-24 hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes and cisplatin over 30 minutes-24 hours on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 4-8 weeks after completion of chemotherapy, patients whose disease has not spread to other places in the body (metastasized) undergo surgery as in Arm I. Patients with successful surgery then resume treatment with gemcitabine IV and cisplatin IV on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 1 year after surgery or until disease recurrence, whichever comes first, for up to 5 years.