Prophylactic Donor Lymphocyte Infusion After Allo-PBSCT for Patients With Very High-risk Hematologic Malignancies
Unmanipulated allogenic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (allo-PBSCT) has been an established treatment to cure high-risk leukemia/lymphoma. Relapse is the main cause of treatment failure for patients with relapsed/refractory disease or with very high-risk gene mutations such as TP53, TET2 and DNMT3a. Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) is an option to reduce relapse after allo-PBSCT for very high-risk disease without effective targeted therapy. In this study, the investigators aimed to compare the safety and efficacy of prophylactic DLI with G-CSF-primed peripheral blood progenitors for prevention of relapse after allo-PBSCT in patients with very high-risk leukemia/lymphoma.
Donor Lymphocyte Infusion|Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|Relapse|Graft-versus-host Disease|Decitabine
BIOLOGICAL: Prophylactic DLI
Cumulative incidence of relapse at 1 year after randomization, Relapse was defined as hematologic recurrence of malignancies after transplantation. Cumulative incidence of relapse was analyzed in a competing risk framework using Gray's method., 1 year|Cumulative incidence of non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 1 year after randomization, NRM was deﬁned as death from any cause without relapse. Cumulative incidence of NRM was analyzed in a competing risk framework using Gray's method., 1 year
Relapse-free survival (RFS) at 1 year after randomization, RFS will be evaluated in an intent-to-treat analysis by Kaplan Meier estimate and Log Rank test. Survival will be calculated from the date of randomization., 1 year|Cumulative incidence of acute GVHD at 100 days after randomization, The cumulative incidence of acute GVHD was estimated considering the competing risks., 100 days|Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year after randomization, The cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD was estimated considering the competing risks., 1 year
Conventional DLI has invariably been associated with high rates of severe graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and GVHD-related non-relapse mortality (NRM). Thus, in our previous studies, the DLI procedure has been modified to use G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) instead of steady-state lymphocytes. G-CSF mobilization results in the modulation of the polarization potential of T cells from Th1 to Th2. In addition, T-cell hyporesponsiveness is induced via the proliferation of dendritic cell 2 and monocytes and the down-regulation of CD28/B7. Furthermore, G-CSF augments NK-T-cell-dependent CD8+ cytotoxicity. These data constructed the rationale for the use of G-CSF-primed peripheral blood DLI to reduce DLI-associated GVHD and enhance the GVT effect of DLI. To date, there is no effective target therapy for acute leukemia with gene mutations such as DNMT3A, TET2 and TP53 and their response to chemotherapy and survival even after allogenic stem cell transplantation remains poor. Hypomethylating agents were reported to reverse the repression of HLA molecules and cancer testis antigens on leukemia cells, rendering them more sensitive to anti-leukemic activity mediated by DLI. The use of low-dose decitabine after allogenic stem cell transplantation was safe for early hematopoietic reconstitution. Therefore, decitabine was planned to be given prior to prophylactic DLI in the current study.