Writing About Experiences With Ovarian Cancer
This online study aims to understand whether writing about one's experiences with ovarian cancer may be beneficial for psychological and physical wellbeing in women with a history of ovarian cancer. Investigators are also interested in studying how certain individual characteristics may impact the effectiveness of writing. Participants will be asked to complete an initial survey (15 min), followed by writing about their experiences with ovarian cancer on four occasions (20 - 25 min each), over the course of two weeks. A final survey (10 min) will be completed one month afterwards.
Ovarian Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Expressive Writing|BEHAVIORAL: Fact Writing (Control)
Change in Psychological Functioning (Wellbeing/Distress), Various aspects of social, emotional and functional wellbeing will be assessed using the Functional Assessment of Cancer-Ovarian measure (FACT-O, Version 4, Basen-Engquist et al, 2001). Distress about ovarian cancer will be assessed using the Impact of Event Scale (IES, Horowitz, Wilner \& Alvarez, 1979)., 6 - 9 weeks, with timely completion of writing: Initial survey (day 1), after 2nd writing task (week 1), after 4th writing task (week 2), and one month after last writing task (week 6)
Change in Physical Wellbeing, Physical symptoms and concerns specific to ovarian cancer will be assessed using Functional Assessment of Cancer - Ovarian (FACT-O, Version 4, Basen-Engquist et al, 2001)., 6 - 9 weeks, with timely completion of writing: Initial survey (day 1), after 2nd writing task (week 1), after 4th writing task (week 2), and one month after last writing task (week 6)|Changes in affect before and after writing about ovarian cancer, Positive and negative affect will be assessed using the Positive and Negative Affect Scale (PANAS, Watson, Clark \& Tellegen, 1988)., Prior to and after each of 4 writing tasks (weeks 1 - 2)
The purpose of this randomized controlled experiment is to examine the effects of writing about experiences with ovarian cancer on psychological and physical outcomes in English-speaking women with a history of ovarian cancer. It will also examine how certain individual characteristics may impact the effectiveness of the writing interventions for different women. After completing an initial survey, women will be asked to write about their experiences with ovarian cancer on 4 separate occasions of 20-25 min each in the course of 2 weeks. A final survey will be completed one month after the last writing session. The entire study will be conducted online.