Phase II Anetumab Ravtansine in Pre-treated Mesothelin-expressing Pancreatic Cancer
The primary objective of this study is to:

-Test the activity/response rate per RECIST 1.1 criteria of anetumab ravtansine in patients with advanced pancreatic cancer who stain for mesothelin expression

The secondary objectives of this study are to:

* Time to Progression (TTP) defined as time from study treatment to RECIST 1.1 progression, or death (others going off study will be censored)
* Toxicity in pancreatic cancer patients (at 6.5 mg/kg dose)
Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: anetumab ravtansine
Response Rate as Measured Per RECIST 1.1 Criteria, Primary efficacy will be assessed based on radiological tumor evaluation by contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) or contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of chest/abdomen/pelvis. Contrast enhanced RECIST 1.1 scan will be done at Prescreening. Said pre-screen scan will be the baseline measure. RECIST 1.1 Scans will be done every 6 weeks for the first 6 months after the start of treatment, or more frequently if clinically indicated, every 9 weeks until the end of year 2 and every 12 weeks thereafter until disease progression or end of study, whichever comes first., From start of treatment until disease progression or death (up to 3 years).
Time to Progression, Time to Progression (TTP) defined as time from study treatment to RECIST progression, or death (others going off study will be censored)., From start of treatment until disease progression or death (up to 3 years).|Drug Toxicity, Toxicity of Anetumab ravtansine assessed with National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 4.03. See adverse events for details. Participants who experienced any adverse events are included here., From start of treatment until disease progression or death (up to 3 years).
This is a non-randomized, open-label, multicenter, Phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of intravenous anetumab ravtansine (BAY 94-9343), an anti-mesothelin antibody drug conjugate, in pretreated mesothelin-expressing advanced pancreatic cancer.

At the time of the start of study treatment, the patients will have pretreated advanced pancreatic cancer that also overexpresses mesothelin as determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

A maximum of 30 patients will be enrolled in a minimax, Simon 2-stage design with a single early stopping rule for lack of efficacy. The target population is those patients with pancreatic cancer who have failed an earlier treatment. All patients will be treated with an anti-mesothelin immuno-conjugate, in this single arm, non-randomized trial and all patients treated with at least one dose of Anetumab will be included. The endpoint is any response using the RECIST 1.1 criteria.