Azacitidine Plus Phenylbutyrate in Treating Patients With Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors That Have Not Responded to Previous Treatment
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of azacitidine plus phenylbutyrate in treating patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumors that have not responded to previous treatment.
Lymphoma|Small Intestine Cancer|Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: Azacitidine Injection|DRUG: sodium phenylbutyrate
Minimal Effective Dose (MED) of Azacitidine with Phenylbutyrate, MED (milligrams) of combined Azacitidine and Phenylbutyrate that results in clinical response, as defined by Standard World Health Organization (WHO) criteria and/or target inhibition., up to 6 months
Toxicity as assessed by number of participants experiencing adverse events Grade 3 or higher as defined by CTCAE v2.0, up to 6 months|Pharmacokinetics of Azacitidine combined with Phenylbutyrate as measured by maximal plasma concentration (Cmax), Up to 24 hours|Gene-re-expression of epigenetic modulation in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC) as measured by change in Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) viral load (number of copies per 1 million cells) after treatment with Azacitidine, Change from baseline to up to 6 months
OBJECTIVES:

* Evaluate the safety and toxicity of azacitidine plus phenylbutyrate in patients with refractory solid tumors.
* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of this treatment regimen where maximal gene reexpression occurs in these patients.
* Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of these drugs in these patients.
* Determine the minimally effective dose of azacitidine in combination with phenylbutyrate that elicits a biological or clinical response in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study.

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously for 14-21 days and sodium phenylbutyrate IV continuously for 1-7 days. Treatment repeats every 35 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses and durations of treatment with azacitidine and phenylbutyrate until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose limiting toxicities.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 3-50 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-18 months.