HumanaH - Hu3s193 in the Treatment of Advanced Breast Cancer After Hormonal Therapy
The humanized monoclonal antibody against Lewis Y antigen (Hu3S193) has been demonstrated to be safe in previous studies and has also been indicated as potential intervention in breast cancer. The study of this new agent in advanced breast cancer may contribute to the development of new strategies for patients that progressed after hormonal treatment.
Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Hu3S193
Complete response, partial response or stable disease., The primary efficacy analysis will be done through the clinical benefit rate, as defined by the proportion of patients achieving best response, complete response, partial response or stable disease for more than 24 weeks, more than 24 weeks
Response rate, from inclusion until disease progression or death, 24 weeks after patient discontinuation (at minimum)|Non progression rate, From patient inclusion until disease progression or death - evaluated radiologically by CT, 24 weeks after patient discontinuation (at minimum)|Overall survival, until death, 24 weeks after patient discontinuation (at minimum) or until death|Progression free survival, Evaluated radiologically by CT, until disease progression or 24 weeks after patient discontinuation (at minimum)|Assessment of any sign, symptom or undesirable medical condition that occurs after the first administration of the investigational agent, Until disease progression or 30 days after patient discontinuation
This is a national study, open label, single arm, phase II study which will be conducted in seven centers in Brazil. The study will be coordinated by the INSTITUTO DO CÂNCER DO ESTADO DE SÃO PAULO in collaboration with RECEPTA Biopharma. The study is funded by the CONSELHO NACIONAL DE DESENVOLVIMENTO CIENTÍFICO E TECNOLÓGICO (CNPq). Before any procedure relating to the study, patients must read and sign the informed consent (IC). The inclusion of patients begin immediately after regulatory approval and is expected to end after reaching the number of patients. The follow-up term will last at least 24 months for each patient included, unless limited by death, loss to follow up or withdrawal of informed consent. A total of 60 patients will be recruited in this study. The eligible patients must be 18 or older, confirmed diagnosis of breast cancer with locally advanced or metastatic progression after one or two lines of previous hormone treatment, confirmation of Lewis antigen expression -as assessed by central laboratory, measurable or evaluable disease and adequate organ function. Patients will receive weekly intravenous doses of the antibody Hu3S193 until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent or the investigator's decision, whichever occurs first. The study's primary endpoint is the clinical benefit rate.