NextSteps Intervention for Advanced Cancer Patients and Caregivers
This study seeks to test the efficacy of a psychosocial intervention to empower advanced cancer patients and their caregivers and improve their quality of life (QOL). The program, called NextSTEPS, provides skills training in six domains that are central to patient and caregiver QOL: self-care, stress management, symptom management, effective communication, problem-solving, and social support.
Lung Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: NextSteps
Patient and Caregiver Depression, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Depression 6 item Short form, 2 months|Patient and Caregiver Anxiety, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Anxiety 6 item Short form, 2 months
Patient and Caregiver Satisfaction with Care, 20-item Family Satisfaction with Care (FAMCARE) scale, 2 months, 4 months, and 6 months|Patient Symptom Burden, M D Anderson Symptom Inventory, 2 months, 4 months, and 6 months|Patient and Caregiver Depression, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Depression 6 item Short form, 4 and 6 months|Patient and Caregiver Anxiety, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Anxiety 6 item Short form, 4 and 6 months
In this study, 200 advanced cancer patients who are within one month of treatment initiation (baseline) and their caregivers will complete baseline surveys and be randomized to NextSTEPS or a usual medical care (UMC) condition. In addition to UMC, patients and caregivers in the NextSTEPS condition will each receive an intervention manual and six weekly 45-minute telephone counseling sessions with a trained interventionist. Patients and caregivers in both the NextSTEPS and UMC conditions will complete follow-up surveys at 8 weeks (primary endpoint), and 4 and 6 months post-baseline (secondary endpoints).

The specific aims are to:

1. Determine the impact of NextSTEPS on patient physical and emotional QOL, palliative care utilization, and satisfaction with care relative to UMC. We hypothesize that at 8 weeks (2 months), and 4 and 6 months, patients in NextSTEPS will have less symptom burden, less emotional distress, greater palliative care utilization, and greater satisfaction with care relative to patients in UMC.
2. Determine the impact of NextSTEPS on caregiver self-care, physical and emotional QOL, and satisfaction with care. We hypothesize that at 8 weeks, and 4 and 6 months, caregivers in NextSTEPS will report more self-care, better physical QOL, less emotional distress, and greater satisfaction with care relative to caregivers in UMC.

Secondary/exploratory aims and hypotheses are to:

Examine the effects of the NextSTEPS intervention on Self Determination Theory (SDT) constructs. We hypothesize that NextSTEPS will enhance patient and caregiver competence, autonomy, and relatedness.

Test whether the SDT constructs of competence, autonomy and relatedness mediate the effects of NextSTEPS on patient/caregiver outcomes as hypothesized.

Explore whether sociodemographic (e.g., age, gender), medical (e.g., disease stage, comorbidities), and relationship factors (e.g., whether the caregiver is a spouse/partner or other family member) moderate the effects of NextSTEPS on patient/caregiver competence, autonomy, and relatedness.

NextSTEPS fills an important service gap by providing education, skills training, and support to advanced cancer patients and their caregivers shortly after diagnosis. Home-based telephone delivery will facilitate dissemination and outreach. By empowering families with the skills they need to coordinate care and meet the challenges of advanced cancer together, NextSTEPS holds great promise for improving patient and caregiver QOL, and the quality of palliative and supportive care in cancer.