First-in-Human, Phase I, Open-label, Multicenter, Dose Escalation Clinical Study
First-in-Human, Phase I, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, pharmacodynamics, and preliminary antitumor activity of FL115 in patients with advanced solid tumors who have progressed or are intolerant to current standard-of-care therapies, including immune check-point inhibitors administered in single-agent or combination use.
Locally Advanced/Metastatic Solid Tumors
DRUG: FL115
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of FL115 in approximately 26 patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors, The study eligible patients will receive the investigational drug FL115 on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of Cycle 1 for the observation of AEs/SAEs to assess dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in first 28 days. FL115 will be administered IV QW (on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) in Cycle 2 and beyond. All patients will be monitored in the clinic over 24-hours for the C1D1 dose for monitoring potential cytokine release syndrome (CRS). If no CRS symptoms are observed after first dose, patients will not be asked for 24-hour inpatient monitoring for future injections (i.e. 2nd, 3rd and 4th dosing) based on the investigator discretion. Adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), other than those associated with CRS and related neurotoxicity events, will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., From screening to 30 days after last dose.
This is a First-in-Human, Phase I, open-label, multicenter, dose-escalation clinical study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, pharmacodynamics, and preliminary antitumor activity of FL115 when administered IV to adult patients with locally advanced/metastatic solid tumors who have progressed on, cannot tolerate, or do not have a standard-of-care therapy. If a patient is intolerant to standard-of-care therapy, the reason that the treatment could not be tolerated will be documented in the electronic case report form (eCRF). Patients will receive the investigational drug FL115 on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of Cycle 1 for the observation of AEs/SAEs to assess dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in first 28 days. FL115 will be administered IV QW (on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22) in Cycle 2 and beyond. All patients will be monitored in the clinic over 24-hours for the C1D1 dose for monitoring potential cytokine release syndrome (CRS). If no CRS symptoms are observed after first dose, patients will not be asked for 24-hour inpatient monitoring for future injections (i.e. 2nd, 3rd and 4th dosing) based on the investigator discretion.

Seven dosing cohorts are planned, with doses of 3, 10, 30, 60, 120, 180 and 240 µg/kg.

For ethical reasons, the first 2 dose cohorts (3 and 10 µg/kg) are planned to enroll 1 patient per cohort because these 2 doses are considered suboptimal treatment for late-stage cancer patients. The first 2 dose level cohorts will each enroll 1 patient using an accelerated titration dose escalation design. If no DLT is observed by the end of the first cycle (28 days) of treatment, the dose will be escalated to the next dose cohort. However, if 1 treatment-related National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) or American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Consensus Grading ≥ Grade 2 toxicity occurs in the safety evaluation window, the study will be converted to a 3 + 3 design. After the initial 2 cohorts are completed, the study will use modified Fibonacci 3 + 3 dose-escalation design.