BCL-2 Inhibitors Combined with the HyperCVAD Regimen for Newly Diagnosed T-lymphoblastic Leukemia/lymphoma.
The experimental group included patients diagnosed with T-ALL/LBL (T-lymphoblastic leukemia/ lymphoma) at initial diagnosis, who received treatment with BCL-2 inhibitors combined with the Hyper CVAD regimen. The control group consisted of patients diagnosed with T-ALL/LBL from multiple centers, for whom basic information, disease information, treatment details, and efficacy data were collected. Propensity score matching was conducted with historical data (matching factors included age, gender, initial LDH levels, and the presence or absence of a large mediastinal mass at diagnosis) to compare the advantages and disadvantages of the experimental regimen with previous induction treatment protocols. The primary endpoint was the complete remission (CR) rate after induction chemotherapy, while secondary endpoints included duration of remission (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and the occurrence of adverse events. This study aims to provide a more effective and safer treatment option for patients with T-LBL.
Lymphoblastic Lymphoma, Adult|Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Acute T-cell
DRUG: BCL-2 inhibitors combined with the HyperCVAD regimen|OTHER: Propensity score matching historical data
AE, adverse events during research, at the end of cycle 2(each cycle is 28 days)|The best overall response rate, complete remission and partial remission, at the end of cycle 2（each cycle is 28 days）|Evaluate the best complete remission rate (CR), at the end of cycle 4 of chemotherapy（each cycle is 28 days）
Duration of remission, Duration of remission, 1 year|OS, 1 year overall survival, 1 year|OS, 2 year overall survival, 2 year|PFS, 1 year progression free survival, 1 year|PFS, 2 year progression free survival, 2 year|the proportion of successful bridging to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, he proportion of successful bridging to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, the end of the study
The experimental group included patients diagnosed with T-ALL/LBL (T-lymphoblastic leukemia/ lymphoma) at initial diagnosis, who received treatment with BCL-2 inhibitors combined with the Hyper CVAD regimen. The control group consisted of patients diagnosed with T-ALL/LBL from multiple centers, for whom basic information, disease information, treatment details, and efficacy data were collected. Propensity score matching was conducted with historical data (matching factors included age, gender, initial LDH levels, and the presence or absence of a large mediastinal mass at diagnosis) to compare the advantages and disadvantages of the experimental regimen with previous induction treatment protocols. The primary endpoint was the complete remission (CR) rate after induction chemotherapy, while secondary endpoints included duration of remission (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and the occurrence of adverse events. This study aims to provide a more effective and safer treatment option for patients with T-LBL.