Stem Cell Transplantation for Hematological Malignancies
This protocol using busulfan, cyclophosphamide and melphalan has been designed as conditioning therapy for patients receiving stem cell transplantation for acute leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). The hypothesis is that this new regimen will be well tolerated and will cure the patient.
Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Acute|AML|MDS
PROCEDURE: Stem Cell Transplant|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: G-CSF|DRUG: ATG
Probability of Long-term Disease-free Survival (DFS), Number of participants with long-term disease free survival after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies., 1 year
Probability of Engraftment, Number of participants with engraftment after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies.., 1 year|Incidence of Acute Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), Number of participants with acute GVHD after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies., 100 days post-transplant|Incidence Chronic Graft-versus-host Disease (GVHD), Number of participants with chronic GVHD after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies., 1 year|Incidence of Regimen-related Toxicity 100 Days Post Transplant, Number of participants with regimen-related toxicity 100 days post transplant after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies., 100 days post-transplant|Incidence of Relapse, Number of patients with relapse after being treated with busulfan (BU), cyclophosphamide (CY) and melphalan (L-PAM) followed by HCT for hematological malignancies., 1 year
Subjects will be admitted to the bone marrow transplant unit and put in isolation to reduce exposure to infectious agents.

Prior to transplantation, they will receive BUSULFAN via the central venous line, four times a day for four days, CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE via the central venous line once a day for two days, and MELPHALAN via the central venous line for one day. Busulfan, cyclophosphamide, and melphalan are given to destroy the subject's cancer. As well, these drugs will destroy their immune system to help ensure the new stem cells take and grow after transplantation.

On the day of transplantation, umbilical cord blood from the donor will be transfused via venous line. These new cells will replace the subject's bone marrow.

After transplantation, the subjects will receive Cyclosporin A and either MMF or MTX

Isolation will be continued until adequate numbers of cells are present in the blood to fight infection. Subjects will be discharged from the hospital when medically ready. They will be expected to return for follow-up to the blood and marrow transplant clinic at specific dates as determined by physicians.