Screening With Tampons: Evaluating Diagnostic Accuracy and HPV and Assessing Participant Views
Diagnostic trial comparing the diagnostic accuracy of the DAYE Diagnostic Tampon (DDT) with a vaginal swab (self-collected and clinician taken).
Chlamydia|Gonorrhea|Bacterial Vaginosis|Human Papilloma Virus
DEVICE: DAYE Diagnostic Tampon|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Vaginal self-swab|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Clinician vaginal swab
Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the Daye Diagnostic Tampon for detecting Chlamydia, Gonorrhea, BV and HPV, Accuracy of the STI, BV and HPV detection using menstrual tampons compared to other specimen collection methods (clinician taken and self-swab) via assays, Within 4 weeks of the samples being received at the lab.
Assess the usability of the DDT (via After-Scenario Questionnaire - ASQ), After scenario questionnaire scores - higher scores = more usable, Post-sampling (once all samples are collected) - at study completion usually after 4 weeks|Explore participants views of the usability and acceptability of the DDT, Quantitative and qualitative feedback from pre- and post-sampling questionnaires, Pre-sampling (baseline) and Post-sampling (once all samples are collected) - at study completion usually after 4 weeks|Explore participants views of the usability and acceptability of the DDT, Qualitative feedback from focus groups, Through study completion, an average of 4-6 weeks|Assess whether the DDT is a preferred sampling method for participants, User preferences (self-report), Pre-sampling (baseline) and Post-sampling (once all samples are collected) - at study completion usually after 4 weeks|Assess if the order of sample collection (self-swab vs DDT) impacts diagnostic accuracy as assessed by assays, Comparison between the detection accuracy of infections between sample order (Group A and Group B) using assays, Post sample analysis - 4 weeks after the last samples are received at the lab|willingness to pay, Willingness to pay for the DDT via questions in post-sampling questionnaire, Post-sampling (once all samples are collected) - at study completion usually after 4 weeks|Understand the health economic consequences of using the DDT for STI, BV and HPV testing - time taken, Comparison of time taken for DDT vs clinician swab, Post-sampling (once all samples are collected) - at study completion usually after 4 weeks|Explore stakeholder attitudes to tampons as a means of sample collection for microbial testing., Qualitative feedback from stakeholder questionnaires, Throughout the trial (and once stakeholders with a role in the trial have engaged with the tampon)|Assess the occurrence of AEs/SAEs as a result of tampon sampling., AE/SAE occurrence., None expected, but any events will be collected and recorded on an ongoing basis as outlined in the protocol and analysed at study completion usually after 4 weeks
Explore the relationship between duration of wear and diagnostic accuracy., Duration of DDT wear and diagnostic accuracy, Post sample analysis - 4 weeks after the last samples are received at the lab|Sub-study Objective: Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the Daye Diagnostic Tampon for detecting STIs (Chlamydia, Gonorrhoea) specifically demonstrating a sensitivity of more than 70% for DDT., Accuracy of the STI detection using menstrual tampons compared to other specimen collection methods (self-swab) via Hologic APTIMA AC assay, Samples will be analysed around 2 weeks after collection. The outcome will be assessed as soon as 21 positive samples have been obtained.
MAIN STUDY DESIGN

A diagnostic trial comparing the diagnostic accuracy, usability and acceptability of the DAYE Diagnostic Tampon (DDT) compared to standard vaginal self-swabs and clinician administration of a vaginal swabs. Diagnostic accuracy will be compared for detection of Chlamydia, Gonorrhoea, BV \& HPV.

A total of 350 eligible participants will be enrolled into the trial in the UK and Italy. To adequately assess DDT performance on specificity and sensitivity, participants will be recruited from one of two groups:

* Group 1: 50 participants with a recent confirmed HPV diagnosis (UK and Italy)
* Group 2: 300 participants from the general population (UK only)

All participants will be randomised according to sample order for the DDT and self-swab using block randomisation:

* Group A: Approximately half the participants will perform the self-swab followed by the DDT.
* Group B: Approximately half the participants will perform the DDT followed by the self-swab

All eligible participants will be provided with a trial kit containing the DDT and self-swab and attend at least 1 clinic visit as part of their participation in the trial. Participants will also provide answers to questionnaires at baseline and after all sampling is complete.

Participation in the trial is expected to last approximately 2-3 weeks (dependent on timing of clinic appointment(s)). All samples collected during the trial will be sent to a central laboratory for analysis, either in the UK or Italy i.e., samples will be analysed in the country they were collected.

SUB-STUDY DESIGN

A maximum of 210 eligible participants will be recruited and provide 2 samples to a decentralised sub-study to assess the DDTs performance compared to a self-taken vaginal swab. Recruitment will be stopped as soon as 21 positive cases of STI are confirmed by the lab.

* Group 3: 210 participants with suspected or recently confirmed chlamydia or gonorrhoea.

All participants will be randomised according to sample order for the DDT and self-swab using block randomisation:

* Group A: Approximately half the participants will perform the self-swab followed by the DDT.
* Group B: Approximately half the participants will perform the DDT followed by the self- swab

Pre-screening, informed consent, screening and eligibility assessments will occur online. Trial team will confirm e-consent and eligibility. Randomisation will be performed at the point of enrolment by a member of the trial team using a re-generated list of treatment allocation blocks. Some demographic information and medical history will be collected at baseline. All eligible participants will be provided with a trial kit containing the DDT and self-swab which they will use at home and send directly to the testing laboratory. Participants will also provide answers to questionnaires at baseline and after all sampling is complete. Participants will enter data directly into the EDC platform. Participation in the sub-study is expected to last approximately 1 week. All samples collected during the trial will be sent to a central accredited laboratory(s) for analysis in the UK.