Olaparib and Durvalumab in Treating Participants With Metastatic Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This pilot phase I trial studies whether it is feasible to conduct a detailed molecular profile of triple negative breast cancer as part of a treatment strategy that asks whether or not we can lower the chance of breast cancer growing or spreading, by treating with a combination of PARP inhibitor how well (olaparib) and immune therapy (durvalumab). Olaparib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving olaparib and durvalumab may work better in treating participants with metastatic triple negative breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Estrogen Receptor Negative|HER2/Neu Negative|Progesterone Receptor Negative|Prognostic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Olaparib
Proportion of completion of Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) analytics on pre-treatment biopsy before the planned for 4-week biopsy, Using the feasibility analysis set, the proportion of the completed CLIA analytics within 4 weeks (i.e., from day 1, cycle 1 up to day 1 cycle 2 of on-study treatment regimen will be estimated relative to all screened participants who undergo a first biopsy with a 95% confidence interval., At day 28
Incidence of >= grade 3 adverse events per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 4.03, The incidence of having grade 3+ acute toxicity will be determined for participants with triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) that received at least one dose of olaparib and durvalumab in combination. The 95% confidence interval will be reported with the point estimate of toxicity rate., Up to 3 months post treatment|Overall response rate (ORR) for olaparib in combination with durvalumab, The probability of having ORR will be measured and reported (if available) with 95% exact confidence interval., Up to 6 months post treatment|Clinical benefit rate (CBR) for olaparib in combination with durvalumab, CBR is defined as the percentage of participants who have achieved complete response, partial response and stable disease (i.e., CR + Pr + SD) at 6 months post-treatment. The probability of having CBR will be measured and reported (if available) with 95% exact confidence interval., At 6 months post treatment|Duration of response (DOR) for olaparib in combination with durvalumab, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or Pr (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started. The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented. If a participant dies, irrespective of cause, without documentation of recurrent or progressive disease beforehand, then the date of death will be used to denote the response end date., Up to 6 months|Progression-free survival (PFS) for olaparib in combination with durvalumab, PFS is defined as the time from first treatment with olaparib (i.e., cycle 1 day 1) to the first of either recurrence or relapse (anywhere in the body), or death at time of last follow-up at 12-months. The estimated distribution of the PFS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available., Up to 1-year post treatment|Overall survival (OS) olaparib in combination with durvalumab, OS is defined as the time from first treatment with olaparib (i.e., Day 1) to the date of death or last follow-up at 12 months. The estimated distribution of the OS will be plotted using Kaplan Meier curves and reported with median survival and 95% confidence intervals if available., Up to 1-year post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the feasibility of completing Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act (CLIA) analytics on pre-treatment biopsy within a planned 4-week window for enrolled participants.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess safety and tolerability of the proposed therapy. II. Assess response to treatment. III. Determine the time to disease progression following study therapy. IV. Determine survival of participants enrolled on the study.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Examine response rates depending on tumor characteristics. II. Identify predictive biomarkers of sensitivity to therapy. III. Identify emerging mechanism of resistance to therapy tumor markers of emergence.

IV. Determine changes in tumor cells induced by PARP inhibitors. V. Identify tumor markers suggestive of combinatorial therapy that could r overcome resistance to therapy.

OUTLINE:

Participants receive olaparib orally (PO) twice a day (BID) for 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants then receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28 and durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Participants may continue on therapy beyond disease progression at the discretion of the investigator.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up every 6 months for 1 year.