Randomized Trial of Image -Guided Stereotactic Radiation Therapy (IG-SRT) in Prostate Cancer
Patients with low-risk or favorable intermediate-risk prostate cancer as defined by 1.2016 NCCN criteria will be eligible to participate on this study.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: Endorectal Balloon|DEVICE: Rectal Spacer|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Incidence of Patient-reported Acute Toxicity Based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4, To compare acute toxicity (as defined by CTCAE v4.0) and to compare Rectal dose (V35, max rectal dose). Acute radiation toxicities are side effects that occur on treatment or in the immediate post treatment period (within 90 days from the start of radiation treatment)., Baseline to 1 year
Measure the Effect of Treatment on Patients' Using Health Related Quality of Life Based on Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Questionnaire, To compare health-related quality of life (HRQOL) measured using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) instrument for bowel, urinary and sexual domains. scores are transformed linearly to a 0-100 scale (see following page: EPIC scoring), with higher scores representing better HRQOL. American Urological Association (AUA) scores ranges from 0-30 scores where, score greater than 15 indicate high degree of urinary symptoms and scores less than 15 indicate low degree of urinary symptoms., 1 year|Number of Participants With Recurrence-free Survival, 1 year, 1 year|Comparing Several Parameters That Are Involved in Treatment Planning in Patients Randomized to Two Radiation Therapy Modalities., To compare the dose distribution of the 2 techniques, specifically:

1. coverage of the PTV
2. DVH of organs at risk (OAR)
3. prostate motion and shifts required during treatment, 5 years|Incidence of Patient-reported Toxicity (Late Toxicity) Based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4, To compare late toxicity (as defined by CTCAE v4.0). Late toxicities are toxicities that occur greater than 3 months after radiation therapy completion., post RT to 1 year
Measuring Number of Participants Changes in the Microbiome That is Associated With Normal Tissue Toxicities Resulting From Radiation From Baseline to End of Treatment, To explore microbiome changes associated with normal tissue toxicities resulting from radiation, baseline, post radiation follow up|Comparing Neutrophile:Lymphocyte Ratio (NLR) at Different Time Points to Assess Impact of SBRT in All the Participants, Comparing NLR ratio at different timepoints to assess the impact of radiation therapy on patients. A neutrophil:lymphocyte ratio (NLR) \> 4 at time radiotherapy predicts for significantly worse prognosis, when compared to NLR \< 4., 1 month, 6 months, 1 year
This is a randomized, two arm study for patients with low-risk or favorable intermediate-risk prostate cancer as defined by 1.2016 NCCN criteria.

Patients will be randomized to either rectal spacer placement or endorectal balloon placement, daily prior to each radiation treatment.

1. Endorectal balloon (ERB): Immobilization device manually placed into the rectum prior to radiation treatment planning CT and daily treatment delivery, to immobilize the prostate and reduce prostate motion.
2. Rectal spacer (RS): Biodegradable gel that is transperineally injected between the rectum and prostate under transrectal ultrasound guidance, to increase physical distance and thereby reduce radiation dose to the anterior rectal wall. The spacer begins to biodegrade in 2-3 months, and is fully absorbed within 6 months.

This study plans to enroll a total of 40 patients with an accrual period of 4 years.