Phase 1 Safety Study of Encorafenib in Chinese Patients With Advanced Metastatic BRAF V600E Mutant Solid Tumors
This is a phase 1, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study to investigate the safety and tolerability of encorafenib 300 mg once daily (QD) monotherapy in adult Chinese participants with B-RAF Proto-oncogene, Serine/threonine Kinase V600E (BRAF V600E) mutant advanced solid tumors (unresectable metastatic melanoma or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)), who are BRAF-inhibitor treatment-naïve and have failed the previous therapy(ies) in the metastatic setting or are not eligible to standard therapy. Participants will be eligible for the study based on identification of a BRAF V600E mutation in tumor tissue by a local National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approved assay obtained prior to screening.
BRAF V600E Unresectable or Metastatic Melanoma|BRAF V600E Metastatic NSCLC|Melanoma
DRUG: Encorafenib
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) Experienced During Cycle 1, The primary endpoint was the number of patients experiencing dose limiting toxicity (DLT) occurring within the first 28 days of study treatment (Cycle 1). A DLT was defined as any adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, intercurrent illness or concomitant medications/therapies resulting in the inability to tolerate at least 75% dose intensity \[(administered dose in mg/planned dose in mg) × 100\] that satisfied at least one of the prespecified criteria., At the end of Cycle 1. Each cycle was 28 days.
Occurrence of Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), The occurrences of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAEs) graded as per National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.03, TEAEs leading to dose interruption, reduction and discontinuation, treatment-emergent serious adverse events (SAEs) and deaths were reported. The number of events occurring in the three participants is presented., Cycle 1 Day 1 through safety follow-up visit (30 days after end of treatment (EOT) visit or 7 days after end EOT visit/last dose if EOT not performed), approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable Change From Baseline of Blood Hematology Parameters: Hemoglobin, Leukocytes, Neutrophils, Platelets, Lymphocytes., Clinically notable shift from baseline in blood hematology parameters data \[Hemoglobin (Low/High); Leukocytes (Low/ High); Neutrophils (Low); Platelets (Low); Lymphocytes (Low/High)\] was graded using NCI CTCAE Version 4.03. Clinically notable shift was defined as a worsening from baseline by at least 2 grades, or to grade 3 or above. The number of participants with clinically notable shift from baseline is presented., Screening (Days -28 to -1), Cycle 1 Day 1 (if not done within 72 hours before the first dose), Cycle 1 Day 15, on Day 1 each subsequent cycle, end of treatment visit 30 day safety follow up visit, approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable Change From Baseline of Blood Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Clinically notable shift from baseline in blood clinical chemistry parameter values \[Phosphate (Low); Alanine Aminotransferase (High); Albumin (Low); Alkaline Phosphatase (High); Aspartate Aminotransferase (High); Bilirubin (High); Calcium Corrected (Low/High); Creatinine (High); Glucose (Low/High); Magnesium (Low/High); Potassium (Low/High); Sodium (Low/High); amylase (high); Gamma Glutamyl Transferase (High); Lipase (High) and Urate (High)\] was graded using NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.03. Clinically notable shift was defined as a worsening from baseline by at least 2 grades, or to grade 3 or above. Number of participants with at least one clinically notable shift during study was reported., Screening (Days -28 to -1), Cycle 1 Day 1 (if not done within 72 hours before the first dose), Cycle 1 Day 15, on Day 1 each subsequent cycle, end of treatment visit 30 day safety follow up visit, approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable Change From Baseline of Coagulation Parameters, The maximum post baseline values of coagulation parameters \[activated partial thromboplastin time (seconds) and prothtombin international normalized ratio (INR)\]. It was graded using NCI-CTCAE, Version 4.03. The number of participants is presented with their worst NCI-CTCAE grade post-baseline.

Grade 1 Mild; asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 Moderate; minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting ageappropriate instrumental ADL\*. Grade 3 Severe or medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL\*\*. Grade 4 Life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 Death related to AE., Screening (Days -28 to -1), Cycle 1 Day 1 (if not done within 72 hours before the first dose), Cycle 1 Day 15, on Day 1 each subsequent cycle, end of treatment visit 30 day safety follow up visit, approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable Change From Baseline of Dipstick Urinalysis, The appearance of dipstick, at each visit by participant is presented., Days -28 to -1, Cycle1 Day1 (if not within 72 hours before first dose),Cycle1 Day15,on Day1 each subsequent cycle,end of treatment visit 30 day safety follow up visit, up to 6 months. Additional urinalysis in Cycle 1 Days 8 and 22. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable or Abnormal Changes in Vital Signs From Baseline of Vital Sign Examinations., Clinically notable elevated values: Systolic blood pressure (SBP): ≥ 160 mmHg and an increase ≥ 20 mmHg from baseline; Diastolic blood pressure (DBP): ≥ 100 mmHg and an increase ≥ 15 mmHg from baseline; Heart rate : ≥ 120 beats/min (bpm) with increase from baseline of ≥ 15 bpm; Weight (kg) increase from baseline of ≥ 10%; Body temperature(°C) ≥ 37.5°C). Clinically notable low values: Systolic blood pressure (SBP): ≤ 90 mmHg with decrease from baseline of ≥ 20 mmHg; Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) : ≤ 50 mmHg with decrease from baseline of ≥ 15 mmHg; Heart rate: ≤ 50 bpm with decrease from baseline of ≥ 15 bpm; Weight: ≥ 20% decrease from baseline; Body temperature \[°C\]: ≤ 36 °C. Number of participants with clinically notable abnormalities in vital signs was reported., Screening (Days -28 to -1), Cycle 1 Days 1, 8, 15 and 22, Day 1 of each subsequent cycle, the end of treatment visit and the 30-day safety follow-up visit, approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Notable or Abnormal Changes From Baseline of 12-lead Electrocardiograms (ECGs), 12-lead ECGs were obtained using an internationally recognized 12-lead cardiograph. Clinically notable ECG values: QT \[millisecond (ms)\] and QT interval (ms) corrected for heart rate using Fridericia's formula (QTcF) intervals (ms): increase from baseline \> 30 ms; increase from baseline \> 60 ms, new \> 450 ms, new \> 480 ms, new \> 500 ms. Heart rate (beats/min): increase from baseline \> 25% to a value \> 100 bpm, decrease from baseline \> 25% and to a value \< 50 bpm. Number of participants with clinically notable values was reported., Screening (Days -28 to -1), Cycle 1 Day 8, 15 and 22, Day 1 of each subsequent even cycle, and the end of treatment visit, approximately up to 6 months. Each cycle was 28 days.|Occurrence of Targeted Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) of Special Interest, Adverse event of special interest (AESI) were as follows: Cutaneous non-squamous cell carcinoma, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, melanomas, facial paresis, uveitis-type events, QT prolongation, non-cutaneous malignancies with RAS mutation. Number of participants with at least one event of any AESI is presented., Cycle 1 Day 1 through safety follow-up visit (30 days after end of treatment [EOT] visit or 7 days after end EOT visit/last dose if EOT not performed), approximately up to 6 months.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib: Area Under the Curve (AUC) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of Encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Area under the curve of Encorafenib was assessed after single and repeated administrations.

AUC0-tlast = area under the concentration curve from time 0 to time of last measurable concentration, First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): Area Under the Curve (AUC) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746), All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of Encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Area under the curve of Encorafenib metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations.

AUC0-tlast = area under the concentration curve from time 0 to time of last measurable concentration, First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Maximum Concentration of encorafenib was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): Maximum Concentration (Cmax) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Maximum Concentration of encorafenib metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib: Minimum Concentration (Cmin) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Minimum concentration of encorafenib was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): Minimum Concentration (Cmin) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The Minimum concentration of encorafenib metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib: Time Taken to Reach Maximum Concentration (Tmax) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The time taken to reach maximum concentration of Encorafenib was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): Time Taken to Reach Maximum Concentration (Tmax) After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746), All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The time taken to reach maximum concentration of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations., First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib: ARAUC After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib, All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of Encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The ARAUC of Encorafenib was assessed after single and repeated administrations.

ARAUC = Observed accumulation ratio based on AUC0-6, at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): ARAUC After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746), All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The ARAUC of encorafenib metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations.

ARAUC = Observed accumulation ratio based on AUC0-6, at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.|Plasma Pharmacokinetics (PK) of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746): MRAUC After Single and Repeated Administration of Encorafenib Metabolite (LHY746), All enrolled participants (n=3) received at least two doses of encorafenib, did all the planned PK blood collection with associated bioanalytical results and were therefore included in the PK Set. The MRAUC of encorafenib metabolite (LHY746) was assessed after single and repeated administrations.

MRAUC = Metabolite Parent ratio based on AUC0-6, First day of treatment (Cycle 1 Day 1) and at steady state after 1 month treatment (Cycle 2 Day 1). Each cycle was 28 days.
This is a phase 1, multicenter, open-label, single-arm study to investigate the safety and tolerability of encorafenib 300 mg once daily (QD) monotherapy in adult Chinese participants with B-RAF Proto-oncogene, Serine/threonine Kinase V600E (BRAF V600E) mutant advanced solid tumors (unresectable metastatic melanoma or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)), who are BRAF-inhibitor treatment-naïve and have failed the previous therapy(ies) in the metastatic setting or are not eligible to standard therapy. Participants will be eligible for the study based on identification of a BRAF V600E mutation in tumor tissue by a local National Medical Products Administration (NMPA) approved assay obtained prior to screening.