HFNO Combined With NPA Reduces Hypoxia During Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy In Obese Patients
Obesity is associated with adverse airway events including desaturation during deep sedation. Previous studies have suggested that high-flow nasal oxygenation may be superior to regular (low-flow) nasal cannula for prevention of hypoxia during Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy in non-obesity patients. The prerequisite of high-flow nasal oxygenation is keeping airway patency. Our pervious study demonstrated that nasopharyngeal airway has the similar efficacy of jaw-lift. In present study we aimed to determine whether high-flow nasal oxygenation combined with nasopharyngeal airway could reduce the incidence of hypoxia during Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy in obese patients.
Gastric Cancer|Gastric Ulcer|Intestinal Cancer|Intestinal Polyps
DEVICE: High-flow nasal oxygenation combined with nasopharyngeal airway|DEVICE: Regular nasal cannula combined with nasopharyngeal airway
The incidence of hypoxia, Hypoxia refers to 75%≤SpO2\<90%,\<60S, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 2 hours
The incidence of severe hypoxia, Severe hypoxia refers to SpO2\<75% lasting for any time, or 75%≤SpO2\<90%, ≥60s, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 2 hours|The incidence of subclinical respiratory depression, Subclinical respiratory depression refers to 90%≤ SpO2\<95%, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 2 hours|The incidence of other adverse events, Other adverse events recorded by tools proposed by the World Society of Intravenous Anesthesia International Sedation Task Force, Patients will be followed for the duration of hospital stay, an expected average of 2 hours
Obesity is associated with adverse airway events including desaturation during deep sedation. Previous studies have suggested that high-flow nasal oxygenation may be superior to regular (low-flow) nasal cannula for prevention of hypoxia during Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy in non-obesity patients. The prerequisite of high-flow nasal oxygenation is keeping airway patency. Our pervious study demonstrated that nasopharyngeal airway has the similar efficacy of jaw-lift. In present study we aimed to determine whether high-flow nasal oxygenation combined with nasopharyngeal airway could reduce the incidence of hypoxia during Sedated Gastrointestinal Endoscopy in obese patients.