A Study of Efficacy and Safety of Fruquintinib (HMPL-013) in Participants With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is a global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter phase 3 clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of fruquintinib plus best supportive care (BSC) versus placebo plus BSC in participants with refractory metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). 691 participants were randomized to one of the following treatment arms in a 2:1 ratio, fruquintinib plus BSC or placebo plus BSC.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|Metastatic Colon Cancer
DRUG: Fruquintinib|DRUG: Placebo
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time (months) from date of randomization to death from any cause. OS was calculated as (date of death or last known alive - date of randomization + 1)/30.4375. Participants without report of death at the time of analysis will be censored at the date last known alive., From date of randomization to death from any cause (up to 22 months)
Progression Free Survival (PFS), as Assessed by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1, PFS was defined as the time (months) from randomization until the first radiographic documentation of objective progression as assessed by investigator using RECIST v1.1, or death from any cause, whichever comes first. More specifically, PFS was determined using all data until the last evaluable visit prior to or on the date of: (i) radiographic disease progression (PD) per RECIST v1.1; (ii) withdrawal of consent to obtain additional scans on study; or (iii) initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy other than the study drugs, whichever was earlier. PD was defined as: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study, including baseline; an absolute increase of at least 5 mm in the sum of diameters of target lesions; and the appearance of one or more new lesions., From randomization until the first documentation of objective progression or death, whichever comes first (up to 22 months)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response of confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), per RECIST v1.1, as determined by the investigator. PR: At least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 millimeters (mm)., From randomization until the first documentation of best overall response (up to 22 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), DCR was defined as percentage of participants achieving a best overall response of confirmed CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) (for at least 7 weeks) per RECIST v1.1, as determined by the investigator. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum on study. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir), including baseline., From randomization until the first documentation of best overall response (up to 22 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), DOR was defined as the time (in months) from the first occurrence of PR or CR by RECIST Version 1.1, until the first date that progressive disease is documented by RECIST Version 1.1, or death, whichever comes first. Only those participants with confirmed responses of CR or PR were included in this analysis. DOR was calculated as (date of death or PD or last assessment - date of first occurrence of confirmed CR or PR + 1)/30.4375., From first occurrence of PR or CR until the first documentation progression or death, whichever comes first (up to 22 months|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Serious TEAEs, An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product and that does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE was considered a TEAE if the onset date was on or after the start of study treatment or if the onset date was missing, or if the AE had an onset date before the start of study treatment but worsened in severity after the study treatment until 30 days after the last dose of study treatment or a new treatment of anti-tumor therapy, whichever was earlier. After this period, treatment-related SAEs were also considered as TEAEs. AEs with an unknown/not reported onset date were also included., From start of study drug administration up to approximately 40 months|Observed Plasma Concentrations of Fruquintinib and Metabolite M11, Plasma samples were collected from the participants at the defined time points. Plasma concentrations were measured using a validated, specific, and sensitive liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method. M11 is the active metabolite for the study drug., Cycle 1 (Day 1 and 21): Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours; Cycle 2 (Day 21): Predose and 2 hours, Cycle 3 (Day 1): Pre-dose, Cycle 3 (Day 21): Pre-dose and 2 hours, Cycle 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15 and 17 (Day 1): Pre-dose (Each cycle = 28 days)|Change From Baseline of Electrocardiogram (ECG) Results - QTcF Intervals Using Fridericia's Formula, QT Interval: Ventricular depolarization plus ventricular repolarization Normal Range: 400 to 460 milliseconds (msec). QTc: QT interval corrected based on the patient's heart rate. QTcF: An electrocardiographic finding in which the QT interval corrected for heart rate using Fridericia's formula. QTc = QT/∛(RR) RR = Respiration rate., Baseline, Cycle 1 (Day 1 and 21): Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours; Cycle 2 and 3 (Day 21): Pre-dose (Each cycle = 28 days)|Change From Baseline of ECG Results -QTcB Intervals Using Bazzett's Formula, QT Interval: Ventricular depolarization plus ventricular repolarization Normal Range: 400 to 460 msec. QTc: QT interval corrected based on the patient's heart rate. QTcB: An electrocardiographic finding in which the QT interval corrected for heart rate using Bazzett's formula., Baseline, Cycle 1 (Day 1 and 21): Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3 and 4 hours; Cycle 2 and 3 (Day 21): Pre-dose (Each cycle = 28 days)|Correlation Between Fruquintinib Exposure (CminSS) and Efficacy Parameters (OS), Model-predicted steady-state minimum plasma concentrations (CminSS) of fruquintinib based on the starting dose or adjusted for relative dose intensity \[RDI\] were used as the exposure measures in the efficacy exposure-response analyses. The correlation between OS and exposure was estimated using multivariable Cox proportional hazards modeling. OS was analyzed as time-to-event variable using a survival model. The efficacy exposure-response analyses included participants with mCRC and pooled the data from the fruquintinib group of current Study 2019-013-GLOB1 (N=328) and from Cohort B of Study 2015-013-00US1 (NCT03251378) (N=40) as per planned analysis. Here, the "unit of measure" i.e., '1/(nanogram per milliliter \[ng/mL\])', corresponds to the coefficient that describes the relationship between the probability of survival and CminSS value., Up to 22 months|Correlation Between Fruquintinib Exposure (CmaxSS) and Safety Parameters (Any Grade [Gr] and Grade 3+ (Gr3+): Dermatological Toxicity, Proteinuria and Gr Hemorrhage), Model-predicted steady-state maximum plasma concentration (CmaxSS) of fruquintinib based on the assigned dose of fruquintinib were investigated as fruquintinib exposure measure for the safety exposure-response analyses. The correlation between exposure and the probability of experiencing these AEs was evaluated using logistic regression analysis, with the slope serving as the estimate. The safety exposure-response analysis included participants with cancer, and the data of this outcome measure were pooled with data from the following studies as per the planned analysis: 2019-013-GLOB1 (NCT04322539) (N=334), 2009-013-00CH1 (NCT01645215) (N=40), 2012-013-00CH3 (NCT01975077) (N=40), and 2015-013-00US1 (NCT03251378) (N=101). Here, the "unit of measure" i.e., '1/(ng/mL)', corresponds to the coefficient that describes the relationship between the probability of occurrence of the safety parameter and CmaxSS value., Up to 22 months|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life (QOL) Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status/Quality of Life Scale Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 contains 30 items across 5 functional scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional, and social), 9 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain, dyspnea, sleep disturbance, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and global health status/QOL scale. EORTC QLQ-C30 contains 28 questions (4-point scale where 1=Not at all \[best\] to 4=Very Much \[worst\]) and 2 questions (7-point scale where 1=Very poor \[worst\] to 7= Excellent \[best\]). Raw scores are standardized and converted into scale scores ranging from 0 to 100. For global health status/QOL scale, higher scores represent better QOL. A negative change from baseline value indicates patient condition worsened. Change from baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Global Health Status/Quality of Life Scale scores was performed by visit (i.e., cycle), using a restricted maximum likelihood (REML)-based mixed model repeated measures (MMRM) approach., Baseline, Cycle 2, 3 and 4 (Each cycle=28 days)|Change From Baseline in EuroQoL 5 Dimension 5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) Visual Analog Scale (VAS) Score, The EQ-5D-5L is a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score. There were two components to the EQ-5D-5L: a five-item health state profile that assessed mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression used to obtain an Index Utility Score and a general VAS score for health status. EQ-5D VAS was used to record participant's rating for his/her current health-related quality of life state on a vertical VAS with scores ranging from 0 to 100, where 0 = worst imaginable health state and 100 = best imaginable health state. The higher the score the better the health status. A negative change from baseline value represents patient condition worsened. Change from baseline in the EQ-5D-5L VAS scores was performed by visit (i.e. cycle), using a REML-based MMRM approach., Baseline, Cycle 2, 3 and 4 (Each cycle=28 days)|Change From Baseline in EuroQoL 5 Dimension 5 Level (EQ-5D-5L) Health Utility Index Scores, EQ-5D-5L consisted of 2 components: health state profile and optional VAS. EQ-5D health state profile had 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: 1= no problem, 2= slight problem, 3= moderate problem, 4= severe problem, and 5= extreme problem. The response levels collected from the EQ-5D-5L five dimensions as a health profile are converted into an EQ-5D-5L index (utility) scores to represent participants' utility value. The range of health utility index score is from -0.285 to 1, where higher value indicates perfect health and a negative value represents a state worse than dead. Change from baseline in EQ-5D-5L health utility index scores was performed by visit (i.e., cycle), using a REML-based MMRM approach., Baseline, Cycle 2, 3 and 4 (Each cycle=28 days)|Health Care Resource Utilization: Duration of Hospital Visits by Participants, Duration of hospital visit was calculated as = stop date - start date + 1. Mean and standard deviation data for duration of hospital visits (in days) by participants was reported in this outcome measure., From start of study drug administration up to 22 months|Health Care Resource Utilization: Number of Participants With Any Concomitant Medications Prescribed, Number of participants with any concomitant medications prescribed were reported., From start of study drug administration up to 22 months
This is a global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter phase 3 clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of fruquintinib in combination with BSC versus placebo in combination with BSC in metastatic colorectal cancer participants who have progressed on, or were intolerant to, chemotherapy, anti-VEGF and anti-EGFR biologics, and TAS-102 or regorafenib. Participants with MSI-H/MMR deficient tumors must have also received an immune checkpoint inhibitor if approved and available and if deemed appropriate. Subjects with BRAF-mutant tumors must have been treated with a BRAF inhibitor if approved and available and if deemed appropriate.

Metastatic colorectal cancer cannot be cured by surgery. Therefore, treatment principals are primarily aimed at controlling disease progression and prolonging survival. Standard first- and second-line therapy includes cytotoxic drugs such as 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and irinotecan; anti-VEGF therapy; and, if RAS wild type, anti-EGFR therapy. After the first two lines of chemotherapy, standard third-line treatment is either TAS-102 or regorafenib. There are currently no effective treatments for patients who have progressed on standard, approved therapies, and treatment options include reuse of prior therapies, clinical trials or BSC. Consequently, there is an unmet medical need for additional safe and effective treatment.