Home Telemonitoring for Patients With Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to learn more about using a home machine "Telemonitor" to find problems people with lung cancer may have after being discharged from the hospital and help them manage problems by contacting their healthcare provider.The study hypothesis is that patients with lung CA using short-term (14 days)home telemonitors, educated/coached by nurses on telemonitor data risks/implications for the first two weeks after hospital discharge, will be able to self-report their signs/ symptoms to the clinician resulting in decreased use of costly health care resources over 60 days.
Lung Cancer
DEVICE: HomMed Telemonitor
Changes in Telemonitor Data From Baseline: Temperature, Changes in temperature measured by telemonitor daily over 14 days after hospital discharge, 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Data From Baseline: Pulse Rate, Changes in pulse rate measured by telemonitor daily over 14 days after hospital discharge, 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Data From Baseline: Blood Pressure, Changes in blood pressure measured by telemonitor daily over 14 days after hospital discharge, 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Data From Baseline: SpO2, Changes in SpO2 measured by telemonitor daily over 14 days after hospital discharge, 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Data From Baseline: Weight, Changes in weight measured by telemonitor daily over 14 days after hospital discharge, 14 days
Changes in Telemonitor Symptoms Recorded From Baseline: Dyspnea, Numeric rating for dyspnea, from 0 to 10 with a lower number being a decrease in dysnea. Symptom data requiring yes-no answers to whether the symptom is worse today than yesterday : dyspnea are collected daily via telemonitor for 14 days., 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Symptoms Recorded From Baseline: Functioning, Pulmonary Functional Status Scale (PFSS-11) , scoring from 0 to 10 with increasing scores indicating an improvement in functioning. Symptom data requiring yes-no answers to whether the symptom is worse today than yesterday : general functioning activities, are collected daily via telemonitor for 14 days., 14 days|Changes in Telemonitor Symptoms Recorded From Baseline: Pain, Numeric rating for pain (0 to 10 scale) with a lower number indicating less pain. Symptom data requiring yes-no answers to whether the symptom is worse today than yesterday : pain are collected daily via telemonitor for 14 days., 14 days
All patients in the study will receive usual care after hospital discharge. This study also involves an interview and review of your medical records, and uses the "telemonitor" machine to measure your temperature, pulse, oxygen level,weight and blood pressure. The telemonitor will also ask you to press YES or NO buttons in response to questions on your symptoms such as difficulty breathing. Research nurses will come to your home 3 times and it will take about 30 minutes for each visit for the nurse to record the information using the telemonitor. You will also be asked to fill out a survey about your ability to do activities and your health status. This will take approximately another 30 minutes. You may or may not receive the small telemonitor (about as big as a large book) for 14 days after discharge to provide additional information to the researchers. If you receive the monitor for the full 14 days, you or someone you ask us to train will be taught to use the monitor every morning to collect information on how you will "talk" to you to tell you to put a blood pressure cuff on your arm and an oxygen measurer on your finger. You will step on a scale to take your weight and you will use a forehead sensor to take your temperature. The blood pressure, weight, temperature, your pulse, and your oxygen level will be recorded by the monitor. It will then ask you at least 10 questions and you will push a yes or no button indicating how much difficulty you are having with your daily activities and shortness of breath. The monitor will then connect to your telephone line using a no-charge "800" number and transmit the information to the researchers. If you do not have a phone, a special antenna will be connected to the monitor to transmit the information wirelessly. The nurse will call you every day for the 14 days when you have the monitor. If you do not receive the monitor for the full 14 days, you will still have the monitor used by the nurse when you are visited at least 3 times at home to gather information on how you are doing after hospital discharge. These home monitor visits will be within 2 days after discharge, 2 weeks after discharge, and 2 months after discharge. The main difference is that the monitor will not be left in your home but will be brought by the nurse on each visit. You will also receive a phone call to ask you questions about the study at 1 month after discharge. If you do not have a phone, you will receive another home visit. Whether or not you get the monitor for the full 14 days will be determined randomly by computer before the nurse visits you at home the first time. are doing. The monitor will turn on each day at the same time; the monitor