Exercise Intervention in Women Diagnosed With Triple-negative Breast Cancer Receiving Oncologic Treatment
In this randomized, controlled, prospective, two-arm intervention study, the investigators plan to investigate the effects of high-intensity interval training in women diagnosed with triple-negative breast cancer. Breast cancer is one of the most common cancers and one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Among the different subtypes, triple-negative breast cancer accounts for about 15-20% of all breast cancer cases and is characterized by a more aggressive clinical course. Recent results indicate that the percentage of patients with a pathologic complete response was 13% higher in the chemotherapy-immunotherapy group (by 64.8%) than in the placebo-chemotherapy group (51.2). High-intensity interval training has a positive effect on the immune system, suggesting that it may improve the efficacy of chemo-immunotherapy, leading to a higher rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) in patients with newly diagnosed triple-negative breast cancer. In addition to the immunomodulatory effects, this exercise model could boost microvascular perfusion, thereby improving tumor perfusion, enhancing chemo-immunotherapy and leading to better outcomes.
Breast Cancer|Triple Negative Breast Cancer
OTHER: Exercise intervention - High intensity interval training on a cycle-ergometer
Pathological complete remission of the tumor (pCR);, The absence of residual invasive cancer of the complete resected breast specimen and all sampled regional lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (i.e., ypT0/Tis ypN0 in the current AJCC staging system), After completion of neoadjuvant therapy and after surgery (6 months from study onset)
Mamma- Ultrasound (the overall response rate of tumor mass);, Ultrasound imaging, Baseline (prior to any data collection or therapy administration), and every three weeks during neoadjuvant chemotherapy|Progression free survival and Overall survival, Clinically relevant data, Epidemiological data collected during the study and three years afterwards|Cardiorespiratory fitness, Measures of oxygen uptake via CPET, At baseline (prior to any data collection or therapy administration), three months after baseline, and six months after baseline (following completion of neoadjuvant therapy)|OCTA - optical coherence tomography angiography, Measure of blood vessel compliance for the eye, At baseline (prior to any data collection or therapy administration) and after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy (most commonly 6 months)|Biomarkers of immune response, Blood sampling to measure i) Longitudinal dynamics of soluble biomarkers such as e.g. CRP (mg/dL); ii) Longitudinal dynamics of blood counts such as e.g. leukocytes (cells/uL); iii) Longitudinal dynamics of immune cell subsets measured by flow-cytometry such as e.g. activated T-cells (CD8+HLA-DR+), At baseline (prior to any data collection or therapy administration) and after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy (most commonly 6 months)|Quality of life, cancer-related fatigue, treatment tolerance and side-effects; physical activity behavior., Questionnaire items (0 - 100 scale, with 0 being lower and 100 being the higher, positive outcome);, Baseline, and after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy (most likely 6 months after baseline)
Recent clinical trials showed promising results in patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) who received four cycles of pembrolizumab (at a dose of 200 mg) every three weeks + standard chemotherapy, compared to patients who received placebo + chemotherapy alone. Importantly, the overall risk of disease progression that precluded surgery, local or distant recurrence, occurrence of a second primary cancer, or death from any cause was 37% lower with pembrolizumab chemotherapy compared to placebo chemotherapy. Exercise training is a supportive multi-effect strategy with the ability to influence multiple organ systems. There is growing epidemiologic evidence that a physically active lifestyle is associated with a lower risk of developing cancer, particularly colon and breast cancer. Recent preclinical studies suggest that exercise can control and attenuate the growth of tumor cells. Therefore, exercise could be a potential means to increase the rate of pCR in cancer patients in general. High-intensity interval training resulted in higher cardiorespiratory fitness levels, particularly in breast cancer and lung patients who exercised for at least 8 weeks, with a significant improvement (from 2.40 to 4.19 mL-min-1-kg-1) observed compared to control groups. The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of HIIT training on immune system response and pCR rates (most commonly defined as complete eradication of the tumor as a surrogate parameter for good prognosis) during neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy in women with TNBC. The working hypothesis is that HIIT training would activate the immune system and enhance the combination of neoadjuvant treatment, leading to higher rates of pCR in the aerobic group compared to the usual treatment group. Thus, this exercise model may also promote microvascular perfusion, improve tumor perfusion, and potentially lead to more favorable outcomes in neoadjuvant therapy, increasing the efficacy of systemic treatments and allowing for better therapeutic outcomes. The researchers support the idea that high-intensity aerobic exercise may at least partially challenge the large heterogeneity in response to medical treatment in women with a first diagnosis of TNBC and lead to higher response rates in the experimental group.