Impact of Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Imaging in Muscle-invasive Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder Staging
Bladder cancer is the fifth most common cancer in Canada and there has been relatively little progress in altering its clinical course over the last three decades. One of the major problems identified in the management of this disease, is under staging of muscle invasive disease which can lead to suboptimal treatment and outcomes. PET-CT has the potential to more accurately stage MIBC than standard CT by detecting pelvic adenopathy and/or distant sites of disease that may not be found on standard imaging. In the former situation, more aggressive therapy with extended lymph node dissection and/or neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to cystectomy can be offered. While in the latter situation patients can be spared the morbidity of a cystectomy performed in a setting of metastatic disease. This study will address whether PET-CT adds a clinically meaningful difference in care.
Muscle-invasive Bladder Cancer
OTHER: Whole-body FDG PET-CT
Treatment received, For patients with planned cystectomy, treatment received includes: avoidance of planned cystectomy and node dissection, an extended (vs standard) node dissection (or standard dissection when extended is the surgeon's usual practice), use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (vs no neoadjuvant chemotherapy). For patients with planned bladder conservation, treatment received includes: avoidance of bladder and nodal radiation (vs bladder only or no radiation) and use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (or not)., 5 years
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival defined as objectively defined (RECIST criteria, version 1.1.) local or distant recurrence or death., 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival defined by all-cause mortality., 5 years|Quality of life analysis, Overall QOL assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 version 3., 5 years|Health economic analysis, Health economic analysis assessed using EQ-5D health utility questionnaire and total healthcare costs., 5 years
Change in planned management, Assess change in planned management with actual treatment delivered in both pre-operative PET-CT versus no PET-CT (control) patients., 5 years|Clinical and pathology response to chemotherapy using interim response of FDG PET-CT after 2 cycles of chemotherapy, Explore if interim response on FDG PET-CT after 2 cycles of chemotherapy is associated with clinical and pathology response to chemotherapy and if early interim metabolic response correlates with other outcome measures including DFS and OS., 5 years
A multicenter randomized controlled trial will be performed. Patients usually present with symptoms (e.g., painless hematuria). The urologist will perform cystoscopy and if urothelial cancer of the bladder is suspected, the patient is taken to the operating room for an examination under anesthesia (EUA) and a TURBT. If this shows muscle invasion then conventional staging with CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis is performed. The patient who has TNM Stage T2a-T4a N0-3 M0 is eligible to be enrolled in the trial. Eligible consenting patients will be randomized 2:1 to PET-CT or none (Control). The actual treatment received by the patient will be documented. The primary outcome measure is treatment received.