AD HOC Trial: Artificial Intelligence-Based Drug Dosing In Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This study will test the hypothesis that a novel combination of three drugs (sorafenib, sonidegib, and irinotecan), in conjunction with individually optimized doses, can be safely administered and lead to improved clinical outcomes in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma compared to standard of care. The main objective of this study is to establish safe dose ranges for the coadministration of sorafenib, sonidegib, and irinotecan in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Furthermore, we will collect data to inform the application of an artificial intelligence/computational approach to individual dosing of combination chemotherapy. Individualization of dosing will be achieved by using Phenotypic Personalized Medicine (PPM) to maximize treatment efficacy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, while minimizing toxicity. Drug efficacy will be assessed by measuring plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). Toxicity will be assessed by quantitating organ injury and patient tolerability. Recommended dosing for future studies will be based on the totality of the data.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Sonidegib|DRUG: Sorafenib
Maximally tolerated dose, Determine the maximum tolerated dose of irinotecan, sonidegib, and sorafenib, 32 days
Objective response rate, Determine the objective response rate, as measured by mRECIST 1.1 criteria, 32 days|Change in the biomarker AFP, Measure the change in the blood level of the biomarker AFP, 32 days|Change in the biomarker AFP-L3, Measure the change in the blood level of the biomarker AFP-L3, 32 days|Change in the biomarker DGC, Measure the change in the blood level of the biomarker DGC, 32 days|Change in the biomarker TGF-B, Measure the change in the blood level of the biomarker TGF-B, 32 days
This study will test the hypothesis that a novel combination of three drugs (sorafenib, sonidegib, and irinotecan), in conjunction with individually optimized doses, can be safely administered and lead to improved clinical outcomes in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma compared to standard of care. The main objective of this study is to establish safe dose ranges for the coadministration of sorafenib, sonidegib, and irinotecan in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma. Furthermore, we will collect data to inform the application of an artificial intelligence/computational approach to individual dosing of combination chemotherapy. Individualization of dosing will be achieved by using Phenotypic Personalized Medicine (PPM) to maximize treatment efficacy in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, while minimizing toxicity. Drug efficacy will be assessed by measuring plasma circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA). Toxicity will be assessed by quantitating organ injury and patient tolerability. Recommended dosing for future studies will be based on the totality of the data.