Green Tea Extract in Treating Patients With Monoclonal Gammopathy of Undetermined Significance and/or Smoldering Multiple Myeloma
RATIONALE: Green tea extract contains ingredients that may prevent or slow the growth of monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and/or smoldering multiple myeloma.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well green tea extract works in treating patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and/or smoldering multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma and Plasma Cell Neoplasm|Precancerous Condition
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: defined green tea catechin extract|GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: protein analysis|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Sustained M-protein Reduction of ≥ 25% From Baseline, This is a monthly blood test, done at the beginning of each cycle of therapy. The M-protein is a surrogate marker routinely used to estimate the degree of plasma cell cyto-reduction brought about by therapy. In active multiple myeloma, a 25% reduction in the M-protein level would correspond to a "minor response," an improvement recognized as having some clinical benefit., Day one of each 28-day cycle for a total of up to 6 cycles
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Conduct a pilot study investigating the effects of Polyphenon E, a compound extracted from green tea which contains epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), on monoclonal protein levels in patients with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and/or smoldering multiple myeloma.

Secondary

* Collect, process, and store blood and marrow specimens for future measurement of the biologic effects of Polyphenon E on the plasma cells of these patients by utilizing proteosome activity assays and gene expression profiling.

OUTLINE: Patients receive oral green tea catechin extract (Polyphenon E) daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may undergo blood, urine, and bone marrow sample collection periodically for correlative laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for monoclonal protein (M-protein) levels, proteosome function, and gene expression.