Evaluating the Use of Patient Navigation to Promote Timely Diagnostic Evaluation During the COVID-19 Pandemic
The primary objective of this project is to evaluate the role of patient navigation in promoting timely follow-up of abnormal breast imaging findings in patient populations that have been most severely impacted by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. This project aims to assess the impact of patient navigation as an intervention tool in patient populations that are most at risk for delayed follow-up. The investigators hypothesize that patient navigation services may be an effective way to mitigate the impact of the pandemic by decreasing the risk of a delayed breast cancer diagnosis and promoting timely diagnostic follow-up.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Patient navigator support
Diagnostic follow-up rates, The follow-up rates for patients with an abnormal screening mammogram will be calculated. This will be expressed as the percentage of patients who follow-up within 30 days after the abnormal screening mammogram., 30 days after the screening mammogram
Anxiety level as assessed by the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory, The study participants' anxiety level will be assessed using the 6-item short form of the state scale of the Spielberger State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI)., 1 day prior to the scheduled diagnostic appointment|Breast cancer worry as assessed by the Lerman Breast Cancer Worry Scale, The study participants' level of worry about breast cancer will be assessed using the 3-item Lerman Breast Cancer Worry Scale., 1 day prior to the scheduled diagnostic appointment
Patients who meet the study selection criteria will be randomized into two groups in a 1:1 ratio: the usual care group and the intervention group. Initially, patients will be invited to participate in the study via a brief statement included in the patient result letter informing patients of their abnormal screening mammogram result. The patient navigator will then follow up with each patient who expresses interest in the study via telephone to reiterate the details of the project, answer any questions that the patients might have, and invite the patients to participate in the project if the patients meet the study inclusion criteria. Informed consent will be obtained from the study participants.

The primary role of the patient navigator will be to identify and address barriers to accessing timely diagnostic care. The patient navigator's duties will also include providing an array of services aimed at improving health care access and engagement, including appointment reminder phone calls, health education, assistance with scheduling appointments, providing information about available transportation options to the clinic sites (e.g., shuttle service provided by the institution), helping patients to connect with language interpretation services, providing assistance with resolving insurance issues, and motivating and coaching patients on the importance of timely follow-up of abnormal breast imaging results. The services provided by the patient navigator will be tailored to the specific needs of each patient and will be aimed at helping patients to overcome personal, cultural and systemic barriers to successfully completing follow-up.