1454GCC: Anti-PD-1 (MK-3475) and IMiD (Pomalidomide) Combination Immunotherapy in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma
This is an open label trial of Anti PD1/MD-3475, Pomalidomide and dexamethasone. The study will use standard (FDA approved) doses for both pomalidomide and dexamethasone. The experimental drug Anti PD-1 (MK 3475) given on days 1 and 14.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: MK-3475|DRUG: Pomalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
The Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Establish the safety and tolerability of Pomalidomide and Dexamethasone in combination with MK-3475, 24 month
PD-LI Expression On Myeloma Cells, The identification of a biomarker for response by evaluating PD-1/PDL-1 expression in patients' bone marrow aspirate samples will be analyzed in order to help select patients for future anti-PD-1 therapy. The main exploratory biomarker analysis was to examine potential correlation between expression of PD-1 on T cells and PD-L1 on myeloma cells with clinical outcome using the following parameters: response rate focusing on responses ≥ very good partial response (VGPR) and PFS. SAS software (v.9.4; SAS Institute, Inc, Cary, NC) was used for statistical analyses., Tissue sample collection will take place before starting study therapy with MK-3475 at baseline and again at time of relapse as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group Response Criteria (Average of up to 24months)|Time to Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be measured in all participants. Survival and PFS functions were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The Cox regression model was used to assess the following plausible risk factors for OS and PFS: age, isotype, number of cycles of therapy, and cytogenetic profile., PFS assessments will take place after starting study therapy with MD-3475 and will continue until the start of a new anti-neoplastic therapy, disease progression, death, or the end of study up to an average of 24 months.
This phase I/II study is focused on patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. MK-3475 will be given as an intravenous infusion at every 2 weeks. Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis.