Distress Associated with Coronavirus Disease 2019 and Telehealth on Supportive Care Patients with Advanced Cancer
This study assesses the level of distress felt by cancer patients due to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. Researchers also want to learn if patients prefer to receive supportive care (palliative care) in person or through telemedicine (visits by phone or video call, such as Zoom). Information from this study may help doctors better understand how COVID-19 has affected patients with advanced cancer, patients' perceptions of telehealth, and may help clinicians tailor care to patients' needs during the pandemic.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|COVID-19 Infection|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Locally Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Hematologic Malignancy|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Survey Administration
Assessment of attitudes and beliefs of patients' level of distress and incidence of stressors due to the COVID-19 pandemic, measured by survey., \[Survey (COVID Distress Survey) will evaluate overall distress level with degree of increase or decrease assessed on a 7-point Likert scale, with higher scores indicating high distress levels., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Assessment of patients' overall preference and perceptions towards palliative telemedicine vs in person visits during the COVID-19 pandemic., \[Survey (Attitudes and beliefs towards telehealth) will evaluate participant preference level with degree of increase or decrease assessed by 5-point Likert scale from "strongly prefer virtual visits" to "strongly prefer in person visits", with high scores indicating preference for in-person visits.., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess advanced cancer patients' level of distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

II. Assess patients' overall preference towards palliative telemedicine vs in person visits during the COVID-19 pandemic.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess associations between patient characteristics and perceptions of overall distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

II. Assess associations between patient characteristics and their attitudes and beliefs towards palliative telemedicine during the COVID-19 pandemic.

III. Compare the attitudes and beliefs towards palliative telemedicine between patients who completed visits via video vs telephone.

OUTLINE:

Patients complete survey over 20 minutes.