Imaging for Response Assessment of Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Primary Breast Cancer (GALADON)
The GALADON trial is a diagnostic and interventional study in which different molecular imaging methods as Positon Emission Tomography (PET), different kind of Magnetic Resonance Imaging - methods (MRI, DWI and DCE-MRI) will be compared with common imaging methods (mammography, ultrasound) to see if there can detect an early response to a combined neoadjuvant therapy with bevacizumab and docetaxel in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (this means patients were treated before the tumor was removed by surgery) with a drug like trastuzumab (monoclonal antibody) which is target to the Her2-protein is much more powerful than with chemotherapy alone because it is normalizing the blood supply and improves tumor delivery of conventional chemotherapy like docetaxel. The HER2 protein is only available in about 30 % of breast cancer types. bevacizumab is another humanized monoclonal antibody like trastuzumab but is effective not only in patients with an positive HER2 status and in combination with trastuzumab it may emphasize the effect in reduction of tumor growth. Bevacizumab is approved in advanced disease, but no major neoadjuvant data available so far for primary breast cancer. As the therapy with monoclonal antibody regimes are expensive and may cause severe side effects predictive factors to select patients who will benefit from such highly specific drugs before therapy start would be medically and economically highly valuable. In this study the efficacy of combined neoadjuvant chemotherapy with bevacizumab, trastuzumab and docetaxel in Arm A and bevacizumab and docetaxel in Arm B should be evaluated and the predictive impact of different imaging methods for tumor response should be shown.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Epirubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamid
Rate of pathological complete response (pCR) following neoadjuvant therapy in group A and group B, To determine efficacy of cytotoxic-antiangiogenic neoadjuvant therapy in primary breast cancer: bevacizumab+trastuzumab+docetaxel fro group A (HER2 positive) or bevacizumab+docetaxel for group B (HER2 negative) using pathological complete response (pCR) as the primary endpoint., about 18 weeks (start of neoadjuvant chemotherapy until surgery)
The GALADON trial is a diagnostic and interventional study in which different molecular imaging methods as Positon Emission Tomography (PET), different kind of Magnetic Resonance Imaging - methods (MRI, DWI and DCE-MRI) will be compared with common imaging methods (mammography, ultrasound) to see if there can detect an early response to a combined neoadjuvant therapy with bevacizumab and docetaxel in patients with locally advanced breast cancer. Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (this means patients were treated before the tumor was removed by surgery) with a drug like trastuzumab (monoclonal antibody) which is target to the Her2-protein is much more powerful than with chemotherapy alone because it is normalizing the blood supply and improves tumor delivery of conventional chemotherapy like docetaxel. The HER2 protein is only available in about 30 % of breast cancer types. bevacizumab is another humanized monoclonal antibody like trastuzumab but is effective not only in patients with an positive HER2 status and in combination with trastuzumab it may emphasize the effect in reduction of tumor growth. Bevacizumab is approved in advanced disease, but no major neoadjuvant data available so far for primary breast cancer. As the therapy with monoclonal antibody regimes are expensive and may cause severe side effects predictive factors to select patients who will benefit from such highly specific drugs before therapy start would be medically and economically highly valuable. In this study the efficacy of combined neoadjuvant chemotherapy with bevacizumab, trastuzumab and docetaxel in Arm A and bevacizumab and docetaxel in Arm B should be evaluated and the predictive impact of different imaging methods for tumor response should be shown.