PET CT as Predictor of Response in Preoperative Chemotherapy for Soft Tissue Sarcoma
RATIONALE: Diagnostic procedures, such as positron emission tomography (PET) scan and computated tomography (CT) scan, may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and may help plan the best treatment. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin and ifosfamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving chemotherapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well PET scan combined with CT scan predicts response in patients undergoing chemotherapy and surgery for soft tissue sarcoma.
Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: pegfilgrastim|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: ifosfamide|DRUG: pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: conventional surgery|RADIATION: fludeoxyglucose F 18
Disease-free survival, Compare changes in baseline and follow-up fludeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT imaging with disease-free survival by peak SUV and max SUV calculations. Changes in baseline and follow-up PET/CT, based on max SUV calculations, will be compared with disease free survival. Disease free survival will be measured in months from the time of study enrollment until the time that disease recurrence/relapse/progression is recorded., Baseline through Survival Event
Correlate histologic response with FDG-PET/CT imaging, The overall histologic response will be defined as:

% histologic response = 100 - % viable tumor in the central slice as assessed histologically It should be noted that the % histologic response is different from % tumor necrosis as it includes an assessment of the % tumor necrosis along with the degenerative changes, At end of each cycle|Compare changes in FDG-PET/CT imaging with disease-free survival by max SUV calculations, Changes in PET/CT from baseline will be compared to PET/CT done after one cycle and after completion of chemotherapy treatment before surgical excision using max SUV calculations., Baseline Compared to 1 Cycle and Baseline to After Chemotherapy
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine whether measurements of fludeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT imaging can accurately predict disease-free survival of patients with soft tissue sarcoma who are receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

Secondary

* Correlate histological response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy for soft tissue sarcomas with FDG-PET/CT imaging findings.

Tertiary

* Determine the changes in FDG-PET/CT imaging over time as each course of chemotherapy is given.

OUTLINE: Patients receive 1 of 2 standard chemotherapy regimens:

* Preferred regimen: Patients receive pegylated doxorubicin HCl liposome IV on day 1, ifosfamide IV continuously on days 1-6, and pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 8. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Alternative regimen: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously on days 1-7. Patients also receive ifosfamide and pegfilgrastim as in the preferred regimen. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo a fludeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/CT scan at baseline, after course 1, and after completion of chemotherapy. Patients undergo surgery within 4-6 weeks after completion of chemotherapy.

After completion of study treatment and surgery, patients are followed every 6 months for 5 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 62 patients will be accrued for this study.