A Study Comparing Trametinib and Dabrafenib Combination Therapy to Dabrafenib Monotherapy in Subjects With BRAF-mutant Melanoma
This was a two-arm, double-blinded, randomized, Phase III study comparing dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy to dabrafenib administered with a placebo (dabrafenib monotherapy). Subjects with histologically confirmed cutaneous melanoma that is either Stage IIIC (unresectable) or Stage IV, and BRAF V600E/K mutation positive were screened for eligibility. Subjects who had prior systemic anti-cancer treatment in the advanced or metastatic setting were not eligible although prior systemic treatment in the adjuvant setting was allowed. Subjects were stratified according to the baseline lactate dehydrogenase level and BRAF genotype.
Melanoma
DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Trametinib placebo
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by the Investigator, PFS is defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the earliest date of PD or death due to any cause. PD was based on radiographic or photographic evidence, and assessments were made by the investigator according to RECIST, version 1.1. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started. In addition, the sum must have an absolute increase from nadir of 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions, or the worsening of non-target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation, was also included as PD. Participants who received anti-cancer therapy prior to the date of documented events, were censored at the last adequate assessment prior to the initiation of therapy. If the participant did not have documented progression or death, PFS was censored at the date of the last adequate assessment., From randomization until the earliest date of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause (up to approximately 6 years)
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the interval of time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. For the participants who did not die, overall survival was censored at the date of last contact., From the date of randomization until date of death due to any cause (up to approximately 6 years)|Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by the Investigator, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). A participant was defined as a responder if he/she sustained a complete response (CR: the disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must have a short axis of \<10 mm and the disappearance of all non-target lesions) or partial response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters or the persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions or lymph nodes identified as a site of disease at Baseline with a short axis of ≥10mm). Only descriptive analysis performed., From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to approximately 6 years)|Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented complete response (CR: the disappearance of all target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes must have a short axis of \<10 mm and the disappearance of all non-target lesions) or partial response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters or the persistence of 1 or more non-target lesions or lymph nodes identified as a site of disease at Baseline with a short axis of ≥10mm) until disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause. PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions with an absolute increase of at least 5mm or the appearance of one or more new lesions, or the worsening of non target lesions significant enough to require study treatment discontinuation. PD was based on the radiological evidence by investigator. Only descriptive analysis performed., From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to approximately 6 years)|Trametinib Pharmacokinetic Concentrations, Blood samples were collected for Pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis in all participants. Three blood samples were collected at Week 8: pre-dose, 1-3 hours post dose, and 4-6 hours post dose. One pre-dose blood sample was obtained at Weeks 16 and 24. Only descriptive analysis performed., Week 8 (0, 1-3, 4-6 hours post dose), Weeks 16 and 24 (0 hour pre-dose)|Dabrafenib and Dabrafenib Metabolites (Hydroxy-, Carboxy- and Desmethyl-Dabrafenib) Concentrations, Blood samples were collected for PK analysis in all participants. Three blood samples were collected at Week 8: pre-dose, 1-3 hours post dose, and 4-6 hours post dose. One pre-dose blood sample was obtained at Weeks 16 and 24. Plasma concentrations of Dabrafenib (GSK2118436) and its metabolites (Hydroxy-Dabrafenib (GSK2285403), Carboxy-Dabrafenib (GSK2298683), and Desmethyl-Dabrafenib (GSK2167542)) were determined using the currently approved analytical methodology. Only descriptive analysis performed., Week 8 (0, 1-3, 4-6 hours post dose), Weeks 16 and 24 (0 hour pre-dose)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events, Analysis of absolute and relative frequencies for Adverse Event (AE) and Serious Adverse Event (SAE) by primary System Organ Class (SOC) to characterize the safety of dabrafenib and trametinib combination therapy through the monitoring of relevant clinical and laboratory safety parameters. In addition, new malignancies and AEs possibly related to study treatment were collected even if they occurred more than 30 days post-treatment. Only descriptive analysis performed., From the time the first dose of study treatment administered until 30 days after discontinuation of study treatment (up to approximately 6 years).
Dabrafenib and trametinib was administered orally at their recommended monotherapy doses of 150 mg b.i.d and 2 mg q.d., respectively. Subjects in the combination therapy arm received both agents; subjects in the dabrafenib monotherapy arm received dabrafenib and placebo. Treatment was continued in both arms until disease progression, death, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.

After treatment discontinuation, subjects were followed for survival and disease progression as applicable to collect data for the secondary objective of overall survival (OS).

Crossover to the combination therapy arm was allowed for subjects still receiving study treatment on the dabrafenib monotherapy arm after the positive result for the final OS analysis.