Laparoscopic Narrow Band Imaging for Detection of Occult Cancer Metastases
Adult patients evaluated at Lahey Clinic with known or suspected gastrointestinal or gynecologic malignancies and with an indication for diagnostic laparoscopy will be offered participation in the study. The proposed study is a randomized, controlled feasibility trial with crossover design. The study's aim is to evaluate the effectiveness of laparoscopic narrow band imaging (NBI) compared to standard white-light laparoscopy for detection of peritoneal cancer metastases. Study patients will undergo laparoscopic evaluation of the peritoneal cavity using a routine white-light videolaparoscope with the capability of NBI. The order of white-light and NBI laparoscopy will be randomized for each patient (crossover design). Frozen-section histopathology biopsies will be retrieved of all suspicious-appearing abnormalities using best clinical practices. The number of detected peritoneal metastases will be compared between each diagnostic laparoscopy technique. To gauge the rate of potentially missed metastases, peritoneal cancer recurrence will be surveyed through a 1-year follow-up.
Gastrointestinal and Gynecologic Malignancies
DEVICE: Laparoscopic narrow band imaging|DEVICE: Standard white-light laparoscopy
Rate of Detectable Peritoneal Metastases, number of additionally visualized peritoneal lesions, After each Laparoscopy, at time of procedure
Adult patients evaluated at Lahey Clinic with known or suspected gastrointestinal or gynecologic malignancies and with an indication for diagnostic laparoscopy will be offered participation in the study. The proposed study is a randomized, controlled feasibility trial with crossover design. The study's aim is to evaluate the effectiveness of laparoscopic narrow band imaging (NBI) compared to standard white-light laparoscopy for detection of peritoneal cancer metastases. Study patients will undergo laparoscopic evaluation of the peritoneal cavity using a routine white-light videolaparoscope with the capability of NBI. The order of white-light and NBI laparoscopy will be randomized for each patient (crossover design). Frozen-section histopathology biopsies will be retrieved of all suspicious-appearing abnormalities using best clinical practices. The number of detected peritoneal metastases will be compared between each diagnostic laparoscopy technique. To gauge the rate of potentially missed metastases, peritoneal cancer recurrence will be surveyed through a 1-year follow-up.