Pre-operative MRI of Esophagus Cancer
The role of MRI in the management of esophageal cancer remains unclear and poorly studied. Recent technical advances suggest that MRI may become a powerful technique for the initial assessment of esophageal cancer, but also for the evaluation of response to neo-adjuvant treatment before surgery.

This imaging study will be performed prospectively and consecutively in 60 patients included over a 18-month period in patients wîth newly diagnosed esophageal cancer.

The aim of this study is to assess the accuracy of MRI to visualize esophageal tumors, to assess tumor burden and potential contact with adjacent structures as well as associated lymph nodes. If chemotherapy or radio-chemotherapy treatment is indicated before surgery, we will also evaluate whether MRI helps us to better evaluate the response to this treatment in comparison to PET-scan or echo. endoscopy which are the examinations currently performed to evaluate the effectiveness of these treatments.

The images of the MRI exams will be interpreted by 1 expert radiologist with no knowledge of the other imaging modalities and transmitted to the doctors in charge for possible consideration for the treatment.

Patients will then be followed for one year according to clinical management standards to study the data on treatment complications and cancer progression at one year.

The main risk is the administration of a gadolinium chelate-based MRI contrast product used routinely. There is also a risk that the results of the MRI may influence the treatment initially planned for example by canceling a surgical procedure.
Esophagus Cancer|Diagnoses Disease
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MRI
diagnostic performance for staging, TNM staging, 18 months
Diagnostic performance for staging, Assessment of rate of Under and overstaging, 18 months|Prognostic biomarker, correlation of MRI data with PFS, morbidity mortality rate and surgical resection, 18 months|Diagnostic performance to assess tumor response, Correlation of changes of ADC values and histological TRG, 18 months
The study will be proppsed consecutively to all patients with a histologically proven diagnosis of esophageal cancer.

An MRI examination including morphological sequences (without and with injection of a gadolinium chelate) functional and dynamic will be carried out in all the patients for initial staging in addition to other diagnostic procedure performed in clinical routine in this indication that are the endo-ultrasonography, CT and PET scanner.

In patients for whom neo-adjuvant treatment with chemotherapy or radio-chemotherapy will be decided and started, a second MRI will be performed 4 to 6 weeks after the end of the neo-adjuvant treatment.

The images of the MR exams will be interpreted by 1 expert radiologist blinded from data of other imaging modalities and transmitted to the doctors in charge of the patient for possible consideration for the treatment.

Patients will then be followed for one year according to regular recommandation to assess mortality / morbidity and PFS at 1 year.