A Trial of Tivozanib (AV-951) in Combination With Capecitabine (Xeloda®) in Subjects With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, multi-center, dose-finding study of tivozanib administered in combination with capecitabine. During the dose-escalation portion, sequential cohorts of subjects with advanced solid tumors will be enrolled in order to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). If the MTD is not reached, the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) will be determined. In the expansion cohort, subjects with locally advanced or metastatic breast or colon cancer will be enrolled at MTD (or RP2D) to further evaluate safety and activity of this combination in these tumor types.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast or Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: tivozanib (AV-951) and capecitabine (Xeloda®)
To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of tivozanib when administered in combination with capecitabine (Xeloda®) to subjects with advanced solid tumors, Assessment of any dose-limiting toxcities, daily for 6 weeks
Evaluate the pharmacokinetics of tivozanib, and capecitabine and its metabolites by measuring the serum plasma concentrations of tivozanib and capecitabine in the blood over time., PK parameters of tivozanib and capecitabine will be calculated from serum and plasma levels. These will be summarized descriptively and presented by visit and dose cohort. PK parameters will be calculated using non compartmental and/or compartmental models and PK parameters will be summarized and presented. The mean (± STDEM) concentration-time profiles of tivozanib, capecitabine, and their metabolite(s) will be presented for each dose., Cycle 1 (Days 1, 2, 8, 14, and 15), Cycle 2 (Days 1 and 14), Cycles 3, 5, 7, and 9 (Day 1 only).|To evaluate the antineoplastic activity of tivozanib and capecitabine, when given together, to slow the growth of or shrink tumor as measured by CT/MRI imaging assessment and according to RECIST criteria., Disease and response assessments will be determined using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST Version 1.0). Disease assessment is to include disease classification, tumor marker assessments, and diagnostic imaging / measurement of marker lesions. Computerized tomography (CT) will be considered the standard method for evaluating disease status. All subjects should have a CT scan (or MRI) of the head, chest, abdomen, and pelvis at baseline. The location and dimensions of "marker" lesions will be documented., every 6 weeks
This is a Phase Ib, open-label, multi-center, dose-escalation study of orally administered tivozanib in combination with capecitabine to approximately 24 subjects with advanced solid tumors and, in the expanded MTD cohort, subjects with locally advanced or metastatic breast or colorectal cancer. This study is designed to evaluate the safety, tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities, maximum tolerated dose, pharmacokinetic, and antineoplastic activity. The number of cohorts evaluated and the maximum doses to be administered will depend upon the observed tolerability. Dose level "0", tivozanib HCl 1.5 mg and capecitabine 1000 mg/m² BID, is the starting dose level. Once assigned to a cohort, each subject will continue to be treated at the same dose level and schedule throughout the course of the study.