Study of Magrolimab Versus Placebo in Combination With Venetoclax and Azacitidine in Participants With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The goal of this clinical study is to compare the study drugs, magrolimab + venetoclax + azacitidine, versus placebo + venetoclax + azacitidine in participants with untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are not able to have chemotherapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Magrolimab|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Placebo
Overall Survival (OS), OS was measured from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Participants were censored at last known alive date. Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates were used in outcome measure analysis., Up to 1.6 years
Rate of Complete Remission (CR) + Complete Remission With Partial Hematologic Recovery (CRh), The CR + CRh rate was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a CR (including CR without minimal residual disease (CRMRD-) and CR with positive or unknown MRD (CRMRD+/unk)) or CRh as defined by CR with partial platelet and absolute neutrophil count recovery within 6 cycles of treatment while on study prior to initiation of any new anti-acute myeloid leukemia (AML) therapy or stem cell transplant (SCT). CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk: neutrophils \>1.0 ×10\^9/L, platelets \>100 ×10\^9/L, \<5% bone marrow blasts, no circulating blasts or extramedullary disease (confirmed by flow cytometry \<0.1% sensitivity for CRMRD-) within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Percentages were rounded-off. Clopper-Pearson method were used in outcome measure analysis. Each cycle was of 28 days., Up to 1.6 years|Rate of Complete Remission (CR), CR was defined as the percentage of the participants who achieved CR (including CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk) within 6 cycles of treatment as determined by the investigator while on study prior to initiation of any new anti-acute myeloid leukemia (AML) therapy or stem cell transplant (SCT) within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Definitions for CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk were mentioned in outcome measure #2. Percentages were rounded-off. Clopper-Pearson method were used in outcome measure analysis. Each cycle was of 28 days., Up to 1.6 years|Event-Free Survival (EFS), EFS was defined as time from the date of randomization to the earliest date of the documented relapse from CR, treatment failure (defined as failure to achieve CR within 6 cycles of treatment), or death from any cause within the response window. KM estimates were used in outcome measure analysis. CR is defined in outcome measure 2., Up to 1.6 years|Duration of CR + CRh in Participants Who Achieved Complete Remission (CR) or Complete Remission With Partial Hematologic Recovery (CRh), The duration of CR + CRh was measured from the time the assessment criteria were first met for CR (including CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk) or CRh within 6 cycles of treatment until the first date of AML relapse or death (including assessments post SCT). Those who were not observed to have relapsed disease or death while on study were censored at the date of their last response assessment with no evidence of relapse on or prior to the data cut off date within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Participants started taking new anti-AML therapies (excluding post-SCT maintenance therapy) before relapse, duration of CR + CRh were censored at the last response assessment before the initiation of the new anti-AML therapies. CR and CRh are defined in Outcome Measure #2. Each cycle was of 28 days., Up to 1.6 years|Duration of Complete Remission (DCR) in Participants Who Achieved Complete Remission (CR), The DCR was measured from the time the assessment criteria were first met for CR (including CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk) within 6 cycles of treatment until the first date of AML relapse or death (including assessments post SCT). Those who were not observed to have relapsed disease or death while on study were censored at the date of their last response assessment with no evidence of relapse on or prior to the data cutoff date within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Participants started taking new anti-AML therapies (excluding post-SCT maintenance therapy) before relapse, DCR were censored at the last response assessment before the initiation of the new anti-AML therapies. KM estimates were used in outcome measure analysis. CRMRD- and CRMRD+/unk are defined in outcome measure #2. Each cycle was of 28 days., Up to 1.6 years|Rate of CR/CRh Without Minimal Residual Disease (CR/CRhMRD-), The CR/CRhMRD- rate was the percentage of participants who achieved a CRMRD- or CRhMRD- within 6 cycles of treatment while on study prior to initiation of any new anti-AML therapy or SCT within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Each cycle was of 28 days. KM estimates were used for outcome measure analysis. CRhMRD- : neutrophils \> 0.5 x 10\^9/L; platelets \> 50 x 10\^9/L; bone marrow blasts \< 5%; MRD negative (determined using multiparameter flow cytometry with a sensitivity of \< 0.1%). Absence of circulating blasts and blasts with Auer rods; absence of extramedullary disease. Percentages were rounded off., Up to 1.6 years|Rate of CR Without Minimal Residual Disease (CRMRD-), The CRMRD- rate was the percentage of participants who achieved a CRMRD- within 6 cycles of treatment SCT within the response assessment window of 1.6 years. Percentages were rounded-off. Clopper-Pearson method were used in outcome measure analysis. CRMRD is defined in outcome measure #2. Each cycle was of 28 days. Percentages were rounded off, Up to 1.6 years|Red Blood Cell (RBC) Transfusion Independence Conversion Rate, The RBC transfusion independence conversion rate was the percentage of participants who had a 56-day or longer period with no RBC or whole blood transfusions at any time between the date of the first dose of study treatment and discontinuation of study treatment among all participants who were RBC transfusion dependent at baseline. Percentages were rounded-off. Clopper-Pearson method were used in outcome measure analysis., Up to 1.6 years|Platelet Transfusion Independence Conversion Rate, The platelet transfusion independence conversion rate was the percentage of participants who had a 56-day or longer period with no platelet transfusions at any time between the date of the first dose of study treatment and discontinuation of study treatment among all participants who were platelet transfusion dependent at baseline. Percentages were rounded-off. Clopper-Pearson method were used in outcome measure analysis., Up to 1.6 years|Time to First Deterioration (TTD) on the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Global Health Status/Quality of Life (GHS/QoL) Scale, The TTD on the EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS/QoL scale was defined as time from the date of randomization to the time a participant experienced at least 1 threshold value deterioration from baseline or death, whichever was earlier. Questionnaire includes 30 questions resulting in 5 functional scales (physical functioning, role functioning, emotional functioning, cognitive functioning, social functioning), 1 GHS/QoL scale, 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain), and 6 single items (dyspnea, insomnia, loss of appetite, constipation, diarrhea, financial difficulties). After linear transformation, all scales and single item measures range in score from 0-100. Higher score on GHS/QoL scale meant better GHS/QoL. KM estimates were used in outcome measure analysis., Up to 1.6 years|Time to First Deterioration (TTD) on the EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning Scale, The TTD on the EORTC QLQ-C30 physical functioning scale was defined as time from the date of randomization to the time a participant experienced at least 1 threshold value deterioration from baseline or death, whichever is earlier. Physical functioning scale is one of the five functional scales of the EORTC QLQ C30 questionnaire. After linear transformation, scale range in score from 0-100. A higher score on functional scales means better functioning and better quality of life. KM estimates were used in outcome measure analysis., Up to 1.6 years|Percentage of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An AE was defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of an investigational product or other protocol-imposed intervention, regardless of attribution. TEAEs were defined as any AEs with an onset date on or after the study drug start date and no later than 70 days after the study drug last dose date or the day before initiation of new anti-AML therapy including stem cell transplantation, whichever is earlier. Percentages were rounded-off., First dose date up to 1.4 years plus 70 days|Percentage of Participants Experiencing Grade 3 or Higher Treatment-Emergent Laboratory Abnormalities, Treatment-emergent laboratory abnormalities were defined as values that increased by at least 1 toxicity grade from baseline at any postbaseline time point, up to and including the date of the last dose of study drug plus 70 days or the day before the initiation of new anti-AML therapy including SCT, whichever came first, and were summarized by treatment group. Severity grades were defined by the CTCAE Version 5.0. 1 = Mild; 2 = Moderate; 3 = Severe; 4 = Life-Threatening; 5 = Death. Percentages were rounded-off., First dose date up to 1.4 years, plus 70 days|Serum Concentration of Magrolimab Over Time, Predose on Day 1, Day 8, Day 15, Day 29; Predose on Day 57 and 1 hour post-dose; Predose on Day 113, Day 169, Day 253, and Day 337.|Percentage of Participants With Anti-Magrolimab Antibodies, Percentages were rounded off., Up to 1.6 years|Maximum Levels of Serum Anti-Magrolimab Antibodies, Up to 1.6 years
The goal of this clinical study is to compare the study drugs, magrolimab + venetoclax + azacitidine, versus placebo + venetoclax + azacitidine in participants with untreated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are not able to have chemotherapy.