Laser Optoacoustic and Ultrasonic Imaging System Assembly in Finding Changes in Tumors in Patients With Breast Cancer
This clinical trial studies laser optoacoustic and ultrasonic imaging system assembly in finding changes in tumors in patients with breast cancer. Diagnostic procedures, such as laser optoacoustic and ultrasonic imaging system assembly, may help find and diagnose breast cancer and find out how far the disease has spread.
Breast Neoplasm|Inflammatory Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Photoacoustic Imaging
Number of images successfully obtained from laser optoacoustic and ultrasonic imaging system assembly (LOUISA) 3-dimensional (3D), Pathology will provide useful information including but not limited to type of malignancy, tissue type, and other qualitative information that is necessary for image calibration., Within 7 days of the standard of care ultrasound|False positive rate of LOUISA 3D and standard of care ultrasound, McNemar's test will be used to compare paired proportions and relative false positive rates., Within 7 days of the standard of care ultrasound
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To successfully obtain images from laser optoacoustic and ultrasonic imaging system assembly (LOUISA) 3-dimensional (3D) and assess pathology in order to guide image calibration and gain knowledge about LOUISA 3D capabilities to detect and differentiate breast tumors.

II. Estimate and compare the false positive rate of LOUISA-3D compared to standard of care ultrasound for detecting breast cancer in year 5 of the study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine optimal scanning parameters by assessing certain machine parameters (e.g. illumination and detection conditions, laser pulse repetition rate, laser ultrasound emission characteristics, type of imaging probe, two-dimensional images vs three-dimensional images, coupling medium characteristics, software and firmware, etc.), anatomical information (speed of sound image, acoustic attenuation image, acoustic scattering image), and functional information (total hemoglobin distribution \[THb\]/image of angiogenesis density, image of blood oxygen saturation \[SO2\], and image of water distribution).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo LOUISA 3D over approximately 30 minutes on the same day or within 7 days of any breast imaging procedure and within 7 days before biopsy.