Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory AIDS-Related Kaposi Sarcoma
This pilot, phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of bortezomib in treating patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related Kaposi sarcoma that has come back or has not responded to treatment. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
AIDS-Related Kaposi Sarcoma|HIV Infection|Recurrent Kaposi Sarcoma
DRUG: Bortezomib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
MTD based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0, MTD is defined as the highest assigned dose at which \< 2 patients (out of 6) experience dose-limiting toxicity. Adverse events will be summarized by type, timing, and severity grade., 56 days
Change in lytic gene expression, The association between change in lytic gene expression with clinical response of KS tumors will be investigated with exact logistic regression. Hierarchical clustering will be used to explore if gene expression patterns differ according to clinical response., Baseline to 1 year|Changes in bortezomib in KSHV copy number in PBMC and plasma, Analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed rank test. The association between change in KSHV copy number with clinical response of KS tumors will be investigated with exact logistic regression., Baseline to 1 year|Changes in levels of tumor survival, proliferation proteins, and NFKappaB gene target mRNA levels, Analyzed using the Wilcoxon signed rank test., Baseline to 1 year|Changes in viral antigen expression in biopsy specimens, Spearman's rank correlations will be calculated to examine whether the changes in KSHV viral copy number in PBMC and plasma occur in concert or independently with changes in viral antigen expression in biopsy specimens collected at baseline, day 2 and treatment discontinuation., Baseline to 1 year|Clinical KS response rates based on the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals will be computed. Descriptive statistics will also be presented for complete and partial response rates., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of single agent bortezomib in subjects with AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma (KS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the clinical response of KS tumors to bortezomib. II. Evaluate the impact of bortezomib on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) plasma viral loads and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) apolipoprotein B messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like 3G (APOBEC3G) levels.

III. Determine the impact of bortezomib on Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV).

IV. Assess bortezomib effects on KSHV copy number in PBMC and plasma and whether changes in viral copy number measured in PBMC and plasma are associated with clinical response of KS tumors.

V. Monitor KSHV gene expression in KS biopsy specimens and PBMC pre- and post-bortezomib and assess whether changes in viral gene expression (i.e., to a lytic pattern) in tumor biopsy are associated with clinical response.

VI. Assess whether changes in viral copy number in PBMC and plasma occur in concert with or independently of changes in viral antigen expression in tumor biopsy specimens.

VII. Assess effects of bortezomib on proteins relevant to KS tumor survival and proliferation (i.e., P53, von Hippel-Lindau \[VHL\], p27, hypoxia-inducible factor 1 \[HIF1\]-alpha) as well as levels of nuclear factor-kappaB (NFkappaB) gene target mRNAs in tumor biopsies.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 3 months for up to 1 year.