Comparison of Robotic Arm-assisted PET/CT-guided Lung Biopsy With PET Fused CT- Fluoroscopy-guided Lung Biopsy
Patients with suspicious lung lesions were undertaken for PET/CT directed under CT fluoroscopy lung biopsy or robotic-assisted biopsy. The biopsy planning including patient positioning was done after F18-FDG PET/CT whole body or regional imaging of the patient. Written consent was obtained and the patient will be prepared for the biopsy. Lung biopsies were done using a semi-automatic biopsy gun under the imaging guidance (PET fused CT fluoroscopy) following aseptic precautions. Follow-up CT scans were taken post-biopsy. The time consumed for the procedure, radiation exposure to the interventionist, complications and diagnostic yield in both the arms were compared.
Lung Cancer|Lung Diseases|Adenocarcinoma of Lung
PROCEDURE: Robotic arm assisted PET/CT guided biopsy|PROCEDURE: PET fused CT-Fluoroscopy guided biopsy
To compare the accuracy ( in percentage) of trans-thoracic percutaneous PET fused CT-fluoroscopy guided lung biopsy and automated robotic arm assisted PET/CT guided lung biopsy, Histology reports of the biopsies were recorded and the mutation analysis,

Adequacy of the sample was decided by the pathologist who received the sample and when inadequate, we were notified accordingly by the Department of Pathology.

The histopathological results were analyzed. True positive, True negative False-positive and False-negative were calculated for both the groups.

The diagnostic accuracy in percentage for both arms will be calculated and compared., three months
To compare the radiation exposure and complication in the both arms, Procedure related complications and radiation exposure to the participants and interventionist were noted in the both arms., three months
Patients with clinical suspicion of lung lesions were recruited for FDG PET/CT. Based on the PET/CT findings and clinical details a PET/CT guided biopsy was planned. The patients were assigned to the two arms. In the first arm, participants underwent a robotic-assisted biopsy. In the second arm, participants underwent PET/CT-directed CT fluoroscopy-guided lung biopsy. The biopsy planning including patient positioning was done after F18-FDG PET/CT whole body or regional imaging of the patient. Written consent was obtained and the patient will be prepared for the biopsy. Lung biopsies were done using a semi-automatic biopsy gun under the imaging guidance (PET fused CT fluoroscopy) following aseptic precautions. Follow-up CT scans were taken post-biopsy. The time consumed for the procedure, radiation exposure to the interventionist, complications and diagnostic yield in both the arms were compared.