Music of Choice to Decrease Anxiety During Radiation Treatment
The primary hypothesis of the study is that listening to music will reduce anxiety in female cancer patients during the first radiotherapy treatment session.
Anxiety|Cancer
OTHER: Music
Mean change of STAI Score from within 2 hours prior to first RT session to 2 hours post first RT session., Percent change in mean anxiety score as measured with the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI) questionnaire. Assessed by the mean value (pre minus post radiotherapy STAI score) divided by mean pre-treatment score multiplied by 100. A score of 39-40 on each subset suggests clinically significant anxiety., baseline
Mean change of SDT Score from within 2 hours prior to first RT session to 2 hours post first RT session., Percentage change in mean anxiety score as measured with the Symptom Distress Thermometer (SDT). Scale of 0 - 10; with 10 being clinically significant distress., baseline|Magnitude change of STAI Score, The magnitude of change in anxiety score of STAI in "high anxiety" patients (pre-treatment STAI ≥ 40) as a result of listening to music during the first radiotherapy session., baseline|Magnitude change of SDT Score from within 2 hours prior to first RT session to 2 hours post first RT session., The magnitude of change in anxiety score of SDT in "high anxiety" patients (pre-treatment SDT ≥ 4) as a result of listening to music during the first radiotherapy session. Scale of 0 - 10; with 10 being clinically significant distress., baseline|STAI "High to Low Score" Change from within 2 hours prior to first RT session to 2 hours post first RT session., The number and percentage of patients who drop from a "high" to "low" anxiety level in both intervention groups using STAI scores. A score of 39-40 on each subset suggests clinically significant anxiety., baseline|SDT "High to Low Score" Change from within 2 hours prior to first RT session to 2 hours post first RT session., The number and percentage of patients who drop from a "high" to "low" anxiety level in both intervention groups using SDT scores. Scale of 0 - 10; with 10 being clinically significant distress., baseline
Receiving radiotherapy induces anxiety in at least 1/3 of patients who did not have a previously existing anxiety condition1. Female gender is a positive predictive factor for psychosocial decline during radiotherapy. One-fourth of patients disrupt their planned radiotherapy treatment course due to anxiety. Music therapy has demonstrated effectiveness in reducing anxiety when implemented in other medical settings including mechanical ventilation, burn debridement and venipuncture in pediatric patients. There have been some trials which have found a reduction in anxiety when pre-recorded music along with other relaxation techniques have been implemented during radiotherapy. This trial seeks to investigate the benefit of pre-recorded music alone in reducing anxiety experienced during the first radiotherapy treatment session in female cancer patients.