SX-682 With Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Metastatic or Recurrent Stage IIIC or IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This phase II trial tests whether CXCR1/2 inhibitor SX-682 (SX-682) with pembrolizumab works to treat patients with stage IIIC or IV non-small cell lung cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (metastatic) or that has come back (recurrent). SX-682 is a drug that binds to receptors on some types of immune and cancer cells, inhibiting signaling pathways, reducing inflammation, and allowing other types of immune cells to kill and eliminate cancer cells. Pembrolizumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds to a receptor called PD-1 that is found on the surface of T-cells (a type of immune cell), activating an immune response against tumor cells. Giving SX-682 in combination with pembrolizumab may be more effective at treating patients with metastatic or recurrent non-small cell lung cancer than giving these treatments alone.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: CXCR1/2 Inhibitor SX-682|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Best objective response rate, Response is defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as best objective response.

For the primary analyses, binary proportions will be estimated along with 90% confidence intervals (consistent with 1-sided 5% level testing)., Up to 6 years
Response rate within subgroups, Will be defined by low and high tumor proportion score (TPS) separately (if there are sufficient numbers of low TPS, will evaluate the high TPS group). The response rates and associated 80% confidence intervals will be estimated., Up to 6 years|Disease control rate, Will be defined as CR, PR, or stable disease., Up to 6 years|Duration of response, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Date of first documentation of confirmed response (CR or PR) to date of first documentation of progression, assessed up to 6 years|Progression-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Date of study registration to date of first documentation of progression, assessed up to 6 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Confidence intervals about medians will be estimated using the Brookmeyer-Crowley method., Date of study registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 6 years|Frequency and severity of adverse events, Toxicity frequencies will be estimated with 95% confidence., Up to 6 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive SX-682 orally (PO) twice daily (BID), starting 7 days prior to the start of pembrolizumab, and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3 weeks for up to 24 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo biopsy and positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or CT at screening and on study and undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and collection of blood samples at screening, throughout the study, and during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 60 months.