A Study to Learn About the Effectiveness of the Medicine Called Elranatamab in People With Relapsed Refractory Multiple Myeloma as Compared With Standard of Care Therapies
This study is to understand how well elranatamab (PF-06863135) may be used for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). Sometimes MM might improve at first, but then gets resistant to the treatment and starts growing again (known as relapsed refractory). This study medicine will be compared with standard-of-care (SOC) therapies used in real-world clinical practice. For people receiving elranatamab, the investigators will use data from the phase 2 clinical trial (MagnetisMM-3). The investigators will also use data from a real-world data source, representing the SOC in clinical practice. This study does not seek any participants for enrollment. The investigators will compare the experiences of people receiving elranatamab to people receiving SOC therapies. This way, it will help the investigators to know how well elranatamab can be used for RRMM treatment.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Elranatamab|DRUG: Standard of care
Progression-free survival, From the index therapy start until progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 6 years
Overall surival, From the index therapy start until death due to any cause assessed up to 6 years|Duration of response, From the first documentation of objective response until progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 6 years
This study is to understand how well elranatamab (PF-06863135) may be used for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM). Sometimes MM might improve at first, but then gets resistant to the treatment and starts growing again (known as relapsed refractory). This study medicine will be compared with standard-of-care (SOC) therapies used in real-world clinical practice. For people receiving elranatamab, the investigators will use data from the phase 2 clinical trial (MagnetisMM-3). The investigators will also use data from a real-world data source, representing the SOC in clinical practice. This study does not seek any participants for enrollment. The investigators will compare the experiences of people receiving elranatamab to people receiving SOC therapies. This way, it will help the investigators to know how well elranatamab can be used for RRMM treatment.