A Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) With or Without Intismeran Autogene (V940) in Participants With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (V940-009/INTerpath-009)
The goal of this study is to learn if people who receive intismeran autogene and pembrolizumab after surgery are cancer-free longer than people who receive placebo and pembrolizumab. Researchers want to know if giving intismeran autogene and pembrolizumab after surgery can help prevent the cancer from coming back in people with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors did not respond completely to treatment before surgery (neoadjuvant treatment).
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Intismeran autogene|OTHER: Placebo
Disease-Free Survival (DFS), DFS is defined as the time from randomization to any recurrence (local, locoregional, regional or distant), occurrence of new primary NSCLC, as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to ~97 months
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~129 months|Distant Metastasis-Free Survival (DMFS), DMFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first diagnosis of a distant metastasis as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Distant metastasis refers to cancer that has spread from the original (primary) tumor and beyond local tissues and lymph nodes to distant organs or distant lymph nodes., Up to ~129 months|Disease-Free Survival 2 (DFS2), DFS2 is defined as the time from randomization to subsequent recurrence or disease progression after initiation of next-line anticancer therapy as assessed by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to ~129 months|Lung Cancer Specific Survival (LCSS), LCSS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to lung cancer specifically as assessed by the investigator., Up to ~129 months|Change from Baseline in the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30) Global Health Status/Quality of Life (Items 29 and 30), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" will be scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a better overall health status. The change from baseline in global health status/quality of life (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~129 months|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Physical Functioning (Items 1-5), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to 5 questions about their physical functioning will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Using linear transformation, raw scores will be standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. Higher scores indicate a worse level of physical functioning. The change from baseline in physical functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 1-5) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~129 months|Change from Baseline in the EORTC QLQ-C30 Role Functioning (Items 6 and 7), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions "Were you limited in doing either your work or other daily activities during the past week?" and " Were you limited in pursuing your hobbies or other leisure time activities during the past week?" will be scored on a 4-point scale (1=Not at All to 4=Very Much). Higher scores indicate a worse level of role functioning. Change from baseline in the role functioning (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 6 and 7) combined score will be presented., Baseline and up to ~129 months|Number of participants with ≥1 adverse event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~129 months|Number of participants discontinuing from study therapy due to AE(s), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~129 months
The goal of this study is to learn if people who receive intismeran autogene and pembrolizumab after surgery are cancer-free longer than people who receive placebo and pembrolizumab. Researchers want to know if giving intismeran autogene and pembrolizumab after surgery can help prevent the cancer from coming back in people with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors did not respond completely to treatment before surgery (neoadjuvant treatment).