Neratinib +/- Fulvestrant in HER2+, ER+ Metastatic Breast Cancer
This research study is studying a drug called Neratinib with and without Fulvestrant as possible treatments for HER2-positive breast cancer .

The interventions involved in this study are:

* Neratinib and Fulvestrant
* Neratinib alone
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Neratinib|DRUG: Fulvestrant
Progression Free Survival, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation.

Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Disease assessment were conducted at baseline and every two cycles after the first cycle., Participants were followed for PFS up to 20.3 months from registration.
Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive. Participants will be evaluated every 6 months for survival until death. Participants removed from protocol therapy for unacceptable adverse event(s) will be followed until resolution or stabilization of the adverse event., Participants were followed for up to 38.4 months (3 years and 2 months) from registration to removal from protocol therapy or death.|Overall Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR; Overall Response Rate(ORR) = (CR + PR)/sample size., 2 years|Duration Of Responses, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started, or death due to any cause. Participants without events reported are censored at the last disease evaluation)., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved Neratinib as a treatment for breast cancer. Fulvestrant has been FDA approved for treatment of metastatic hormone receptor positive breast cancer.

The purpose of this research study is to determine how well neratinib, by itself or together with Fulvestrant, works in treating breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. Neratinib is a recently discovered oral drug that may stop breast cancer cells from growing abnormally by inhibiting (or blocking) members of a family of proteins that include Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2).

Neratinib has been used in other research studies and information from those other research studies suggests that neratinib may help to shrink or stabilize HER2-positive breast cancer in this research study.