Relation Between Substance Use and Pain, in Patients Suffering or Surviving From Cancer and Followed in France
Pain is one of the most prevalent symptoms during and after cancer. Pain can be the consequence of several situations (disease progression, surgery, and anticancer drugs). However, pain can frequently be associated with a substance use disorder (alcohol, tobacco, drugs, and illicit products such as cannabis). The relationship between substance use and pain is known to be complex and interdependent, i.e. pain can reinforce substance use and substance use can promote pain. However, few data in the literature are available on the use of psychoactive substances in relation to pain in the context of cancer (cancer patients and cancer survivors). Moreover, the scientific literature agrees on the fact that these elements are little studied and underestimated in the clinic.

The investigators hypothesize that, in cancer patients or cancer survivors, the prevalence of the use of psychoactive substances would be higher in the presence of pain, and would be associated with its intensity and its impact on the quality Health-Related Living (HRQoL).

The main objective of this study will be to compare, in an adult population of patients suffering from cancer or having had cancer, the prevalence of the consumption of psychoactive substances in painful patients compared to non-painful patients.
Cancer|Pain|Substance Use
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire (patient reported outcome)
substance use, Legal: alcohol, tobacco, electronic cigarette, psychotropic drugs (benzodiazepines, z-drugs, and opioids), CBD, and other susbtances Illegal: cannabis, and other drugs

At least once in the past year, at least once in the past month, at least once in the past week, or at least once a day, day 1
Pain severity, Brief pain inventory, day 1|Neuropathic pain, DN4 interview questionnaire, day 1|Analgesic use, Ongoing analgesic drugs, day 1|Chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy, QLQ-CIPN20 questionnaire, day 1|Health-related quality of life and symptoms, QLQ-C30 questionnaire, day 1|Anxiety and depression, HADS questionnaire, day 1|Material and social deprivation, EPICES questionnaire, day 1|Sociodemographic characteristics of patient, age, sex, height, weight, body mass index, area of residence (urban or rural), socio-professional status (INSEE), and department, day 1|Oncological characteristic, type of cancer, date of cancer diagnosis, and type of treatment (received and/or ongoing), day 1|Intercurrent pathologies, open question, day 1
Patients will answer to an online questionnaire thanks to associations of cancer patients and social networks, in order to explore their substance use and pain status.