Making Informed Choices on Incorporating Chemoprevention Into Care (MiCHOICE)
This trial studies the implementation of web-based decision support tools for patients with atypical hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ and healthcare providers. Decision support tools are designed to improve informed choice about breast cancer chemoprevention. Recognizing barriers and facilitators that can influence the adoption of decision support tools at recruitment centers may help researchers learn how to best implement them into clinical practice.
Atypical Hyperplasia of the Breast|Lobular Breast Carcinoma In Situ|Pleomorphic Lobular Breast Carcinoma In Situ
BEHAVIORAL: Cancer Educational Materials|OTHER: Decision Aid|OTHER: Decision Aid|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Chemoprevention informed choice, Will be provided by chemoprevention knowledge scale, a 1-item attitudes scale, and chemoprevention decision and measure at 6 and 12 months on the S1904 Follow-Up Choice form. All enrolled patients who provide outcomes data at the 6-month timepoint will be included in the primary analysis under the intention-to-treat principle. The primary analysis of the intervention effect on informed choice at 6 months will be based on a logistic regression model using a generalized estimating equation approach to account for clustering. Additional supportive analyses will adjust for both patient and clinic level factors. If there are substantial missing data for the components of the primary endpoint, a sensitivity analysis will be conducted imputing a response of no informed decision making for those women with missing information., At 6 months
Perceived breast cancer risk, Will be assessed by absolute estimate ("How do you rate your chance of developing breast cancer?"), comparative risk ("Overall, how do you think your chance of developing breast cancer compares to the average woman your age?"), and numeric risk ("Please place an X on the line below at the point showing what you think your chance is of developing breast cancer in the next five years"). All are assessed on a scale of 0% to 100%, with 0% as "no chance of breast cancer" and 100% as "definitely will get breast cancer.", Up to 12 months|Actual breast cancer risk score, A numeric score between the values of 0% and 100%, as determined by the Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium (BCSC) risk models. The 5-year and 10-year risk estimates are used. The items needed for the BCSC risk models are obtained at baseline from the S1904 Onstudy., Up to 12 months|Accuracy of risk perception, Will be defined as the difference between numeric perceived breast cancer 10-year risk estimate (subjective) and actual 10-year breast cancer risk score, according to the BCSC risk model (objective). Categorized as: accurate if the difference between subjective and objective risk estimates are =\< 10% in either direction; underestimate if \> 10% below objective risk; and overestimate if \> 10% above objective risk., Up to 12 months|Breast cancer worry, Will be measured by two Likert-style items, with responses ranging from "Not at all" (1) to "All of the time" (7). Items are reported and scored separately. Breast cancer worry is assessed on the S1904 Breast Cancer Risk Questionnaire., Up to 12 months|Decision conflict, Will be assessed on the S1904 Breast Cancer Risk Questionnaire. Will be measured by a validated 10-item scale with 3 response categories (Yes/Unsure/No) to assess the level of conflict women feel about their decisions regarding chemoprevention. Scores range from 0 (no decisional conflict) to 100 (extremely high decisional conflict) and will be scored according to the User Manual - Decisional Conflict Scale., Up to 12 months|Decision regret, Will be assessed on the S1904 Decision Questionnaire. Will be measured by a validated 5-item scale composed of 5-point Likert-style items. Scores that range from 0 (no regret) to 100 (high regret). It is scored according to the User Manual - Decision Regret Scale., Up to 12 months|Chemoprevention usage, Will be assessed on the S1904 Follow-Up form and the S1904 Breast Cancer Risk-Reducing Pill Usage form. Among patients who do not have a diagnosis of invasive breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ, it will be defined as reporting having started taking or currently taking a selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERM) or aromatase inhibitor (AI) for primary prevention, as assessed by self-report, and taking at least one dose of a SERM or AI for primary prevention, as assessed by the site based on the electronic health record log. Both measures will be reported. Reasons for never starting chemoprevention will be recorded., Up to 5 years|Chemoprevention adherence, Will be assessed using a 3-item scale for patients currently taking a SERM or AI. Responses are given values 1 through 5, with the response corresponding to perfect adherence assigned 1. The three scores are averaged if at least 2 of the 3 items have responses. Non-adherence is defined as an average score of greater than 1. Will be assessed on the S1904 Breast Cancer Risk-Reducing Pill Usage form., Up to 5 years|Reasons for chemoprevention discontinuation, For patients who report discontinuing a SERM or AI, reasons for discontinuing chemoprevention are reported on the S1904 Breast Cancer Risk-Reducing Pill Usage form., Up to 5 years|Shared decision-making, Will be assessed by a validated 9-item scale with Likert-style responses to assess shared decision-making about chemoprevention. Scores range from 0 to 100. Provider and patient measures are evaluated separately and scored according to their respective validation papers. Will be assessed on the S1904 Patient Shared Decision-Making Questionnaire and on the S1904 Provider Shared Decision-Making Questionnaire., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare the frequency of chemoprevention informed choice at 6 months after registration among women with atypical hyperplasia (AH) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) between the intervention (RealRisks decision aid/breast cancer risk navigation \[BNAV\] + standard educational materials) and control (standard educational materials alone) arms.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess patient chemoprevention knowledge, chemoprevention intention/decision, perceived breast cancer risk and worry, accuracy of breast cancer risk perception, decision conflict and decision regret at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months in the intervention and control arms.

II. To compare patient chemoprevention usage, adherence, and reasons for discontinuation of a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) or aromatase inhibitor (AI) annually for up to 5 years between the intervention and control arms.

III. To assess shared decision-making about chemoprevention among patients and healthcare providers after their 6-month clinic visit in the intervention and control arms.

IMPLEMENTATION OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the implementation of the decision support tools, RealRisks and BNAV, into clinic workflow, and to better understand barriers and facilitators to chemoprevention usage by conducting telephone/video-conference interviews of healthcare providers and high-risk women with AH or LCIS assigned to the active intervention.

OUTLINE: Recruitment centers are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I (CONTROL): Patients receive standard educational materials about breast cancer risk and chemoprevention in RealRisks via the patient portal or website.

GROUP II (INTERVENTION): Patients receive standard educational materials about breast cancer risk and chemoprevention in RealRisks via the patient portal or website. Patients receive patient-centered decision support within the patient portal via an action plan summarizing their breast cancer risk profile, their risks and benefits of SERMs and AIs, and personal preferences for chemoprevention. Health care providers receive decision support and action plans based on their patients' interactions with RealRisks via the BNAV provider-centered support tool within the electronic health record (EHR). A sample of patients participate in an audio-recorded interview via telephone or video conference over 45-60 minutes at 12 months after registration. A sample of health care providers participate in 3 audio-recorded interviews via telephone or video conference over 45-60 minutes each at baseline, within 12-36 months after study activation, and within 12 months after study closure to accrual.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months.