Study the Usefulness of Bio-impedance Spectroscopy in the Early Assessment of Breast Cancer Related Lymphoedema
The goal of the study is to investigate the use of bio-impedance spectroscopy in the assessment of breast cancer related lymphoedema in patients operated with lumpectomy or mastectomy, axillary lymph node dissection and radiotherapy compared to inverse water volumetry. As a control group, patients with colon rectal cancer are used to compare volumetric and spectometric changes during follow-up.
Lymphedema|Breast Cancer Stage II|Early Disease Onset
Bio impedance spectometry, The participant's height (to 1 mm) and weight (to 0.1 kg) are measured prior to BIS assessment and entered into the device for processing. Whole arm impedance (wrist to axilla) will be determined according to the principle of equipotentials; a method shown to have greater precision than a 'paired electrode' approach. Participants were positioned in supine on a non-conductive bed with their arms by their side, pronated and slightly abducted. These result are compared with the gold standard (Inverse watter volumetry), 2 years
body Mass Index (BMI), The body mass index (or BMI) is a measure which shows whether people have the right weight for their height. The World Health Organisation (WHO), governments and health workers use it. It is also called the Quetelet Index., 2 years|quality of life measurement with the " LAST" meter, The "lastmeter" is a validated tool in the Dutch language to score the psycho-social and physical situation of a cancer patient. The scale is between 0-10 and includes several questions. This indicates the need for addition support by healthcare workers to improve QoL, 2 years
Current assessment of lymphoedema consists of measuring volume changes objectively by a tape measure or water displacement. Early recognition of pre-clinical changes of interstitial fluid congestion in a limb at risk concerning lymph transport capacity is crucial. Objective measurement of extracellular fluids with bio-impedance spectroscopy can detect these early signs of lymphoedema. Multi Frequency Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis is completely non-invasive, highly reproducible (Ward et al 1997), highly sensitive (Cornish et al 2001), highly specific (Cornish et al 2001) and can be repeated as frequently as desired. BIS demonstrated excellent inter- and intra-rater reliability. All measures are highly reliably in women with and without lymphoedema (Szerniec et al 2010). For women with lymphoedema BIS detected a difference in the ECF in limbs which were not reflected in a corresponding difference in limb volume. This finding suggests that BIS may be particularly useful in the early detection of lymphoedema, before there is any volume change (Szerniez et al 2010). The mean ratio of extra cellular water (ECW) to intracellular water (ICW) is 1,5:1 (Ward et al 2009). Cornish et al (2001) predicted the onset of the condition up to 10 months before the condition could be clinically diagnosed. This is considerable shorter than the mean delay time of 3,5 years reported by National Summit on Lymphoedema, Adelaide 2000. The only risk factor identified as contributing to an increased risk of developing secondary lymphoedema was an increasing BMI which is consistent with previous reports (Box et al 2002).

Early detection with BIS is supposed possible even before clinical signs of swelling are available.

In this study we want to study this hypothesis and as control-group patients treated for colorectal carcinoma.