Vyxeos for Re-induction Treatment of Acute Myeloid Leukemia Patients With Persistent Disease After Induction
This phase II trial studies the side effects and how well Vyxeos works in treating patients with intermediate and high-risk acute myeloid leukemia who have failed an initial cycle of standard cytarabine and daunorubicin chemotherapy. Vyxeos is a combination of both chemotherapy drugs cytarabine and daunorubicin contained in a liposome. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and daunorubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Cytarabine and daunorubicin given together in liposomes may have fewer side effects and work better than cytarabine and daunorubicin given alone in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Blasts More Than 5 Percent of Bone Marrow Nucleated Cells|Persistent Disease|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Liposome-encapsulated Daunorubicin-Cytarabine
Incidence of adverse events, Will be measured by the time to count recovery, incidence of symptomatic cardiac dysfunction, incidence of hepatic or renal toxicity, incidence of severe hemorrhage, and incidence of severe infection. Will be summarized by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, and frequency counts will be tabulated with a focus on severe (grade 3+) adverse events and toxicities that are deemed at least possibly related to study treatment. The incidence of specific toxicities will be calculated as the proportion of patients experience these toxicities over all patients who receive any study drug., Up to 60 days|Calculation rate of complete response (CR) and complete response with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi), CR and CRi rate will be defined as the proportion of patients who achieve CR or CRi over all evaluable patients. The rates will be provided with 95% binomial confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
Progression-free survival, Will be calculated by the method of Kaplan-Meier, with the 2-year estimate provided with 95% confidence interval., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be calculated by the method of Kaplan-Meier, with the 2-year estimate provided with 95% confidence interval., From the date of the first dose of study treatment to death from any cause, up to 2 years
Measurement of blast cell cycle fraction, Will be exploratory in nature with graphical methods and descriptive statistics provided to gather preliminary information. Nonparametric method such Mann-Whitney U test will be utilized to compare pre and post-treatment data, and box plot or spaghetti plot will be presented to help visualize the trend of change., Baseline up to day 42|Relative clearance immunophenotypically abnormal blast and stem cells, Will be exploratory in nature with graphical methods and descriptive statistics provided to gather preliminary information. Nonparametric method such Mann-Whitney U test will be utilized to compare pre and post-treatment data, and box plot or spaghetti plot will be presented to help visualize the trend of change., Up to day 42|Efficacy of blast cell and leukemia stem/repopulating cell (LSC) elimination, Will compare the efficacy of blast cell and LSC elimination in patients receiving Vyxeos re-induction compared to similar blast cells and LSCs in patients receiving standard 7+3 or 5+2 re-induction. Will be exploratory in nature with graphical methods and descriptive statistics provided to gather preliminary information. Nonparametric method such Mann-Whitney U test will be utilized to compare pre and post-treatment data, and box plot or spaghetti plot will be presented to help visualize the trend of change., Up to day 42|Number of patients proceeding to stem cell transplantation following Vyxeos treatment, Will be measured and is exploratory in nature. It will be analyzed with descriptive statistics to gather preliminary information and compared to historical controls., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To demonstrate the safety and estimate the efficacy of liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine (Vyxeos) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients who have failed to achieve a hypocellular marrow after an initial course of 7+3.

SECONDARY AND/OR EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determination of rate of morphologic leukemia-free state (MLFS). II. Determination of progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) at 2 years.

III. Mass cytometric measurement relative clearance of quiescent leukemia stem/repopulating cells (LSCs) and blasts as compared to the same patient's preceding cycle of 7+3 and to a separate control population receiving re-induction with traditional 7+3.

IIIa. Measurement of blast cell cycle fraction before and after Vyxeos treatment.

IIIb. Relative clearance immunophenotypically abnormal blast and stem cells after Vyxeos.

IIIc. Comparison of efficacy of blast cell and LSC elimination in patients receiving Vyxeos re-induction compared to similar blast cells and LSCs in patients receiving standard 7+3 or 5+2 re-induction.

OUTLINE:

Within 14-33 days after the start of previous cycle of chemotherapy, patients receive liposome-encapsulated daunorubicin-cytarabine intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on days 1 and 3 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 60 days, then at least monthly for 2 years.