Antiandrogen Therapy and Radiation Therapy With or Without Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Prostate Cancer That Has Been Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II/III trial studies docetaxel, antiandrogen therapy, and radiation therapy to see how well it works compared with antiandrogen therapy and radiation therapy alone in treating patients with prostate cancer that has been removed by surgery. Androgen can cause the growth of prostate cells. Antihormone therapy may lessen the amount of androgen made by the body. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving antiandrogen therapy and radiation therapy with or without docetaxel after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells.
Stage I Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Bicalutamide|DRUG: Degarelix|DRUG: Docetaxel|RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Flutamide|DRUG: Goserelin|DRUG: Goserelin Acetate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leuprolide|DRUG: Leuprolide Acetate|DRUG: Nilutamide
Freedom from progression (FFP) (Phase II), Will be determined with a one-sided stratified log-rank test when 89 FFP events have been observed. Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed. Events for FFP will be the first occurrence of biochemical failure by prostate specific antigen (PSA) \>= 0.4 ng/ml over the nadir PSA confirmed by a second PSA higher than the first by any amount, recurrence (local, regional or distant), institution of secondary androgen deprivation therapy and death from any cause., From time of randomization to first event, assessed up to 43 months|Metastasis free survival (MFS) (Phase III), Will be measured with a one-sided stratified log-rank test when 282 MFS events have been observed. Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., From time of randomization to first occurrence of distant metastasis or death from any cause, assessed up to 9.5 years
Overall survival, Will be analyzed using log-rank methodology and Cox proportional models. Tests for violations of proportionality will performed for the survival models. Fine and Gray's regression also will be used. Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., Time to death from any cause assessed up to 2.5 years|Time to local progression, Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., Baseline to local or regional recurrence ignoring biochemical failure and distant recurrence and censoring for death, assessed up to 2.5 years|Proportion of undetectable prostate specific antigen (PSA) with a non-castrate testosterone, Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., At 2.5 years|Incidence of acute adverse events scored according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program active version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Will be compared to late grade 3+ adverse events. Univariate logistic regression will be used to model the distribution of acute adverse events. Multiple logistic regression will be used to model the distribution of acute adverse events adjusted for covariates. Both unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed and tested using a one-sided Chi-Square test statistic with the significance level of 0.025. Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., Up to 30 days post radiation therapy|Genomic profiling in making adjuvant therapy decisions, Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed., Up to 9 years|Late grade 3+ adverse events scored according to the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program active version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, Will be compared to acute adverse events. A Fine and Gray's regression model will be used to compare the treatment differences of time to late adverse event with and without adjusting for other covariates. Both unadjusted and adjusted odds ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed and tested using a one-sided. Will be estimated using the cause-specific hazard rate approach and tested using a significance level of 0.025. Both unadjusted and adjusted hazard ratios and the respective 95% confidence interval will be computed. At least the treatment arm, age, and race (as appropriate) will be considered when it is adjusted in the analysis., From protocol treatment starts to the worst late grade 3+ adverse event, assessed up to 9 years
DECIPHER signature in predicting response, Proposed and additional future translational studies will be assessed following completion of accrual and sample collection. Transcriptomic information generated with the DECIPHER GRID will be used to assess other biologically-relevant question including characterizing the transcriptomic landscape of prostate cancer from younger vs older patients, interrogating the noncoding aspects of the prostate cancer transcriptome, and identifying outcomes based on the molecular subtypes of prostate cancer., Up to 9 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the benefit of docetaxel as measured by improvement in freedom from progression (phase II) and subsequently metastasis free survival (phase III) when given in combination with radiation and androgen deprivation in treatment of high risk prostate cancer post-radical prostatectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival. II. To assess local time to progression. III. To assess undetectable prostate-specific antigen (PSA) with a non-castrate testosterone at 2.5 years post treatment.

IV. To assess the utility of genomic profiling in making adjuvant therapy decisions post-prostatectomy.

V. To assess toxicity of docetaxel in the post-operative setting when combined with radiation and androgen deprivation therapy.

VI. To assess treatment response by genomically defined sub-groups of prostate cancer patients.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To optimize quality assurance methodologies and processes for radiotherapy and imaging, with machine learning strategies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive androgen deprivation therapy comprising leuprolide acetate, goserelin acetate, degarelix, bicalutamide, flutamide, or nilutamide for 6 months. Beginning 8 weeks after the start of androgen deprivation therapy, patients receive external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for 7.5 weeks.

ARM II: Patients receive androgen deprivation therapy and EBRT as in Arm I. Within 4-6 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive docetaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1 of every 21 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly.