Temsirolimus Versus Sorafenib As Second-Line Therapy In Patients With Advanced RCC Who Have Failed First-Line Sunitinib
This is an international, randomized, open-label, outpatient, multicenter study. Subjects will be assigned in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment arms: temsirolimus 25 mg once weekly by intravenous (IV) infusion or sorafenib 400 mg by mouth (PO) twice daily (BID). These investigational drugs will be administered in 6-week cycles for the duration of the study, up to 24 months. Subjects will be stratified by nephrectomy status, duration of response to sunitinib therapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) prognostic group, and RCC tumor histology.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: temsirolimus (Torisel)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Interval from date of randomization until documentation of progressive disease (PD) by an independent tumor assessment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumor (RECIST) or death for any reason whichever occurred first., Baseline up to 24 Months
Progression Free Survival (PFS) by Investigator Assessment, Interval from date of randomization until documentation of PD by an investigator tumor assessment, symptomatic deterioration, or death for any reason whichever occurred first., Baseline up to 24 Months|Percentage of Participants With Tumor Response, Percentage of participants with tumor response based on assessment of confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) according to RECIST and evaluated by independent central review. CR/PR persisted on repeat imaging study at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. PR had at least 30 percent decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Baseline up to 24 Months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was the duration from randomization to death. For participants who are alive, overall survival was censored at the last contact., Baseline to date of death from any cause (up to 24 months)|Percentage of Participants With PFS Events at 12, 24 and 36 Weeks by Independent Assessment, PFS: Interval from date of randomization until documentation of PD by an independent tumor assessment according to RECIST or death for any reason whichever occurred first. PFS calculated as (Weeks)=(randomization date minus first dose date plus 1) divided by 7., Weeks 12, 24, and 36|Duration of Response (DR), Duration of response as defined by the time from CR or PR (whichever status recorded first) until the date of death or PD was objectively documented. Median and its 95 percent confidence interval (95% CI) were estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., Baseline up to 24 Months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Counts of participants who had treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs), defined as newly occurring or worsening after first dose. Relatedness to \[study drug\] was assessed by the investigator (Yes/No). Participants with multiple occurrences of an AE within a category were counted once within the category., Baseline up to 24 months
This is an international, randomized, open-label, outpatient, multicenter study. Subjects will be assigned in a 1:1 ratio to 1 of 2 treatment arms: temsirolimus 25 mg once weekly by intravenous (IV) infusion or sorafenib 400 mg by mouth (PO) twice daily (BID). These investigational drugs will be administered in 6-week cycles for the duration of the study, up to 24 months. Subjects will be stratified by nephrectomy status, duration of response to sunitinib therapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) prognostic group, and RCC tumor histology.