Phase I Study of LDK378 in Pediatric, Malignancies With a Genetic Alteration in Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK)
The purpose of this study was to estimate the maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended dose for expansion of LDK378 as a single agent, assess safety, tolerability and anti-tumor activity and characterize single and multiple-dose pharmacokinetics when administered orally to pediatric patients with ALK-activated tumors, with and without food.
ALK-activated Tumors
DRUG: Ceritinib
Incidence Rate of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) Occurring During First Cycle of Treatment, A DLT is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant therapies that occurs within the first 21 days of treatment with LDK378 and meets a specified defined criteria. A participant with multiple occurrences of DLTs under one treatment is counted only once in the Adverse Event category for that treatment. A participant with multiple DLTs within a primary system organ class is counted only once in the total row., up to day 21 after the patient's first dose; cycle = within the first 21 days of patient's first dose
Summary of Best Overall Response by Overall Response Rate (ORR) Per Investigator Assessment, ORR is the percentage of participants with a best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). ORR was assessed per Investigator as per RECIST 1.1 in participants with neuroblastoma and other solid tumors, and by International Working Group (IWG) criteria in patients with lymphoma. Per RECIST 1.1 (for neuroblastoma \& other solid tumors): CR: disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesion, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Per IWG criteria (for patients with lymphoma): CR: normalization of all index nodal lesions or complete disappearance of all index extranodal lesions. PR: at least 50% decrease from baseline in the sum of diameters of all index lesions., 30 months|Duration of Response (DoR) Per Investigator Assessment, DOR is defined as the time from first documented response (PR or CR) to the date of first documented disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause. DOR was assessed per Investigator as per RECIST 1.1 in participants with neuroblastoma and other solid tumors, and by International Working Group (IWG) criteria in patients with lymphoma. Per RECIST 1.1 (for neuroblastoma \& other solid tumors): CR: disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesion, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Per IWG criteria (for patients with lymphoma): CR: normalization of all index nodal lesions or complete disappearance of all index extranodal lesions. PR: at least 50% decrease from baseline in the sum of diameters of all index lesions., 30 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on Investigator Assessment, PFS is the time from date of randomization/start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS was assessed per Investigator as per RECIST 1.1 in participants with neuroblastoma and other solid tumors, and by International Working Group (IWG) criteria in patients with lymphoma. Per RECIST 1.1 (for neuroblastoma \& other solid tumors): CR: disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions. In addition, any pathological lymph nodes assigned as target lesions must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of all target lesion, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Per IWG criteria (for patients with lymphoma): CR: normalization of all index nodal lesions or complete disappearance of all index extranodal lesions. PR: at least 50% decrease from baseline in the sum of diameters of all index lesions., 30 months|Plasma Concentration Time Profiles by Treatment Group in Escalation Phase, Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Only PK plasma concentrations with non-missing sampling date and time, and for which the last dose date and time prior to the PK sample draw are non-missing, were included in the PK analysis., 0hr pre-dose, 2hrs post-dose, 4hrs post-dose, 6hrs post-dose & 24hrs post-dose in Cycle1 Day1 & Cycle 2 day 1; 0hr pre-dose in Cycle 1 Day 15, Cycle 2 Day1, Cycle 2 Day 2, Cycle 3 day 1 & Cycle 4 Day 1|Plasma Concentration Time Profiles by Treatment Group in Expansion Phase, Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Only PK plasma concentrations with non-missing sampling date and time, and for which the last dose date and time prior to the PK sample draw are non-missing, were included in the PK analysis., 0hr pre-dose Cycle 1 Day 1, cycle 1 Day 15; 0hr pre-dose, 2hrs post-dose, 4hrs post-dose, 6hrs post-dose & 24hrs post-dose in Cycle2 Day1; 0hr pre-dose in Cycle2 Day2, Cycle 3 Day 1 & Cycle 4 Day 1|Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameters: AUC0 - 24h & AUClast in Cycle 1 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. AUC: Area under the plasma (serum, or blood) concentration versus time curve AUClast: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last measureable concentration time AUC0-24h: Area under the plasma concentration-time curve t=0-24 h, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameters: AUC0 - 24h & AUClast in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. AUC: Area under the plasma (serum, or blood) concentration versus time curve AUClast: Area under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last measureable concentration time; AUC0-24h: Area under the plasma concentration-time curve t=0-24 h, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|Pharmacokinetics (PK) Parameters: AUC0 - 24h & AUClast in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Expansion Phase (Multiple Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. In this phase ceritinib was expanded at 500mg/m2 fed and 510mg/m2 fasted administered orally once daily and was assessed only at steady state, Cycle 2 Day 1.

AUC: Area under the plasma (serum, or blood) concentration versus time curve AUClast: Area under the plasma (serum, or blood) concentration versus time curverea under the concentration-time curve from time zero to the last measureable concentration time AUC0-24h: Area under the plasma concentration-time curve t=0-24 h, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Cmax in Cycle 1 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Cmax: Maximum (peak) concentration of drug, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Cmax in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Cmax: Maximum (peak) concentration of drug., 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Cmax in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Expansion Phase (Multiple Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. In this phase ceritinib was expanded at 500mg/m2 fed and 510mg/m2 fasted administered orally once daily and was assessed only at steady state, Cycle 2 Day 1.

Cmax: Maximum (peak) concentration of drug, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Tmax in Cycle 1 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Tmax: The time to reach maximum plasma concentration, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Tmax in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Escalation Phase (Single Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Tmax: The time to reach maximum plasma concentration, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Tmax in Cycle 2 Day 1 - Dose Expansion Phase (Multiple Dose), Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. In this phase ceritinib was expanded at 500mg/m2 fed and 510mg/m2 fasted administered orally once daily and was assessed only at steady state, Cycle 2 Day 1.

Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Tmax: The time to reach maximum plasma concentration, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose|PK Parameter: Racc in Dose Escalation Phase Cycle 2 Day 1, Characterize single and multiple-dose PK of LDK378 in pediatric patients. Racc: Accumulation ratio, 0hr pre-dose, 2, 4, 6 & 24hrs post-dose
LDK378 is a novel inhibitor of ALK that is active in a broad range of ALK-activated tumor models, including models driven by mutated versions of ALK known to be resistant to crizotinib, and by ALK gene amplification.

The primary purpose of this study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended dose for expansion in pediatric patients, and to delineate a clinical dose to be used in any future pediatric studies, with and without food. This study also assessed the safety, tolerability, PK and preliminary evidence of antitumor activity of LDK378 in pediatric patients with neuroblastoma, and other ALK-activated tumors.

Fasted cohort: each daily dose of LDK378 (including days which involved PK blood sampling) was taken at least 2 hours after last meal \& subjects did not eat until 1 hour after LDK378 was taken. Each daily dose of LDK378 was taken with 1-2 tablespoons (15-30 mL) of an appropriate food (such as applesauce or non-fat yogurt) \& a glass of water

Fed cohort: each daily dose of LDK378 (including days which involved PK blood sampling) was taken with, or within 30 minutes after finishing a low-fat light snack containing 100-300 calories \& 1.5-2 grams of fat.