Helicobacter Pylori Eradication With Berberine Plus Amoxicillin Triple Therapy Versus Bismuth-containing Quadruple Therapy
This study aims at evaluating efficacy and safety of berberine hydrochloride, amoxicillin and rabeprazole triple therapy versus bismuth-containing quadruple therapy(amoxicillin, clarithromycin, rabeprazole and bismuth) in the first eradication treatment of H. pylori. It is hypothesized that berberinehydrochloride, amoxicillin and rabeprazole triple therapy is non-inferior to bismuth-containing quadruple therapy. Patients diagnosed with H. pylori infection will be randomly divided into one of the above treatments. At week 6 follow-up visits, a urea breath test，rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test will be performed to confirm eradication.
Dyspepsia|Chronic Gastritis|Gastric Cancer|Helicobacter Pylori Infection
DRUG: Berberine|DRUG: Amoxicillin|DRUG: Rabeprazole|DRUG: Amoxicillin|DRUG: Clarithromycin|DRUG: Rabeprazole|DRUG: Bismuth
Helicobacter pylori eradication, The primary end point of this study is H.pylori eradication,established by negative urea breath test，rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test 28 days after the end of treatment., 28 days after treatment
symptoms effective rate, Evaluation effective rate of symptoms 2 weeks of treatment and 4 weeks after the end of treatment.

Symptom effective rate =（total score before treatment - total score after treatment）/total score before treatment x 100%.

Total score = frequency + severity.

Frequency score is calculated by all the frequency of heartburn, reflux, abdominal pain, and flatulence.

Severity is accumulated by the degree of symptoms described above, which is divided to 4 degree as 0 presenting none, and 3 presenting most severe, 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment|adverse events, Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability.The common side effects of the study include headache, dizziness, skin rash, other gastrointestinal disorders, pyrexia, cough and back pain., 14 days of treatment, and 28 days after treatment
Detailed Description:

The study will include three phases: screening, treatment and follow-up. Screening: this phase will last a maximum of 14 days and subjects eligibility will be evaluated after signing informed consent. One of urea breath test，rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test will be performed in addition to the baseline routine evaluations.

Treatment: Subjects are randomly assigned to treatment and will be treated for 14 days. A randomization visit will take place on Day 0 and an end-of-treatment visit will take place between day 13 and 17.

Follow-up: includes one visits. Approximately 28 days after the end of treatment. Eradication of H. Pylori will be confirmed by one of urea breath test，rapid urease test or helicobacter pylori stool antigen test.