Intratumoral PH-762 for Cutaneous Carcinoma
The goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of intratumoral injections of PH-762 in squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, or Merkel cell carcinomas of the skin, to understand what the body does to the PH-762, and to observe how the tumor responds to the drug. Participants will receive four injections of PH-762 at weekly intervals, into a single tumor, followed by surgical removal of the tumor approximately two weeks later.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin|Malignant Melanoma of Skin|Merkel Cell Carcinoma of Skin
DRUG: PH-762
Adverse Events, Incidence, severity, seriousness and relatedness of all treatment-emergent adverse events., 16 weeks
Pharmacokinetics: maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Maximum concentration of PH-762 following intratumoral injection., 3.5 weeks|Pharmacokinetics: time to maximum plasma concentration (Tmax), Time to maximum concentration of PH-762 following intratumoral injection., 3.5 weeks|Pharmacokinetics: area under the curve to last quantifiable plasma concentration (AUClast), Exposure to PH-762 through last quantifiable concentration following intratumoral injection., 3.5 weeks|Pathologic response, Pathological response will be assessed by relative amount of viable tumor in resection specimens of the treated lesion., 5 weeks|Tumor burden, Change in tumor burden will be assessed per RECIST/ iRECIST guidelines for the treated lesion., 5 weeks
PH-762 is a potent RNAi molecule targeting PD-1. PH-762 can inhibit the immune checkpoint PD-1 in the tumor and thereby impede tumor growth. As a preoperative therapy, it may decrease the lesion size and has the potential to improve surgical morbidity. Intratumoral immunotherapy aims to use the tumor as a 'self-vaccine'. The local immune stimulation can induce robust priming of an anti-tumor immune response while generating systemic (abscopal) tumor responses, mediated by properly activated anti-tumor immune cells in the circulation. Local delivery of immunotherapy is expected to minimize systemic exposure and off-target toxicities.

This is a non-comparative study of neoadjuvant monotherapy using PD-1 targeting self-delivering RNAi (PH-762) in adult subjects with cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, melanoma, or Merkel cell carcinoma. The study treatment consists of four intratumoral injections of PH-762 at weekly intervals, into a single tumor lesion. Excision of the tumor will occur approximately two weeks following the fourth dose of IT PH-762, and the subjects will be followed for an additional 11 weeks.