Vaccine Therapy Following Therapeutic Autologous Lymphocytes and Cyclophosphamide in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of autologous T-antigen-presenting cells (T-APC) vaccine following therapeutic autologous lymphocytes (CTL) and cyclophosphamide in treating patients with metastatic melanoma. Aldesleukin may stimulate lymphocytes, such as CTL, to kill melanoma cells. Treating lymphocytes with aldesleukin in the laboratory may help the lymphocytes kill more tumor cells when they are put back in the body. Vaccines made from melanoma antigen may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells and may boost the effect of the CTL. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving T-APC vaccine after CTL and cyclophosphamide may be an effective treatment for melanoma
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: autologous tumor cell vaccine|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunologic technique|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction|BIOLOGICAL: therapeutic autologous lymphocytes
Treatment-related dose limiting toxicity (DLT) as defined by Grade 3 or greater unexpected toxicity by the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) v4.0, Assessed at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or dose level immediately below the dose level for which the incidence of DLT was less than 35%., Up to 8 weeks after the T cell infusion|In vivo persistence of adoptively transferred T cells, Assessed by intrapatient comparison between the first (without T-APC) and second (with T-APC) CTL infusion. Descriptive statistics will be applied and t-tests of intrapatient in vivo T cell persistence between the two Infusions will be determined., At 4 weeks
Clinical response, Up to 8 weeks after second dose
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and toxicity of T-APC vaccination following adoptive T cell therapy.

II. Evaluate the functional and numeric in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred cytotoxic t lymphocytes (CTL) followed by T-APC vaccination.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the antitumor effect of adoptive T cell therapy followed by T-APC vaccination.

OUTLINE : This is a dose-escalation study of T-APC vaccine.

INFUSION I: Patients receive high-dose cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on days -4 and -3 and low-dose aldesleukin (IL-2) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) on days 0-14. Patients also receive CTL IV on day 0.

INFUSION II: Beginning 6-48 hours later, patients receive high-dose cyclophosphamide, low-dose IL-2, and CTL as in Infusion I. Patients also receive T-APC vaccine IV within 18-36 hours following CTL infusion and in week 4, and IL-2 SC BID on days 0-14 following second T-APC vaccination.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 8 weeks.