Comparison of Kinesiotaping and Pressure Garment on Women With Upper Extremity Lymphedema Following Mastectomy
Breast cancer is a standout amongst the most widely recognized cancer among women. It is observed that upper extremity lymphedema is one of the most dangerous and prevalent complication following breast cancer surgery which prompts functional impairment, psychological disaster and social problems

This study aimed to compare the effects of Kinesio taping and the pressure garment application on secondary lymphedema of the upper extremity and quality of life following mastectomy after breast cancer.

Material and Methods: In this experimental study with pre and post-tests, 66 women with lymphedema following mastectomy were randomly allocated to Kinesio taping (KT) group (n=33) and pressure garment (PG) group (n=33). The KT group received Kinesio taping application, while the PG group received pressure garment (40-60 mmHg) for at least 15-18 hours per day through the study. All patients were evaluated to record the changes of the limb circumference, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), hand grip strength and quality of life at baseline and end of intervention.
Breast Cancer Lymphedema
OTHER: Kinesio Taping
Limb circumference, The upper Limbs circumferences were measured by using a tape measure with the patient in prone lying position., 1 month
Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) survey was created to assess the shoulder pain and disability. It incorporates of 13 items that assess two domains: a 5 items that assess pain and an 8 items that evaluate disability., 1 month|Hand grip strength, Hand grip strength was evaluated by Dynamometer (78010, Lafayette Instrument Company, Loughboroug, Leics, United Kingdom). The grip strength was measured while the patient was in a standing position with adducted shoulder, flexed elbow 90 degrees and forearm in mid position., 1 month|Quality of life, The quality of life was assessed by utilizing cancer-specific questionnaire (EORTC) QLQ-C30 before and after intervention. QLQ-C30 comprised of 30 questions, including functional scores (physical, social, emotional, and cognitive aspects)., 1 month
66 women with unilateral breast cancer related to lymphedema (stage II and III) for at least for 6 months were invited to participate in the study. Lymphoma was more than 2 cm in arm circumference or less than 8 cm in comparison with the other side. The participants were randomly assigned to 2 groups. Kinesio taping group included 33 patients receiving Kinesio taping (KT) and pressure garment (PG) included 33 patients.

The exclusion criteria were any active disease which leads to swelling, medications, especially diuretics, allergy, infection, pregnancy, heart and kidney diseases, bilateral lymphedema and cellulitis.

All patients were evaluated to record the changes of the limb circumference, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI), hand grip strength and quality of life