Vorinostat and Azacitidine in Treating Patients With Locally Recurrent or Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Cancer or Nasal Natural Killer T-Cell Lymphoma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of vorinostat when given together with azacitidine in treating patients with nasopharyngeal cancer or nasal natural killer T-cell lymphoma that has recurred (come back) at or near the same place as the original (primary) tumor, usually after a period of time during which the cancer could not be detected or has spread to other parts of the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as vorinostat and azacitidine, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Vorinostat and azacitidine also may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving vorinostat together with azacitidine may kill more cancer cells.
Adult Nasal Type Extranodal NK/T-Cell Lymphoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Keratinizing Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Nasopharyngeal Undifferentiated Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Azacitidine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Vorinostat
Maximum tolerated dose of vorinostat and azacitidine, defined as the dose at which less than one-third of patients experience a dose limiting toxicity (i.e., fewer than 2 of 6 patients), Graded according to the National Cancer Institute/Division of Cancer Treatment Common Toxicity Criteria., Day 28|Precision of the estimated dose-response curve based on induction of lytically replicated viral particles in the plasma following treatment, A non-parametric and a parametric approach will be used. The non-parametric approach will entail averaging the biologic effects from the patients at each time point, plotting them versus dose, and connecting the points to get the dose-response curve. The parametric approach will use a polynomial regression model with two degrees of freedom for modeling dose. A spline model may also be used., Up to 16 weeks
Pharmacokinetics of vorinostat in patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NK-T cell nasal lymphoma, Performed using a validated high performance liquid chromatography method. Maximum concentration (Cmax) and time to Cmax will be read off the curve, terminal T1/2 will be derived using the slope of the terminal portion of the semilogarithmic concentration-time plot, incorporating at least 3 time points in the extrapolation of the curve. Area-under-the curve (AUC) (infinity) of the semilog plot will be estimated using the trapezoidal method, and oral clearance (CL/F) will be derived using Dose/AUC, volume of distribution will be calculated., 0, 15, 45, 60, 120, 180, 270, 360, and 480 minutes on days 1 and 14 of course 1|Proportions of patients with high and low histone acetylation, The proportion of patients whose histone acetylation status changes in each group will be estimated with its 95% confidence interval. Percent agreement and kappa will be used., Baseline|EBV promoter demethylation as measured in tumor patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NK-T cell nasal lymphoma, The proportion of patients whose EBV promoter demethylation status changes in each group will be estimated with its 95% confidence interval. Percent agreement and kappa will be used., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define toxicity profile of escalating doses of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) given in conjunction with a fixed dose of 5 Azacytidine (5AC) (azacitidine) in patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and natural killer (NK)-T cell nasal lymphoma.

II. Define the biologically optimal dose of SAHA given in conjunction with a fixed dose of 5AC in patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NKT cell nasal lymphoma based on evidence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) lytic induction in tumor biopsies and plasma.

III. Study the effect of 5AC on the pharmacokinetic of SAHA in patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NK-T cell nasal lymphoma.

IV. Assess the effect of SAHA on histone acetylation as measured in tumor and peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NK-T cell nasal lymphoma V. Assess the effect of 5AC on EBV promoter demethylation as measured in tumor patients with locally recurrent and metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and NK-T cell nasal lymphoma.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vorinostat (SAHA).

Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-10 and vorinostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients with responding disease may continue treatment at the discretion of the principal investigator. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of SAHA until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.