Effect of Yoga on Life Quality and Immunity in Breast Cancer Patients After Operation and or Chemotherapy
The purpose of study is to investigate if yoga exercise improve life quality and immune status in breast cancer patients after complete treatment (including surgery and / or radiotherapy and / or chemotherapy)
Female Breast Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Yoga exercise
Improve personal health and life quality, Health and life quality will assessed by modified fatigue inventory and EORTC QLQ-C30 (version 3) at three different times: (1)baseline data: before yoga exercise, (2)outcome data: at 6 and 12 weeks post-test., Change from baseline in personal health and life quality at 6 months.
Immune modulation, Lymphocytes will be extracted from peripheral blood for analyses of lymphocytes subpopulation (Th1/ Th2/ Treg/ Th17), polarization (T-bet/ Gata-3/ Foxp3/ RORrt) and its related cytokines (Th1: IL-12/ IFN-γ/ IL-27; Th2: IL-4/ IL-13/ IL-25; Th17: IL-17A/ IL-6/ IL-21; Treg: TGF/ IL-10. Saliva collection for analyses of cortisol and IL-6 at 3 different times: (1) baseline data: before yoga exercise, (2)outcome data: at 6 and 12 weeks post-test., Change from baseline in human immunity at 3 months.
It is well-known that exercise promote immune regulation for better life quality. However, the mechanism for better immunity and life quality is not clear. We postulate that Ayurveda yoga might benefit breast cancer women with completion of operation and/or chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The benefits could be due to immune modulation, and improve health perception and life quality, and even potential decrease of cancer relapse.

The study patients will do yoga twice a week for 12 weeks. The study primary endpoints are 1) to improve personal health perception, 2) to improve life quality and 3) to enhance human immunity. The study secondary endpoint will follow up the immunity changes 3 months after the intervention.

We anticipate to reach the primary endpoints and to publish the primary results in one year, the secondary endpoint will complete in the second year.