Randomized Controlled Trial of CAN-2409 Immunotherapy During Active Surveillance for Prostate Cancer (ULYSSES)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of CAN-2409 immunotherapy in patients undergoing active surveillance for localized prostate cancer. CAN-2409 involves the use of aglatimagene besadenovec to kill tumor cells and stimulate a cancer vaccine effect. Killing tumor cells in an immune stimulatory environment induces the body's immune system to detect and destroy cancer cells. CAN-2409 has been well tolerated in previous trials in patients with prostate cancer and other tumor types. Biochemical, pathologic and immune responses have been demonstrated in newly diagnosed and recurrent prostate cancer. The hypothesis is that CAN-2409 can lead to improvement in the clinical outcome for patients with prostate cancer. Participants will be randomized to the CAN-2409 or control arm at a 2:1 ratio. Both arms receive standard of care active surveillance evaluations.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: aglatimagene besadenovec|BIOLOGICAL: placebo|DRUG: valacyclovir
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to evidence of histological disease progression or death due to prostate cancer, Baseline to study completion, approximately 5 years
Negative biopsy rate at 1-year landmark, 1 year|Percentage of patients with adverse events, 30 days after last dose of study drug
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of CAN-2409 immunotherapy in patients undergoing active surveillance for localized prostate cancer. CAN-2409 involves the use of aglatimagene besadenovec to kill tumor cells and stimulate a cancer vaccine effect. Killing tumor cells in an immune stimulatory environment induces the body's immune system to detect and destroy cancer cells. CAN-2409 has been well tolerated in previous trials in patients with prostate cancer and other tumor types. Biochemical, pathologic and immune responses have been demonstrated in newly diagnosed and recurrent prostate cancer. The hypothesis is that CAN-2409 can lead to improvement in the clinical outcome for patients with prostate cancer. Participants will be randomized to the CAN-2409 or control arm at a 2:1 ratio. Both arms receive standard of care active surveillance evaluations.