Quality of Life in Patients With Standard External Compared to Custom-made Breast Prosthesis.
Despite improvements in surgical techniques, approximately 30% of mastectomies are still performed. Definitively or temporarily, one of the alternatives to restore a volume in the bra is the external breast prosthesis. The main objective is to evaluate whether the "custom-made" MEAVANTI prosthesis improves the quality of life of patients who have had a mastectomy compared to the external standard prosthesis.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: MEAVANTI prothesis|DEVICE: Standard prothesis
Change in quality of life : emotional functioning, Emotional dimension will be studied with items from 21 to 24 of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire QLQ-C30 (Generic Questionnaire) (Likert type with 4 choices from 1 = not at all to 4 = a lot), Change from baseline to 3 months|Change in quality of life : social functioning, Social dimension will be studied with items from 26 and 27 of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire QLQ-C30 (Generic Questionnaire) (Likert type with 4 choices from 1 = not at all to 4 = a lot), Change from baseline to 3 months|Change in quality of life : body image, Body image will be studied with items from 39 to 42 of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire BR23 Module (Breast Cancer Module) (Likert type with 4 choices from 1 = not at all to 4 = a lot), Change from baseline to 3 months|Change in quality of life : sexual functioning, Sexual functioning will be studied with items from 56 to 59 of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire BRECON 14 (Reconstruction module) (Likert type with 4 choices from 1 = not at all to 4 = a lot), Change from baseline to 3 months|Change in quality of life : satisfaction breast cosmetic, Satisfaction breast cosmetic will be studied with items from 60 to 65 of EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire BRECON 14 (Reconstruction module) (Likert type with 4 choices from 1 = not at all to 4 = a lot), Change from baseline to 3 months
Visual satisfaction, Evaluation of the visual satisfaction associated with wearing of the external prosthesis by the self and the hetero-evaluation (from photos taken of the patient (face, profiles, ¾ with and without the prosthesis): carried out by a scale of judgment (Likert type with 5 choices from 1 = very satisfied to 5 = very unsatisfied) at 6 months., 6 months|Evaluation of pain, Evaluation of pain by the analogical EVA scale 1 to 10, on the following 3 sites: back / shoulders / cervical at 3 monts and 6 months., 3 months and 6 months|Comparative questionnaire, Comparative questionnaire "adhoc" between the 2 prostheses will be performed at 6 months (that is to say at the end of the study) targeting specific issues to the wearing of prostheses (previously used by the HAS for the referencing of silicone prostheses). This questionnaire consists of 14 questions, type Likert 5 points., 6 months|Collection of adverse events, Adverse events will be recorded, 3 months and 6 months|Costs (consultations), Costs for consultations will be raised, 1 month, 3 Months, 4 months and 6 months|Costs (paramedical procedures), Costs for paramedical procedures will be raised, 1 month, 3 Months, 4 months and 6 months
In France, breast cancer is a public health issue with around 59,000 new cases per year. Despite improved surgical techniques, there is still around 30% mastectomy performed every year. Definitively or temporarily, one of the alternatives to restore a volume in the bra is the use of external breast prosthesis. Currently, there are 3 silicone brands that are marketed and refunded. These standard prostheses take into account only the curve of the patients and not the weight of the remaining breast making adaptation difficult to all body types. The difference in breast weights can cause several disorders: postural, pain, discomfort, psychological impact on quality of life as well as medico-economic impact. MEAVANTI is an external breast prosthesis for custom calibration and personalization, which can prevent postural compensation and provide greater comfort.

The main objective of this study is therefore to evaluate whether the MEAVANTI prosthesis improves the quality of life of patients who have undergone a mastectomy compared to the standard prosthesis (through the EORTC questionnaires - European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer). This study will be monocentric, cross-over (2 periods), prospective, open with a wash-out period of 15 days. The period of the study will be conducted over 13 months.

The expected benefits can be major. The main benefit expected is the improvement of quality of life of the patients carrying the MEAVANTI breast prosthesis compared to those carrying the so-called standard prosthesis. A reduction in back and neck pain could also reduce the costs of patient management. In addition, this will demand referencing by the HAS of the custom-made prosthesis so that it is reimbursed in the same way as existing ones.