RPM CD19-mbIL15-CAR-T Cells in Patient With Advanced Lymphoid Malignancies
This is an open-label Phase 1 study to determine the feasibility, safety, and the recommended maximum tolerated Dose (MTD) of a single infusion of RPM CD19 mbIL15 CAR-T cells for adult patients. Approximately 24 subjects will be enrolled and it is anticipated approximately 16 subjects will be infused at the varied doses of T cells.
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Relapsed|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma Refractory|Primary Mediastinal Large B Cell Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma|Follicular Lymphoma|Mantle Cell Lymphoma|High-grade B-cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: RPM CD19-mbIL15-CAR-T cells
Maximun Tolerated Dose (MTD) of the RPM CD19- mbIL15-CAR-T, MTD is the highest dose at which no more than 1 of 6 patients experiences a dose limiting toxicity., within 4 weeks after infusion
Feasibility of the product manufacturing process, Percentage of subjects for whom the desired dose of RPM CD19 mbIL15 CAR-T cells can be successfully manufactured., day 0 to month 12|Adverse events related to treatment, The incidence and severity of AE of Cytokine Release Syndrome and neurotoxicity., day 0 to month 12|Persistence of infused T cells, Duration of CAR-T cell persistence by vector copy number (VCN)., day 0 to month 12|Safety Switch Function, Measure the decrease of RPM CD19 mbIL15-CAR-T cells after cetuximab administration., day 0 to month 12|Immunogenicity, Immnuogenicity (humoral) defined as the percent of subjects that develop anti-drug antibodies., day 0 to month 12|Cytokine Profile, levels of cytokine in serum, including IL-6, IL-10, IFN-γ, TNFα concentration (pg/mL), measured by Elisa., day 0 to month 12|Homing ability of the infused T-cells, Percent of subjects with measurable RPM CD19 mbIL15 CAR-T cells in bone marrow., day 0 to month 12|Disease response after T cell infusion, Objective response rate (ORR), complete response (CR), Complete response with incomplete blood count recovery (CRi), partial response (PR), day 0 to month 12|Progression-Free Survival, Measured from infusion of RPM CD19 mbIL15 CAR-T cells until the documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., day 0 to month 12|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be determined as time fro the start of RPM CD19-mbIL15-CAR-T cells infusion until death due to any cause., day 0 to month 12|Emergence of CD19neg malignant B cells, CD19 expression of tumor tissue when tumor relapse and progress., day 0 to month 12
This is an open-label Phase 1 study to determine the feasibility, safety, and the recommended maximum tolerated Dose (MTD) of a single infusion of RPM CD19 mbIL15 CAR-T cells for adult patients. Approximately 24 subjects will be enrolled and it is anticipated approximately 16 subjects will be infused at the varied doses of T cells.

This study will very rapidly administer T cells that are genetically modified by electroporation using DNA plasmids from the SB system to co-express CD19RCD8CD28 (the CAR), mbIL15, and HER1t. The presence of mbIL15 may allow for reduced doses of CAR-T cells to be infused to reduce the risk for adverse events, such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS).

The key features of study design are listed below.

1. Uncontrolled
2. Blinding: open-label
3. Randomized: no
4. Duration of treatment: single infusion within day
5. Titration: none
6. Single center, Taiwan