P2 Study of Postoperative Interferon/Fluorouracil vs Cisplatin/Fluorouracil for Hepatocellular Carcinoma.
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of postoperative hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy, interferon/fluorouracil versus low-dose cisplatin/fluorouracil, in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma with portal vein tumor thrombus.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Interferon Alfa、Fluorouracil|DRUG: Cisplatin、Fluorouracil
Two-year overall survival rate, Duration: From randomization to evidenced death.

Rate: Number of patients with evidenced death / number of total patients.

2 year survival rate: survival rate at two-year from the randomization, Two years
Progression free survival time, Progression free survival time from randomization to tumor progression based on RECIST or recurrence after curative surgery was calculated by Kaplan Meier methods., two years|Overall survival time, Overall survival time from randomization to evidence death was calculated by Kaplan Meier methods., two years|toxicity, The incidence of adverse events evaluated by CTCAE Ver4.0., At the end of hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (6 months)
No standard treatment has been established for highly advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) invading the major branches of the portal vein except for sorafenib. Some reports suggested that hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy improved survival of these patients. Other reports indicated surgical intervention improved that survival. However, there is no standard adjuvant therapy after liver resection for the patients with HCC with portal vein tumor thrombus in the main or first branch of the portal vein. Our preliminary results showed that combined interferon-alpha and intra-arterial 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) as a postoperative therapy prolonged disease-free and overall survival after liver resection. Hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy using low-dose 5-FU and cisplatin is also promising regimen for advanced HCC.

Herein, the investigators planed the study to evaluate efficacy (two year survival as primary outcome, and overall-survival as secondary outcome) and safety ( as secondary outcome) in hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy with continuous infusion of 5-fluorouracil and systemic administration of interferon-alpha or low-dose 5-FU and cisplatin, and to compare the efficacy as randomized control trial.