A Study of Niraparib in Patients With Ovarian Cancer Who Have Received Three or Four Previous Chemotherapy Regimens
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in ovarian cancer patients who have received three or four previous chemotherapy regimens. Niraparib is an orally active PARP inhibitor. Niraparib will be administered once daily continuously during a 28-day cycle. Health-related quality of life will be measured by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG). Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), RECIST tumor assessments and safety laboratory values.
Ovarian Neoplasms|Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Niraparib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the Investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version1.1), where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeters (mm) in the short axis, PR=At least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. Primary Analysis Population comprised of participants who received 3 or 4 prior lines of therapy (LOT), had homologous recombination deficiency positive (HRDpos) tumors, had platinum-sensitive disease, and were poly(adenosine 5'-diphosphate \[ADP\]-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) naïve., Up to 3 years
Duration of Response (DoR), DoR was defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR until the time of first documentation of disease progression (PD) as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version1.1). DoR was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier (KM) method., Up to 3 years|ORR by HRD Status and Breast Cancer Gene (BRCA) Status, The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR or PR as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version1.1), where CR=Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 mm in the short axis. PR=At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the Baseline sum of the diameters. ORR was evaluated for participants with following characteristics: HRD status (positive, negative and unknown) and BRCA status (mutation positive, wild-type and unknown)., Up to 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version1.1). The exact (Clopper-Pearson) method was used to calculate 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version 1.1) or clinical criteria. Progression is defined using RECIST version1.1 as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameter of target lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival was defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the date of death by any cause. It was calculated as (Date of Death minus First dose date plus 1) divided by 30.4375., Up to 3 years|Time to First Subsequent Therapy (TFST), Time to first subsequent therapy (TFST) was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the date of first subsequent therapy or death, whichever occurs first. It was calculated as (Earlier of \[First dose of first subsequent therapy or death\] minus First dose date plus 1) divided by 30.4375., Up to 3 years
Number of Participants With Any Non-serious Adverse Event (Non-SAE) and Any Serious Adverse Event (SAE), An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with study treatment. Any untoward event resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly or birth defect or any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment was categorized as SAE. Adverse events which were not serious were considered as Non-serious adverse events., Up to a maximum of 71.56 months|Number of Participants With Abnormality in Hematology Parameters, Number of participants with abnormality in hematology parameters were planned to be analyzed., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Abnormality in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Number of participants with abnormality in clinical chemistry parameters were planned to be analyzed., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Abnormality in Vital Signs, Number of participants with abnormality in vital signs were planned to be analyzed., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Abnormality in Physical Examination, Number of participants with abnormality in physical examination were planned to be analyzed., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants Who Were Administered Concomitant Medications, Number of participants who were administered concomitant medications were planned to be analyzed., Up to 3 years
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in ovarian cancer patients who have received three or four previous chemotherapy regimens. Niraparib is an orally active PARP inhibitor. Niraparib will be administered once daily continuously during a 28-day cycle. Health-related quality of life will be measured by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG). Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), RECIST tumor assessments and safety laboratory values.