Feasibility of Electromagnetic Acoustic Imaging of Liver Tumours
A single-centre, industry sponsored, proof-of-concept pilot study to assess the feasibility of Electromagnetic Acoustic Imaging (EMA) as an imaging platform in the visualization of hepatic tumours.
Liver Tumours
DEVICE: Electromagnetic Acoustic Imaging
EMA (colour scale) images will be compared to baseline US grey-scale images for a specific target lesion, as determined by standard of care imaging (US, CT, MRI or PET) and/or histologically proven lesion in a given subject., EMA (colour scale) images will be compared to baseline US grey-scale images for a specific target lesion, as determined by standard of care imaging (US, CT, MRI or PET) and/or histologically proven lesion in a given subject. EMA colour maps and fused EMA colour with grey-scale US imaging will be assigned a binary outcome for lesion detection (yes/no) and positive results will be graded along a categorical incremental scale with respect to level of EMA signal (i.e. 0 (no signal), 1 (minimal signal), 2 (mild signal) to 5 (good)). Expert readers in diagnostic imaging will obtained outcome measures visually., 18 months
US grey-scale and EMA colour maps will be obtained from both target liver lesions and background liver tissue from the same subject and compared., US grey-scale and EMA colour maps will be obtained from both target liver lesions and background liver tissue from the same subject. Comparison will be made visually for difference in signal (grey-scale and colour respectively) between lesion and background liver. Differences will be assigned a binary classification (yes/no) and graded according level of difference (small, medium or large). Expert readers in diagnostic imaging will obtained outcome measures visually., 18 months
STUDY DESIGN Population Single centre pilot study enrolling 30 patients. The study population will comprise of adult patients with documented and characterized focal liver lesion(s) (malignant and/or benign) based on imaging performed at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.

Target lesions and background liver to be studied include:

1. Malignant tumours (metastases (adenocarcinomas and neuroendocrine tumours) and primary hepatic malignancy)
2. Benign tumours (haemangiomas, focal nodular hyperplasia and adenomas)
3. Background liver (remote from target lesion), both normal and fatty liver parenchyma will be included.

Participants must meet the strict inclusion/exclusion criteria for study participation.

Enrollment

1. Patients referred for medical imaging at Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre and have imaging findings consistent with focal hepatic lesion(s) on conventional US, CECT and/or MRI, characteristic of a specific hepatic tumour (benign or malignant), greater than 1.5cm in size and located within a portion of the liver readily amenable to US assessment. An abdominal radiologist and/or surgical oncologist will identify patients. Recruitment will occur prior to baseline imaging (at time of imaging requisition receipt) or immediately following baseline imaging, either by the study coordinator or surgical oncologist.
2. Patients referred for imaged guided percutaneous biopsy of a focal liver lesion will also be identified and recruited in advance of their biopsy appointment/intervention, either by the study coordinator or referring surgical oncologist (at time of receiving or requesting biopsy respectively).
3. In all cases the responsible physician for the patient will be informed of the intent of the participant, in advance of EMA imaging, thus ensuring recruitment occurs within the circle of care.

Imaging

All EMA imaging will be performed using an investigational EMA device/system, located within the Department of Medical Imaging, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre.

Informed consent will be obtained at time of study enrollment, but re-confirmed at time of the EMA study.

Pre-determined target liver lesion(s) (based on baseline diagnostic CT, US or MRI) will be reviewed by an experienced board certified radiologist. Target lesion will be initially evaluated with conventional b-mode US imaging to identify lesion location, size and morphology. Technical feasibility of EMA imaging will be evaluated (imaging window, adequate breath hold etc).

Target lesion will be imaged in two planes (sagittal and transverse) with b-mode, with up to two target lesions assessed per patient. One focal site of background liver parenchyma will also be assessed, remote from the target lesion.

Grey-scale tissue characteristics will be recorded of the target and background parenchyma, including target size, location, and morphology with lesion assigned a conspicuity score by the operator.

EMA imaging will be performed using a dedicated experimental EMA system. Imaging of the pre-determined target lesion(s) and background liver parenchyma will be acquired (see detailed EMA imaging technique below), on a single plane with pre-set region of interest. Qualitative and quantitative parameters will be recorded/stored on the imaging system.

No oral or intravenous contrast agents will be used during this EMA study. Standard or modified ultrasound coupling gel will be used routinely as per standard clinical practice.

Integration with Standard Treatment of Liver Cancer Conventional US together with EMA imaging will be the only additional test/intervention performed as part of this study that are not routinely done for the study population.

Patients will receive standard work-up, treatment and follow-up for their liver lesion(s) according to clinical guidelines and institutional policies. Management and/or treatment will not be modified based on the results of this study.