A Tissue Collection Study in Patients Who Respond to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors to Identify Targets of Tumor-Reactive T Cells.
T Cell Receptor-engineered T-cell therapy (TCR T-cell therapy) offers a potentially transformative approach to treating cancer, but is currently limited by the lack of known targets (Maus and June, 2016; Ping et al., 2018). Arguably the most clinically meaningful way to discover new targets and TCRs for TCR T-cell therapy is to study the tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes of patients that are actively responding to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. These T cells are clonally expanded as a result of checkpoint inhibition and are responsible for the patient's clinical response. The goal of this study is to acquire tumor and blood samples from up to 200 patients with solid tumor malignancies who respond to ICI therapy. T cells will be isolated from these samples and the targets of their TCRs determined using TScan's genome-wide, high-throughput target ID technology. The expected outcome of this study is the discovery of a collection of new targets for TCR T-cell therapy, along with associated TCRs that will then be developed as novel therapies for patients with similar malignancies.
Solid Tumor, Adult
PROCEDURE: Tumor Biopsy
Single Cell Sequencing, Determine, through single-cell sequencing, the TCR repertoire of these tumor and blood samples to identify new targets., 3 years
T Cell Receptor-engineered T-cell therapy (TCR T-cell therapy) offers a potentially transformative approach to treating cancer, but is currently limited by the lack of known targets (Maus and June, 2016; Ping et al., 2018). Arguably the most clinically meaningful way to discover new targets and TCRs for TCR T-cell therapy is to study the tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes of patients that are actively responding to immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy. These T cells are clonally expanded as a result of checkpoint inhibition and are responsible for the patient's clinical response. The goal of this study is to acquire tumor and blood samples from up to 200 patients with solid tumor malignancies who respond to ICI therapy. T cells will be isolated from these samples and the targets of their TCRs determined using TScan's genome-wide, high-throughput target ID technology. The expected outcome of this study is the discovery of a collection of new targets for TCR T-cell therapy, along with associated TCRs that will then be developed as novel therapies for patients with similar malignancies.