Trial of Modifications to Radical Prostatectomy
This trial will evaluate whether the following aspect of surgical technique influence outcome: Lymph node dissection. In some patients, scans taken before surgery show that a lymph node has cancer. Surgeons make sure to remove those affect lymph nodes and all other lymph nodes in the area. However, it is not known whether removing lymph nodes helps prostate cancer patients whose scans do not show positive nodes. In this study, patients with clear scans will either receive a lymph node dissection or not."
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Lymph node template|PROCEDURE: Transverse versus vertical closure|DRUG: antibiotic prophylaxis|DRUG: Hemostatic Agent
Patient-reported hernia, Patient-reported hernia is a routine assessment on post-operative questionnaires completed by prostate cancer patients at MSKCC. The questionnaire asks about hernia near the surgical scar and if there has been a need for surgical repair of the hernia., 1 year
To evaluate whether a modification to the template for lymph node dissection reduces biochemical recurrence rates, Biochemical recurrence is defined as any postoperative PSA of 0.2 ng / mL or higher, or treatment with hormones, radiotherapy or chemotherapy starting six months or more after radical prostatectomy., 2 years|urinary tract infection (UTI), urinary tract infection (UTI) within 10 days of catheter removal. We will use the CDC's definition of UTI: symptomatic UTI diagnosed in patients with positive urine cultures (≥100,000 microorganisms per cm3) and at least one of the following signs or symptoms with no other recognized cause: fever (\>38oC), urgency, frequency, dysuria or suprapubic tenderness.50 UTI is routinely captured by clinical staff as a surgical complication., within 10 days
This trial will evaluate whether the following aspect of surgical technique influence outcome: Lymph node dissection. In some patients, scans taken before surgery show that a lymph node has cancer. Surgeons make sure to remove those affect lymph nodes and all other lymph nodes in the area. However, it is not known whether removing lymph nodes helps prostate cancer patients whose scans do not show positive nodes. In this study, patients with clear scans will either receive a lymph node dissection or not."