A Phase II Trial of PG2 in Patients With Advanced Pharyngeal or Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma Under Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy
Eighty to 90% of SCCHN (squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck) patients in Taiwan were betel quid chewers. Thirty to 40% of them experienced mucositis World Health Organization (WHO) grade 3 from cisplatin/flurouracil (FU) in neoadjuvant chemotherapy setting. This was higher than the 8-11% reported in the Western populations and was related to oral submucous fibrosis from betel quid chewing.Severer toxicities, esp. mucositis, could be anticipated in patients of betel quid chewing treated by concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) with cisplatin/FU.PG2 Injection is proved to be safe for clinical use and is effective in stimulating the recovery of hematopoiesis and immunity from chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression. It also improved the Quality of Life, especially in fatigue, among advanced cancer patients. This study will be investigated the effect of PG2 Injection in relieving the adverse events of concurrent chemoradiotherapy, such as fatigue, myelosuppression, mucositis, body weight loss, and even the compliance of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in treatment of patients with advanced pharyngeal or laryngeal SCCHN.
Cancer-related Fatigue
DRUG: Astragalus polysaccharides 500 mg|DRUG: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Concurrent chemoradiotherapy with PUL (cisplatin/tegafur plus uracil (UFT)/leucovorin) every 2 weeks
Fatigue status by Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), 8 weeks
Symptoms/Quality of Life Assessments by EORTC (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer) QLQ-C30 and H&N 35 questionnaires, 8 weeks|Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), 8 weeks|Incidences of myelosuppression, 8 weeks|Serum inflammatory cytokines and c-reactive protein, 8 weeks|Weight loss, 8 weeks|Incidence of adverse events, 8 weeks|Tumor response, 8 weeks
Eighty to 90% of SCCHN (squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck) patients in Taiwan were betel quid chewers. Thirty to 40% of them experienced mucositis World Health Organization (WHO) grade 3 from cisplatin/flurouracil (FU) in neoadjuvant chemotherapy setting. This was higher than the 8-11% reported in the Western populations and was related to oral submucous fibrosis from betel quid chewing.Severer toxicities, esp. mucositis, could be anticipated in patients of betel quid chewing treated by concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) with cisplatin/FU.PG2 Injection is proved to be safe for clinical use and is effective in stimulating the recovery of hematopoiesis and immunity from chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression. It also improved the Quality of Life, especially in fatigue, among advanced cancer patients. This study will be investigated the effect of PG2 Injection in relieving the adverse events of concurrent chemoradiotherapy, such as fatigue, myelosuppression, mucositis, body weight loss, and even the compliance of radiotherapy and chemotherapy in treatment of patients with advanced pharyngeal or laryngeal SCCHN.