Exercise as Maintenance Therapy in Advanced Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to examine how a multimodality (having or using a variety of methods to do something) exercise intervention may improve survival, function, and quality of life in participants with advanced lung cancer.
Lung Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Metastatic Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Intervention
Change in patient-reported fatigue, Measured by Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F) survey, baseline, week 12, and week 24
Change in cardiorespiratory fitness, Measured by VO2peak, estimated as time on the treadmill, baseline, week 12, and week 24|Change in physical performance battery, total score on short physical performance battery, baseline, week 12, and week 24|Change in muscle mass, measured by mg/kg2 on HU on CT scans, baseline, and week 12|Change in muscle density, measured by mg/kg2 on HU on CT scans, baseline, and week 12|Change in depression, measured by total score of HADS survey, baseline, week 12, and week 24|Proportion of patients who are "fatigued", measured by FACT-F score of \<43, baseline, week 12, and week 24|Uptake of the study, the proportion of total patients approached, screened, and ultimately completing the baseline assessments, date open to accrual until closed to accrual, up to 5 years|Adherence with the intervention defined, the proportion of scheduled sessions attended by participants randomized to the exercise intervention arm, baseline to post 12-week intervention
This study is a randomized control trial at a single institution comparing advanced lung cancer patients undergoing supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care. The intervention is a supervised home-based exercise program that will be coordinated by the MOVE program. The regimen will be 12 weeks in duration, three times a week, and administered by a trained professional virtually.

Participants will be randomized 1:1 to the exercise or usual care arm. Participants will be stratified on baseline frailty by the SPPB.

Primary Objective To compare changes patient-reported fatigue (by FACT-F survey) from baseline to post-intervention in patients with locally advanced and advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy undergoing a supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care.

Secondary Objectives

1. To compare changes in cardiorespiratory fitness measured by VO2peak, estimated as time on the treadmill during ramp treadmill test, from baseline to post-intervention in patients with locally advanced/advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy undergoing a supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care.
2. To compare changes in physical function measured by the short physical performance battery from baseline to post-intervention in patients with locally advanced/advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy undergoing a supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care.
3. To compare changes in muscle mass and muscle density measured on CT scans for disease monitoring and bioimpedance analysis from baseline to post-intervention in patients with locally advanced/advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy undergoing a supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care.
4. To compare changes in depression scores by HADS survey from baseline to post-intervention in patients with locally advanced and/or advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy undergoing a supervised home-based exercise program versus usual care.
5. To compare the proportion of patients who are "fatigued," defined as a FACT-F score of \<43 at post-intervention between the exercise and usual care arms.
6. To evaluate uptake and adherence of supervised home-based exercise program in patients with locally advanced and/or advanced lung cancer receiving maintenance immunotherapy or targeted therapy, measured by the percentage of patients who consented to the study and percentage of training sessions attended by patients in the exercise arm.