Enzalutamide, Radiation Therapy and Hormone Therapy in Treating Patients With Intermediate or High-Risk Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best way to give enzalutamide, radiation therapy, and hormone therapy in treating patients with intermediate or high-risk prostate cancer. Androgens can cause the growth of prostate cancer cells. Antihormone therapy, such as enzalutamide, may lessen the amount of androgens made by the body. Radiation therapy uses high energy x rays to kill tumor cells. Giving enzalutamide, radiation therapy, and hormone therapy may be an effective treatment for prostate cancer.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Recurrent Prostate Cancer|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide|DRUG: Goserelin acetate|DRUG: Leuprolide acetate|RADIATION: Radiation therapy
Acute toxicities, monitored using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 criteria, An exact 2-sided binomial 90% confidence interval will be computed and reported. Toxicity will be monitored and if there is greater than 10% incidence of grade 3 or higher gastrointestinal (GI)/genitourinary (GU)/fatigue lasting more than 7 days despite optimal treatment, the trial will be re-evaluated., Up to 1 month post completion of enzalutamide
Change in PSA levels, Evaluated using linear mixed models. Mixed models will make use of all available data, and can estimate individual levels of change., Baseline up to 6 months|Quality of life (QoL), measured using the EPIC, AUA symptom index, and the PROMIS Fatigue Scale, QoL measures will also be assessed via linear mixed models, as an exploratory evaluation of potential clinical correlates, such as age, race, stage, Gleason score, etc., Baseline up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

1) To assess the safety of the combination of neoadjuvant and concurrent enzalutamide with an luteinizing-hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist and radiation therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To determine the efficacy of the combination of enzalutamide with an LHRH agonist and radiation therapy using prostate specific antigen (PSA) kinetics.
2. To determine the efficacy of the combination of enzalutamide with an LHRH agonist and radiation therapy using PSA nadir.
3. To describe patient-reported outcomes including: Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC), American Urological Association (AUA) Symptom Index, PROstate magnetic resonance (MR) Imaging Study (PROMIS) Fatigue Scale.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive enzalutamide orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months. Beginning 2 weeks after start of enzalutamide, patients receive LHRH agonist therapy with goserelin acetate subcutaneously (SC) or leuprolide acetate intramuscularly (IM) or SC for 6 months (intermediate risk patients) or 24 months (high risk patients) post-radiation therapy. Beginning 8 weeks after the start of LHRH agonist therapy, patients undergo either intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or volumetric arc therapy (VMAT) daily five days a week for 8 weeks.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.