Bright White Light Therapy for the Improvement of Sleep, Fatigue, Distress, Depression, and Anxiety in Hospitalized Leukemia Patients
This trial investigates how well bright white light therapy works in improving sleep, fatigue, distress, depression, and anxiety, side effects that are often experienced during an intense leukemia treatment regimen, in hospitalized leukemia patients. Bright white light therapy may help to control these symptoms, and information from this study may help doctors and nurses learn more about methods for decreasing these symptoms.
Acute Leukemia|Recurrent Leukemia|Refractory Leukemia
OTHER: Best Practice|PROCEDURE: Bright White Light Therapy|OTHER: Survey Administration
Level of fatigue, Will be assessed by Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)-Fatigue. Will fit a mixed model of fatigue as a function of time and group., Up to one month after discharge
Sleep disturbance, Will be assessed by PROMIS-Sleep Disturbance. Will fit a mixed model., Up to one month after discharge|Anxiety, Will be assessed by General Anxiety Disorder-7. Will fit a mixed model., Up to one month after discharge|Depression, Will be assessed by Patient Health Questionnaire Depression Scale. Will fit a mixed model., Up to one month after discharge|Distress, Will be assessed by Distress Thermometer. Will fit a mixed model., Up to one month after discharge
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy of bright white light therapy (BWLT) on fatigue in patients diagnosed with leukemia during their hospitalization.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the efficacy of BWLT on sleep disturbance in patients diagnosed with leukemia during their hospitalization.

I. To assess the efficacy of BWLT on anxiety in patients diagnosed with leukemia during their hospitalization.

III. To assess the efficacy of BWLT on depression in patients diagnosed with leukemia during their hospitalization.

IV. To assess the efficacy of BWLT on distress in patients diagnosed with leukemia during their hospitalization.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive BWLT over 30 minutes in addition to standard of care daily during hospital stay.

GROUP II: Patients receive standard of care during hospital stay.