ABL001 for the Treatment of Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Patients Who Are on Therapy With Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor
This phase II trial studies how well ABL001 works in treating patients with chronic myeloid leukemia who are on therapy with tyrosine kinase inhibitor. ABL001 may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving ABL001 and tyrosine kinase inhibitor together may work better than tyrosine kinase inhibitor alone in treating patients with chronic myeloid leukemia.
Philadelphia Chromosome Negative, BCR-ABL1 Positive Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia
DRUG: Asciminib
Rate of molecular response, For each cohort, will estimate the response rate and 95% confidence interval., At 12 months from the start of the study
Event free survival, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 6 years|Overall survival, The Kaplan-Meier method will be used., Up to 6 years|Treatment-free remission, Frequency, percentage and 95% confidence interval will be tabulated., Up to 6 years|Mismatch repair status, Frequency, percentage and 95% confidence interval will be tabulated., Up to 6 years
Interference score, Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 6 years|Rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) clearance, Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 6 years|MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI)-Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML) score, Descriptive statistics will be provided., Up to 6 years|Incidence of adverse events, Treatment-related unacceptable toxicity will be defined as grade 3 or 4 toxicity that prevents patients from continuing combination therapy despite optimal management., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the clinical activity of the combination of asciminib (ABL001) and a tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in complete cytogenetic response (CCyR) but detectable BCR-ABL1 transcript.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the effect of the combination of ABL001 and TKI on the rate of mismatch repair (MR)4, MR4.5, and sustained MR4.5.

II. To investigate treatment-free remission after at least 2 years of sustained deep molecular remission.

III. To determine the safety of the combination of asciminib and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.

IV. To determine the event-free survival (EFS), survival free from transformation to accelerated and blast phase (TFS), and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of minimal residual disease (MRD) clearance using droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (ddPCR) detecting the BCR-ABL1 fusion transcript.

II. To determine the effect of therapy on quiescent leukemic Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) stem cells (CFSEmax/CD34+).

III. To determine the effect of this combination on mutations in ABL1 and mutations in clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential (CHIP)-associated genes using molecular barcode sequencing.

IV. To determine the effect of therapy on bone marrow progenitors in clonogenic assays.

V. To describe immune effects of the combination of TKI and ABL001. VI. To describe patient reported outcomes (PRO) using the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI)-CML instrument.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive asciminib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) for up to 36 months while receiving standard of care dasatinib or nilotinib in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may continue to receive asciminib after 36 months at the discretion of investigator.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 4-8 weeks for 6 months and then every 3-6 months thereafter.