US Guided Erector Spinae Plane Block in Breast Cancer Surgery: Analgesia, Spread and Immunomodulation
Prospective interventional study
Analgesia|Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: Erector Spinae Plane Block with Bubivacaine|PROCEDURE: Standard General Anaesthesia
Analgesic efficacy of ESPB, Analgesic efficacy of Erector Spinae plabe block by measuring visual analogue scale which ranges from 0 to 10. 0 indicates no pain and 10 indicates maximum imaginable pain, Up to 24 postoperative hours
Spread of the injected dye in Erector Spinae plane, 5 ml of radio-contrast dye will be injected in Erector Spinae plane with different dose of Bupivacaine at the level of 4th thoracic vertebra then spread of the dye will be assessed by CT scan (for example dye spread to first thoracic vertebra level cranially and 9th thoracic vertebra caudally).

3 D reconstruction of the image will be done then Craniocaudal spread of the contrast and spread to Paravertebral space, epidural space or rami of the spinal nerves will be assessed and recorded., Patients will be imaged 15 minutes after the block and before induction of general anaesthesia and surgery.|Dermatomal sensory coverage of ESPB, will be assessed by hyposthesia to cold sensation. Field of sensory block from T1 to T6 will be assessed bilaterally every 3 minutes for 15 minutes after deep ESPB using a piece of cotton soaked in iced water. The adequacy of sensory block T1-T6 will be determined before induction of general anaesthesia., Assessment will be done bilaterally every 3 minutes for 15 minutes after ESPB.
Immunomodulation of ESPB, Immunomodulation of ESPB by measuring Natural Killer cells cytotoxicity. Samples of 1 ml of patients' peripheral blood will be collected on EDTA for flow cytometry to enumerate for both cytotoxic lymphocyte populations (NK cells and cytotoxic t lymphocytes (Ctls)). CD 56 will be used as a marker for NK cells, while CD 8 will be used as a marker for Ctls.

Cytotoxicity assay will be done by measuring the release of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) from cells. Then ratio of LDH released specifically from NK cells will be correlated according to the results of flow cytometry., Before ESPB and 24 hours after the block.
The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect of US guided unilateral ESPB using different volumes of local anaesthetics on analgesic efficacy, dermatomal spread and immunomodulation in breast cancer surgery.

The primary outcome is the analgesic efficacy of the different local anaesthetic volumes of ESPB.

The secondary outcomes are the dermatomal dye spread and sensory coverage, immunomodulation and complications in breast cancer surgery.

Immunomodulation will be assessed by measuring Natural killer cells cytotoxicity.