Urinary Microbiome Differences in Bladder Cancer, Benign Urinary Diseases and Healthy Counterparts in Adult Male Population
The study aims to investigate alterations in the bladder microbiome in adult men with bladder cancer, healthy men, and men with benign urinary disease
Bladder Cancer
OTHER: Investigating differences in the bladder microbiome
Differences in the bladder microbiome, To investigate differences in the bladder microbiome in men with bladder cancer, healthy men, and men with benign urinary disease. The study involves collecting urine using a mid-stream clean-catch technique.

Subsequent DNA extraction, sequencing, and identification will allow the study of the bacteria within the samples. In this way, variations in bacterial profiles between patients will be measured., 36 months
The presence of diverse bacterial representations characterizes a healthy microbiome in both men and women. Differences in bacterial diversity and richness have been observed in subjects with bladder cancer. Investigating the complex relationship between the urinary microbiome and bladder cancer is imperative and requires extensive exploration. The urinary microbiome in patients with bladder cancer has shown high variability in results between studies.

These differences may suggest an interaction with bladder tissue and a potential association; however, it is still unclear whether this association precedes or follows bladder cancer. Regarding phylum-level representations, an abundance of Proteobacteria and Corynebacterium, and a decreased abundance of the genera Ruminococcus and Bifidobacterium have been identified in patients with bladder cancer. The latter two are considered anti-inflammatory bacteria important for mucosal homeostasis. Furthermore, with regard to tumor grade, an increase in Veillonella has been reported in pTa/T1Hg, CIS and T2 tumors; Corynebacterium and Staphylococcus are increased in high-grade NMIBC and low-grade pTa tumors, respectively.

The study aims to investigate possible differences in bacterial representations in patients with bladder cancer, patients with benign urinary diseases and healthy subjects.

Furthermore, possible variations in bacterial profiles in patients with bladder cancer based on tumor stage will be investigated.

differences in bacterial representations in patients with bladder cancer, patients with benign urinary diseases and healthy subjects. In addition to possible variations in bacterial profiles in patients with bladder cancer based on tumor stage.