Supportive Care for Patients Newly Diagnosed With Lung Cancer
The aims of this project are to assess the feasibility of recruiting patients and delivering a nurse-led telephone based palliative care intervention for patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer and to assess if among patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer, the investigators can estimate the effect of a nurse-led telephone based palliative care intervention on quality-of-life, symptom burden and patient satisfaction.
Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Palliative Care
Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung Total Outcome Index Score at 3 Months, Patient Quality of Life including symptoms as measured by the FACT-L (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung Scale). The FACT-L outcome measure reported is the mean change in the TOI subscale (Total Outcome Index) of the instrument, computed as the differences between final and baseline visit scores. The TOI subscale range is 0-84 with a higher score indicating a better quality of life., Baseline and 3 months
Change From Baseline in Patient Satisfaction of Care at 3 Months, Patient satisfaction with care will be assessed by using the FAMCARE- Patient Survey 13 (full unabbreviated scale name). The FAMCARE is a 13 item, 5 point likert-scale validated questionnaire measuring patient satisfaction with cancer care and assessing interactions with health care providers, performance status and symptom burden. Only total scores are reported (no subscales). The total scores range from 13-65 with scores of 52 \> indicating satisfaction with care. The higher the score the better the outcome (better satisfaction with care). In full randomized clinical trials, the estimated minimal important difference is 5 points from baseline to 12 weeks., Baseline and 3 months|Change in Baseline Quality of Clinician Communication at 3 Months, The quality of clinician end-of-life communication will be measured from the patient's perspective by the Quality of Communication Questionnaire (QOC).The QOC consists of 13 items divided into two subscales, six general communication items and seven end-of-life topics. We analyzed the six-item "general communication skills" scale, which scores range from 0-10. The higher the score the better the provider's communication is. We asked patients to answer the questions in reference to the provider who was primarily responsible for managing their lung cancer., Baseline and 3 months|Change From Baseline in Clinician Knowledge of Patient Preferences at 3 Months, Clinician knowledge of patient preferences for life sustaining treatments will be assessed at baseline and at the study end point by asking 2 validated questions to both the clinician and the patient and determining the level of agreement between the responses., Baseline and 3 months
Patients meeting entry criteria will be randomized to the intervention arm, palliative care plus usual care or the usual care arm. Patients randomized to the intervention arm will receive usual oncologic care and phone calls from a nurse. Outcomes measures will be collected at baseline, and 3 months.

The study will be performed at the VA Puget Sound Health Care System. The investigators will recruit individuals (n=40) with lung cancer over 1 year. The primary objective is to test the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention, and recruitment of subjects. The investigators will estimate the effect of a nurse-led telephone based palliative care intervention to improve quality-of-life, symptom burden and patient satisfaction. In addition, using validated instruments, the investigators will assess the potential effect size of the intervention on quality of provider communication and on clinician knowledge of patient preferences for life sustaining therapies. The results of this pilot study will inform a future randomized clinical trial to test the efficacy of the intervention on a larger scale.