Suvorexant for Insomnia to Prevent Delirium in Hospitalized Cancer Patients
This phase IV trial compares suvorexant with standard of care to standard of care alone for improving difficulty sleeping (insomnia) and reducing confusion (delirium) in hospitalized cancer patients. Delirium can lengthen hospitalization, increase the delay of cancer treatment and can even increase the risk of premature death. Suvorexant is in a class of medications called orexin receptor antagonists. It works by blocking the action of a certain natural substance in the brain that causes wakefulness. Giving suvorexant with standard of care to treat insomnia may be more effective compared to standard of care alone in reducing the development of delirium in hospitalized cancer patients.
Advanced Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Delirium|Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Insomnia
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Suvorexant
Recruitment, Feasibility will be defined as the ability to recruit 14 patients to the study with 20% or less study attrition., Up to 1 year
Adherence to standard of care, Adherence to standard of care will be compared within each arm and between arms. Will be monitored with adequate adherence being defined as at 5/7 patients in each group and a between-group difference of no more than 2., Baseline (enrollment), assessed 3-7 days while in the hospital or until discharged, whichever comes first|Change in Insomnia Severity Index score, Reduction of at least two points will be defined as clinical improvement. The Insomnia Severity Index consists of 7 items related to current (i.e., last 2 weeks0 severity of insomnia problems. Three items are rated on a scale of 0-4 where 0=none; 1=mild; 2=moderate; 3=severe; and 4=very severe. The remaining items are answered on similar scales of 0-4 (e.g., 0=not at all; 1=a little; 2=somewhat; 3=much; 4=very much)., Baseline (enrollment), assessed 3-7 days while in the hospital or until discharged, whichever comes first
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Feasibility of a subsequent full scale randomized clinical trial (RCT) conducted at Mayo Clinic using the same methodology as outlined in this protocol (as this study is a pilot).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To generate preliminary data to determine if inpatient standard of care (i.e. sleep enhancement) is followed in both a study arm receiving standard of care alone and one receiving standard of care plus suvorexant.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To collect preliminary data to investigate the hypotheses that use of suvorexant in addition to standard of care for hospitalized adults with cancer will result in a decreased incidence of delirium, increased time to onset of delirium, and decreased number of delirium days in hospital as compared to standard of care alone.

II. To build a data collection and analysis infrastructure for a full scale RCT at Mayo Clinic if feasibility is demonstrated.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive suvorexant orally (PO) once daily (QD) at bedtime and standard of care for hospital associated insomnia for 3-7 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive standard of care for hospital associated insomnia for 3-7 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.