Deep Versus Moderate Neuromuscular Blockade During Laparoscopic Surgery
This is a two period cross-over study randomizing patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery into 2 different groups: group 1 in which patients receive "deep neuromuscular blockade" in the beginning portion of their laparoscopic surgery followed by a period of "moderate blockade" and, group 2 in which patients receive "moderate neuromuscular blockade" in the beginning portion of their laparoscopic surgery followed by a period of "deep blockade". The deep neuromuscular block is defined as post tetanic count of 1 to 2 and the moderate neuromuscular block is defined as 1-2 twitches. In all patients, sugammadex is used to reverse the block at the end of surgery in order to obtain optimal extubating conditions.
Cholecystitis|Endometriosis|Bowel Obstruction|Fibroids|Prostate Cancer|Chronic Kidney Disease|Uterine Prolapse
PROCEDURE: Deep to Moderate NMB|PROCEDURE: Moderate to Deep NMB|DRUG: Rocuronium
Peak Airway Pressures, To determine if a deep NMB can lead to lower peak airway pressures in patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures when compared to a moderate NMB, Intra-operative, from intubation time to extubation time
Abdominal Insufflation Pressure, To compare surgical operating condition by Abdominal Insufflation Pressure in patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures using deep NMB versus moderate NMB, Intra-operative, from intubation time to extubation time|Surgical Rating Scale, To compare surgical operating condition by Surgical Rating Scale (SRS) in patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures using deep NMB versus moderate NMB

Surgical Rating Score scores are on a 1-5 scale with 1 = extremely poor conditions, 2 = poor conditions, 3 = adequate conditions, 4 = good conditions, 5= excellent conditions. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Intra-operative, from intubation time to extubation time
Neuromuscular blockade (NMB) is frequently utilized in laparoscopic procedures to improve surgical conditions by relaxing the abdominal muscles and thus facilitating insufflation with carbon dioxide to optimize surgical view. Increased airway pressures can lead to an increase in alveolar and perivascular edema, a decline in dynamic lung compliance and hypoxemia.

Several studies have investigated surgical view under deep vs. moderate neuromuscular blockade. Literature supports deep neuromuscular blockade providing better operating conditions/view by a surgeon and low airway pressures but, potentially, longer duration to extubation and worse respiratory mechanics at the end of anesthesia versus moderate neuromuscular blockade which shows worse operating conditions/view by a surgeon and worse airway pressures but possibly shorter duration to extubation and better respiratory mechanics at the end of anesthesia.

Thus, there is clearly equipoise with regard to the comparative effectiveness of deep vs medium NMB. Therefore, this study is designed to ascertain if a deep neuromuscular block will decrease the airway pressures in patients undergoing laparoscopic procedures compared to those under a moderate block. A reduction in airway pressures may lead to a decrease in the complications associated with elevated airway pressures including hypoxemia, total static lung compliance, alveolar edema, and long term morbidity. Additionally, the study aims to determine if time from administration of sugammadex to reversal is different between patients that have a moderate NMB as compared to a deep NMB.