The Effect of Acupoint Massotherapy on Relieving Chemotherapy-induced Myelosupression
In this proposed project, the investigator will estimate the effect of massotherapy of acupoints on alleviating chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression among patients with cancer.
Cancer, Breast|Acupressure|Hematopoiesis
DEVICE: The Electric vibrating massager,SAMPO®
The Effect of Acupoint Massotherapy on Relieving Chemotherapy-induced Myelosuppression Among Patients With Cancer., To evaluate the effectiveness and mechanisms of acupressure in the prevention and diminishing of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression among patients with gynecologic cancer.

Using a composite outcome measure consisting of blood counts and plasma. Blood counts: white blood cells, platelets, hemoglobin and red blood cells.

Plasma: Stem cell factor(SCF)、Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor(GM-CSF)、Interleukin-1(IL-1)、 Interleukin-2(IL-2)、Interleukin-3 (IL-3)、Interleukin-6(IL-6)、Interleukin-8(IL-8)、Interleukin-12(IL-12)、Transforming growth factor-B (TGF-B)、Interferon gamma(IFN-r)、Tumor necrosis factor-a(TNF-a), Two years
Chemotherapy is mainly used to treat and control the progression of gynecological cancer, bone marrow suppression the evil side effects after chemotherapy, which may decreasing immune function and further causes serious fatal infections.

Acupuncture is a valid intervention in medical practice and has been used for the improvement of chemotherapy-induced leucopenia. In a systematic meta-analysis study showed that acupoints stimulation has immunomodulatory effect for therapy induced bone marrow suppression in cancer patients. Therefore, in the acupressure group, the technique used is the electric vibrating massager, and patients are taught to apply the strong mode on the 15 specific points,5 min each, 3 times a day during chemotherapy.The intervention follows the points are used to stimulate the hematopoietic function including Hegu (LI4), Quchi (LI11), Xuehai (SP10); Sanyin-jiao (SP6), Taixi (K3), Zusanli(ST36), Taichong (LV3); and Baihui (GV20). The patients of the control group are not admitted any acupoints press-related interventions mentioned above.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of non-invasive acupressure on the prevention of chemotherapy-induced myelosuppression among patients with cancer.