A Study of Siremadlin Alone and in Combination With Donor Lymphocyte Infusion in Acute Myeloid Leukemia Post-allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant
The purpose of this study was to confirm a safe dose and schedule as well as the preliminary efficacy of siremadlin alone, and in combination with donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI), in adult participants with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) who were in remission following allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) but were at high risk for relapse based on the presence of pre-transplant risk factors.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation
DRUG: Siremadlin
Rate of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs) With Siremadlin Monotherapy in Part 1 (Dose Confirmation With Siremadlin Monotherapy), To determine the dose and schedule of siremadlin monotherapy that are tolerable without unacceptable toxicities as defined by the incidence of DLT during the first cycle of treatment in part 1. 'A dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) is defined as an adverse event or abnormal laboratory value assessed, by the Investigator, to be at least possibly related to study treatment (siremadlin monotherapy and/or siremadlin in combination with Donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI)), and as unrelated to disease, disease progression, inter-current illness, or concomitant medications, that occurs during the DLT observation period and meets severity criteria as per protocol., from cycle 1 day 1 (C1D1) to end of Cycle 1 (cycle = 28days)|Time to Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) With Siremadlin in Combination With Donor Lymphocyte Infusion (DLI), in Part 2, To determine the dose and schedule of siremadlin in combination with DLI that are tolerable without unacceptable toxicities (siremadlin recommended dose for combination), defined as time from start of combination phase to first DLT observed during the entire combination phase., From Day 1 of combination Cycle 1 to Day 42 of the last cycle of combination phase (up to 3 cycles of siremadlin/DLI combination). Cycle duration: 42 days|Percentage of Participants Who Are Alive and Maintained Complete Remission (CR) or Complete Response With Incomplete Hematological Recovery (CRi) With no Evidence of Hematologic Relapse (Part 2), This involves evaluating the preliminary efficacy of siremadlin (as monotherapy, in priming and/or maintenance, with or without siremadlin in combination with DLI) on the prevention of hematologic relapse., Over 6 months from start of study treatment strategy (part 2 - siremadlin/DLI treatment strategy)
Participants Who Are Alive and Maintained CR or CRi With no Evidence of Hematologic Relapse (Part 1 -Siremadlin Monotherapy at the Recommended Dose for Part 2 ), This involves evaluating the preliminary efficacy of siremadlin monotherapy at the recommended dose for part 2 on prevention of hematologic relapse, Over 6 months from start of siremadlin monotherapy (part 1)|Time From Start of Study Treatment to the Date of First Documented Hematologic Relapse or Death Due to Any Cause, Whichever Occurs First, Assessment of relapse free survival (RFS) in part 2, From start of study treatment to up to 36 months from last patient first treatment|Cumulative Incidence of AML Relapse at 1 Year and 2 Years After Start of Study Treatment, Cumulative incidence of Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) relapse at one year and 2 years after the start of study treatment in part 1 and 2. Cumulative incidence of relapse (CIR) is defined as the time from start of study treatment to the date of first documented hematologic relapse. CIR was to be analyzed in the FAS population who initiated priming phase at siremadlin recommended dose (RD) in Part 2 and participants at the RD in Part 1., 1 year and 2 years after start of study treatment|Time From Start of Study Treatment to the Date of Death From Any Cause, Assessment of Overall survival (OS) in part 2, From start of study treatment to up to 36 months from last patient first treatment|Incidence of Graft Versus Host Disease (GvHD), Incidence of grade III or IV acute GvHD, and moderate to severe chronic GvHD in part 1. Part 2 never started., From start of study treatment up to approx. 8 months|Percentage of Participants With Permanent Study Treatment Discontinuation Due to GvHD or Other Adverse Events, Percentage of participants with permanent discontinuation of study treatment due to GvHD or other adverse events in part 1. As part 2 was not started, there were no participants to analyze in part 2., From start of study treatment up to approx. 8 months|Time From Start of Study Treatment to the Date of First Documented Occurrence or Worsening of Treatment Emergent Grade III or IV Acute GvHD, or Chronic GvHD Requiring Initiation of Systemic Immunosuppressive Treatment, Assessment of GvHD-free/relapse-free survival (GRPF) in Part 1 and 2. According to the study protocol, time-to-event endpoints in Part 1 were planned to be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method only for participants who received siremadlin at the recommended dose for Part 2., From start of treatment up to approx. 8 months|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Characteristic AUC of Siremadlin, AUC is the area under the concentration vs. time curve in part 1 and was based on plasma concentration. Part 2 did not open for enrollment due to recruitment halt and so no data was analyzed.

AUClast: The AUC from time zero to the last quantifiable concentration point (Tlast) (mass x time x volume-1).

AUC0-t: The area under the concentration vs. time Curve (AUC) from time zero to specified time point., AUC from time 0 to 8hr postdose, AUC0- 8hr (Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 5) in part 1 [each cycle is 28 days for monotherapy]|PK Characteristic Cmax of Siremadlin, The maximum (peak) observed plasma drug concentration following drug administration (mass x volume\^-1) in part 1. Part 2 did not open for enrollment due to recruitment halt and so no data was analyzed., from 0 to 24 hrs post-dose (Cycle 1 Day 1), from 0 to 8 hr post-dose (Cycle 1 Day 5) in part 1 [each cycle is 28 days for monotherapy]|PK Characteristic Tmax of Siremadlin, The time to reach maximum (peak) plasma drug concentration after drug administration (time) in part 1. Part 2 did not open for enrollment due to recruitment halt and so no data was analyzed., from 0 to 24 hrs post-dose (Cycle 1 Day 1), from 0 to 8 hr post-dose (Cycle 1 Day 5) in part 1 [each cycle is 28 days for monotherapy]|PK Characteristic Ctrough of Siremadlin, Concentration that is just prior to the beginning of, or at the end of a dosing interval; corresponding to the pre-dose concentration in part 1 and 2. Part 2 never started., Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 5 in part 1; [each cycle is 28 days]
This is a Phase Ib/II, single arm, open label, multi-center study of siremadlin as monotherapy and in combination with DLI, in adult participants with AML.

The primary purpose of the study was to confirm the safe dose and schedule of siremadlin monotherapy and in combination with DLI. The study is also designed to assess the preliminary efficacy in preventing hematologic relapse.

The study was initially planned to enroll approximately 38 participants starting with a dose confirmation of siremadlin monotherapy (part 1) to determine the siremadlin recommended dose, followed by a treatment strategy of siremadlin/DLI (Part 2).

After enrolling 8 participants (at the starting dose 30 mg/day on days 1-5 of a 28-day treatment cycle) in part 1, Novartis took the decision to put the enrollment in permanent halt and terminate the siremadlin program. For that reason, the enrollment in part 2 will not be open. The Novartis decision was not driven by any safety concerns.

In part 1 approximately 12 participants were planned to be enrolled in 2 cohorts (starting dose 30 mg/day on days 1-5 of a 28-day treatment cycle, dose level +1 at 40 mg/day and dose level -1 at 20 mg/day) and participants were planned to be treated for a maximum of 24 cycles.

In part 2, participants were planned to follow a treatment strategy, which contains three consecutive phases for a maximum of 24 cycles in total:

* A priming phase with siremadlin monotherapy at the recommended dose determined in Part 1 (for at least 2 cycles). Participants who were not eligible for the combination phase of siremadlin/DLI could continue priming phase with siremadlin monotherapy.
* A combination phase of siremadlin in combination with DLI (siremadlin/DLI) for participants who were eligible to receive DLI (up to a total of 3 combination cycles).
* A maintenance phase with siremadlin monotherapy.