FR901228 in Treating Children With Refractory or Recurrent Solid Tumors or Leukemia
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of FR901228 in treating children with refractory or recurrent solid tumors or leukemia. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die
Blastic Phase Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Central Nervous System Germ Cell Tumor|Childhood Choroid Plexus Tumor|Childhood Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Childhood Craniopharyngioma|Childhood Grade I Meningioma|Childhood Grade II Meningioma|Childhood Grade III Meningioma|Childhood High-grade Cerebral Astrocytoma|Childhood Infratentorial Ependymoma|Childhood Low-grade Cerebral Astrocytoma|Childhood Spinal Cord Neoplasm|Childhood Supratentorial Ependymoma|Recurrent Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Childhood Brain Stem Glioma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebellar Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Cerebral Astrocytoma|Recurrent Childhood Ependymoma|Recurrent Childhood Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Childhood Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Childhood Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma|Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Relapsing Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: romidepsin
MTD, defined as that dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience DLT, graded according to the NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 28 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of FR901228 (depsipeptide) in pediatric patients with refractory or recurrent solid tumors.

II. Determine the dose-limiting toxic effects of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients. IV. Assess tolerability of this drug at the solid tumor MTD in patients with refractory or recurrent leukemia.

V. Determine, preliminarily, the antitumor activity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study.

Patients receive FR901228 (depsipeptide) IV over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients with solid tumors receive escalating doses of FR901228 until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Cohorts of 3 patients (6 patients total) with leukemia receive FR901228 as above at the MTD.

Patients are followed for survival.