Lintuzumab-Ac225 in Older Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) Patients
The study is a multicenter, open label Phase I/II trial.

1. Establish the MTD of fractionated doses of Lintuzumab-Ac225 in combination with low dose cytosine arabinoside (Low Dose Ara-C, LDAC) (Phase 1 portion)
2. Determine the response rate (CR + CRp + CRi) to fractionated doses of Lintuzumab-Ac225 alone (Phase 2 portion)
AML
DRUG: Cytarabine (Phase 1 only)|BIOLOGICAL: Lintuzumab-Ac225|DRUG: Furosemide (Phase 1 only)|DRUG: Spironolactone
Phase I: Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Lintuzumab-Ac225, If two or more patients in a cohort experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT), then maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will have been exceeded, and no further dose escalation will occur. If only three patients were treated at a dose level under consideration as the MTD, then up to three additional patients will be accrued. If no more than one of the six patients at that dose level experiences DLT, then that dose level will be confirmed as the MTD., Cycle 1, up to 52 days|Phase II: CR+CRp+CRi, The primary objective is to determine the antileukemic effects, including its ability to produce complete remissions, of Lintuzumab-Ac225., First evaluation at 42 days after treatment
Phase II: PFS, Progression Free Survival, 1 year|Phase II: LFS, Leukemia Free Survival, 1 year|Phase II: OS, Overall Survival, 1 year|Phase II: Toxicity Spectrum, Safety Data, 1 year
The study is a multicenter, open label Phase I/II trial. Phase I, dose-escalation: This portion of the overall study uses a 3+3 design to estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD). The starting dose level will be 1.0 μCi/Kg of Lintuzumab-Ac225 and 15 μg/Kg unlabeled HuM195 divided into 2 equal fractionated doses (0.5 μCi/Kg and 7.5 μg /Kg + 0.5 μCi/Kg and 7.5 μg /Kg) with the first fraction administered approximately 4 - 7 days after 1 cycle of LDAC (20 mg subQ every 12 h x 10 days administered for cytoreduction) and the second fraction administered 4-7 days after the first fraction. Subjects will then go on to receive up to 11 additional cycles of LDAC or until progression of disease. Three to six patients will be treated at each dose level, and dose escalation will proceed if less than 33% of patients in a cohort experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Phase II, efficacy component. The study was designed as a 2- stage minimax design. Patients will be given two infusions of Lintuzumab-Ac225, 4-8 days apart (Day 5-Day 9), initially at the dose level determined to be the MTD in the Phase I portion. The second dose of Lintuzumab-Ac225 may be delayed up to 14 days after the first dose for clinical or scheduling reasons. Response will be initially assessed on or around days 28-42 after the final study drug administration. The primary endpoint (CR+CRp + CRi) will be determined on day 42. Best response will be evaluated from Day 1, Dose 1 until the end of the study.