Exercise-based Pre-habilitation in Bladder Cancer Patients Prior to Radical Cystectomy: a Feasibility Study
The purpose of this study is to explore the feasibility and efficacy of a 12-week, home-based exercise program in bladder cancer patients undergoing curative intent neoadjuvant chemotherapy and RC.
Bladder Cancer|Urothelial Carcinoma
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise program
Health-related quality of life in patients with bladder cancer, Health-related quality of life during neoadjuvant chemotherapy as measured using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Bladder scale (FACT-Bl). The 39 item FACT-B provides subscale scores of physical (7-items), functional (7-items), emotional (6-items), and social/family (7-items) well-being as well as a bladder cancer specific sub-scale. The sum of scores on subscales evaluates a participants' quality of life with higher scores denoting higher quality of life., 12 weeks|Fatigue, Fatigue as measured by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue scale (FACIT-F). The FACIT-F is a 13 item scale with each item measured on a 4-point Likert scale. The total score ranges from 0 to 52. High scores represent less fatigue., 12 weeks|Sleep quality, Sleep quality as measured by the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI is a 19-item tool that assesses usual sleep habits during the past month. A global sleep quality score from 0 to 21 is generated with higher scores denoting worse sleep quality, 12 weeks
Post-surgical complications, Post-surgical complications will be assessed using the Clavien-Dindo grading system, 30 days post-surgery|Post-operative length of stay, Post-operative length of stay measured as the number of days from surgery until initial discharge from hospital, 30 days post-surgery
Chemotherapy completion rates, Chemotherapy completion rate measured as the percentage of patients completing four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, 16 weeks|Post-surgical readmission rates, Post-surgical readmission rates as defined by any readmission to hospital within 90 days of surgery, 90 days post-surgery
The investigators will seek to recruit 20 patients diagnosed with muscle invasive localized urothelial carcinoma of the bladder who are scheduled to receive neo-adjuvant chemotherapy prior to RC from the Queen Elizabeth Health Sciences center in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Participants will be randomly allocated to standard of care treatment versus standard of care plus a multimodal, home-based program including strength and endurance exercises. Outcomes measured will include feasibility data, patient outcomes, and post-surgical complications.