The Effect of the Awareness Development Program on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses
The goal of this clinical trial is to investigate the effect of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses on the levels of knowledge, stigma and perception of efficacy towards suicide in oncology nurses. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. At the end of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses applied to nurses working in the field of oncology and at the end of the 3-month follow-up, is there a difference between the knowledge levels of nurses about suicide according to the pre-programme and control group?
2. At the end of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses applied to nurses working in the field of oncology and at the end of the 3-month follow-up, is there a difference between the perception of efficacy levels of nurses regarding suicide according to the pre-programme and control group.
3. At the end of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses applied to nurses working in the field of oncology and at the end of the 3-month follow-up, is there a difference between the stigma levels of nurses towards suicide according to the pre-programme and control group.
4. Is there a significant relationship between the levels of knowledge about suicide, perception of efficacy regarding suicide, and stigma towards suicide in the pre-test and post-test measurements of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses applied to nurses working in the field of oncology.
5. Is there a significant relationship between the levels of knowledge about suicide, perception of efficacy regarding suicide, and stigma towards suicide in the pre-test-follow-up test measurements of the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses applied to nurses working in the field of oncology.

Participants will participate the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses. Oncology Nurses are expected to complete the pre-test, post-test and follow-up tests.

Researchers will compare control group to see if effect of "the Awareness Development Programme on Suicide Prevention"
Suicide Prevention|Nurses
OTHER: "Awareness Development Program on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses"
the Literacy of Suicide Scale, A minimum score of 0 and a maximum total score of 27 can be obtained from the scale. The scale does not have any cut-off point. The higher the score obtained from the scale, the higher the level of knowledge about suicide., Pretests were applied before the sessions. Intervention sessions of three sessions were implemented 5-8 days apart. Post-tests were administered as soon as the third session was completed. Follow-up tests were conducted 90 days after the post-tests.|Efficacy Perception Scale For Suicide Risk Management, This scale consists of 26 items. The lowest score that can be obtained from this scale is 26 and the highest score is 130, and the scale has no cut-off point. An increase in the score obtained from the scale indicates that nurses' self-perception is becoming more positive in relation to their knowledge and skills in the recognition and management of suicide risk., Pretests were applied before the sessions. Intervention sessions of three sessions were implemented 5-8 days apart. Post-tests were administered as soon as the third session was completed. Follow-up tests were conducted 90 days after the post-tests.|The Stigma of Suicide Scale, There are 55 items in total in the scale. The scale has three subscales: "stigma", "isolation/depression" and "glorification/normalization". Total score is not calculated in the scale. High scores from the "stigma" sub-dimension of the scale indicate high stigma towards suicide. High scores from the "isolation/depression" sub-dimension of the scale indicate that suicide is more associated with depression and isolation, while high scores from the "normalization" sub-dimension indicate that individuals normalize suicide rather than stigmatizing people who commit suicide., Pretests were applied before the sessions. Intervention sessions of three sessions were implemented 5-8 days apart. Post-tests were administered as soon as the third session was completed. Follow-up tests were conducted 90 days after the post-tests.
This research is an intervention study with a pre-test, post-test, follow-up design and control group, which was conducted to examine the effect of the "Awareness Development Program on Suicide Prevention for Oncology Nurses" on oncology nurses' knowledge, stigma and effectiveness perception levels regarding managing suicide risk.