First-line Treatment Of Subjects With Extensive Disease Small Cell Lung Cancer With Weekly Hycamtin And Paraplatin
This study was designed to find the safest and most effective dose of a combination of two chemotherapy drugs, Hycamtin速 (topotecan) and Paraplatin速 (carboplatin), in people with extensive disease small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer, Small Cell
DRUG: topotecan|DRUG: carboplatin
Overall Response Rate, as Determined by Radiologic Evaluation (Utilizing the World Health Organization [WHO] Criteria), Calculated as the Number of Participants With the Indicated Response, The categories of tumor response were: complete response (complete disappearance of all known lesions determined by 2 measurements not less than 4 weeks apart), partial response (\>50% decrease in measurable lesions for at least 4 weeks with no appearance of new lesions), stable disease (no change in tumor size for at least 8 weeks), progressive disease (\>25% increase in measurements of lesions or appearance of new lesions), and not evaluable. The overall response rate was determined using a scan performed within the first 30 days of the first response., Baseline until up to Day 169
Time to Response, Time to response is calculated as the time from the start of treatment until first documented evidence of partial or complete response. The study was terminated after the dose-finding run-in component was completed because of slow recruitment and acknowledgement of a competing Phase II study. Data not available, as the activity stage was not done., From start of treatment to evidence of partial or complete response|Response Duration, Duration of response is calculated as the time from first documented partial or complete response until first documented sign of disease progression or death. The study was terminated after the dose-finding run-in component was completed because of slow recruitment and acknowledgement of a competing Phase II study. Data not available., From time of partial or complete response to disease progression/death|Time to Progression, Time to progression is defined as the time from the start of treatment until the first documented sign of disease progression or death due to any cause, if sooner. The study was terminated after the dose-finding run-in component was completed because of slow recruitment and acknowledgement of a competing Phase II study. Data not available., From start of treatment to disease progression/death|Overall Survival, Calculated as the Number of Subjects Who Died From the Start of Treatment Until Follow-up, Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment until death due to any cause. The study was terminated after the dose-finding run-in component was completed because of slow recruitment and acknowledgement of a competing Phase II study. Data not available, as the activity stage of the study was not conducted., Week 1 up to maximum of Day 519|Grade 1 (Mild) Hematological Toxicities, Hematology evaluation included hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, white blood cell with differential and platelet count. Differential included neutrophils, bands, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. The intensity of each hematological toxicity was assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAEs). Hematological toxicities are summarized by Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) V3.0 Maximum Toxicity Grade., Week 1 through Endpoint (variable based on disease progression or toxicity)|Grade 2 (Moderate) Hematological Toxicities, Hematology evaluation included hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, white blood cell with differential and platelet count. Differential included neutrophils, bands, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. The intensity of each hematological toxicity was assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAEs). Hematological toxicities are summarized by Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) V3.0 Maximum Toxicity Grade., Week 1 through Endpoint (variable based on disease progression or toxicity|Grade 3 (Severe) Hematological Toxicities, Hematology evaluation included hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, white blood cell with differential and platelet count. Differential included neutrophils, bands, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. The intensity of each hematological toxicity was assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAEs). Hematological toxicities are summarized by Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) V3.0 Maximum Toxicity Grade., Week 1 through Endpoint (variable based on disease progression or toxicity|Grade 4 (Life-threatening or Disabling) Hematological Toxicities, Hematology evaluation included hemoglobin, hematocrit, red blood cell count, white blood cell with differential and platelet count. Differential included neutrophils, bands, lymphocytes, monocytes, eosinophils, and basophils. The intensity of each hematological toxicity was assessed according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAEs). Hematological toxicities are summarized by Common Terminology Criteria (CTC) V3.0 Maximum Toxicity Grade., Week 1 through Endpoint (variable based on disease progression or toxicity
This study was designed to find the safest and most effective dose of a combination of two chemotherapy drugs, Hycamtin速 (topotecan) and Paraplatin速 (carboplatin), in people with extensive disease small cell lung cancer.