Sitravatinib Plus Pembrolizumab in Patients With Advanced Treatment-Naïve PD-L1+ Non-Squamous NSCLC
This is a multicohort phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy of pembrolizumab combined with the investigational drug sitravatinib in the frontline treatment of advanced, non-squamous PD-L1 positive NSCLC.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Lung Diseases|Lung Neoplasms|Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|PD-L1 Gene Mutation|Advanced Treatment-Naïve PD-L1|Sitravatinib|Pembrolizumab
DRUG: Sitravatinib|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The Objective Response Rate (ORR): The primary endpoint for this study will be ORR as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) in the main study population. Presented are counts of participants in the following RECIST categories: Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD), up to 267 days
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) in the main study populations (ie groups 1A and 2A) is a secondary endpoint for this study. OS in groups 1B and 2B is an exploratory endpoint. Defined as the time from date of treatment start to death due to any cause, until death or date of last contact, up to 2 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS) in the main study populations (ie groups 1A and 2A) is a secondary endpoint for this study. PFS in groups 1B and 2B is an exploratory endpoint. Defined as time from first dose to first progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD., Until progressive disease, death, or last contact, up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response (DOR) for patients in Group A is a secondary endpoints for this study; DOR for Group B is an exploratory endpoint. Defined as time that measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented or to death due to any cause in the absence of documented PD., Until progressive disease, death, or last contact, up to 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) in Group A is a secondary endpoints for this study, while CBR in Group B is an exploratory endpoint. Defined as percent of patients documented to have a confirmed Complete Response (CR), confirmed Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) documented on at least 1 on-study assessment and including at least 5 weeks on study, up to 2 years|Number of Participants That Experienced at Least 1 Adverse Event, Evaluation of the safety and toxicity profile of the combination of sitravatinib and pembrolizumab in the first-line treatment of patients with non-squamous metastatic NSCLC is a secondary objective in this study. Secondary endpoint is adverse events as per CTCAE v.5. The Safety population is defined as all patients who received any dose of study treatment (i.e., sitravatinib and/or pembrolizumab) and will be used for all safety analyses. Number of participants that experienced at least 1 adverse event., 2 years
This is a multicohort phase 2 study to evaluate the efficacy of pembrolizumab combined with the investigational drug sitravatinib in the frontline treatment of advanced, non-squamous PD-L1 positive NSCLC. For clinical analysis, there will be two patient cohorts defined by PD-L1 status: Cohort 1 for patients with PD-L1 Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) 1-49% and Cohort 2 for patients with TPS≥50%. The investigators will implement a Simon's two-stage design to evaluate the efficacy of sitravatinib in combination with pembrolizumab for each cohort separately.

There will be two groups within each cohort of this study: the "main study population" (Group A) in which patients will receive pembrolizumab plus sitravatinib beginning on Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1D1), and a "pembrolizumab run-in population" (Group B) in which patients will receive pembrolizumab alone for 1 dose followed by pembrolizumab plus sitravatinib beginning C2D1.

The primary endpoint of the trial is the ORR for patients treated with pembrolizumab plus sitravatinib in the main study population. The purpose of the pembrolizumab run-in population is to obtain tissue and blood samples from these patients to be used as controls for correlative studies and to determine the preliminary efficacy of pembrolizumab alone followed by the combination.

Primary Objective

(1) The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of sitravatinib in combination with pembrolizumab in the front-line treatment of patients with advanced non-squamous PD-L1 positive NSCLC by measuring Objective Response Rate (ORR).

Secondary Objectives

1. To evaluate other measures of efficacy including Overall Survival (OS), Progression Free Survival (PFS), Duration of Response (DOR) and Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) in the first-line setting for patients with advanced, non-squamous, PD-L1 positive NSCLC treated with the combination of sitravatinib and pembrolizumab.
2. To evaluate the toxicity profile and tolerability of sitravatinib/pembrolizumab in advanced, treatment naïve, non-squamous, PD-L1 positive NSCLC.

Exploratory Objectives:

1. To evaluate ORR, OS, PFS, DOR, and CBR in patients with advanced, non-squamous, treatment naïve, PD-L1 positive NSCLC who receive pembrolizumab run-in followed by pembrolizumab/sitravatinib combination therapy.
2. To evaluate the CNS activity of sitravatinib/pembrolizumab in patients with advanced, treatment naïve, PD-L1 positive NSCLC by measuring Intracranial Objective Response Rate (iORR) and Intracranial Duration of Response(iDOR) in patients with baseline CNS disease, and Intercranial Progression-Free Survival (iPFS) in all patients.
3. To study correlates of the adaptive and innate immune responses induced by sitravatinib and pembrolizumab treatment in both tumor tissue and peripheral blood.
4. To explore the association between tumor immune contexture and clinical benefit to sitravatinib and pembrolizumab.