Denosumab in Combination With Chemotherapy as First-line Treatment of Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase 2 trial is studying the effect of adding denosumab to standard chemotherapy in the treatment of advanced lung cancer.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Denosumab|DRUG: Zoledronic acid|DRUG: Placebo to Denosumab|DRUG: Standard Chemotherapy|DRUG: Placebo to Zoledronic Acid
Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival was calculated as the time from the date of randomization to the date of death from any cause. Participants last known to be alive were censored at the last contact date., From randomization until the end of study; median time on study was 9.64 months.
Correlation of Tumor Tissue RANK Expression With Overall Survival, To assess whether the treatment effect on overall survival was correlated with receptor activator of nuclear factor (NF)-κB (RANK) protein expression in tumor cells, RANK expression in archival tumor samples was measured using immunohistochemistry. The intensity of stain in the cytoplasm, membrane, and total was categorized as 0 (negative), 1+ (weak), 2+ (moderate) or 3+ (strong); All intensity is the sum of levels +1, +2 and +3. In addition, an H-score was calculated using the following formula: H-score=(percentage of cells of weak×1)+(percentage of cells of moderate×2)+(percentage of cells of strong×3). The maximum H-score was 300, corresponding to 100% of cells with strong intensity.

The correlation between RANK expression level and OS was evaluated using a Cox proportional hazard models that included RANK expression level stratified by the randomization stratification factors in the corresponding treatment group., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Correlation of Tumor Tissue RANK Ligand Expression With Overall Survival, To assess whether the treatment effect on overall survival was correlated with RANK ligand (RANKL) protein expression in tumor cells, RANKL expression in archival tumor samples was measured using immunohistochemistry. The intensity of stain in the cytoplasm was categorized as 0 (negative), 1+ (weak), 2+ (moderate) or 3+ (strong); All intensity is the sum of levels +1, +2 and +3. In addition, an H-score was calculated using the following formula: H-score=(percentage of cells of weak×1)+(percentage of cells of moderate×2)+(percentage of cells of strong×3). The maximum H-score was 300, corresponding to 100% of cells with strong intensity.

The correlation between RANKL expression level and OS was evaluated using a Cox proportional hazard models that included RANKL expression level stratified by the randomization stratification factors in the corresponding treatment group., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants with a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on modified RECIST 1.1 achieved over the study duration.

CR: Disappearance of all target and non target lesions, normalization of tumor marker levels and no new lesions.

PR: At least a 30% decrease in the size of target lesions with no progression of non-target lesions and no new lesions, or, disappearance of target lesions with persistence of one or more non-target lesions and/or maintenance of tumor marker levels above normal limits and no new lesions.

Participants who underwent surgical resection while on study were not evaluated for response after the surgery. Participants who did not meet the criteria for an objective response by the analysis cutoff date were considered non-responders., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Correlation of Tumor Tissue RANK Expression With Objective Response Rate, To assess whether the treatment effect on objective response rate (ORR) based on RECIST 1.1 was correlated with RANK protein expression in tumor cells, RANK expression in archival tumor samples was measured using immunohistochemistry. The intensity of stain in the cytoplasm, membrane, and total was categorized as 0 (negative), 1+ (weak), 2+ (moderate) or 3+ (strong); All intensity is the sum of levels +1, +2 and +3. In addition, an H-score was calculated using the following formula: H-score=(percentage of cells of weak×1)+(percentage of cells of moderate×2)+(percentage of cells of strong×3). The maximum H-score was 300, corresponding to 100% of cells with strong intensity.

The correlation between RANK expression level and ORR was evaluated within each treatment group using a logistical regression model that included RANK expression value as an independent variable and stratified by the randomization stratification factors. The odds ratio and 95% confidence interval are reported., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Correlation of Tumor Tissue RANKL Expression With Objective Response Rate, To assess whether the treatment effect on objective response rate (ORR) based on RECIST 1.1 was correlated with RANKL protein expression in tumor cells, RANKL expression in archival tumor samples was measured using immunohistochemistry. The intensity of stain in the cytoplasm was categorized as 0 (negative), 1+ (weak), 2+ (moderate) or 3+ (strong); All intensity is the sum of levels +1, +2 and +3. In addition, an H-score was calculated using the following formula: H-score=(percentage of cells of weak×1)+(percentage of cells of moderate×2)+(percentage of cells of strong×3). The maximum H-score was 300, corresponding to 100% of cells with strong intensity.

The correlation between RANKL expression level and ORR was evaluated within each treatment group using a logistical regression model that included RANKL expression value as an independent variable and stratified by the randomization stratification factors. The odds ratio and 95% confidence interval are reported., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical benefit rate was defined as the percentage of participants with an objective response (CR or PR) or stable disease (SD) or better for at least 16 weeks achieved over the study duration. If a participant underwent surgical resection while on study, the participant was not evaluated for response after the surgery. Participants who did not meet the criteria for clinical benefit by the analysis cutoff date were considered as non-responders., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the first observed disease progression per modified RECIST 1.1 criteria or death from any cause. Participants last known to be alive who did not experience disease progression were censored at their last imaging assessment date, last contact date if they were in the survival follow up phase, end of the study date, or the primary analysis cut-off date, whichever was first. If a participant underwent surgical resection while on study, the participant was censored at the last evaluable imaging assessment prior to the surgery., From randomization until the data cut-off date of 29 July 2016; median time on study was 9.64 months.|Serum Denosumab Trough Levels in Participants Who Received Q3W Dosing, Serum samples were analyzed for denosumab using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) following a validated procedure. The lower limit of quantification for the assay was 20 ng/mL., Prior to dosing at day 8 and weeks 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24.|Serum Denosumab Trough Levels in Participants Who Received Q4W Dosing, Serum samples were analyzed for denosumab using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) following a validated procedure. The lower limit of quantification for the assay was 20 ng/mL., Prior to dosing at day 8 and weeks 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, An adverse event (AE) is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical trial participant. The event does not necessarily have a causal relationship with study treatment.

A serious adverse event is defined as an AE that meets at least 1 of the following criteria

* fatal
* life threatening
* requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization
* results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity
* congenital anomaly/birth defect
* other medically important serious event Treatment-related AEs include only TEAEs for which the investigator indicated there was a reasonable possibility they may have been caused by study drug.

Fatal adverse events include only deaths reported on the Adverse Event Case Report Form., From first dose of study drug to the end of study date; the median (min, max) duration was 10.0 (0.2, 41.4) and 9.4 (0.2, 42.9) months for Placebo and Denosumab respectively.
This is a global randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study in patients with Stage IV untreated non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with or without bone metastasis. Eligible participants are to receive 4 to 6 cycles of a standard of care platinum-doublet chemotherapy regimen. Participants will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to receive denosumab or matching placebo with the first investigational product dose coinciding with participant's first cycle of chemotherapy and continuing until the primary analysis, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, death, or lost to follow-up. Participants who discontinued the investigational product early (ie, before primary analysis) were followed for disease status and survival. The primary analysis took place when 149 events of death had been reported. All participants were followed for 2 years after the last dose of blinded investigational product.