Doxorubicin Plus Dual Checkpoint Blockade for Soft Tissue Sarcomas
This is an open-label, non-randomized, single-institution, single arm Phase II study conducted using a Simon two-stage design with an additional safety lead-in. The overall objective is to determine the efficacy of combination doxorubicin with dual checkpoint blockade with anti-CTLA-4 antibody AGEN1884 and anti-PD-1 antibody AGEN2034. The investigators will estimate the progression-free survival rate at 6 months (PFS6mo) of doxorubicin plus AGEN1884/AGEN2034 in comparison to historical PFS6mo with doxorubicin monotherapy, calculated as the mean from two large randomized Phase 3 clinical trials.
Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Advanced Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Balstilimab|DRUG: Zalifrelimab|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Botensilimab
Determine the progression-free survival rate, Determine the progression-free survival rate at 6 months of combination therapy with doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 6 months
Determine the overall response rate, Determine the overall response rate of combination therapy with doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 3 years|Determine the clinical benefit rate, Determine the clinical benefit rate of combination therapy with doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 3 years|Determine the duration of response, Determine the duration of response of combination therapy with doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 3 years|Determine the incidence of adverse events, Determine adverse events occurring with combination therapy of doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 3 years
Measure changes in tumor-infiltrating and circulating immune cells, To measure the change in proportion of various immune cells in tumor biopsies and peripheral blood samples and correlate with response outcomes as a result of combination therapy with doxorubicin, AGEN1884, and AGEN2034 in anthracycline-naïve patients with advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcomas., 3 years
The primary endpoint for the study is PFS6mo by RECIST 1.1. The sample size calculation is based on a Simon Two-Stage design with incorporation of early stopping rules for safety and futility (See section 9 for statistical considerations). The Investigators will enroll up to 35 patients on the study to obtain 28 evaluable patients for the primary endpoint. Safety of the combination will be evaluated after the first six patients complete the DLT observation period of 9 weeks. This lengthy DLT period is designed to capture safety and toxicity profile, understanding that immune-related toxicities from checkpoint inhibitors may not emerge immediately. This will also ensure adequate evaluation of potential cardiac and hepatic toxicity from combination doxorubicin and checkpoint inhibitor therapy. If two or more patients experience DLT in the initial safety lead-in cohort, the regimen will be declared intolerable. Any patients who do not complete study therapy through the 9-week DLT observation period for any reasons other than toxicity will be replaced for safety lead-in assessment. If fewer than two patients experience DLT, the investigators will proceed to expansion to complete enrollment of 15 patients in Stage 1. Following enrollment of stage one, accrual will pause for analysis of efficacy. If 6 or fewer of the 15 patients are progression-free at 6 months, the investigators will halt the study for futility. If 7 or more patients are free from progression, then the investigators will proceed with enrollment of 13 additional patients to complete stage 2. the investigators are powered to detect improvement in 6-month PFS rate to 63.4% with the combination over the 43.4% historical PFS6mo.