Study of Deferasirox in Iron Overload From Beta-thalassemia Unable to be Treated With Deferoxamine or Chronic Anemias
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the oral iron chelator Deferasirox on liver iron content after one year of treatment in patients with iron overload from repeated blood transfusions. Beta-thalassemia patients unable to be treated with deferoxamine or patients with rare chronic anemias such as Myelodysplastic Syndrome, Fanconi's Syndrome, Blackfan-Diamond Syndrome, and Pure Red Blood Cell Anemia are eligible for this study. Liver iron content will be measured by liver biopsy at the beginning of the study and after one year of treatment. However, those patients living in the San Francisco/Oakland area may have a SQUID in place of the liver biopsy if the biopsy is not medically possible for them. The SQUID is a non-invasive magnetic means to measure liver iron content.
Beta-thalassemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Fanconi Syndrome|Anemia, Diamond-Blackfan|Anemia, Aplastic
DRUG: Deferasirox
To evaluate the effects of treatment on the liver iron content(LIC)
Evaluate tolerability profile|Estimate the absolute and relative change of LIC and total body iron excretion (TBIE) rate|Evaluate the relationship between LIC and potential surrogate markers|Evaluate the relationship between PD and safety variables
The purpose of this study is to determine the effects of the oral iron chelator Deferasirox on liver iron content after one year of treatment in patients with iron overload from repeated blood transfusions. Beta-thalassemia patients unable to be treated with deferoxamine or patients with rare chronic anemias such as Myelodysplastic Syndrome, Fanconi's Syndrome, Blackfan-Diamond Syndrome, and Pure Red Blood Cell Anemia are eligible for this study. Liver iron content will be measured by liver biopsy at the beginning of the study and after one year of treatment. However, those patients living in the San Francisco/Oakland area may have a SQUID in place of the liver biopsy if the biopsy is not medically possible for them. The SQUID is a non-invasive magnetic means to measure liver iron content.