Osimertinib and Necitumumab in Treating Patients With EGFR-Mutant Stage IV or Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Who Have Progressed on a Previous EGFR Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor
This phase I trial studies the safety, side effects and best dose of necitumumab when given together with osimertinib in treating patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer that is stage IV or has come back after a period of improvement (recurrent) and who have progressed on a previous EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as necitumumab, may induce changes in body's immune system and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Osimertinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving necitumumab with osimertinib may be safe, tolerable in treating patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer.
Metastatic Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography Test|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Elastography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Necitumumab|DRUG: Osimertinib
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of necitumumab combined with osimertinib, Defined as the highest dose tested in which only 0 or 1 out of 6 evaluable patients experience a dose limiting toxicity, as graded by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The recommended phase II dose (RP2D) will be the MTD, pending review of other safety/tolerability considerations. The RP2D will be determined based upon the MTD in the dose escalation portion as well as other considerations such as toxicities at additional courses. After completing the 4 expansion cohorts, the dose level will be re-reviewed to confirm that the RP2D is in fact well tolerated., 21 days|Incidence of toxicity, Will be graded according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0. Grade and attribution will be summarized by dose level, cycle, organ system and type., Up to 1 year
Objective response rate (ORR) in patients treated at the recommended phase II dose, Will be graded according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1. ORR will be calculated as the percent of patients in each of the expansion cohorts whose best confirmed response is complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Point estimates and associated 90% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS), Kaplan-Meier plots will be used to summarize the progression-free survival. Medians and associated 95% confidence intervals will be calculated., From start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 1 year|Disease control rate (DCR) with combination osimertinib and necitumumab, DCR will be the proportion of patients in each of the expansion cohorts whose best confirmed response is CR, PR, or stable disease. Point estimates and associated 90% confidence intervals will be calculated., Up to 1 year
Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of osimertinib in combination with necitumumab, The PK analyses will be descriptive and will permit comparison of the plasma levels of osimertinib and its metabolites in the presence of necitumumab (in this trial) with levels in other studies where osimertinib is given alone or combined with other drugs. We will estimate mean PK parameters as well as the between-patient variability. Results will be listed and plotted, by dose as well as by objective response, qualitative patterns will be described, and means and standard deviations will be calculated for use in planning follow-up studies., Prior to dosing on day 1 of course 2, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 hours after dosing in course 2 (dose escalation and cohort A); prior to treatment on day 1 of course 2 for up to 4 courses (cohorts B, C, and D)|Presence of biomarkers of response and resistance to previous EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors, Will study biopsied tumor tissue as well as serial plasma deoxyribonucleic acid specimens. For each cohort alone, Fisher's exact test, and in a stratified analysis including all cohorts, an exact logistic regression model, will be used to examine the association with objective response and a Cox proportional hazards model will be used to examine the association with PFS. Odds ratio's and hazard ratio's will be estimated and associated 90% two-sided confidence intervals will be constructed. Testing will be one-sided, at the 0.05-level., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of osimertinib (AZD9291) in combination with necitumumab in patients with EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity in these NSCLC patients in select cohorts of patients with EGFR-activating mutations including EGFR Exon 20 insertion mutations.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of osimertinib (AZD9291) in combination with necitumumab.

II. To explore biomarkers of response and resistance to previous EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) and with the combination by studying biopsied tumor tissue at baseline and at progression, as well as serial plasma deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) specimens.

III. To create patient derived xenograft (PDX) models of patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC both prior to study initiation and at acquired resistance to treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of necitumumab.

Patients receive osimertinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and necitumumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scans (MUGA) and computed tomography (CT) scan, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood sample collection throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks, 8 weeks, every 12 weeks for 1 year, and annually thereafter.