Quality of Life Assessment of Radiotherapy in Recurrent Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of this study is to examine the uses of a mobile health-based assessment and symptom monitoring platform.
Head and Neck Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer|Cervical Cancer|Endometrial Cancer
OTHER: Ecologic Momentary Assessment (EMA)
Patient satisfaction via qualitative interview and app based EMAs, Proportion of patients satisfied with the mHealth app. Patient satisfaction will be collected during the follow-up qualitative interview, and data will be analyzed using qualitative methods. The intervention will be deemed feasible if at least 75% of patients report that the app is easy to use and useful. Specifically, we will describe how often the app is used to measure symptoms, treatment effects, medication adherence, and pain, as well as HR-QOL and barriers to care., 75 days|Patient perceptions of mHealth platform, Proportion of patients who deem the mHealth app easy to use and useful. To gauge patient perception of mHealth platform with feedback from qualitative interview and app based EMAs. The final survey asks questions on the patients' thoughts, feelings, and opinions about the intervention they received over the course of the study., 75 days
Feasibility of intervention, Proportion of patients who complete the phone-based surveys. Feasibility of the study will be determined by the proportion of participants who complete \>/=75% of phone-based assessments. The app allows for the completion rate to be quantified., 75 days|Patient-reported barriers to care, Proportion of patients who report barriers to care as indicated by feedback from qualitative interview and app based EMAs., 75 days|Changes in weekly FACT-HN, FACT-Cx, or FACT-En scores over time, Proportion of changes in weekly FACT-HN, FACT-Cx, or FACT-En scores over time as indicated by feedback from qualitative interview and app based EMAs., 75 days|Completion rates of daily questionnaires, Proportion of daily questionnaires completed as indicated by EMA completion rate., 75 days
This study will involve patients who have been diagnosed with head and neck or gynecologic cancers and are receiving radiation treatments via the QUAD shot regimen. It is a single arm pilot trial designed to provide information on the ease of use, feasibility, and perceived usefulness of a smartphone application to monitor symptoms and quality of life during cancer treatment, as well as assess barriers to care and perceptions of the smartphone app.

Patients will download the study app onto their personal smartphone, if the phone is compatible with the app, or a study smartphone will be loaned to them. The smartphone app will first ask patients to complete the 15-25 minute baseline survey, followed by one daily brief survey that ask about symptoms, quality of life, and barriers for 75 days. At the end of this period, the smartphone app will prompt the patient to complete a final survey, followed by a brief in-person or telephone interview to assess opinions about the app. Patients' symptoms, treatment effects, medication adherence, pain, quality of life, and general barriers to care will be assessed with questionnaires to measure the impacts of the mobile health-based assessment platform. Results from this study will be for research only and will not impact treatment decisions.