IRX-2 Regimen in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Stage II, III, or IVA Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
The purpose of this study is to determine whether a pre-operative regimen of the study drug, IRX-2, a human cell-derived biologic with multiple active cytokine components, plus a single dose of cyclophosphamide, followed by 21 days of indomethacin, zinc-containing multivitamins, and omeprazole is active in treatment of oral cavity cancer. The regimen is intended to stimulate an immune response against the cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity
BIOLOGICAL: IRX-2|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Indomethacin|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Zinc-containing multivitamin|DRUG: Omeprazole
Event-free Survival (EFS)- Number of Participants With an Event, EFS is defined as the time from randomization until progression after surgery, or at surgery, if failure to resect gross disease, or at time of death from any cause after randomization., From randomization up until the data cut-off date of June 2, 2022 (approximately 76 months)|EFS- Time to Event, EFS is defined as the time from randomization until progression after surgery, or at surgery, if failure to resect gross disease, or at time of death from any cause after randomization. Assessment of progression/disease recurrence occurred by physical exam and annual imaging for the duration of the follow up portion of the study. Median EFS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up until the data cut-off date of June 2, 2022 (approximately 76 months)
Overall Survival (OS)- Number of Participants With an Event, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., From randomization up until the data cut-off date of June 2, 2022 (approximately 76 months)|OS- Time to Event, OS was defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. Data for partipants who were alive at the end of the study were censored at the last known alive date. Median OS was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From randomization up until the data cut-off date of June 2, 2022 (approximately 76 months)
This study will assess the activity and safety of the IRX Regimen in participants with newly diagnosed, untreated, surgically resectable squamous cell cancer of the oral cavity. Participants will be randomly assigned to receive either Regimen 1: IRX-2 + cyclophosphamide + indomethacin + zinc + omeprazole, or Regimen 2: cyclophosphamide + indomethacin + zinc + omeprazole.

The primary study hypothesis is that the Regimen 1 with IRX-2 prolongs event-free survival and overall survival when compared to Regimen 2 without IRX-2.

Subjects will be randomized to either Regimen 1 or Regimen 2 on a 2:1 basis and treated prior to surgery.