Selinexor in Initial or Refractory and/or Relapsed Richter's Transformation
This is a multi-center, phase 2, single arm, open-label study of oral selinexor monotherapy in patients with Richter's Transformation, arising in the setting of prior chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), after at least one chemo-immunotherapy regimen for CLL.
Richter's Transformation
DRUG: selinexor
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response (Overall Response Rate), Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the point estimate of the percentage of patients who have complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests. CR was defined as disappearance of all evidence of disease, and PR was defined as ≥ 50% regression of measurable disease and no new sites., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Number of patients who achieved CR (complete disappearance of all detectable evidence of disease). Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Number of Participants With Partial Response (PR), Number of patients whose best overall response to study treatment was PR (≥ 50% regression of measurable disease and no new sites). Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Number of Participants With Stable Disease (SD), Number of patients whose best overall response to study treatment was SD (failure to attain criteria for CR or PR, or to meet criteria for PD). Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Number of Participants With Progressive Disease (PD), Number of patients whose best overall response to study treatment was PD (any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir). Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Number of Participants With Not Evaluable (NE) Response, Number of patients who could not be assessed quantitatively for disease response for any reason., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.
Percentage of Participants With Disease Control (Disease Control Rate), Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved CR, PR, or SD lasting for at least 8 weeks. CR was defined as disappearance of all evidence of disease. PR was defined as ≥ 50% regression of measurable disease and no new sites. SD was defined as failure to attain criteria for CR or PR, or to meet criteria for PD. Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.|Duration of Progression Free Survival (PFS), Number of days calculated from date of start of study therapy to date of progression based on IWG criteria, or date of death if progression did not occur. Patients who dropped out prior to study end without evidence of disease progression were censored at the day they were last known to be alive. Patients without documented disease progression or recurrence were censored at the date of last disease assessment. Disease response was assessed using the International Working Group (IWG) Response Criteria for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (Cheson 2007), including assessment of lymph node, spleen and liver lesions by PET (positron emission tomography) scan and assessment of bone marrow biopsies by morphologic, immunohistochemistry, and flow cytometry tests.

., Assessments were performed at Screening or Cycle 1/Day 1 prior to dosing and on Cycle 3/Day 1 and alternate cycles thereafter until disease progression, study drug intolerability had been reached, study withdrawal, or death.
Multi-center, phase 2, single arm, open-label study of oral selinexor monotherapy in patients with Richter's Transformation, arising in the setting of prior CLL, documented by histologically confirmed lymphoma, including diffuse large B-cell (DLBCL) and immunoblastic variants. Eligible patients must have had at least one prior regimen for CLL. Approximately 50 patients are anticipated to be treated in this study. Eligible patients following screening will receive selinexor orally twice weekly at a dose of 60 mg. The selinexor dose may be increased to 80 mg after Cycle 1 unless clinically contraindicated. Patients may continue in multiple treatment cycles at a given dose; there is no maximum treatment duration. Each cycle is 28 days. Dose adjustments will be made as appropriate by the investigator.

Patients who were treated twice weekly for weeks 1-3 under a previous version of the protocol may, at the discretion of the investigator, have had the frequency of selinexor dosing increased to twice weekly for weeks 1-4. If there was no contraindicated toxicity, the selinexor dose may have been increased to 80 mg at Cycle 3.