PH Weighted Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer MRI-Based Surgical Resection to Improve Survival in Patients With Glioblastoma
This phase III trial compares pH weighted chemical exchange saturation transfer (CEST) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)-based surgical resections to standard of care surgical resections for the treatment of patients with glioblastoma. Standard of care therapy for glioblastoma is surgery to remove tumor tissue that enhances on standard MRI imaging, however, it has been shown that significant tumor burden exists in the region around the tumor tissue that does not enhance with standard MRI. MRI is a procedure in which radio waves and a powerful magnet linked to a computer are used to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. These pictures can show the difference between normal and tumor tissue. CEST MRI is a technique that uses differences in the tissue environment, like protein concentration or intracellular pH, to generate contrast differences. CEST MRI may identify tumor tissue that does not enhance with standard of care MRI. PH weighted CEST MRI based surgical resection may be more effective compared to standard of care surgical resection in treating patients with glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Chemical Exchange Saturation Transfer Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Contrast-enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Surgical Procedure|DRUG: Temozolomide
Progression free survival, Multivariate cox and log rank tests will be used to compare progression free survival., Up to 2 years
Overall survival, Multivariate cox and log rank tests will be used to compare overall survival., Up to 2 years|Surgical complication rate, Independent sample Chi-squared tests will be used to compare differences in surgical complication rate., Up to 2 years|Quality of life, Independent sample Chi-squared tests will be used to compare differences in post-operative Karnofsky performance scale changes. The Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) is a standardized measure used to assess a patient's ability to perform everyday tasks. It ranges from 0 to 100, with higher scores indicating better function., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the efficacy of potential of hydrogen (pH) sensitive MRI based resections of glioblastoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To find surgical and adjuvant therapies to treat infiltrating glioblastoma cells.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients undergo surgical resection with standard intraoperative guidance using contrast-enhanced MRI. Patients also undergo post operative standard of care radiation therapy over 30 fractions and receive standard of care temozolomide orally (PO) for 6 weeks. Additionally, patients undergo MRI during follow up.

GROUP II: Patients undergo surgical resection with intraoperative guidance using CEST MRI. Patients also undergo post operative standard of care radiation therapy over 30 fractions and receive standard of care temozolomide PO for 6 weeks. Additionally, patients undergo MRI during follow up.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at months 3, 6, 12, and 24.