Osteopathic Manipulative Treatment in Oncology Patients' Management
The aim of present study was to study the osteopathic manipulative effects on pain relief and quality of life improvement on hospitalized oncology geriatric patients. A non-randomized comparison trial was performed in Unit of Oncology Rehabilitation, Palazzolo Institute, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation ONLUS, Milan, Italy, from September 2015 to March 2016. 23 older oncology patients were unrolled and allocated in two experimental groups: study group (OMT group, N=12) underwent to osteopathic manipulative treatment associated to physiotherapy and control group (PT group, N = 11) underwent only physiotherapy. At enrollment (T0), 23 recruited oncology patients completed the socio-demographic forms and were evaluated, from external examiner, pain intensity and quality of life. All patients were revaluated at the end of treatment (T4) for quality of life and every week (T1, T2, T3 and T4) for pain intensity. Standard level of significance was p\<0.05.
Geriatric Oncology|Osteopathy in Other Diseases Classified Elsewhere
OTHER: Osteopathic manipulative treatment|OTHER: Physiotherapy
Pain, Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) is a validated scale to measure the intensity of pain, with numbers between 0 and 10, with 0 representing absence of pain and 10 the worst possible pain experienced by the patient., Once a week for a total 4 weeks
Quality of life, European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQC30) is a validated multidimensional health-related quality of life (HRQOL) questionnaire composed of six functional scales, three symptom scales, and several additional single item scales., At baseline and up to 4 weeks.
The aim of present study was to study the osteopathic manipulative effects on pain relief and quality of life improvement on hospitalized oncology geriatric patients. A non-randomized comparison trial was performed in Unit of Oncology Rehabilitation, Palazzolo Institute, Don Carlo Gnocchi Foundation ONLUS, Milan, Italy, from September 2015 to March 2016. 23 older oncology patients were unrolled and allocated in two experimental groups: study group (OMT group, N=12) underwent to osteopathic manipulative treatment associated to physiotherapy and control group (PT group, N = 11) underwent only physiotherapy. At enrollment (T0), 23 recruited oncology patients completed the socio-demographic forms and were evaluated, from external examiner, pain intensity and quality of life. All patients were revaluated at the end of treatment (T4) for quality of life and every week (T1, T2, T3 and T4) for pain intensity. Standard level of significance was p\<0.05.