EXERT-BCH Exercise Regimen to Improve Muscle Mass After Treatment of Breast Cancer
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate the outcomes of two standard of care group exercise regimens to increase muscle mass in women who have been treated with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Control Arm ACSM Guidelines|OTHER: Experimental Arm 6-12-25 repetitions per set
Determine changes in muscle and fat mass during and after each exercise regimen, The experimental group will follow a 6-12-25 program geared at optimizing hypertrophy and metabolism via high volume and increased time under tension., The exercise program will last for 8 weeks and continuously monitored by the PI and clinical team.
Determine adherence defined as number of sessions attended of total sessions, The experimental group will follow a 6-12-25 program geared at optimizing hypertrophy and metabolism via high volume and increased time under tension., The exercise program will last for 8 weeks and continuously monitored by the PI and clinical team.|Determine changes in strength measured via load calculations (repetitions x sets x weight), The experimental group will follow a 6-12-25 program geared at optimizing hypertrophy and metabolism via high volume and increased time under tension., The exercise program will last for 8 weeks and continuously monitored by the PI and clinical team.
This protocol seeks to analyze patient outcomes of two standard of care, time-efficient, monitored group exercise regimens of high-load resistance training to improve hypertrophy in women who have been treated for ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive carcinoma of the breast.

As part of the standard exercise program, patients will undergo a fitness evaluation at the AHNCI Exercise Oncology and Resiliency Center before the start of the exercise program. This evaluation will be used to customize the patient exercise program. The exercise program consists of small group training sessions held approximately 3 times per week at the center for 12 weeks (3 months). The fitness evaluation and exercise program are standard of care. Participation in this study will last the duration of the exercise program, about 3 months. All group exercise sessions will be closely monitored by the center staff who are Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialists (CSCS).