A Study of Olaratumab (IMC-3G3) in Previously Treated Participants With Unresectable and/or Metastatic Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tumor response of stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1 criteria)\] at 12 weeks in participants with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST) harboring platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRα) mutations and patients with GIST not harboring PDGFRα mutations.
Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor (GIST)
BIOLOGICAL: Olaratumab
Percentage of Participants With Tumor Response of Stable Disease (SD), Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) (Clinical Benefit Rate) at 12 Weeks, Clinical benefit was defined as CR, PR, or SD using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST, v1.1) criteria. CR: disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions, with the short axes of any target lymph nodes reduced to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR: ≥30% decrease in sum of the diameters of target lesions (including the short axes of any target lymph nodes), taking as reference the baseline sum diameter. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify as PR nor sufficient increase to qualify as PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter since treatment started. PD: increase ≥20% in sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if that was the smallest on study). Sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm, or appearance of 1 or more new lesions was considered progression. Percentage of participants=(participants with CR+PR+SD/participants in group) \*100., 12 weeks
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS defined as the duration from date of first dose of study drug until first radiographic documentation of PD using RECIST, v1.1 criteria or death from any cause. PD defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference smallest sum on study (included baseline sum if that was the smallest on study); sum must have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm and the appearance of ≥1 new lesions was progression. Participants who died with no prior PD were considered to have progressed on day of death. Participants who did not progress or were lost to follow-up were censored at date of last radiographic tumor assessment; if no assessment was available censoring was at date of registration. If death or PD occurred after 2 consecutive missing radiographic visits censoring was date of last radiographic visit prior to missed visits. Use of new anticancer therapy prior to PD, censoring was date of last radiographic assessment prior to new therapy., Baseline to the first date of objectively determined PD or death from any cause up to 35.9 weeks|Percentage of Participants With CR or PR [Radiographic Objective Response Rate (ORR)], The ORR was the best overall response of CR and PR using RECIST, v1.1 criteria. Participants who did not have a tumor response assessment for any reason were considered nonresponders and were included in the denominator that calculated the response rate. Percentage of participants = (number of participants achieving a response/total of participants treated) \* 100., Baseline up to 35.9 weeks and post study discontinuation 30-day follow-up|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time from the date of first dose of study drug to the date of death from any cause. Participants who were alive at the end of the post-study follow-up or were lost to follow-up were censored on the last date the participant was known to be alive., Date of first dose of study drug to the date of death from any cause up to 57.3 weeks|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AE) and Participants Who Died, Clinically significant events were defined as serious AEs (SAEs) and other non-serious AEs, regardless of causality. A summary of SAEs and other non-serious AEs, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Events module. The number of participants who died due to an AE or disease progression are also reported., Baseline up to 57.3 weeks and 30-day post study-discontinuation follow-up|Percentage of Participants With CR, PR or SD [Disease Control Rate (DCR)], DCR defined as CR, PR or SD using RECIST v1.1 criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all non-nodal target lesions, with the short axes of any target lymph nodes reduced to \<10 mm. PR was defined as ≥30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions (including the short axes of any target lymph nodes), taking as reference the baseline sum diameter. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter since the treatment started. PD defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). Sum must also have demonstrated an absolute increase of ≥5 mm, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions was considered progression. Percentage of participants=(number of participants with CR+PR+SD/number of participants in group) \* 100., Baseline up to 35.9 weeks|Maximum Concentration (Cmax), Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (14-day cycles)|Area Under the Curve (AUC), Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (14-day cycles)|Half Life (t½), Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (14-day cycles)|Clearance (CL), Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (14-day cycles)|Volume of Distribution at Steady State (Vss), Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (14-day cycles)|Percentage of Participants With Human Anti-Olaratumab (IMC-3G3) Antibody Results, Participants with Treatment Emergent (TE) anti-olaratumab (IMC-3G3) antibodies were participants with a 4-fold increase (2 dilutions) increase over a positive baseline antibody titer or for a negative baseline titer, a participant with an increase from the baseline to a level of 1:20., Day 1 of Cycles 1, 3, 6, 12 and 18 prior to infusion (14-day cycles)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the tumor response of stable disease (SD), partial response (PR), or complete response (CR) \[according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1 criteria)\] at 12 weeks in participants with Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumors (GIST) harboring platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRα) mutations and patients with GIST not harboring PDGFRα mutations.