Radiation Induced Alterations in Resting State Brain Networks in Pediatric Brain Tumor Patients
With modern therapy, the survival rate for pediatric brain tumor patients has significantly improved, with over 70% of patients surviving their disease. However, this progress often comes at the cost of substantial morbidity, with cognitive deficits being the primary obstacle to independent living. Robust predictors of cognitive decline and a comprehensive understanding of the underlying mechanisms of cognitive injury remain elusive. This study will prospectively investigate alterations in brain resting state networks following radiation therapy using functional imaging. The hypothesis is that radiation therapy leads to dose-dependent alterations in functional connectivity in the networks associated with higher level cognition, ultimately leading to cognitive decline.
Brain Tumor, Primary
OTHER: Cognitive testing|DEVICE: Resting State MRI/Precision functional mapping
Radiation induced effects on functional brain resting state connectivity, The investigators will compare resting state maps of each patient pre- and post-radiation therapy. The investigators will evaluate changes in the resting state architecture and compare to the average results that would be expected from a patient in the same age and sex., Through 1 year follow-up|Baseline characteristics of functional network architecture, The investigators will assess the unique architecture of brain networks at diagnosis and how significantly this architecture diverges from average healthy controls., At baseline (day 1)|Change in characteristics of functional network architecture, The investigators will assess brain system segregation which is measure of the connection and disconnection between different brain networks. These will be compared within individuals and compared to healthy controls., Baseline and 1 year follow-up
Correlation of radiation dose to changes in cognitive performance and resting state network connectivity, In an exploratory fashion, the investigators will evaluate the dose of radiation received to each resting state network to determine if functional connectivity changes in a dose dependent manner at 1 year., At 1 year follow-up
With modern therapy, the survival rate for pediatric brain tumor patients has significantly improved, with over 70% of patients surviving their disease. However, this progress often comes at the cost of substantial morbidity, with cognitive deficits being the primary obstacle to independent living. Robust predictors of cognitive decline and a comprehensive understanding of the underlying mechanisms of cognitive injury remain elusive. This study will prospectively investigate alterations in brain resting state networks following radiation therapy using functional imaging. The hypothesis is that radiation therapy leads to dose-dependent alterations in functional connectivity in the networks associated with higher level cognition, ultimately leading to cognitive decline.