A Phase II Study of Nivolumab in Combination With Cabozantinib for Metastatic Triple-negative Breast Cancer
This research study is studying a combination of drugs as a possible treatment for metastatic triple-negative breast cancer.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Cabozantinib (XL184)
* Nivolumab
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Cabozantinib
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the percentage of patients with complete or partial response evaluated by RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST 1.1: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Toxicities will be defined according to NCI CTCAE, Version 4.0, 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) will be determined by looking at the number of subjects who have either a complete response, partial response, or stable disease for greater than or equal to 24 weeks, per RECIST 1.1, 2 years|Progression Free Survival Rate, Progression free survival is defined from the study entry to first documented evidence of disease progression by RECIST 1.1 or death of any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients alive with no progression are censored at the last disease assessment., 5 years|Overall Response Rate Per Immune Criteria, ORR will be determined according to immune-related response criteria (irRC). Per irRC, irComplete Response (irCR) refers to complete disappearance of all target lesions. irPartial Response (irPR) refers to decrease, relative to baseline, of 50% or greater in the sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters of all target and all new measurable target lesions (i.e., Percentage Change in Tumor Burden). ORR per irRC is irCR + irPR., 2 years
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved the combination of Nivolumab and Cabozantinib as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has not approved Cabozantinib for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved nivolumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

Cabozantinib has been used in some phase I studies and information from those other research studies suggests that cabozantinib may help to shrink or stabilize breast cancer.

Cancers are recognized by the immune system, and under some circumstances, the immune system may control or even eliminate tumors. An antibody is a natural protein made by the immune system that binds other proteins and molecules to fight infection and its ill effects. Antibodies stimulating the immune system have been developed for treatment of human cancers. Nivolumab is an experimental antibody drug that may make the immune response more active against cancer.

In this research study, the investigators are looking at how the participant's type of breast cancer responds to the combination of cabozantinib and nivolumab.