Study on Laparoscopic Spleen-Preserving No. 10 Lymph Node Dissection for Advanced Gastric Cancer
The purpose of this study is to explore the safety and feasibility of the Laparoscopic Spleen-Preserving No. 10 Lymph Node Dissection for patients with locally advanced upper third gastric adenocarcinoma（cT2-4a, N-/+, M0）.
Stomach Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Spleen-Preserving No.10 Lymph Node Dissections|DRUG: oxaliplatin
overall postoperative morbidity rates, Refers to the incidence of early postoperative complications. The early postoperative complication are defined as the event observed within 30 days after surgery., 30 days
Numbers of No.10 lymph node dissection, Numbers of dissected No.10 lymph nodes, 9 days|Rates of positive No.10 lymph node, The Rates of positive No.10 lymph node are defined as the incidence of positive No.10 lymph node (divide number of positive No.10 lymph nodes by number of total No.10 lymph nodes)., 9 days|3-year overall survival rate, 36 months|3-year disease free survival rate, 36 months|3-year recurrence pattern, Recurrence patterns are classified into five categories at the time of first diagnosis: locoregional, hematogenous, peritoneal, distant lymph node, and mixed type., 36 months|Rates of splenectomy, The Rates of splenectomy are defined as the incidence of splenectomy within operation., 1 days|Intraoperative morbidity rates, The intraoperative postoperative morbidity rates are defined as the rates of event observed within operation., 1 days|Time to first ambulation, Time to first ambulation in hours is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first flatus, Time to first flatus in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first liquid diet, Time to first liquid diet in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Time to first soft diet, Time to first soft diet in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Duration of postoperative hospital stay, Duration of postoperative hospital stay in days is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|Postoperative pain, Visual analog pain score method is used to evaluate the difference of postoperative pain degree.The score of postoperative pain is used to assess the postoperative recovery course., 30 days|The variation of weight, The variation of weight on postoperative 3, 6, 9 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative nutritional status and quality of life., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|The variation of cholesterol, The variation of cholesterol in millimole/liter on postoperative 3, 6, 9 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative nutritional status and quality of life., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|The variation of album, The variation of album in gram/liter on postoperative 3, 6, 9 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative nutritional status and quality of life., 3, 6, 9 and 12 months|The results of endoscopy, The incidence of reflux esophagitis under the endoscopy on postoperative 3 and 12 months are used to access the postoperative quality of life., 3 and 12 months|The variation of body temperature, The daily highest body temperature in degree centigrade before discharge are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., 8 days|The variation of white blood cell count, The values of white blood cell count from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days|The variation of hemoglobin, The values of hemoglobin in gram/liter from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days|The variation of C-reactive protein, The values of C-reactive protein IN milligram/liter from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days|The variation of prealbumin, The values of prealbumin in gram/liter from peripheral blood before operation and on postoperative day 1, 3, 5 are recorded to access the inflammatory and immune response., Preoperative 3 days and postoperative 1, 3, and 5 days
Radical resection is still the primary method of treating advanced gastric cancer.According to the Japanese treatment guidelines for gastric cancer, D2 lymphadenectomy, including No. 10 lymph node dissection, should be adopted for upper third gastric carcinoma.The incidence of No. 10 lymph node metastasis is high in advanced proximal gastric cancer, reported to range from 9.8%-20.9%, and the presence of No. 10 lymph node metastasis is closely related to survival. Therefore, in East Asia, D2 lymph node dissection of potentially curable locally advanced upper third gastric cancer including No. 10 lymph node is the standard surgical treatment.

In the early, splenectomy was performed to remove No. 10 lymph node. With the improvement of medical knowledge and surgical technique, spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection has been recognized by more and more surgeons. However, due to the special and complex anatomy of the spleen, spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection is difficult, even in open surgery; consequently, the surgery cannot be performed in many centers.

Laparoscopic surgery has distinct minimally invasive advantages, such as small incisions, less blood loss, less postoperative pain, mild postoperative inflammatory reactions, a quick recovery of gastrointestinal function, shorter hospital stays and obvious cosmetic effects. Since Kitano et al. first reported laparoscopic gastrectomy for gastric cancer in 1994, laparoscopic techniques have developed rapidly. The techniques are becoming increasingly mature, making it possible to perform laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection. Our center first proposed "Huang's three-step maneuver", a new operative method suitable for laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection. This method simplifies the procedure of laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection and facilitates its popularization and promotion.

However, it remains a controversial international issue if it is safe and feasible to routinely conduct laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection for advanced upper third gastric cancer.A number of retrospective studies have successively confirmed the safety, feasibility and oncological efficacy of laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection.But there is no multicenter prospective studies to identify the results.

Therefore, The study is through a prospective, multicenter, open, single-arm, non-inferiority study,to explore the safety and feasibility of the laparoscopic spleen-preserving No. 10 lymph node dissection for patients with locally advanced upper third gastric adenocarcinoma（cT2-4a, N-/+, M0）.