Microbiota and the Lung Cancer
The subject is to study the lung microbiota and the one of upper airways (UAs) (much less studied than the intestinal microbiota) in 40 patients having lung cancer. 20 patients undergo only surgical treatment, while other half receives also chemotherapy. The idea is to explore changes in microbiota of the lung, upper UAs and intestine, and potentially find associations between them. These results will serve us as a base for the future study, focused on manipulation of the microbiota by prebiotics, probiotics or symbiotics and its effect on anti-cancer treatment tolerance and effectiveness.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Sampling
Difference in diversity of the lungs and upper airways microbiota, The analysis of the diversity will be performed by DNA sequencing and qPCR on the different samples (saliva, bronchoalveolar lavage and lung tissue fragments)., 1.5 - 4.5 months
Effect of chemotherapy on microbiota (by comparing before and after chemotherapy), Difference in the proportion of the Firmicutes phylum between UAs and lungs, and difference in the proportion of most abundant bacterial phyla between three types of samples (saliva, lung tissue, faecal samples), all analysed by qPCR and sequencing., 3.5-4.5 months|inflammatory status, dosage of plasmatic cytokines and interleukins (ELISA or luminex), 1.5 - 4.5 months|effect of microbiota on pulmunary immune cells, characterization of immune cells on lung/tumor sample and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (flow cytometry and/or immunohistochemistry), 1.5 - 4.5 months
Lung cancer patients will be divided in two groups, a first one with patients undergoing both chemotherapy and surgery (Pct-chir), and the second one with patients only undergoing surgery (Pchir). Following inclusion, they will be given a 7-days alimentary survey, along with blood and saliva sampling (after buccodental examination and dental panoramic). The Pct-chir group will repeat the same procedure after the chemotherapy and before the surgery.

Day before the surgery, patients are asked to bring their faecal samples (in special box provided in advance) and the filled survey. During the operation the piece of lung tissue as well as the tumour (if the size enables it) will be sampled for further analysis. Lavage will be performed on the lung immediately after its resection.

Saliva, faecal sample, lung and tumour tissue, and lavage will be used for bacterial DNA extraction, followed by qPCR and sequencing analysis.

Lavage and blood samples will be analysed by flow cytometry and ELISA, to establish the immunological profile (interleukines, cell surface markers).