A Study to Assess Safety, Tolerability, and Pharmacokinetics of ABSK121-NX in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
This is an open-label phase 1 study with expansion. The study will start with a dose escalation of single-agent ABSK121-NX administered in repeated 28-day cycles in patients with advanced solid tumors to evaluate safety and tolerability. The expansion part will investigate oral ABSK121-NX at the recommended dose for expansion (RDE) to further evaluate safety and tolerability among selected tumor types. Preliminary antitumor activity will also be assessed.
Solid Tumor
DRUG: ABSK121-NX
Incidence of DLT, dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), At the end of Cycle 1 (each cycle is 28 days)|Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), adverse events (AEs), adverse events of special interest (AESIs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), Through study completion, an average of half year
Cmax, maximum observed concentration, Through the study completion, an average of half year|Tmax, time to maximum observed concentration, Through the study completion, an average of half year|AUC, area under the concentration-time curve, Through the study completion, an average of half year|t1/2, half-life, Through the study completion, an average of half year|Vz/F, apparent volume of distribution, Through the study completion, an average of half year|CL/F, apparent oral clearance, Through the study completion, an average of half year|Cmax,ss, maximum observed concentration of steady/state, Through the study completion, an average of half year|Cmin,ss, minimum observed concentration of steady/state, Through the study completion, an average of half year|AUCtau,ss, area under the concentration-time curve after multiple dose, Through the study completion, an average of half year|AR, accumulation ratio, Through the study completion, an average of half year|ORR, overall response rate, Through the study completion, an average of half year|DoR, duration of response, Through the study completion, an average of half year|DCR, disease control rate, Through the study completion, an average of half year|PFS, Progression-free survival, Through the study completion, an average of half year|OS, overall survival, Through the study completion, an average of half year
Escalation Part:

Dose escalation of oral ABSK121-NX will be guided by the Bayesian optimal interval (BOIN) design based on safety data collected until a maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or maximum administered dose (MAD) has been identified. During the dose escalation part of the study, patients will receive a single dose of ABSK121 on Day -7 followed by a 7-day washout (Day -7 dosing day as 1st day of wash out) as a run-in period to access the safety and PK of ABSK121-NX. Then, patients will continuously receive ABSK121-NX once daily (QD) beginning at C1D1.

The dose escalation will start at 3 mg QD followed by dose escalation of a total of 8 potential dose levels. Once RDE is determined, an RDE-confirmation group of up to 24 more patients may be enrolled at the selected dose levels to further evaluate safety and efficacy (up to 12 per dose level/regimen), if approved by the sponsor. In addition, a preliminary food-effect (FE) may be evaluated in Cycle 1 D15 or later in at least 6 patients from the RDE- confirmation part.

After the RDE is determined in the dose escalation part, the dose expansion phase will be conducted.

Expansion Part:

When health authorities outside US require that the safety data in the local population be provided prior to the expansion part, a minimum of 3 local subjects will be enrolled and treated at the selected RDE dose level first in that country/region to evaluate the tolerability of ABSK121-NX. The inclusion and exclusion criteria for escalation part will apply for these subjects. After similar safety and tolerability of ABSK121-NX in patients in the relevant locality have been confirmed by local Investigators and the Sponsor, additional patients will be allowed to enroll in the expansion part.