LRAMPS Versus LDP in Selected Early-stage Left-sided Pancreatic Cancer
This multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial proposed the criteria for selecting patients with early-stage left-sided pancreatic cancer and aimed to compare the perioperative and oncological outcomes of patients within the criteria who underwent laparoscopic radical antegrade modular pancreatosplenectomy versus laparoscopic distal pancreatosplenectomy.
Left-sided Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: LRAMPS|PROCEDURE: LDP
R0 retroperitoneal margin rate, R0 retroperitoneal margin rate diagnosed by postoperative pathological examination., From the date of surgery to 1 month after surgery.|R0 transection margin rate, R0 transection margin rate diagnosed by postoperative pathological examination., From the date of surgery to 1 month after surgery.|Lymph node positive rate, Lymph node positive rate diagnosed by postoperative pathological examination., From the date of surgery to 1 month after surgery.
Perioperative complication rate, Adverse events that occur during or after the surgery, including the incidence of postoperative complications reported according to the Clavien-Dindo classification, clinical relevant postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF), postoperative pancreatic hemorrhage (PPH), delayed gastric emptying (DGE), reoperation rate and mortality rate within 90 days after surgery., Within 90 days after surgery.|Life quality satisfaction evaluated according to EORTC C30 scale, The patient's health-related quality of life after surgical intervention. It includes physical, emotional, and social aspects of a patient's well-being. This study evaluated quality of life using a telephone survey and the EORTC C30 scales., Through study completion, an average of 3 year.|Recurrence-free survival (RFS), The time of surgery to the time of tumor recurrence or death., Through study completion, an average of 3 year.|Overall survival (OS), The time from the surgery to death from any cause., Through study completion, an average of 3 year.
Although prospective comparative studies are lacking, laparoscopic distal pancreatosplenectomy (LDP) was considered to be feasible, safe, and oncologically equivalent for treating pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). However, the extent of posterior resection and the oncological safety of achieving complete N1 lymph node resection in LDP remain uncertain. Strasberg proposed radical antegrade modular pancreatosplenectomy (RAMPS) for the treatment of resectable left-sided PDAC and confirmed that this technique can achieve negative margins and satisfactory survival. Given the oncological equivalence of laparoscopic radical antegrade modular pancreatosplenectomy (LRAMPS) and its advantages in short-term outcomes, several studies have assessed the feasibility of LRAMPS as the standard treatment for resectable left-sided PDAC. However, previous studies on LRAMPS have mostly included tumors staged T2 and above, and there is currently no research on the routine use of LRAMPS for early-stage tumors. We proposed the criteria for selecting patients with early-stage left-sided PDAC: (1) diameter ≤ 4 cm; (2) located ≥ 1 cm from the celiac trunk; (3) didn't invade the fascial layer behind the pancreas. This multicenter open-label randomized controlled clinical trial aims to compare the perioperative and oncological outcomes of patients within the criteria who underwent LRAMPS versus LDP.