Using ctDNA to Determine Therapies for Lung Cancer
This is a study to look at whether the presence of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) in the blood can help to predict whether giving adjuvant treatment after surgery can decrease the chance of the cancer coming back in people with lung cancer.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Complete Surgical Resection|Circulating Tumor DNA
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|PROCEDURE: ctDNA blood test
Relapse Free Survival, To demonstrate the impact of intensified adjuvant therapy on relapse-free survival (RFS) in patients at high risk of relapse post-resection identified by pre- or post-operative detectable ctDNA plasma levels in patients with resected T1-T4 (T3-4 multifocal only) N0M0 NSCLC., 2 years
Rate of ctDNA clearance, To estimate and compare the ctDNA detection rates at 12 weeks post-randomization in those receiving adjuvant chemo-immunotherapy versus observation., 12 weeks|Overall survival, To compare overall survival (OS) of patients receiving adjuvant chemo-immunotherapy versus observation., 3 years|Number of adverse events, To determine safety and tolerability of adjuvant chemo-immunotherapy with the combination of nivolumab with cisplatin and pemetrexed or nivolumab with cisplatin and gemcitabine., 3 years
For people who have early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the usual treatment is surgery. For many people, surgery is enough to get rid of all the cancer. However, for some people, there may be a little bit of cancer remaining. If there is some cancer left over, it may lead to the cancer regrowing. This is called relapse.

Many cancers shed little bits of their DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid, molecules that contain instructions for how cells develop and function) into the bloodstream. A blood test can be used to test for the amount of circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA). Some studies have shown that the presence of ctDNA in the blood may predict cancer recurrence.

The purpose of this research study is to see if adjuvant treatment (additional treatment given after primary treatment) can help decrease the risk of the cancer recurring in people with lung cancer who have ctDNA detected in their blood after surgery.