Brentuximab Vedotin and Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Children and Young Adults With Stage IIB, Stage IIIB, IVA, or IVB Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase III trial studies brentuximab vedotin and combination chemotherapy to see how well they work compared to combination chemotherapy alone in treating children and young adults with stage IIB with bulk, stage IIIB, IVA, or IVB Hodgkin lymphoma. Combinations of biological substances in brentuximab vedotin may be able to carry cancer-killing substances directly to Hodgkin lymphoma cells. Chemotherapy drugs, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin sulfate, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known if combination chemotherapy is more effective with or without brentuximab vedotin in treating children with high-risk Hodgkin lymphoma.
Ann Arbor Stage IIB Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IIIB Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IVA Hodgkin Lymphoma|Ann Arbor Stage IVB Hodgkin Lymphoma|Childhood Hodgkin Lymphoma|Classic Hodgkin Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bleomycin Sulfate|DRUG: Brentuximab Vedotin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Methylprednisolone|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|DRUG: Prednisone|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Event Free Survival (EFS), Where Events Include Disease Progression or Relapse, Second Malignancy, or Death, Primary analysis will be based 1-sided log rank test comparison of EFS curves between the 2 randomized arms per intention-to-treat principle. Progression is defined as an ≥50% increase of in the product of the perpendicular diameters of any of the involved nodes or nodal masses or focal organ lesions in sites that were persistently PET positive; or recurrent PET positive lesions (Deauville 4, 5) in sites that had previously been PET negative regardless of change of size, as was the development of new PET avid measurable lesion(s) \>1.5cm in any axis, or new sites of assessable disease. Relapse is defined in patients who achieved a prior CR but subsequently has an increase of ≥50% of the PPD in prior nodal or extranodal sites in a recurrently PET positive lesion(s), or the development of new measurable lesion(s) \>1.5cm in any axis, or new sites of assessable disease. Second malignancy is defined based on report of a cancer that is not considered to be classic Hodgkin Lymphoma., Up to 48 months after the last enrollment
Percentages of Patients With Early Response Defined as no Slow Responding Lesions (SRL) and no Progressive Disease (PD) at Any Disease Sites Determined by Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Per Deauville Criteria Through Central Review, The percentages of patients (with available PET scan) with no SRL and no PD will be compared between the two randomized arms to see if brentuximab vedotin in the chemotherapy backbone of doxorubicin hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone and cyclophosphamide (Bv-AVEPC) arm has a higher rate of early response compared to doxorubicin hydrochloride, bleomycin sulfate, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide (ABVE-PC) arm. Two-sample Z test of proportions at 1-sided alpha level of 0.05 will be used for these comparisons., After 42 days of chemotherapy|Percentages of Patients Experiencing Grade 3+ Peripheral Neuropathy Assessed by Modified Balis Scale, The percentages of patients experiencing grade 3+ peripheral neuropathy assessed by the treating clinician using the modified Balis scale. The "Modified Balis scale of Pediatric Neuropathy" allows clinicians to assign a score for sensory or motor neuropathy symptoms separately. Scores range from 1 to 4 with 1 being the least symptomatic state and 4 indicating a severe debility. The percentages of patients (with a score \>/=3) will be compared between the 2 arms by two-sample Z test at 1-sided alpha level of 0.05., From the enrollment of the patient to the time of analysis or the last follow-up; an average of 3.6 years.
Childhood International Prognostic Score (CHIPS) Score, CHIPS will be computed for all patients and summarized by descriptive statistics. Will examine the association between CHIPS and early response by cross-tabulations and Chi-square tests within each arm separately, as well as logistic regression model where early response is the outcome variable and CHIPS the predictor variable combining the 2 arms with adjustment for randomized chemotherapy., Baseline|Dose of Radiation Received by Normal Tissues Following Chemotherapy on Either Study Arm, Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize RT doses received by normal tissues on this study. Two-sample t-test will be used to compare the doses received on this study to those on prior studies., Up to 48 months|Efficacy of Involved Site Radiotherapy (ISRT) by Analyzing the Event-free Survival of Patients Treated With Response-adapted ISRT and by Evaluating Patterns of Relapse Following ISRT, EFS for patients on each arm as well as those receiving ISRT or those with slow early response (SER) on each arm will be estimated. One-sample log rank test will be used to compare the observed EFS to the assumed baseline of 82% at 3 years to see if the observed EFS is significantly lower than the projection in these subsets., Up to 3 years|Risk of Relapse Among RRL Subjects That Have at Least One Lesion That is Deauville 3 at PET 2, The risk of relapse for cases that are RRL, but have Deauville 3 lesions, will be compared to those that are classified as complete metabolic response at PET2 with solely Deauville 1 or 2 lesions with K-sample test., Up to 48 months after the last enrollment|Pharmacokinetic (PK) Analyses, PK concentration time profile will be evaluated., Pre-dose and end of infusion on day 1, days 2, 3, 8, and 15 of cycle 4 and pre-dose on day 1 and day 22 of cycle 5 (each cycle = 21 days)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the event free survival (EFS) of a novel regimen incorporating brentuximab vedotin (Bv; Adcetris) in the chemotherapy backbone of doxorubicin hydrochloride (doxorubicin) (Adriamycin), vincristine sulfate (vincristine), etoposide, prednisone and cyclophosphamide (Bv-AVEPC) in newly diagnosed high-risk classical Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) compared to those treated with Adriamycin, bleomycin sulfate, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide (ABVE-PC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether children/young adults with high-risk cHL treated with Bv-AVEPC have a higher rate of early response (determined by fludeoxyglucose F 18 \[FDG\]-positron emission tomography \[PET\]) and a reduction in protocol directed radiation therapy (RT) compared to those treated with ABVE-PC.

II. To compare the rate of neuropathy (\>= grade 3) among patients treated on the Bv-AVEPC (experimental arm) to patients treated on the ABVE-PC (standard arm).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To validate and compare the Childhood Hodgkin International Prognostic Score (CHIPS) to conventional Ann Arbor stage (stages II B with bulk, III B, IV A or B) in predicting outcome in high-risk childhood cHL.

II. To determine the incidence of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) and testis-specific antigens in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)- cHL tumors and the incidence of EBV antigens (Epstein-Barr nuclear antigen 1 \[EBNA1\], Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein 1 \[LMP1\], large multifunctional peptidase 2 \[LMP2\]) in EBV+ cHL tumors, with the goal of developing strategies to integrate cellular therapy into treatment for newly diagnosed high-risk cHL. (Biology) III. To incorporate qualitative visual FDG-PET into response-directed treatment algorithms and explore quantitative FDG-PET and computed tomography (CT) definitions of tumor burden and response for incorporation into next generation pediatric cHL risk-stratification schemes, exploring the extension of these algorithms to young adults. (Imaging) IV. To evaluate the reduction in normal tissue irradiation associated with the current treatment approach compared to the volume of historic involved field radiation therapy (IFRT) fields. (Radiation Therapy) V. To evaluate EFS and patterns of relapse following protocol-specified RT utilization and treatment volumes. (Radiation Therapy) VI. To characterize the extent of chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN), as reported by patients and parent proxies, through serial administration of the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT-GOG-NTX). (Patient Reported Outcomes \[PRO\] of Peripheral Neuropathy and Health-Related Quality of Life) VII. To describe the Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQL) consequences of peripheral neuropathy over time by correlating total neuropathy scale scores with the individual items with the Child Health Ratings Inventories (CHRIs)-Global scale (e.g., physical health, pain, emotional functioning). (PRO of Peripheral Neuropathy and Health-Related Quality of Life) VIII. To perform a cross validation of the FACT-GOG-NTX with the Total Neuropathy Score-Pediatric Vincristine (TNS-PV) to determine the performance of both measures with the use of brentuximab vedotin in a limited institutional approach in children and adolescents with cHL. (PRO of Peripheral Neuropathy and Health-Related Quality of Life) IX. To assess the resource use and cost implications of Bv in combination with chemotherapy and radiotherapy (RT) for newly diagnosed high-risk cHL in children and young adults. (Economic) X. To estimate the risk of relapse among rapidly responding lesions (RRL) subjects that have at least one lesion that is Deauville 3 at PET 2. (Follow-up of Deauville score 3 lesions on FDG-PET imaging \[confirmed by central imaging review\]) XI. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of brentuximab vedotin in children \< 13 years of age.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (ABVE-PC): Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over on days 1-2, bleomycin sulfate IV or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1 and 8, vincristine sulfate IV on days 1 and 8, etoposide IV on days 1-3, prednisone orally (PO) twice daily (BID) or methylprednisolone IV on days 1-7, and cyclophosphamide IV on days 1 and 2.

ARM II (Bv-AVEPC): Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV on day 1. Patients also receive doxorubicin hydrochloride, etoposide, prednisone or methylprednisolone, and cyclophosphamide as in Arm I and vincristine sulfate IV on day 8.

In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for 5 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Granulocyte simulating factor (GCSF) or equivalent is given on both arms.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, and 48 months.