Internal Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Primary Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Specialized internal radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial is studying how well internal radiation therapy works in treating patients with primary liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Liver Cancer
PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|RADIATION: yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres
Tumor response, All uni-dimensional measurable lesions (longest diameter \>20mm with conventional techniques and \>10mm with spiral CT scans) up to a maximum of five lesions per organ with a maximum of 10 lesions in total are used to determine response., up to 12 months
Toxicity, up to 3 months|Health-related quality of life, The assessment will include a Karnofsky score the patient-completed SF-36 questionnaire. This information will be assessed at each quarterly evaluation, as well as any unscheduled clinical appointments. Karnofsky functional performance36 will be assessed by a clinician. This widely-used scale ranges from 0 to 100 and derives three broad categories of functional performance (able: 80-100; unable: 50-70; and disabled: 0-40).

Patient report of HRQOL will be determined via the Medical Outcome Study 36-item short form (SF-36)37, which includes eight individual scales, physical and mental component summary scores, and is normed to both healthy and clinical populations., prior to initial treatment.|Survival, trial entry to death
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine tumor response to selective internal radiation therapy comprising yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres (Sir-Spheres®) in patients with unresectable primary hepatocellular carcinoma.

Secondary

* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the health-related quality of life of patients receiving this regimen.
* Determine the survival of patients receiving this regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo selective internal radiation therapy comprising yttrium Y 90 resin microspheres (Sir-Spheres®) via catheter directly into the hepatic artery on day 1.

Health-related quality of life is assessed prior to initial treatment and then periodically thereafter.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 12-24 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.