Pirtobrutinib and Mosunetuzumab for the Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory Grades 1-3A Follicular Lymphoma, PROMOTE-FL Trial
This phase II trial tests how well pirtobrutinib and mosunetuzumab work in treating patients with grade 1-3a follicular lymphoma (FL) that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). Pirtobrutinib, a type of tyrosine kinase inhibitor, works by blocking the action of the Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK) protein. The BTK protein signals cancer cells to multiply, and blocking it may help keep cancer cells from growing. It could also improve T cell fitness and decrease inflammation, therefore, may improve the efficacy and safety of T cell-based therapies, such as mosunetuzumab. Mosunetuzumab is a bispecific antibody that binds both T cells and the lymphoma cancer cells and harnesses T cells to interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving pirtobrutinib and mosunetuzumab together may kill more tumor cells in patients with relapsed or refractory grade 1-3a FL and potentially decreases some side effects of mosunetuzumab which are related to T cells being activated (e.g., cytokine release syndrome).
Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Pirtobrutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Mosunetuzumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Aspiration|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Complete remission (CR) rate, Will report the number of CR and the estimated CR rate with 95% exact binomial confidence interval (CI). Will build logistic regression to evaluate the risk factor association with the endpoint of interest., After cycle 8 of mosunetuzumab (cycle length = 21 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), Analyses will follow standard methodology by employing Kaplan-Meier (KM) and Cox proportional hazard model methodology. The 1-year PFS rate and 95% CI will be estimated by KM., From trial enrollment to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed at 1 year
Cytokine release syndrome (CRS), CRS will be graded by the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) Consensus Grading system. The rate and grade of CRS will be reported., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS), ICANS will be graded by the ASTCT Consensus Grading system. Will report the rate and grade of ICANS., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment|Incidence of grade 3 or higher adverse events (AEs), AEs will be graded in severity according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment.|Overall survival, Analyses will follow standard methodology by employing KM and Cox proportional hazard model methodology., From trial enrollment to death from any cause, assessed up to 4 years|Event free survival, Analyses will follow standard methodology by employing KM and Cox proportional hazard model methodology., From trial enrollment to death from any cause, disease progression, needing the next line of therapy, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years|Overall response, Will report the count and percentage with 95% CI of patients who achieve overall response, including CR and partial response (PR)., After 8 cycles of mosunetuzumab (cycle length = 21 days)|Duration of response, Analyses will follow standard methodology by employing KM and Cox proportional hazard model methodology., From first PR or CR to progression of disease or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 4 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive pirtobrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on 7 days prior to the start of mosunetuzumab (day -7) and continue it until up to 52 weeks. Patients receive mosunetuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 8, and 15 of cycle 1 then on day 1 of remaining cycles. Cycles of mosunetuzumab repeat every 21 days for up to 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with a CR after cycle 8 discontinue mosunetuzumab. Patients also undergo blood sample and oral swab and/or rectal swab collection, tissue biopsy (optional), computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography (PET)/CT throughout the study. Additionally, patients may undergo bone marrow aspiration and biopsy at screening and after cycle 8.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days then at standard of care intervals for up to 4 years.