Frontline T-cell Engager vs Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT) and Measurable Residual Disease (MRD)-Guided Sequential Intensification thERapy in Multiple Myeloma
This is an open-label, multi-site, Phase II randomized trial with response-adaptive design for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) participants who have had prior induction therapy. The primary objective of this study is to compare the rates of achieving undetectable measurable residual disease (MRD) in the bone marrow with elranatamab and daratumumab employed as post-induction consolidation and maintenance treatment (Arm A) versus autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) followed by lenalidomide and daratumumab treatment (Arm B).
Multiple Myeloma, Newly Diagnosed|Multiple Myeloma (MM)
DRUG: Elranatamab|DRUG: Daratumumab|DRUG: Lenalidomide|PROCEDURE: autologous stem cell transplantation
Rate of MRD negativity after completion of Maintenance 1, Rate of participants with MRD negativity (defined as \<10-5) after completion of the Maintenance 1 portion of the study., At 60 weeks
Rate of sustained MRD negativity after completion of Consolidation and Maintenance 1 or after completion of Maintenance 1 and Maintenance 2, Rate of participants with MRD negativity (defined as \<10-5) after completion of the Consolidation and Maintenance 1 (negative at both timepoints) or after completion of Maintenance 1 and Maintenance 2 (negative at both timepoints)., 60 weeks or 108 weeks, respectively|Event-free survival (EFS), Median time from randomization until event using Kaplan-Meier estimates. Event is defined as death, disease progression as defined by the International Myeloma Working Group standard response criteria, initiation of alternative regimen (including Arms A1 or B1 due to MRD positivity after Maintenance 1) or resurgence of MRD (i.e. MRD becoming ≥10-5 after prior negative result \<10-5)., 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events as assessed by common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0., 5 years|Rate of MRD negativity at any point in Arm A1, Rate of participants with MRD negativity (defined as \<10-5) after completion of ASCT or after maintenance treatment., 72 weeks and 120 weeks, respectively|Rate of MRD negativity at any point in Arm B1, Rate of participants with MRD negativity (defined as \<10-5) after completion of consolidation with elranatamab and daratumumab or after completion of maintenance with elranatamab and daratumumab., 72 weeks and 120 weeks, respectively|International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Frailty Index- Comparison in participant report outcomes from baseline to end of treatment, Comparison in participant report outcomes from baseline to end of treatment. Frailty score (range 0-5) and categorizes participants into fit (score = 0), intermediate-fit (score = 1) and frail (score ≥ 2)., 4 years|European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ)-C30- MY20 module- Comparison in participant report outcomes from baseline to end of treatment, Quality of life questionnaire. Version QLQ-C30. Disease specific module MY-20. Scores are based on a 0-100 scale, with higher scores generally indicating better health-related quality of life., 4 years|Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS)- Comparison in participant report outcomes from baseline to end of treatment, Patient-reported overall health and quality of life questionnaire. Global 10 version. The possible score ranges from 0 to 20 points in each case. 0 points represent the patient's most severe physical and/or mental impairment, while 20 points represent the best possible state of health., 4 years
This is an open-label, multi-site, Phase II randomized trial with response-adaptive design for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM) participants who had prior induction therapy with one proteasome inhibitor, lenalidomide, and an anti-CD38 Monoclonal antibody (mAb) for 16-24 weeks and obtained at least partial response (PR). Eligible participants will be randomized in equal allocation to receive either elranatamab and daratumumab as consolidation and maintenance treatment (Arm A) or to undergo autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) followed by lenalidomide and daratumumab maintenance treatment (Arm B). Patients who have residual detectable disease by MRD assessment after one year of consolidation and maintenance will undergo "late intensification" and receive the alternative therapy. Patients who achieve sustained "MRD-negativity" on 2 consecutive assessments will discontinue treatment with observation for disease progression or MRD resurgence. Elranatamab is a humanized bispecific antibody which binds to BCMA on MM cells and CD3 on T cells. Elranatamab activates and directs T cells to induce a cytotoxic T-cell response against myeloma cells. Daratumumab is a CD-38 directed therapy.