HER2 Molecular Imaging with 89Zr-trastuzumab PET/CT As a Predictive Biomarker for Antibody-drug Conjugate Sequencing in Patients with Advanced HER2-positive Breast Cancer
ZEPHIR-02 is a multicentre, open-label phase II study that will enroll subjects with HER2-positive advanced/metastatic breast cancer (mBC) who have experienced disease progression under trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) in the metastatic setting.

All subjects will undergo baseline biopsy, blood collection, FDG-PET/CT and 89Zr-trastuzumab PET/CT (HER2-PET/CT) and will be classified as HER2-PET/CT positive or negative, as previously described in the ZEPHIR trial. Subjects classified as "positive" (cohort A) will receive T-DM1 as monotherapy, IV 3.6mg/kg every 3 weeks (21 days +- 3 days) until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or request of the subject to withdraw from the study. Early FDG PET/CT will be performed before cycle 2 of T-DM1 to assess the response to the treatment. Routine tumour assessments will be performed with FDG-PET/CT until efficacy follow-up is completed. After 2 years of treatment with T-DM1 received by the subject, physician can consider to space the cycles up to 6 weeks.

Subjects classified as HER2-PET/CT negative (cohort B) will receive treatment of physician's choice as per the best local clinical practice.

The study also includes mandatory translational procedures (i.e. collection of tumour biopsy during pre-treatment period and blood samples at pre-specified time points) for exploratory molecular analyses.
HER2-positive Metastatic Breast Cancer|HER2-positive Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine
Characterization of genomic alterations and HER2 expression (cohorts A and B)., To characterize the tumour landscape (molecular alterations on tissue and HER2 expression and its heterogeneity) in HER2-positive mBC (cohorts A and B) after at least 1 line of systemic therapy for advanced disease in order to better inform the oncologist and the subject regarding next treatment options., Through study completion, up to 2 years depending on the cohort|Time to treatment failure (TTF), The time to treatment failure (TTF), defined as the time from T-DM1 start to discontinuation for any reason, including disease progression (clinical or image-based on 18FDG-PET/CT), treatment toxicity or death in participants included in cohort A (per metabolic response).

Time to Treatment Failure (TTF) of subjects in cohort A and its survival probability measures (median survival, survival rate at month 6) will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method, During study treatment period (from C1 of T-DM1 until discontinuation), up to 1 year on average
Overall Survival under T-DM1, The Overall survival (OS) defined from the start of treatment to the date of death from any cause (cohort A) Overall survival (OS) of subjects in cohort A will be analysed as time-to-event study and estimated using Kaplan-Meier method, From study treatment period until death, up to 1 year on average|Duration of Response under T-DM1, The Duration of response (DoR) defined as the time from the date of first documentation of response (CR or PR) to disease progression or death, in participants who achieve complete or partial response assessed by metabolic response (cohort A) DoR of subjects in cohort A will also be analysed as time-to-event study and estimated using Kaplan-Meier method, During study treatment period until disease progression or death, up to 1 year on average|Disease Control Rate under T-DM1, The disease control rate (DCR) defined as absence of disease progression The DCR of subjects in cohort A will be described as proportion with two-sided 95% binomial proportion confidence intervals., From study treatment period until disease progression or death, up to 1 year on average|Safety of T-DM1, Incidence, nature, and severity of adverse events, including but not limited to drug induced liver injury The intensity of all AEs will be graded according to the NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 on a five-point scale (Grade 1 to 5), From study treatment period until progression disease, start of new anti-cancer treatment or death, up to 1 year on average
Correlation between "HER2 positivity" assessments in tumour tissue, HER2-PET/CT and ctDNA, To characterize the correlation between different methods of HER2-expression assessment (i.e., tissue evaluation \[immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization\], molecular imaging \[HER2-PET/CT\], and circulating tumour DNA \[ctDNA\]) (cohorts A and B), Through study completion, up to 2 years depending on the cohort|Correlation between genomic and transcriptomic alterations with best overall response, Through study completion, up to 2 years depending on the cohort
ZEPHIR-02 is a multicentre, open-label phase II study that will enroll subjects with HER2-positive advanced/metastatic breast cancer (mBC) who have experienced disease progression under trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) in the metastatic setting.

All subjects will undergo baseline biopsy, blood collection, FDG-PET/CT and 89Zr-trastuzumab PET/CT (HER2-PET/CT) and will be classified as HER2-PET/CT positive or negative, as previously described in the ZEPHIR trial. Focusing on a central visual "patient-based" classification that captures the entire disease burden, a side-by-side display will be used, comparing baseline FDG-PET/CT (which identifies all FDG-positive metastases regardless of their HER2-imaging status) and HER2-PET/CT. Subjects will be categorized into two HER2-PET/CT patterns (positive vs. negative) based on proportion of FDG-avid tumour load with significant 89Zr-trastuzumab uptake. Lesion uptake will be considered significant/pertinent if it is visually higher than the local background.

* HER2-PET/CT positive pattern: The entire or majority of the tumour load shows significant tracer uptake.
* HER2-PET/CT negative pattern: The dominant part or all of the tumour load lacks significant tracer uptake.

Subjects classified as "positive" (cohort A) will receive T-DM1 as monotherapy, IV 3.6mg/kg every 3 weeks (21 days +- 3 days) until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or request of the subject to withdraw from the study. FDG-PET/CT will be performed before cycle 2 of T-DM1 for early assessment of response and then again before cycle 4. At the early FDG-PET/CT assessment (before cycle 2), response assessment will be done using a cut-off of 15% based on the CONSIST criteria. Subjects who demonstrate a partial or complete response (responders) and will continue treatment with T-DM1. Subjects who exhibit stable disease or disease progression (non-responders) will discontinue study treatment and enter the survival follow-up period. For responders, subsequent metabolic evaluations will be performed every 3 months, with FDG-PET/CT. Treatment response will be assessed according to metabolic response. For these subjects, blood samples will be obtained at all metabolic reassessments (mandatory).

The subjects with HER2 PET/CT classified as "negative" (cohort B) will receive treatment of physician's choice (TPC) as per the best local clinical practice. Subsequent treatment will be collected and the subject will enter survival follow-up.

All enrolled subjects will undergo a mandatory biopsy during the pre-treatment period. Of note, results of DNA sequencing on the biopsy will be communicated to the treating oncologist, to potentially inform post progression therapy.