A Study of Atezolizumab (Tecentriq) to Investigate Long-term Safety and Efficacy in Previously-treated Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
This is a Phase III/IV, single-arm, multicenter study of the long-term safety and efficacy of atezolizumab treatment in participants with Stage IIIb or Stage IV NSCLC who have progressed after standard systemic chemotherapy (including if given in combination with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 \[anti-PD-1\] therapy, after anti-PD-1 as monotherapy, or after tyrosine kinase inhibitor \[TKI\] therapy). The study will consist of a Screening Period, a Treatment Period, a Treatment Discontinuation Visit, and a Follow-Up Period.
Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product, regardless of causal attribution. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unitended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as a AEs., Baseline up to 4 years
Percentage of Participants Alive 2 Years After Initiation of Treatment, The overall survival (OS) rate at 2 years, was defined as the percentage of participants remaining alive 2 years after initiation of study treatment., Baseline up to Year 2|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time (in months) from initiation of study treatment to death from any cause., Baseline up to death (up to 4 years)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) as Evaluated By the Investigator in Accordance With Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), Version 1.1 (v.1.1), PFS was defined as the time (in months) from initiation of study treatment to the first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS was evaluated by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1., Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)|EuroQol 5-Dimension 5-Level (EQ-5D-5L) Questionnaire - Mobility Item, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) that measures health state. Each item was rated from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). Categories with non-zero values are reported here. Number of participants who rated the mobility item ranging from 1-5 are reported. Participants who had a invalid response were presented under the category 'Invalid Response'., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire - Self-Care Item, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a VAS that measures health state. Each item was rated from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). Categories with non-zero values are reported here. Number of participants who rated the self-care item ranging from 1-5 are reported. Participants who had a invalid response were presented under the category 'Invalid Response'., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire - Usual Activities Item, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a VAS that measures health state. Each item was rated from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). Categories with non-zero values are reported here. Number of participants who rated the usual activities item ranging from 1-5 are reported. Participants who had a invalid response were presented under the category 'Invalid Response'., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire - Pain/Discomfort Item, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a VAS that measures health state. Each item was rated from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). Categories with non-zero values are reported here. Number of participants who rated the pain/discomfort item ranging from 1-5 are reported. Participants who had a invalid response were presented under the category 'Invalid Response'., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire - Anxiety/Depression Item, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a VAS that measures health state. Each item was rated from 1 (no problems) to 5 (extreme problems). Categories with non-zero values are reported here. Number of participants who rated the anxiety/depression item ranging from 1-5 are reported. Participants who had a invalid response were presented under the category 'Invalid Response'., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|EQ-5D-5L Questionnaire - VAS Scores, The EQ-5D-5L was a self-reported health status questionnaire that consisted of six questions used to calculate a health utility score for use in health economic analysis. The EQ-5D-5L has two components: a five-item health state profile that assesses mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression, as well as a VAS that measures health state. The VAS is designed to rate the participant's current health state on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 represents the worst imaginable health state and 100 represents the best imaginable health state. Values presented after baseline represent the change from baseline., Day 1 of first 2 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 54 weeks; thereafter every 3 weeks or 6 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Supplemental Lung Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-LC13), The EORTC QLQ-LC13 consisted of 13 items that address key lung cancer symptoms (cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, and site-specific pain), treatment-related adverse effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy and alopecia) and pain medication. The dysphagia scale is multi-item, while the rest are single-item scales. The scales are linearly transformed so that each score has a range from 0 to 100. A high scale score represents a higher response level (e.g. a high score for global health status represents a high QoL). A high score for the symptom scale represents a high level of symptoms. A \>=10-point change in the EORTC scale score was perceived by participants as clinically significant. Values presented after baseline represent the change from baseline., Day 1 of first 3 cycles (21-day cycle), then every 6 weeks for 48 weeks; thereafter every 9 weeks until disease progression or until treatment discontinuation (up to 4 years)|Progression-Free Survival as Evaluated By the Investigator in Accordance With Modified RECIST, PFS was defined as the time (in months) from initiation of study treatment to the first documented disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. PFS was evaluated by the investigator according to modified RECIST., Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants Alive 3 Years After Initiation of Treatment, The OS rate at 3 years, was defined as the percentage of participants remaining alive 3 years after initiation of study treatment., Baseline up to Year 3|Percentage of Participants With Objective Reponse as Assessed by the Investigator According to RECIST v1.1, Objective response rate (ORR), according to RECIST v1.1, was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed best overall response (BOR), either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), as determined by the investigator using RECIST v1.1., Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Reponse as Assessed by the Investigator According to Modified RECIST, The investigator-assessed ORR was defined as the proportion of participants whose confirmed BOR is either a PR or CR per modified RECIST., Baseline up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)|Duration of Response as Assessed by the Investigator According to RECIST v.1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment that supported the participant's objective response (CR or PR, whichever was first reported) to documented disease progression as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, among participants who had a best overall response as CR or PR., From date of first objective response up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)|Duration of Response as Assessed by the Investigator According to Modified RECIST, DOR was defined as the duration from the first tumor assessment that supports the participant's objective response (CR or PR, whichever is first recorded) to disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first., From date of first objective response up to disease progression or death whichever occurs first (up to 4 years)
This is a Phase III/IV, single-arm, multicenter study of the long-term safety and efficacy of atezolizumab treatment in participants with Stage IIIb or Stage IV NSCLC who have progressed after standard systemic chemotherapy (including if given in combination with anti-programmed cell death protein 1 \[anti-PD-1\] therapy, after anti-PD-1 as monotherapy, or after tyrosine kinase inhibitor \[TKI\] therapy). The study will consist of a Screening Period, a Treatment Period, a Treatment Discontinuation Visit, and a Follow-Up Period.