ctDNA as a Biomarker for Treatment Response in HNSCC
Tumours continually shed DNA into the circulation, where it can be accessed. This circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) directly reflects tumour burden and has great potential to be a sensitive biomarker for treatment recurrence. These "liquid biopsies" could give a more real-time picture of the genomic status and evolution of a tumour and can be easily assessed for measurement of different biomarkers. However, in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients treated with primary curative radiotherapy, data regarding ctDNA kinetics and its correlation with outcome are scarce. A new or additional tool for response evaluation next to or instead of conventional imaging after treatment would be beneficial to detect recurrences in an earlier stage, thereby increasing the chances of success of salvage therapy. More importantly, an early response parameter during treatment could help to identify patients that have a good treatment response and might benefit from treatment adaptation. With this study, we aim to reveal ctDNA as an effective tool for future dose (de)-escalation trials in HNSCC.
Carcinoma, Squamous Cell of Head and Neck
OTHER: Blood draw
The number of patients in which ctDNA measurement (in amplifiable copies per millilitre blood and saliva) accurately predicts treatment outcome within 2 years after treatment, in terms of FFP., ctDNA biomarker, 2 years
CtDNA kinetics (clearance time, drop below a certain level, complete absence, etc.) during radiotherapy as a predictor for disease recurrence within 2 years after treatment, in terms of FFP., ctDNA biomarker, 2 years|Levels of ctDNA at the time of corresponding conventional imaging in relation to disease occurrence., ctDNA biomarker, 3 years|The number of traceable mutations found in blood / saliva in comparison with mutations found in tissue biopsies., ctDNA biomarker, 3 years|The tumours' genomic status and epigenetic evolution over time under pressure of radiotherapy, in terms of number of different detectable mutations at all specified time points., ctDNA biomarker, 3 years|Levels of ctDNA in blood compared to saliva at the same time points., ctDNA biomarker, At study completion, after 3 years|Levels of ctDNA before treatment compared to other clinical/biological parameters in the prediction of treatment response., ctDNA biomarker, 3 years
Tumours continually shed DNA into the circulation, where it can be accessed. This circulating tumour DNA (ctDNA) directly reflects tumour burden and has great potential to be a sensitive biomarker for treatment recurrence. These "liquid biopsies" could give a more real-time picture of the genomic status and evolution of a tumour and can be easily assessed for measurement of different biomarkers. However, in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) patients treated with primary curative radiotherapy, data regarding ctDNA kinetics and its correlation with outcome are scarce. A new or additional tool for response evaluation next to or instead of conventional imaging after treatment would be beneficial to detect recurrences in an earlier stage, thereby increasing the chances of success of salvage therapy. More importantly, an early response parameter during treatment could help to identify patients that have a good treatment response and might benefit from treatment adaptation. With this study, we aim to reveal ctDNA as an effective tool for future dose (de)-escalation trials in HNSCC.