TEIPP Immunotherapy in Patients With NSCLC
In this multicenter, open label non-randomized phase I/II dose escalation study with extension cohort HLA-A\*0201-positive patients with non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) can be included. The primary aim of this study is determine the safety, tolerability and immune modulating effects of the therapeutic LRPAP1 synthetic long peptide (LRPAP7-30V-SLP) vaccine (TEIPP24) at different doses. Secondary objectives are to assess the specificity and immune modulatory effects of the vaccine, to assess the antigen and immune status of the patients, and to determine progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), and the radiological tumor response up to one year after first vaccination.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: TEIPP24 (LRPAP7-30V-SLP vaccine in Montanide ISA-51)
Safety assessment based on the incidence rate of serious adverse drug reactions (ADR) as assessed by NCI-CTCAE version 5.0., Safety of the therapeutic LRPAP1 synthetic long peptide ( LRPAP7-30V-SLP) vaccine (TEIPP24) determined by the incidence rate at each dose level based on the following safety parameters: adverse drug reactions (ADR) and serious ADRs, changes in haematology and chemistry values, including those associated with hepatic and renal function, and assessment of physical examinations, vital signs and performance status. NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 will be used., Week 8 (two weeks after the third TEIPP24 vaccination)|Tolerability assessment based on patients' tolerability of adverse drug reactions (ADR), Tolerability of the therapeutic LRPAP1 synthetic long peptide ( LRPAP7-30V-SLP) vaccine (TEIPP24) determined by patients' tolerability of ADRs. NCI-CTCAE version 5.0 will be used., Week 8 (two weeks after the third TEIPP24 vaccination)|Immunogenicity assessed by HLA-A*0201-restricted LRPAP21-30 -specific CD8+ T-cell reactivity, HLA-A\*0201-restricted LRPAP21-30 -specific CD8+ T-cell reactivity will be determined by measuring the magnitude and function of HLA-A\*0201-restricted LRPAP21-30 -specific CD8+ Tcells present in the blood and/or tumor samples before and after TEIPP24 vaccination at different dose levels., Week 3-6-9 (three weeks after every TEIPP24 vaccination)
The specificity and immune modulatory effect of the vaccine, determined by isolating LRPAP(21-30V)-specific CD8+ T cells, The specificity and immune modulatory effect of the vaccine is determined by isolating LRPAP(21-30V)-specific CD8+ T cells that are cocultured with tumor cells. CD8+ T cells that recognize LRPAP presented on these tumor cells will produce type 1 cytokines which is measured by ELISA., Week 3-6-9 (three weeks after every TEIPP24 vaccination)|Immunohistochemical staining of tumor material, The pretreatment (and when available post-vaccination) tumor material will be subjected to immunohistochemical staining for TAP 1, TAP 2, HLA class I and LRPAP., Before (week 0) and after treatment (week 9)|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival (PFS) defined as the time frame between the first vaccination and date of progression, From week 0 up to week 52|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) defined as the time frame between the first vaccination and date of death, From week 0 up to week 52|Radiological tumor response, To determine the radiological tumor response up to one year after first vaccination according to RECIST v.1.1 criteria., From week 0 up to week 52
Immunogenic tumors can be controlled by tumor-reactive Tcells either directly or after checkpoint blockade. In the end, most tumors will develop mechanisms to escape immune control. One of such a mechanism is formed by the functional impairment of the intracellular peptide transporter TAP1/TAP2 by mutation of downregulated expression. As a result the presentation of conventional T-cell epitopes in HLA class I is lost, and hence tumor-reactive CD8+ T-cells fail to recognize and kill tumor cells. This type of immune escape can occur in up to 50% of primary tumors and is increased in the metastatic lesions of such tumors. The presence of these TAP defects correlate with worse clinicopathological parameters and has been associated with loss of durable benefit to checkpoint inhibition. The unmet need, therefore, is the development of a therapy that can reinforce effective tumor-immunity to cancers displaying TAP-defects for which conventional therapeutic cancer vaccines and/or checkpoint blockade do not work. TEIPP therapy may fill this position by reinstalling an effective antitumor response to TAP-defective tumors thereby increasing the overall survival of patients failing first line therapy.

In this prospective, single arm, multicenter, open-label, phase I-II clinical study, HLA-A\*0201-positive patients with NSCLC failing first line of treatment will be enrolled in 3 cohorts and one extension cohort of 6 patients (at the highest safe and tolerable dose) combined with a checkpoint inhibitor targeting PD-1/PD-L1 (CPI), to include 24 patients in total. The maximal total treatment duration is 9 weeks. The first 6 patients will be enrolled in cohort 1, the next 6 patients in cohort 2, the next 6 patients in cohort 3. The decision to start enrollment at the next dose level will be made by assessing the safety after 3 out of 6 patients at the previous dose level have completed vaccine therapy.

Patients will receive an off the shelf TEIPP24 vaccine mixed with Montanide ISA-51 adjuvant, which will be administered every three weeks for a period of three rounds of vaccination. Patient cohort 1 will be treated with TEIPP24 at a dose of 20ug of peptide, patients in cohort 2 with TEIPP24 at a dose of 40ug of peptide and patients in cohort 3 with TEIPP24 at a dose of 100ug of peptide. Patients in the extension cohort will receive the highest safest dose in combination with pembrolizumab (a CPI). Patients will receive three rounds of vaccination three weeks apart via one subcutaneous (SC) injection in a limb. The SC route of administration of TEIPP24 vaccine is dictated by the use of Montanide ISA51. Subsequently patients will be followed up to 1 year after the first vaccination.