Imatinib Mesylate, Gemcitabine, and Capecitabine in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Imatinib mesylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving imatinib mesylate together with gemcitabine and capecitabine may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of gemcitabine and capecitabine when given together with imatinib mesylate in treating patients with advanced solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: capecitabine|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: imatinib mesylate|GENETIC: mutation analysis|GENETIC: nucleic acid sequencing|GENETIC: polymerase chain reaction
Maximum tolerated dose of gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine when combined with imatinib mesylate, Cohorts of 3 starting at dose level 0. The imatinib dose is fixed. The dose of capecitabine is initially fixed and the dose of gemcitabine is increased 1 dose level. For the subsequent cohort, the dose of gemcitabine will be fixed and the dose of capecitabine advanced to the next dose level. 3 patients will be treated on the initial schedule. If no dose-limiting toxicities related to drug are observed and no patients require dose mods by the end of cycle 2, then 3 patients will be treated on the next schedule., By the end of cycle 2|Dose-limiting Toxicity, Cohorts of 3 starting at dose level 0. The imatinib dose is fixed. The dose of capecitabine is initially fixed and the dose of gemcitabine is increased 1 dose level. For the subsequent cohort, the dose of gemcitabine will be fixed and the dose of capecitabine advanced to the next dose level. 3 patients will be treated on the initial schedule. If no dose-limiting toxicities related to drug are observed and no patients require dose mods by the end of cycle 2, then 3 patients will be treated on the next schedule., By the end of cycle 2.
Antitumor activity, Deidentified melanoma samples will be sent to our collaborator at Ohio State, Dr. Christopher Corless, who is a recognized expert in this field. Renal cell samples will be assayed here at our institution, Following response assessment.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the maximum tolerated dose of gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine when combined with imatinib mesylate in patients with advanced solid tumors.
* Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

Secondary

* Explore the antitumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of gemcitabine and capecitabine.

Patients receive oral imatinib mesylate once daily on days 1-5 and 8-12, gemcitabine hydrochloride IV on days 3 and 10, and oral capecitabine twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 2 courses in the absence of progressive disease or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of gemcitabine hydrochloride and capecitabine until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Existing paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from patients diagnosed with melanoma or renal cell carcinoma will be assessed for c-kit mutations by polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing of both juxtamembrane domains (exons 9 and 11) and tyrosine kinase domain (exon 13 and 17). (Begins 12-11-2008)

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Closed to patient accrual 12/11/2008.