Lurbinectedin + Doxorubicin In Leiomyosarcoma
This research study involves the study drug lurbinectedin in combination with doxorubicin.

This research has two parts. The first part is being done to determine the tolerability of lurbinectedin with doxorubicin in people with soft tissue sarcoma. The second part is a randomized study to determine which is more effective at treating leiomyosarcoma, lurbinectedin with doxorubicin or lurbinectedin alone.
Advanced Soft-tissue Sarcoma|Metastatic Soft-tissue Sarcoma|Advanced Leiomyosarcoma|Leiomyosarcoma Metastatic
DRUG: Lurbinectedin|DRUG: Doxorubicin
The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lurbinectedin with doxorubicin in participants with advanced soft-tissue sarcoma, The MTD will be defined as the dose where less than 1 in 3 patients experience a DLT. At least 6 patients must be treated at this dose level. DLTs will be defined as toxicities experienced by participants enrolled to the phase 1b portion of the trial that are considered at least possibly related to the treatment regimen, occur during the first cycle of treatment., 21 Days|PFS rate of lurbinectedin with doxorubicin compared to doxorubicin alone in participants with advanced LMS, Progression-Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Up to 5 years
Disease Control Rate Phase 1b, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria, 6 Months|Disease Control Rate Phase 1b, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria, 12 Months|Progression Free Survival Phase 1b, PFS is defined as the time from as the time from randomization (or registration) to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, Up to 5 years|Overall Survival Phase 1b, OS is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Phase 1b, assessed by RECIST version 1.1 criteria, Up to 5 years|Disease Control Rate Phase 2, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria, 6 Months|Disease Control Rate Phase 2, Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) Changes in the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the tumor lesions and the shortest diameter in the case of malignant lymph nodes are used in the RECIST criteria, 12 Months|Overall Survival Rate Phase 2, OS is defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., Up to 5 years|Objective Response Rate Phase 2, assessed by RECIST version 1.1 criteria, Up to 5 years|Number of Participants Treatment Related Adverse Events, NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 5 years
This is an open label phase 1b/2 study exploring the safety and efficacy of lurbinectedin with doxorubicin.

- The phase 1b trial will follow a standard 3+3 design. Upon determination of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of lurbinectedin plus doxorubicin, the randomized phase 2 trial in participants with advanced leiomyosarcoma (LMS) will commence. Participants will be randomized 1:1 for enrollment to one of two treatment arms:

* Arm 1: Lurbinectedin with Doxorubicin
* Arm 2: Doxorubicin Monotherapy

This is a Phase Ib/II clinical trial. A Phase Ib clinical trial tests the safety of an investigational drug combination and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drugs to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved lurbinectedin for this specific disease but it has been approved for the treatment of small cell lung cancer.

The U.S. FDA has approved doxorubicin as a treatment option for soft-tissue sarcoma.

Lurbinectedin is a synthetically derived chemical that binds to DNA. The binding to DNA likely induces cell death. Doxorubicin is a cytotoxic chemotherapy drug that kills cancer cells by several mechanisms including binding to DNA.