Trial of Curcumin to Prevent Progression of Low-risk Prostate Cancer Under Active Surveillance
This is a prospective study to determine if the use of curcumin randomized against placebo will reduce cancer progression in patients with prostate cancer undergoing active surveillance.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Curcumin|DRUG: Placebo
The primary end point is rate of disease progression., The primary endpoint is the number of patients who have progressed at 2 years of follow up defined as one of the following events: receipt of primary therapy for prostate cancer (eg, prostatectomy, radiation, hormonal therapy) or pathologic progression (\> 4 cores involved, ≥ 50% of any core involved, or any Gleason score ≥ 7), 2 years
Prostate cancer is the most common cancer in men with an estimated 180,890 new cases and 26,120 deaths from prostate cancer expected in 2016 in the United States. Although the lifetime risk of developing prostate cancer, the risk of death is only about 3%. A major concern regarding the utility of prostate cancer screening is the risk of over diagnosis and subsequent overtreatment. Many patients with small low grade cancers might not benefit from treatment and treatment can result in lower quality of life. A major concern for patients and physicians using active surveillance (AS) is the risk for progression of disease. Several reviews of active surveillance suggest that stage or grade progression occur in approximately 30% of patients with some patients choosing treatment due to anxiety. Overall survival in AS series is uniformly high but the need for close monitoring and anxiety associated with risk of progression has inhibited use among patients.

There are no currently accepted medications to reduce risk of progression in patients with active surveillance. With the rising use of AS, there is a role for therapies to reduce risk for progression in this population. One promising source of therapies involves use of nutraceuticals for the prevention and treatment of human diseases. Curcumin is a widely studied nutraceutical that was first discovered about two centuries ago from the rhizomes of Curcuma longa (turmeric). Curcumin is a safe supplement and in this study we will evaluate if it reduces risk of cancer progression compared to placebo.