Revealing Information Genuinely & Honestly Across Time: Pediatric Oncology Stakeholder Preferences and Recommendations for Prognostic Communication
This study is being conducted to better understand the preferences and recommendations of patients and parents regarding optimal ways to share prognostic communication. Specifically, to learn what stakeholders (i.e., patients, parents, and doctors) believe to be the "right" content, timing, and delivery of this important information.

Specific Aim 1

* To define key stakeholder preferences and recommendations for timing, content, and delivery of prognostic communication across the advancing illness course and bereavement.

Specific Aim 2

* To engage stakeholders in the design of a patient/parent centered RIGHTime framework and communication intervention to promote individualized, timely prognostic disclosure.
Pediatric Cancer|Communication
Prognostic Communication Preferences, We will use the rapid analysis (RA) qualitative approach for analysis of interview transcripts methods to define patient, parent, and oncologist preferences and recommendations with respect to timing, content, and delivery of prognostic communication at varying timepoints across the advancing illness course., Within 60 days of enrollment|Variables influencing stakeholder preferences, We will use a participatory design approach with user-centered design methods, we will convene a Stakeholder Panel comprising patients, parents, oncologists, and researchers that will meet across 4 sessions to develop a conceptual framework that explains the interconnecting variables influencing stakeholder preferences and to design a prognostic communication intervention (i.e., a RIGHTime communication guide) that encourages oncologists to provide individualized, timely prognostic disclosure., After completion of all interviews; 4 sessions over a period of approximately 1-2 years
This study will have two phases.

Phase 1:

Investigators will define key stakeholder preferences and recommendations for timing, content, and delivery of prognostic communication across the advancing illness course and bereavement. Eligible parents and patients will participate in semi-structured interviews on prognostic communication preferences, stratified by cohort: poor-prognosis diagnosis, advancing disease, phase I/II trial enrollment, and bereavement; eligible oncologists will complete interviews on prognostic disclosure preferences. Participants will participate in a single interview that will last anywhere from 30 to 60 minutes.The interview will be audio-recorded and transcribed. Participant demographic and social determinants of health information will be collected.

Phase 2:

Investigators will partner with a smaller group of stakeholders (parents, patients, and oncologist) from phase 1 to develop a clinical communication guide to help improve communication between patients, families, and cancer doctors. The panel will meet across 4 sessions to develop a conceptual framework that explains the interconnecting variables influencing stakeholder preferences and to design a prognostic communication intervention (i.e., a RIGHTime communication guide) that encourages oncologists to provide individualized, timely prognostic disclosure.