Universal Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF)-Producing and CD40L Expressing Bystander Cell Line for Tumor Vaccine in Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects (good and/or bad) this new cancer vaccine has on the patient and their cancer, whether it is safe and whether it can help get rid of their cancer (malignant melanoma). We want to check how the patient's immune system reacts, both before and after the vaccine treatment.
Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: Bystander-Based Autologous Tumor Cell Vaccine
Number of Participants With Partial Response, Response and progression were evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Average of 14 months
Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) Related to Study Treatment, Frequency of Study Related Toxicity. To evaluate the toxicity of the autologous tumor cell / GM.CD40L bystander cell vaccine. Toxicity was scored using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3.0 (CTCAE-3)., Average of 14 months|Number of Participants With Stable Disease, Patients with stable disease by RECIST criteria after 3 vaccine injections. Response and progression were evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum LD since the treatment started., Average of 14 months|Time to Progression (TTP) in Months, Response and progression were evaluated using the international criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee. Progressive disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions., Average of 14 months|Overall Survival (OS) in Months, Average overall survival time in months., Average of 14 months
The vaccine will be made by mixing two kinds of cells: 1) some of the patient's own malignant melanoma cells which were removed by surgery and then processed in the Cell Therapy Laboratory, and 2) experimental "bystander" cells. All the cells in the vaccine will be treated with high-dose X-rays to make sure that none of them grow and cause more cancer. The bystander cells, called "GM.CD40L", are human cells that have been genetically changed. The original cells, called K562, had the genes for human GM-CSF and CD40L inserted into them. These changes are designed to help boost the patient's immune system to better fight the cancer in their body.