A Study on the Angioarchitecture of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the commonest solid malignancies in Hong Kong as well as globally. Transarterial therapy has been playing an important role in the treatment algorithm for patients with HCC. The primary purpose of transarterial therapy is eradication of the viability of the targeted tumors. The treatment outcomes have been variable among the various treatments, in general, there is still much room for improvement, especially for large size tumors. From the studies on Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE), it is known that the treatment outcome is affected by the nature and the formulation of therapeutic agents that are delivered, which is related to the angioarchitecture of the tumor. Knowledge on the angioarchitecture of HCC is essential for the understanding of the requirements for effective transarterial treatment of HCC. This prospective study is aimed to study the angioarchitecture of HCC.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
OTHER: embolization
arterial flow through the tumor, Digital subtraction angiography (DSA) is performed before and after embolization, through catheterization of the arterial branches supplying the tumor, images from arterial phase to delayed phase are captured. Contrast distribution at the arterial tumor branches, arterioles, tumor sinusoids, peri-tumoral liver, and peri-tumoral portal venules are observed., within one hour
The degree of tumor necrosis, The percentage of viable residual HCC is assessed quantitatively in increments of 5 %, with the measurement of the largest axial diameter of viable HCC compared to that of the whole tumor using a microscopic ruler., within 2 weeks after embolization
Embolization is performed within 2 weeks before the scheduled date of partial hepatectomy. The purpose of the timing is two folded, it allows observation of the embolization effect to be differentiated among the various embolic agents, it also allows time for the patient and the liver to recover from the embolization.

The patient then receives partial hepatectomy within 2 weeks unless the result of liver function tests shows contraindication to surgery, in which case the liver function test is further evaluated on a weekly basis until the findings are acceptable, and surgery is scheduled accordingly.