Efficacy and Safety of MB-CART2019.1 vs. SoC in Lymphoma Patients
This is a pivotal Phase II randomised, multi-centre, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of MB-CART2019.1 compared to standard of care therapy in participants with relapsed/refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, who are not eligible for high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation.
Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
GENETIC: MB-CART2019.1|DRUG: R-GemOx or BR plus polatuzumab vedotin
Event-free survival, Event-free survival (EFS), defined as the time between the date of randomisation and the date of objective disease progression, failure to achieve partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) at or beyond Week 8 after randomisation leading to a new anti-lymphoma therapy or death of any cause, whichever occurs first, based on independent review committee (IRC) assessment., up to 30 weeks after randomisation
Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time between the date of randomisation and the date of objective disease progression or death of any cause, whichever occurs first, based on IRC assessment., up to 99 weeks after randomisation|Best complete response rate, To evaluate the safety and toxicity of MB-CART2019.1 compared to SoC therapy., up to 99 weeks after randomisation|Duration of complete response, To evaluate the safety and toxicity of MB-CART2019.1 compared to SoC therapy., up to 91 weeks|Overall survival, To evaluate the safety and toxicity of MB-CART2019.1 compared to SoC therapy., up to 99 weeks after randomisation
This study should determine superiority of MB-CART2019.1 treatment compared to SoC therapy with R-GemOx (rituximab, gemcitabine and oxaliplatin) with respect to event-free survival in second-line therapy in participants with R-R DLBCL, who are non-eligible for high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplantation.

MB-CART2019.1 is designed to effectively target malignant B cells in patients suffering from late stage haematological B-cell malignancies. MB-CART2019.1 consists of autologous cluster of differentiation CD20/CD19 chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) transduced CD4/CD8 enriched T cells, derived from a leukapheresis and processed by using the CliniMACS Prodigy®. Patients who are suitable for this study will be randomized 1:1 to either MB-CART2019.1 or SoC. Both treatment arms are unblinded.

MB-CART2019.1 arm: Single infusion of fresh formulation of 2.5 × 10\^6 CAR-transduced autologous T cells. IMP is only to be administered after a lymphodepleting chemotherapy with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. For MB-CART2019.1 production, patients will undergo a leukapheresis.

SoC arm: R-GemOx (8 cycles of 14 days each) or (10% of SoC arm) BR (Bendamustine/Rituximab) + polatuzumab vedotin (6 cycles of 21 days each). Participants from the SoC arm are allowed to be treated with MB-CART2019.1 upon request by the investigator if at least one of the following criteria is confirmed by the IRC:

* Relapse or progression occurring at any time within 1 year after randomisation.
* Failure to achieve PR or CR at or beyond Week 8 after randomisation (after 4 cycles of R-GemOx or 3 cycles of BR plus polatuzumab vedotin) and the start of a new anti-lymphoma therapy is warranted.

The duration of the active part of the study for each individual participant from screening to the end of the 1-year follow-up after infusion of MB-CART2019.1 cells (experimental arm) or the start of SoC therapy (comparator arm) will be approximately 55 weeks. The LTFU in Year 2 after infusion of MB-CART2019.1 cells or the start of treatment in the comparator arm will not be part of the active part of the clinical study and will be reported separately.