The Safety and Effect Study of Acupuncture for Anorexia in Patients With Gastrointestinal Tract and Lung Cancers
This trail will be carried out to evaluated the effect and safety of acupuncture for the anorexia in patients with gastrointestinal tract and lung cancers.
Anorexia|Cancer Cachexia
OTHER: Acupuncture|OTHER: Sham Acupuncture|DRUG: Megestrol Acetate|DRUG: Placebo(Megestrol Acetate)
Appetite Visual Analog Scale, The assessment will be done thirty minutes before meals. The participators should record the score of their appetite (0 to 100 mm) the higher scores reflect better symptom control., Baseline, the days 8 and 15.
Council of Nutrition appetite questionnaire (CNAQ), Ask the subjects to complete the questionnaire by circling the correct answers and then tally the results based upon the following numerical scale: a =1, b = 2, c = 3, d = 4, e = 5. The sum of the scores for the individual items constitutes the CNAQ score. CNAQ score ≤28 indicates significant risk of at least 5% weight loss within six months., Baseline, the days 8 and 15.|Caloric intake, The caloric intake will be assessed by the dietician., Baseline, the days 8 and 15.|Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy, Functional Assessment of Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy was designed to measure general aspects of quality of life (QOL) as well as specific anorexia/cachexia-related concerns., Baseline, the days 8 and 15.|Nutritional status, weight was determined in kilograms. Triceps skinfold (mm), arm circumference(cm), and calf circumference (cm) were determined, Baseline, the days 8 and 15.
Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale, Edmonton Symptom Assessment Scale is a nine-item patient-rated symptom visual analogue scale developed for use in assessing the symptoms of patients receiving palliative care., Baseline, the days 8 and 15.|The Questionnaire of Acupuncture-related Events(QAE), The side effects and their detail will be record during and after the acupuncture., Baseline and the days 7
Acupuncture used for anorexia related to cancer, but there were lack of powerful evidence. The 160 eligibilities will be randomly divided into 3 groups(Acupuncture and Placebo group, Megestrol acetate and Sham Acupuncture group, Placebo and Sham Acupuncture group).The effect will be investigated baseline, the 2,5,8 and 15days. The safety issue will be recorded every section during the acupuncture.