A Three-part Study of Eltrombopag in Thrombocytopenic Subjects With Myelodysplastic Syndromes or Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This was a worldwide, three-part (Part 1: open-label, Part 2: randomized, double-blind, Part 3: extension), multi-center study to evaluate the effect of eltrombopag in subjects with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who have thrombocytopenia due to bone marrow insufficiency from their underlying disease or prior chemotherapy. This objective was assessed by a composite primary endpoint that consists of the following: the proportion of ≥Grade 3 hemorrhagic adverse events, or platelet counts \<10 Gi/L, or platelet transfusions. Patients with MDS or AML and Grade 4 thrombocytopenia due to bone marrow insufficiency from their underlying disease or prior chemotherapy were enrolled in the study. No low or intermediate-1 risk MDS subjects were enrolled in the study. Subjects must have had at least one of the following during the 4 weeks prior to enrolment: platelet count \<10 Gi/L, platelet transfusion, or symptomatic hemorrhagic event. Supportive standard of care (SOC), including hydroxyurea, was allowed as indicated by local practice throughout the study. The study had 3 sequential parts. Subjects who were enrolled in Part 1 (open-label) cannot be enrolled in Part 2 of the study (randomized, double-blind); however, subjects who completed the treatment period for Part 1 or Part 2 (8 and 12 weeks, respectively) continued in Part 3 (extension) if the investigator determined that the subject was receiving clinical benefit on treatment.
Thrombocytopaenia
DRUG: eltrombopag|DRUG: placebo
Number of Participants With Platelet Response up to Week 8 During Part 1, A participant was considered as a responder if he/she met the following response criteria: a Baseline platelet count \<20 Giga cells per liter (Gi/L) and a post-Baseline increased to \>20 Gi/L and at least 2 times the Baseline value; or a Baseline platelet count \>=20 Gi/L and a post-Baseline absolute platelet count increased to \>=50 Gi/L and at least 2 times the Baseline value. The response criteria was evaluated at each visit. Increase in platelet count observed up to 3 days after a platelet transfusion was not considered as a platelet response. The Part 1 Population was comprised of all participants enrolled into Part 1., From Baseline up to Week 8 during Part 1|Clinically Relevant Thrombocytopenic Events (CRTE) From Week 5 up to Week 12 During Part 2, A participant was considered to have a CRTE at a given assessment if he/she had platelet counts \<10 Gi/L, or platelet transfusions, or \>=Grade 3 hemorrhagic adverse events. CRTEs during Weeks 5 to 12 were compared between treatments using a generalized linear mixed model. Average of weekly proportion of subjects with CRTE during Week 5 to 12 was estimated for each treatment. Intent to Treat (ITT) Population was comprised of all randomized participants during Part 2., From Week 5 up to Week 12 during Part 2
Plasma Eltrombopag Pharmacokinetic Concentration-Time Data - by Visit (Part 1 Subjects), Day 1 to week 8|Plasma Eltrombopag Pharmacokinetic Concentration-Time Data - by Visit (Part 2 Subjects), Day 1 to week 12|Mean Number of Platelet Transfusions, Weeks 5 to 12|Hematologic Improvement, Definitions of hematologic improvement for platelets, neutrophils, and hemoglobin were based on modified International Working Group (IWG) consensus criteria., Weeks 5 to 12|Change in Mean Platelet Count, Baseline to Week 12|Maximum Duration of Platelet Transfusion Independence, Weeks 5 to 12|Number of Participants With Maximum Bleeding Grade According to World Health Organization on Bleeding Scale, Occurrence and severity of bleeding, measured using the WHO Bleeding Scale Grade 0=no bleeding; Grade 1=petechiae; Grade 2=mild blood loss; Grade 3=gross blood loss; Grade 4=debilitating blood loss., Weeks 5 to 12|Independent Reviewer-Assessed Best Response, Participants were evaluated in accordance with the modified International Working Group (Cheson, 2006). CR: Bone marrow blasts \<5%, Hgb ≥11g/dL, Hematologic Improvement - Platelets (Baseline \<20Gi/L: \>20 Gi/L and 2x baseline; Baseline ≥20 Gi/L: ≥50 Gi/L and 2x baseline), Neutrophils ≥1.0 Gi/L, Peripheral blasts 0%. PR: Bone marrow blasts decreased by ≥50% but \>5%, Peripheral blood as in CR. Marrow CR: Bone marrow blasts \<5% and decrease by ≥50%, Note any Hematologic Improvements, Stable disease: Failure to achieve PR, but no evidence of progression for \>8w, Cytogenetic response: Complete: disappearance of chromosomal abnormality; no new abnormalities Partial: ≥50% reduction of chromosomal abnormality., up to week 12|Independent Reviewer Assessed Disease Progression, Up to week 12|Median Overall Survival, Up to 13 months|Summary of Health Outcomes, The number of subject with medical resource utilization (MRU) data are reported in this table.

MRU included number of emergency room visits, number of home healthcare visits, number of hospitalization days, number of medication or surgery specialist visits, number of procedures inpatient, number of procedures outpatient, number of non-study radiology visits, number of non-study laboratory visits, number of nurse practitioner/physician assistance/nurse visits, number of primary care physician visits, number of telephone consultations., week 12|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT), The FACT-Th-18 is the most widely used and accepted tool evaluating health-related quality-of-life outcomes in cancer patients with chronically low platelets (where Th designates thrombocytopenia). The entire FACT-Th-18 was used in this trial, which includes the 18-item thrombocytopenia subscale used to assess the impact of symptoms, signs, and functional consequences of thrombocytopenia in MDS and AML subjects. The FACT-Th-18 is a validated and reliable instrument with known psychometric properties. FACT-ThS is an 18 item questionnaire specific to assessing the impact of symptoms, signs, and functional consequences of Thrombocytopenia. ThS score ranges from 0 to 72 with higher the score, the better the QoL. FACT G total score moves from 0 to 108 where higher the score, the better the HRQL.

FACT-Th Total Score is calculated by adding the FACT-ThS and FACT-G score. Total score ranges from 0 to 180 and again, higher the score, the better the HRQL., Change from baseline, up to week 12|EQ-5D Utility Score Analysis, EuroQoL Five Dimensions Questionnaire (EQ-5D) is a standardized generic preference based health related quality of life instrument. It records how one's health is "today" and consists of a descriptive system. The Descriptive system is Comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression. Each dimension on the EQ-5D involves a 3-point response scale which indicates the level of impairment (level 1 = no problem; level 2 = some or moderate problem(s) and level 3 = unable, or extreme problems). Level of problem reported in each EQ-5D dimension determines a unique health state which is converted into a weighted health state index by applying scores from EQ-5D preference weights elicited from general population samples. This generates a unique description of the subjects' health status, which is valued between 0 (representing death) and 1 (representing perfect health). Higher the score, the better the quality of life.

EQ-ED is a score., Change from baseline, up to week 12
This was a worldwide, three-part (Part 1: open-label, Part 2: randomized, double-blind, Part 3: extension), multi-center study to evaluate the effect of eltrombopag in subjects with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who have thrombocytopenia due to bone marrow insufficiency from their underlying disease or prior chemotherapy. This objective was assessed by a composite primary endpoint that consists of the following: the proportion of ≥Grade 3 hemorrhagic adverse events, or platelet counts \<10 Gi/L, or platelet transfusions. Patients with MDS or AML and Grade 4 thrombocytopenia due to bone marrow insufficiency from their underlying disease or prior chemotherapy were enrolled in the study. No low or intermediate-1 risk MDS subjects were enrolled in the study. Subjects must have had at least one of the following during the 4 weeks prior to enrolment: platelet count \<10 Gi/L, platelet transfusion, or symptomatic hemorrhagic event. Supportive standard of care (SOC), including hydroxyurea, was allowed as indicated by local practice throughout the study. The study had 3 sequential parts. Subjects who were enrolled in Part 1 (open-label) cannot be enrolled in Part 2 of the study (randomized, double-blind); however, subjects who completed the treatment period for Part 1 or Part 2 (8 and 12 weeks, respectively) continued in Part 3 (extension) if the investigator determined that the subject was receiving clinical benefit on treatment.