Tranexamic Acid in Reducing Blood Loss in Patients With Pelvic Tumors Undergoing Hemipelvectomy Surgery
This early phase I trial studies how well tranexamic acid works in reducing the loss of blood in patients with pelvic tumors undergoing hemipelvectomy surgery. Tranexamic acid decreases blood loss by stabilizing clots and preventing clot lysis in patients undergoing surgery.
Pelvic Mass
PROCEDURE: Hemipelvectomy|DRUG: Tranexamic Acid
Total perioperative blood loss defined as the total intraoperative estimation of blood (EBL) loss, Intraoperative blood loss and perioperative blood loss (total of intraoperative EBL and 1 week drain) will be compared between two groups utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test. Log-transformation will be taken on the blood loss measurements as appropriate. Multivariable linear regression models will be used to compare two treatment groups in intraoperative and perioperative blood loss by adjusting for significant covariates. Model selection technique, including backward elimination, will be implemented., During first post-operative week
Total number of units of packed red blood cells (PRBCs), fresh frozen plasma (FFP), cryoprecipitate, and platelets, Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of intense care unit (ICU), and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., At the time of procedure|Total number of units of PRBCs, FFP, cryoprecipitate, and platelets, Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of ICU, and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., During first post-operative week|Thromboelastography (TEG), Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of ICU, and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., At baseline prior to administration of tranexamic acid, after completion of bone cuts, and after completion of closure|Change in laboratory measurements, Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of ICU, and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., Baseline up to 7 days post-surgery|Complications including but not limited to venous thromboembolism, stroke, seizure, vision changes, and return to operating room (hematoma, active bleeding), Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of ICU, and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., Up to 7 days post-surgery|Length of ICU and hospital stay, Two groups will be compared in each of secondary outcome measures utilizing two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous variables (amount of blood products transfused (during operation and during first postoperative week), lab measurements, length of ICU, and hospital stays) and Chi-square test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables (complication). Modeling techniques including linear regression (amount of blood products transfused, length of ICU, hospital stays), logistic regression (complication), and mixed effects model (repeatedly measured lab data) will be utilized as appropriate., Up to 7 days post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if the use of tranexamic acid results in a significant reduction in intraoperative and perioperative blood loss.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if use of tranexamic acid lowers the amount of blood products transfused in hemipelvectomy surgeries and during first postoperative week.

II. To determine if the use of tranexamic acid has an effect on laboratory (lab) measurements preoperatively through postoperative day 7.

III. To determine if use of tranexamic acid has an effect on complication, length of intensive care unit (ICU), and hospital stays.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (TRANEXAMIC ACID): Patients receive tranexamic acid intravenously (IV) over 15 minutes 30 minutes prior to surgery and continuously during hemipelvectomy procedure in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (NO TRANEXAMIC ACID): Patients undergo standard of care hemipelvectomy in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 7 days.