Carboplatin and Paclitaxel Combined With Cetuximab and/or IMC-A12 in Patients With Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well giving carboplatin and paclitaxel together with cetuximab and/or cixutumumab (IMC-A12) works in treating patients with stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab and cixutumumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Giving chemotherapy together with monoclonal antibody therapy may kill more tumor cells. It is not yet known whether carboplatin and paclitaxel are more effective when given with cetuximab and/or cixutumumab in treating non-small cell lung cancer.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: cixutumumab|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: cetuximab
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as time from registration to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Disease progression was assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, and/or the appearance of one or more new lesion(s), and/or unequivocal progression of existing nontarget lesions .

All eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., Tumor measurements are repeated every 6 weeks while on treatment. After off treatment, assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry and every 6 months in year 3
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as time from registration to death from any cause., assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry and every 6 months in year 3|Response Rate, Tumor response was assessed via Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0. Complete response (CR) was defined disappearance of all tumor lesions. Partial response (PR) was defined as as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum longest diameter. Overall response rate= CR+PR., Tumor measurements are repeated every 6 weeks while on treatment. After off treatment, assessed every 3 months if patient is < 2 years from study entry and every 6 months in year 3
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the progression-free survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) randomized to carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus cetuximab or carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus cixutumumab (IMC-A12) or carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus cetuximab plus cixutumumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate, disease control rate (complete response plus partial response plus stable disease), and toxicities for each arm.

II. To evaluate epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) by Immunohistochemistry (IHC), mutation, and gene copy number, Insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF-1R) and Insulin-like growth factor 2 receptor (IGF-2R) expression (both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated states), expression of p-AKT (ie, Protein Kinase B) by IHC, and k-ras mutation.

III. Plasma-based biomarkers will be evaluated for total and free insulin-like growth factor 1 and 2, IGF-growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP3) and circulating levels of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and Transforming growth factor (TGF) alpha.

IV. To evaluate overall survival on each of the three arms.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender and histology (squamous cell vs non-squamous cell). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 15-30 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on days 1 and 22 and cetuximab IV over 1-2 hours on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after 2 courses proceed to maintenance therapy with cetuximab alone on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36. Treatment with cetuximab repeats every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive carboplatin and paclitaxel as in arm I. Patients also receive cixutumumab IV over 1 hour on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after 2 courses proceed to maintenance therapy with cixutumumab alone on days 1, 15, and 29. Treatment with cixutumumab repeats every 42 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Patients receive carboplatin, paclitaxel, and cetuximab as in arm I. Patients also receive cixutumumab as in arm II. Treatment repeats every 42 days for 2 courses. Patients with stable or responding disease after 2 courses proceed to maintenance therapy with cetuximab as in arm I and cixutumumab as in arm II.

Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline for analysis of EGFR expression by IHC, mutation, and gene copy number; IGF-1R and IGF-2R expression (both phosphorylated and unphosphorylated states); p-AKT expression by IHC; and k-ras mutation. Blood, serum, and plasma samples are collected periodically for biomarker analysis.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 1 year.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: 200 patients