A Novel Oral Synbiotic Formula in Reducing Adenoma Recurrence and Colorectal Neoplasia-related Bacterial Gene Markers
This double blinded randomized controlled trial aims to assess the efficacy of a novel oral synbiotic formula (SMT04) in reducing adenoma recurrence and colorectal neoplasia-related bacterial gene markers after endoscopic resection of colorectal advanced neoplasia.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Colorectal Adenoma|Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: SMT04 formula|OTHER: Active placebo
The incidence of metachronous recurrent colorectal adenoma at year 1 (local or at other sites), The proportion of patients with metachronous recurrent adenoma at year 1, 1 year
Incidence of recurrent colorectal advanced adenomas at year 1, The proportion of patients with metachronous recurrent advanced adenoma at year 1, 1 year|Number of recurrent adenomas at year 1, The number of recurrent colorectal adenoma per patient both in intervention and placebo arm, 1 year|Number of recurrent advanced adenomas at year 1, The number of recurrent colorectal advanced adenoma per patient both in intervention and placebo arm, 1 year|Changes in the levels of bacterial gene markers, The change in the level of four bacterial gene markers tested by qPCR, 1 year
Recent evidence has demonstrated the association between altered gut microbiome environment and the progression of colorectal cancer (CRC) from its precancerous lesions. Some pathogenic species of bacteria, including Fusobacterium nucleatum, Escherichia Coli and Bacteroides fragilis, have shown to be significantly enriched in CRC patients. This gut dysbiosis process also brings with its diagnostic potential for recurrent adenomas. Previous study found a panel of bacterial gene markers, including "m3" from Lachnoclostridium, F. nucleatum (Fn), Bacteroides clarus (Bc) and Clostridium hathewayi (Ch) could be used in detecting adenoma recurrence after polypectomy in a retrospective study. In addition, these microbial biomarkers may have prognostic potential and provide an option as therapeutic target.

Probiotics, including the genera Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus, have shown to be able to inhibit tumorigenesis and progression of CRC in animal studies. Prebiotics are non-digestible dietary ingredients with protective effects against cancer by selectively stimulating the growth and activity of beneficial colonic microbiota. The combination of probiotics and prebiotics, known as synbiotic, may be more efficient in preventing CRC than either one alone.

The investigators' unpublished data showed that the new probiotic formula containing Bifidobacterium strains has a negative correlation with CRC-related bacterial gene markers. Subjects treated with SMT04 showed significantly higher levels of the individual Bifidobacterium species at week 2 to week 5 compared with baseline levels. There was a significant decrease in the bacterial gene markers (Fn, m3 and 4Bac CRC risk score) from week 2 to week 12 compared with baseline levels in the SMT04 group but not in the control group. The synbiotic formula (SMT04) is the combination of probiotic formula and several heat-resistant prebiotics. It remains unclear that whether this synbiotic formula can produce a sustained effect in reduction of adenoma recurrence and colorectal neoplasia related bacterial gene markers in long-term.