Study of Anti-PD-L1 in Combination With Chemo(Radio)Therapy for Oesophageal Cancer
This is an open-label, Phase 1/2 study to evaluate the safety of durvalumab (MEDI4736) in combination with oxaliplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy in metastatic/locally advanced oesophageal cancer (OC) and with neoadjuvant chemo(radio)therapy before surgery in operable OC. The immunotherapy will be given for a 4-week period before starting the standard chemo(radio)therapy, continuing durvalumab treatment once the chemotherapy starts. The study will include 2 phases, a safety run-in Phase 1 (Cohorts A1 and A2) and an expansion Phase 2 (Cohorts B, C, C-FLOT, D/D2).
Esophageal Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Tremelimumab|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Radiotherapy|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Docetaxel
Number of Subjects Reporting Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), Toxicity was graded in accordance with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 4.03. Adverse events (AEs) were reported based on clinical laboratory tests, vital signs, physical examinations, and any other medically indicated assessments, including subject interviews, from the time informed consent is signed through 110 days after the last dose of study treatment. Treatment-emergent AEs were those that occurred or worsened after administration of the first dose of study treatment.

In Cohorts A1, A2 and B, 12, 5 and 7 subjects, respectively, were monitored for dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) during the first 10 weeks of treatment (DLT evaluation period)., up to 1 year|Number of Subjects With Best Overall Tumor Response by the Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 28 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 1, 3, 5 and 6 in Cohorts A1, A2 and B. In the other cohorts, tumor response was assessed at baseline, post-surgery and 14 days after the last dose. In Cohorts C-FLOT and D, an additional assessment was done prior to surgery and in Cohorts C and D, an additional assessment was done in Cycle 3. Per irRECIST, measurable lesions are categorized as follows: Immune-related Complete Response (irCR): Complete disappearance of all target lesions; Immune-related Partial Response (irPR): ≥ 30% decrease from baseline in the Total Measurable Tumor Burden (TMTB); Immune-related Progressive Disease (irPD): ≥ 20% increase from nadir in TMTB; Immune-related Stable Disease (irSD): not meeting above criteria; irNon-CR/Non-PD: irNon-CR/Non-PD is preferred over SD when no lesions can be measured., up to 1 year
Number of Subjects With Metastatic/Locally Advanced Oesophageal Cancer (OC) Who Had a Response at Cycle 6 by the Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 28 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 1, 3, 5 and 6 in Cohorts A1, A2 and B. Per irRECIST, measurable lesions are categorized as follows: irCR: Complete disappearance of all target lesions; irPR: ≥ 30% decrease from baseline in the Total Measurable Tumor Burden (TMTB); irPD: ≥ 20% increase from nadir in TMTB; irSD: not meeting above criteria; irNon-CR/Non-PD: irNon-CR/Non-PD is preferred over SD when no lesions can be measured., Up to 23 weeks|Median Progression-free Survival (PFS) by the Immune-related Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, Tumor responses were evaluated using appropriate imaging and categorized according to irRECIST at Screening (up to 28 days before the first dose of study treatment), and in Cycles 1, 3, 5 and 6 in Cohorts A1, A2 and B. In the other cohorts, tumor response was assessed at baseline, post-surgery and 14 days after the last dose. In Cohorts C-FLOT and D, an additional assessment was done prior to surgery and in Cohorts C and D, an additional assessment was done in Cycle 3.

In Cohorts A1, A2 and B, PFS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of earliest disease progression according to irRECIST or to the date of death, if disease progression did not occur. For Cohorts C, C-FLOT and D/D2, PFS is measured from the date of surgery. Per irRECIST, irPD was defined as a ≥ 20% increase from nadir in the TMTB., Up to 3 years|Median Overall Survival (OS) as Estimated Using the Kaplan-Meier Method, After completion of treatment, all subjects were followed for survival every 6 months for up to 3 years from start of treatment. OS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death or last follow-up. Subjects lost to follow-up were censored on the date when they were last known to be alive. Per protocol amendment 8.0, all post study follow-up for the collection of survival data was discontinued as of June 30, 2022., Up to 3 years|One Year Survival Rate in Subjects With Operable OC, OS was measured from the date of the first dose of study treatment to the date of death or last follow-up. Subjects lost to follow-up were censored on the date when they were last known to be alive. Per protocol amendment 8.0, all post study follow-up for the collection of survival data was discontinued as of June 30, 2022., up to 12 months|Overall Response Prior to Surgery in Operable OC (Cohorts C, C-FLOT and D/D2) Using Positron Emission Tomography (PET) Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (PERCIST), 18F- fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) PET scans were conducted at baseline and in Cycle 3 in Cohorts C and D, and after completion of therapy in Cohort C-FLOT and D2. Complete metabolic response: 18F-FDG-avid lesions revert to background of normal tissues in which they are located; Partial metabolic response: 30% or greater reduction in measurable tumors; Stable Metabolic Response: no visible change in metabolic activity of tumor; Progressive metabolic disease: increase in intensity or extent of tumor metabolic activity or new sites of activity., Up to 7months
This is an open-label, Phase 1/2 study to evaluate the safety of immunotherapy in combination with chemo (radio) therapy with the following cohorts:

* Cohorts A1, A2, and B: Oxaliplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy in metastatic/locally advanced oesophageal cancer (OC).
* Cohort C: Neoadjuvant oxaliplatin/capecitabine chemotherapy before surgery in operable OC.
* Cohort C-FLOT: Neoadjuvant 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), leucovorin, oxaliplatin, and docetaxel (FLOT) chemotherapy before surgery in operable OC.
* Cohort D/D2: Neoadjuvant paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy + radiotherapy before surgery in operable OC.

The immunotherapy will be given for a 4-week period before starting the standard chemo(radio)therapy, continuing durvalumab treatment once the chemotherapy starts for all cohorts except Cohort D.

The study will include 2 phases, a safety run-in Phase 1 (Cohorts A1 and A2) and an expansion Phase 2 (Cohorts B including the higher dose tremelimumab cohort from Cohort A2, C, C-FLOT, and D/D2).

Phase 1 will evaluate the safety of durvalumab alone (Cohort A1) administered before chemotherapy (oxaliplatin + capecitabine) in subjects with metastatic or locally advanced OC. After completion of Cohort A1, Phase 2 in Cohorts C, C-FLOT, and D/D2 will begin, and a safety review will determine whether to explore the tremelimumab + durvalumab combination (Cohort A2).

Phase 2 includes the expansion into Cohorts B, C, C-FLOT, and D/D2. Once Cohort A1 is cleared, there will be concurrent enrollment into Phase 2 expansion for Cohorts C, C-FLOT and D/D2 (subjects with operable OC with neoadjuvant chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy before surgery) and the tremelimumab dose-escalation phase for Cohort A2 (37.5 mg and 75 mg). Once Cohort A2 is completed, another safety review will determine the dose of tremelimumab to be included in the recommended combination dose (RCD) to start enrollment into the Cohort B (subjects with metastatic/locally advanced OC) expansion phase. Subjects treated at the RCD in Cohort A2 (tremelimumab 75 mg) will be included in Cohort B.

Subjects in Cohorts C, C-FLOT and D/D2 will undergo surgery after completing treatment, and they will be eligible to resume durvalumab dosing (to a maximum of 12 infusions) once recovered from surgery, provided that this is within 3 months of surgery. Subjects in Cohort C-FLOT may receive durvalumab, FLOT, or durvalumab plus FLOT at the discretion of the investigator.