Media Diversion in Improving Quality of Life in Patients With Recurrent Gynecologic Cancers Receiving Chemotherapy
This randomized clinical trial studies media diversion in improving quality of life in patients with recurrent gynecologic cancers receiving chemotherapy. Media diversion may improve mood and quality of life in patients having cancer treatment.
Female Reproductive Cancer
PROCEDURE: mind-body intervention procedure|OTHER: survey administration|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Patient-reported mood using the Positive and Negative Affect Scale-Expanded Form (PANAS-X) instrument, Summarized in terms of means, standard deviations and ranges, stratified by group and assessment time point. Absolute and percentage changes from baseline within each group will be calculated and reported in terms of means and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using a paired t-test. A Grizzle model for a 2 X 2 cross-over design will be used to compare changes in PANAS-X positive and negative affect scores between groups., Up to day 1 of course 3 of chemotherapy
Humor Styles Questionnaire (HSQ) total score, Summarized in terms of means, standard deviations and ranges, stratified by group and assessment time point. Absolute and percentage changes from baseline within each group will be calculated and reported in terms of means and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using a paired t-test. A Grizzle model for a 2 X 2 cross-over design will be used to compare changes in HSQ total scores between groups., Up to day 1 of course 3 of chemotherapy|Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI) total score, Summarized in terms of means, standard deviations and ranges, stratified by group and assessment time point. Absolute and percentage changes from baseline within each group will be calculated and reported in terms of means and the corresponding 95% confidence intervals. Changes from baseline will be evaluated using a paired t-test. A Grizzle model for a 2 X 2 cross-over design will be used to compare changes in BFI total scores between groups., Up to day 1 of course 3 of chemotherapy|Ease of use (EoS) score, Assessed with a Likert scale at the completion of the subject's participation to understand how the intervention may be improved should results of this study favor implementation into standard clinical procedure for future patients. Summarized in terms of medians and ranges, stratified by group and assessment time point. Changes from baseline within each group will be evaluated using a nonparametric Wilcoxon Signed Rank test, Up to day 1 of course 3 of chemotherapy|Quality of materials (QOM) score, Assessed with a Likert scale at the completion of the subject's participation to understand how the intervention may be improved should results of this study favor implementation into standard clinical procedure for future patients. Summarized in terms of medians and ranges, stratified by group and assessment time point. Changes from baseline within each group will be evaluated using a nonparametric Wilcoxon Signed Rank test, Up to day 1 of course 3 of chemotherapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze the impact of a media-based intervention on patient mood during the receipt of chemotherapy for recurrent gynecologic cancers.

OUTLINE: are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants are provided headphones and a tablet and choose among a selection of humorous movies. Upon the third course of chemotherapy, participants are provided a selection of non-humorous movies.

ARM II: Participants are provided headphones and a tablet and choose among a selection of non-humorous movies. Upon the third course of chemotherapy, participants are provided a selection of humorous movies.