Cryosurgery and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Painful Bone Metastases
This pilot clinical trial studies cryosurgery and radiation therapy in treating patients with painful bone metastases. Cryosurgery kills tumor cells by freezing them. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving cryosurgery together with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells
Bone Metastases|Pain
PROCEDURE: cryosurgery|RADIATION: radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment
Pain Level at 24 Hours Before Cryosurgery, as Measured by the BPI, Numerical scores (0-10) from the BPI will be used to measure pain levels. Higher scores denotes worse outcome., 24 hours
Pain Medication Level, Assessed by Changes in Narcotic Medication Usage, Pain medication assessments will be used to quantify any change in narcotic medication usage using the 24-hour morphine equivalent dose., Baseline to 24 weeks|Adverse Events, Graded According to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Up to 24 weeks|Pain After Cryosurgery, as Measured by the BPI, Questions #4 (least pain), #5 (average pain), and #6 (right now) from the BPI (reported on 0-10 scale) will be used as the secondary outcome measures. Higher scores denotes worse outcome, Up to 24 weeks|Number of Participants Who Survived, Count of participants that survived., Up to 24 weeks post-cryosurgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the potential for efficacy and safety of combining percutaneous computed tomography (CT)-guided cryoablation and radiotherapy for the palliation of osseous metastases.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo cryosurgery. Beginning 2 weeks later, patients undergo 1, 10, or 15 fractions of radiation therapy 5 days per week for 1-3 weeks. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 24 hours and weeks 1-2, 4, 12, 18, and 24.