Electroacupuncture Treatment of Peripheral Neuropathy After Taxane Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer
Electroacupuncture treatment of peripheral neuropathy after taxane chemotherapy for breast cancer
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Electro-acupuncture
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group Neurotoxicity Index （FACT/GOG-NTX）, This scale is mainly used to evaluate chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN), especially the neurotoxic reactions in gynecological tumor treatment. Through this scale, it is possible to quantify the neurotoxic symptoms that patients experience after receiving chemotherapy, such as sensory abnormalities, motor dysfunction, etc., in order to better monitor and manage the patient's health status., After enrollment, the first assessment of the scale will be conducted, followed by another assessment of the scale at the 4th and 8th week of treatment (7 days per week).
The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire CIPN-20., This scale is used to evaluate the impact of chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN) on the quality of life of patients., After enrollment, the first assessment of the scale will be conducted, followed by another assessment of the scale at the 4th and 8th week of treatment (7 days per week).
Chemotherapy induced peripheral neuropathy has a significant impact on the integrity of chemotherapy cycle and quality of life of breast cancer patients. The latest research reports indicate that electroacupuncture has a certain therapeutic effect on peripheral neuropathy. In addition, existing studies have confirmed that the peripheral neuropathy of breast cancer induced by taxane is related to genetic factors. This study is based on electroacupuncture treatment of peripheral neuropathy induced by paclitaxel drugs, while screening SNPs related to peripheral neuropathy induced by taxane drugs, and establishing a prognostic model. Eligible patients diagnosed as stage I, II or IIIA breast cancer with peripheral neuropathy for at least 2 weeks were assessed by functional cancer treatment assessment/gynecological oncology group neurotoxicity scale (FACT/GOG-NTX) and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire CIPN Twenty Item Scale (EORTC QLQ-CIPN20). All items in the above two scales are scored using Likert's 5 and 4 levels. The researchers will temporarily divide the study into two groups, and if necessary, the researchers will add this group. Laboratory personnel are unaware of all clinical and outcome data.