CT-Controlled Advanced Navigation Techniques for Transbronchial Pulmonary Lesion Access; Evaluation of Electromagnetic Navigation Based Diagnostic Yield
In this clinical trial we will investigate the diagnostic yield of a combination of commercially available imaging and navigation techniques for reaching peripheral lung lesions. The two investigated techniques will herein be the rEBUS imaging modality combined with electromagnetic based navigation. Confirmation of reaching the lung lesion will be by means of CT (fluoroscopic) imaging. Rapid On-Site Evaluation (ROSE) of cytopathology will be used for obtaining a per-procedural outcome on tissue biopsy representativeness. All data will be prospectively collected. In case tissue biopsy is found to be malignant or benign, it will be termed representative. In case tissue biopsy is found to be non-representative (=blood, anatomical lung tissue, unreachable), conventional followup of CT guided TTNA, follow-up monitoring and/or surgical biopsy will serve as golden standard for obtaining tissue diagnosis. For verification of reaching the target lesion, another study parameter of interest, (cb)CT imaging will be performed for verification that instruments are within the nodule (per-procedurally available).
Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Electromagnetic navigation
number of patients with an adequate diagnosis (= diagnostic yield), diagnosis will consist of benign, malign or non-representative (=blood, anatomical lung tissue, unreachable), 0-12 months
number of patients with (S)AE's related to the procedure, minor bleeding and pneumothoraces are reported, 0-12 months|cost-effectiveness, the study procedures will be compared against the conventional diagnostic TBB work-up, 0-12 months|radiation exposure, compared against conventional TBB and consecutive TTNA procedure, 0-12 months
Lung cancer is one of the leading most frequent types of cancer and is the most lethal malignancy in the Netherlands. Mortality is high due to its advanced stage disease at diagnosis. To improve survival current guidelines are moving towards CT-screening of the high risk population. These CT-scans detect numerous nodules and rapidly increase the demand for minimal invasive accurate and safe diagnostic procedures.

The historically available and current first diagnostic procedure in the work-up of PPLs is fluoroscopy guided Trans Bronchial Biopsy (TBB) despite its low pooled yield of 31.1%. When the above transbronchial technique does not provide an unambiguous outcome, an additional and more invasive diagnostic work-up remains indicated. To exclude the possibility of missing malignancies, trans thoracic needle aspiration is first indicated. If deemed inaccessible, surgical biopsy may be alternatively indicated depending on patient risk of malignancy. Ideally, a transbronchial approach having high diagnostic accuracy would overcome the need of this sequential increasingly invasive diagnostic and consecutive treatment approach. Newer pilot studies now hypothesize that combining multiple new endobronchial modalities might provide a solution in preventing more invasive additional diagnostic staging, reporting diagnostic yields exceeding 70%. When an accurate and certain transbronchial diagnosis by combining multiple techniques can indeed be provided. We will study a combination of new advanced modalities for diagnosis of peripheral nodules endobronchially. The aim of this study is to determine diagnostic yield, cost-effectiveness, safety, and, to collect data for developing diagnostic algorithms to further cost-effectively increase yield, reduce complication rate and determine a future platform for clinical implementation.