Clinical Study on the Treatment of Malignant Brain Glioma by QH104 Cell Injection
This is a study on the clinical application of chimeric antigen receptor modified γδ T cells (CAR-γδ T cells) in relapsed and refractory B7H3 Positive malignant brain glioma.The main purpose of this study was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of CAR-γδ T cell infusion in patients with relapsed and refractory B7H3 Positive malignant brain glioma.
Brain Gliomas
BIOLOGICAL: Allogenic B7H3 CAR-γδT cell
Phase 1: Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs), AE is defined as any adverse medical event from the date of the cell infusion to 12 months after B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion. Among them, cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) were graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) criteria, graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) according to criteria defined by the Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium. Other AEs were graded according to common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) v5.0., 12 months|Phase 1:Incidence of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLT was defined as B7H3 CAR-γδT cells-related events with onset within first 28 days following infusion:

The development of Grade (G) III-IV acute GVHD according to the Mount Sinai Acute GVHD International Consortium criteria; The development of G3 or higher grade CRS lasting \> 2 weeks; Any B7H3 CAR-γδT cells-related AE requiring intubation; All G4 non-hematologic toxicities. Symptoms of GVHD include but are not limited to skin rash, enterocolitis with diarrhea, liver dysfunction with jaundice, fever, weight loss, etc., First infusion date of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells up to 28 days|Phase 1:Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), MTD is defined as the highest dose level of less than or equal to 2 DLT among the 6 subjects finally determined., First infusion date of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells up to 28 days|Phase 1: Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), The recommended dose for phase 2 was determined through phase 1 study., First infusion date of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells up to 28 days|Phase 2: Best objective Response Rate, The incidence of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), progressive disease (PD), or unevaluable (UE) as the best response to treatment assessed by investigators and based on the RANO assessment criterion., 12 months
Phase 2: Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion to the date of death. Subjects who have not died by the analysis data cutoff date will be censored at their last contact date., 12 months|Phase 2: Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the B7H3 CAR-γδT cells infusion date to the date of disease progression assessed by investigators and based on the RANO assessment criterion, or death any cause. Participants not meeting the criteria for progression by the analysis data cutoff date were censored at their last evaluable disease assessment date., 12 months|Pharmacokinetics: Number and copy number of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells (phase 1 and phase 2), Number and copy number of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells were assessed by number in cerebrospinal fluid(CSF). CSF samples were collected before and after cell infusion to detect the number and copy number of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells, and to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of B7H3 CAR-γδT., First infusion date of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells up to 28 days|Pharmacodynamics: Peak level of cytokines in CSF (phase 1 and phase 2), The cytokines mainly include interleukin-1 (IL-1 ), IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, interferon-γ (IFN-γ). Peak was defined as the maximum post-baseline level of the cytokine., First infusion date of B7H3 CAR-γδT cells up to 28 days
γδT cells are known as "a great candidate for car-t cells". Although they only account for 2% - 5% of all T cells in our body, they are a natural killer.

Treatment on this study includes six B7H3 CAR-γδ Tcell infusions over an 12 week period. B7H3 CAR-γδ T cells will be locoregionally administered via a CNS reservoir catheter without lymphodepleting chemotherapy. The study will evaluate the safety, feasibility and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of B7H3 CAR-γδ T cell using a 3+3 study design and an 4 week evaluation period. The total study duration will be 2 years.