Characterization of Corneal Epithelial Changes in Participants Treated With Belantamab Mafodotin
This study will be available to any participant who has received or is currently receiving belantamab mafodotin treatment through either a clinical trial, an access program, or a physician prescription. Participants do not need to be on active treatment. The purpose of this study is to gain a more complete understanding of the pathophysiology of the corneal events seen in some participants with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) treated with belantamab mafodotin. A superficial corneal epithelial tissue specimen will be obtained by performing impression cytology (IC) or superficial keratectomy (SK) procedure in participants treated with belantamab mafodotin. The procedure will only be performed in one eye, most affected by the corneal epithelial changes. This specimen will undergo pathologic examination and composition analysis.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Belantamab mafodotin
Number of Participants With Abnormality in Composition of Corneal Epithelium After Administration of Belantamab Mafodotin, Corneal tissue samples were collected to evaluate the composition of microcyst-like epithelium observed in participants treated with belantamab mafodotin., Up to approximately 23 months|Number of Participants With Abnormality in Pathologic Characteristics After Administration of Belantamab Mafodotin, Corneal tissue samples were collected to evaluate pathologic characteristics observed in participants treated with belantamab mafodotin., Up to approximately 23 months
Number of Participants With Imaging Data Showing Histopathologic Findings, The eye was visualized using a slit-lamp microscope in a procedure room., Up to approximately 23 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 23 months
This study will be available to any participant who has received or is currently receiving belantamab mafodotin treatment through either a clinical trial, an access program, or a physician prescription. Participants do not need to be on active treatment. The purpose of this study is to gain a more complete understanding of the pathophysiology of the corneal events seen in some participants with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM) treated with belantamab mafodotin. A superficial corneal epithelial tissue specimen will be obtained by performing impression cytology (IC) or superficial keratectomy (SK) procedure in participants treated with belantamab mafodotin. The procedure will only be performed in one eye, most affected by the corneal epithelial changes. This specimen will undergo pathologic examination and composition analysis.