Comprehensive Genomic Analysis in Tissue Samples From Patients With Recurrent or Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This research trial studies comprehensive genomic analysis in tissue samples from patients with non-small cell lung cancer that has come back or is stage IV. Comprehensive genomic analysis may identify specific gene mutations (changes in deoxyribonucleic acid \[DNA\]) and help doctors to tailor treatment to target the specific mutations.
Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: cytology specimen collection procedure|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Proportion of patients receiving therapy based on genomic analyses among all eligible patients, Will be estimated with 95% confidence interval (CI) using the Wilson's method., Up to 21 days
Overall response rate assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors 1.1, Response rate will be estimated with 95% Wilson's CI., Up to 2 years|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be estimated and may also be summarized within subgroups using descriptive statistics (Kaplan and Meier) if there are sufficient data., Time from the date of start of therapy based on genomic analysis until the date that progressive disease or death whichever is first reported, assessed up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Not all patients enrolled on the study will receive therapy based on genomic analyses therefore survival will be analyzed for patients who receive therapy based on genomic analyses, for patients who don't receive therapy based on genomic analyses and for the entire patient population. OS will be estimated and may also be summarized within subgroups using descriptive statistics (Kaplan and Meier) if there are sufficient data., From date of registration to up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the percentage of advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients in whom therapy can be initiated based on genomic analysis of tumor specimens.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the percentage of patients in whom genomic analysis can be performed.

II. To assess the progression free survival and response rate in patients who start therapy based on the genomic analyses results.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo collection of tissue samples for genomic analysis via mass spectrometry, polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and microarray. Based on the results of the genomic analysis, patients may begin therapy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then every 12 months thereafter.