European Proof-of-Concept Therapeutic Stratification Trial of Molecular Anomalies in Relapsed or Refractory Tumors
This proof-of-concept platform trial is designed to cover the targeting of several survival pathways in oncogenesis that are currently not adequately employed for pediatric patients in Europe (Geoerger 2017; Geoerger 2019).

The aims of the trial are:

1. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of a specific anticancer agent and/or a relevant combination in a pediatric population, to document its tolerability and
2. To explore first signals of activity in a molecularly enriched study population.
Pediatric Cancer
DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Topotecan|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Adavosertib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Vistusertib|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Selumetinib|DRUG: Enasidenib|DRUG: Lirilumab|DRUG: Fadraciclib|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Ceralasertib|DRUG: Futibatinib|DRUG: Capmatinib|DRUG: Avelumab|DRUG: Peposertib
Recommended phase II dose (RP2D), Defined as the adult recommended dose (adjusted for weight or BSA) if toxicity and/or PK profiling are similar in children and in adults, or a higher dose, providing it is below or equal to the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), During the first cycle|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The MTD will be defined as the dose associated with or closest to 25% of Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), During the first cycle|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Defined as the proportion of participants who achieved a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) assessed by investigators.

In patients with leukemia, ORR is defined as the percentage of patients attaining CR, CRi or CRp., During treatment period
Pharmacokinetics (PK), To characterize single or multiple-dose PK of the agent(s), Depending on the treatment arm|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Defined as the time from treatment initiation until the date of first documented progression (clinically or radiologically) or death from any cause. Patients alive and free of progression at the cut-off date will be censored at the last assessment date., From treatment initiation until the date of first documented progression or death|Evaluation of duration of response (DoR), Defined as the time period between the first documented response (complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)) and the time of progression, according to RECIST v1.1, RANO criteria for patients with HGG, INRC criteria for patients with NB, etc., Between the first document response and the time of first documented progression
The first molecular profiling protocols have been launched in Europe (MOSCATO-01 (Geoerger 2014), MAPPYACTS, INFORM, iTHER, SM-PAEDS, etc.) determining multiple actionable alterations in pediatric recurrent cancers. Increasingly, stratified approaches are being implemented to enrich clinical trials of molecularly targeted agents and possibly improve outcomes in specific populations i.e. a molecularly enriched/predictive biomarker-driven approach. The diversity and heterogeneity of the detected molecular alterations and the low number of pediatric patients mandate an adapted, innovative trial design for the attributed treatment options in order to satisfy the current unmet medical need.

This basket trial is designed to cover the targeting of several survival pathways in oncogenesis that are currently not adequately employed for pediatric patients in Europe.