Biomarkers in Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Follicular Lymphoma Treated on Clinical Trial E-1496
RATIONALE: Studying samples of tissue from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors identify and learn more about biomarkers related to cancer. It may also help doctors predict how patients respond to treatment.

PURPOSE: This laboratory study is looking at biomarkers in patients with stage III or stage IV follicular lymphoma treated on clinical trial E-1496.
Lymphoma
GENETIC: gene expression analysis|GENETIC: microarray analysis|GENETIC: polymorphism analysis|OTHER: diagnostic laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: immunohistochemistry staining method|OTHER: immunologic technique
Correlation of gene expression profiles with progression-free survival (PFS), 1 month|Prediction of PFS by immunoglobulin Fc-gamma receptor polymorphisms as assessed by immunohistochemistry, 1 month|Assessment of significance of microenvironment by constructing tissue microarrays and immunostaining with relevant biomarkers, 1 month|Correlation of relevant biomarkers with clinical features, response, and PFS, 1 month
OBJECTIVES:

* Correlate gene expression profiles with progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with stage III or IV follicular lymphoma treated with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisone with or without rituximab on clinical trial E-1496.
* Determine if immunoglobulin Fc-gamma receptor polymorphisms are predictive of PFS in these patients.
* Assess the significance of the microenvironment by constructing tissue microarrays of follicular lymphoma and immunostaining with relevant biomarkers.
* Correlate relevant biomarkers with clinical features, response, and PFS.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Tissue samples are analyzed by gene expression profiling, microarrays to predict gene expression, immunohistochemistry, and immunoglobulin Fc-gamma receptor polymorphism analysis for biological markers.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 175 samples will be accrued for this study.