Impact of Anticoagulants and Antiplatelets in Patients on Transurethral Resection of the Prostate
Benign prostatic hyperplasia(BPH) is a common disease in urology among old men. If BPH symptom cannot be controlled by drugs, then transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), is recommended. Although the procedure is quit safe, these old men often take anticoagulants and antiplatelets to control cardiovascular diseases, which arose some concerns for their bleeding risk. The management of anticoagulation in patients undergoing surgical procedures is challenging because interrupting anticoagulation increases the risk of thrombotic events. At the same time, surgery and invasive procedures have associated bleeding risks that are increased by the anticoagulant administration. Now, the recommendation about anticoagulants and antiplatelets discontinuation had no concrete evidence, especially in TURP. Furthermore, there is no relative studies done in Taiwan population, which calls for further investigation.
Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia|Prostate Cancer
Perioperative blood transfusion, in 1 week after surgery|Bladder clots, in 10 days after surgery|Hematuria, in 10 days after surgery|Urine tract infection, in 10 days after surgery|Duration of catheter, in 10 days after surgery|Duration of hospitalization, in 1 week after surgery|Cardiovascular event, In 28 days after surgery|Major bleeding, In 28 days after surgery
Benign prostatic hyperplasia(BPH) is a common disease in urology among old men. If BPH symptom cannot be controlled by drugs, then transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), is recommended. Although the procedure is quit safe, these old men often take anticoagulants and antiplatelets to control cardiovascular diseases, which arose some concerns for their bleeding risk. The management of anticoagulation in patients undergoing surgical procedures is challenging because interrupting anticoagulation increases the risk of thrombotic events. At the same time, surgery and invasive procedures have associated bleeding risks that are increased by the anticoagulant administration. Now, the recommendation about anticoagulants and antiplatelets discontinuation had no concrete evidence, especially in TURP. Furthermore, there is no relative studies done in Taiwan population, which calls for further investigation.