A Multicenter Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of PEP005 Topical Gel When Used to Treat Actinic Keratoses on the Head (Face or Scalp)
This Phase IIb study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of 0.005%, 0.01% and 0.015% PEP005 Topical Gel when applied to an area of skin, containing 4-8 AK lesions on the face or scalp.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: Vehicle gel|DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: PEP005 Topical Gel|DRUG: Vehicle gel
Incidence of AEs Recorded Throughout the Study, Incidence of AEs recorded throughout the study, 57 days|Incidence of SAE Recorded Throughout the Study, Incidence of SAE recorded throughout the study, 57 days|Incidence Rate and Severity of LSRs Following Study Medication Application, The treatment area was assessed at baseline, Day 1 (pre-dose), and at each subsequent study visit for the presence and grade (0 to 4) of the following LSRs: erythema; flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling, vesiculation/pustulation, and erosion/ulceration. A composite LSR score (0 to 24), reflecting the sum of each individual LSR grade, was calculated for each patient at each visit.

The actual value and change from baseline in the composite LSR score were also summarized., Baseline|Incidence Rate and Severity of LSRs Following Study Medication Application, The treatment area was assessed at baseline, Day 1 (pre-dose), and at each subsequent study visit for the presence and grade (0 to 4) of the following LSRs: erythema; flaking/scaling, crusting, swelling, vesiculation/pustulation, and erosion/ulceration. A composite LSR score (0 to 24), reflecting the sum of each individual LSR grade, was calculated for each patient at each visit.

The actual value and change from baseline in the composite LSR score were also summarized., Day 57|Incidence of Hyperpigmentation Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for hyperpigmentation at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted., Baseline|Incidence of Hyperpigmentation Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for hyperpigmentation at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted. If any pigmentation was present, the significance and extent of pigmentation and scarring was recorded. At all timepoints, pigmentation evaluations were performed by a board certified Dermatologist (or equivalent), Day 57|Incidence of Hypopigmentation Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for hypopigmentation at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted. If any pigmentation was present, the significance and extent of pigmentation and scarring was recorded. At all timepoints, pigmentation evaluations were performed by a board certified Dermatologist (or equivalent), Baseline|Incidence of Hypopigmentation Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for hypopigmentation at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted. If any pigmentation was present, the significance and extent of pigmentation and scarring was recorded. At all timepoints, pigmentation evaluations were performed by a board certified Dermatologist (or equivalent), Day 57|Incidence of Scarring Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for scarring at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted. If any scarring was present, the significance and extent of scarring was recorded. At all timepoints, pigmentation evaluations were performed by a board certified Dermatologist (or equivalent), Baseline|Incidence of Scarring Following Study Medication Application, The selected treatment area was assessed for scarring at baseline (Day 1 pre-dose), Day 57, and at each poststudy followup visit as warranted. If any scarring was present, the significance and extent of scarring was recorded. At all timepoints, pigmentation evaluations were performed by a board certified Dermatologist (or equivalent)., Day 57|Complete Clearance Rate of AK Lesions;, Defined as the number of patients at the day 57 post-treatment visit with no clinically visible AK lesions in the selected treatment area, Day 57
Efficacy (Clearance of AK Lesions) Partial Clearance Rate, Partial clearence rate, defined as the number of patients at the Day 57 visit with a 75% or greater reduction in the number of AK lesions identified at baseline, in the Face and Scalp, 57 days
This Phase IIb study is designed to assess the safety and efficacy of 0.005%, 0.01% and 0.015% PEP005 Topical Gel when applied to an area of skin, containing 4-8 AK lesions on the face or scalp.