Testing Continuous Versus Intermittent Treatment With the Study Drug Zanubrutinib for Older Patients With Previously Untreated Mantle Cell Lymphoma
This phase III trial tests whether continuous or intermittent zanubrutinib after achieving a complete remission (CR) with rituximab works in older adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) who have not received treatment in the past (previously untreated). Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Zanubrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. When zanubrutinib is used in MCL, the current standard of care is to continue administering the drug indefinitely until disease progression. This continuous treatment comes with clinical as well as financial toxicity, which could be especially detrimental in older patients. For patients who achieve a CR after initial zanubrutinib plus rituximab therapy, it may be safe and equally effective to stop treatment and restart zanubrutinib upon disease progression rather than continuing indefinitely in previously untreated older adult patients with MCL.
Mantle Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Zanubrutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|OTHER: Patient Observation|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|OTHER: Fludeoxyglucose F-18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Esophagogastroduodenoscopy|PROCEDURE: Colonoscopy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Progression-free survival (PFS) 1 (Arm A), Hazard ratios on the treatment effect will be estimated using a stratified cox proportional hazards model, stratified on age and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) International Prognostic Index (IPI) score. The primary analysis for non-inferiority will be based on an intent-to-treat (ITT) analysis and will include all randomized patients in the analyses, regardless of eligibility or treatment status. Sensitivity analyses will also be done in an ancillary manner to evaluate and compare our endpoints using a modified ITT approach, and exclude from the analysis those classified as ineligible as well as those who withdraw right after randomization prior to any treatment/observation monitoring., Time from randomization until the earlier of first progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) 2 (Arm B), Hazard ratios on the treatment effect will be estimated using a stratified cox proportional hazards model, stratified on age and MCL IPI score. The primary analysis for non-inferiority will be based on an ITT analysis and will include all randomized patients in the analyses, regardless of eligibility or treatment status. Sensitivity analyses will also be done in an ancillary manner to evaluate and compare our endpoints using a modified ITT approach, and exclude from the analysis those classified as ineligible as well as those who withdraw right after randomization prior to any treatment/observation monitoring., Time from randomization until the earlier of second progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years
Overall survival (OS) (Arms A and B), Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distributions of OS by treatment arm and log-rank test statistics will be used to compare these distributions between the two treatment arms. Cox Proportional Hazards models may be used to further evaluate covariates of interest with OS, including assessment of treatment effects when adjusting for other known risk factors in the model., Time from randomization until death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be evaluated and captured using the CTCAE 5.0, where the type and severity grade of each adverse event will be collected and tabulated within each of the treatment arms. Perceived attribution to study treatment will also be captured.

The analysis population for this secondary endpoint will include all patients who are registered and randomized on the study and receive at least one dose of study treatment. Adverse events will be monitored continuously throughout the course of the study as well as analyzed at the time of the final primary endpoint analysis.

Summary statistics and frequency tables will be used to describe the distributions of adverse events. Rates of adverse events occurring in compared across the treatment arms with chi-squared tests Tolerability will also be evaluated, summarizing rates of dose delays or modifications, reasons patients end treatment, and time to end of active treatment., Up to 10 years|Overall response rate (ORR, complete + partial remission), Will be assessed using Lugano criteria. ORR to induction is defined as the number of patients with complete or partial remission at the end of induction divided by the number of patients who receive at least one dose of the induction regimen. ORR to restart of zanubrutinib is only defined for Arm B, as the number of patients with complete or partial remission after restart of zanubrutinib divided by the number of patients that restart zanubrutinib after first disease progression following randomization. The frequencies and rates of tumor response categories will be summarized by treatment arm for response to induction as well as response to restart of zanubrutinib (Arm B only). ORR to induction and ORR to restart of zanubrutinib (Arm B only) with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals will be calculated by treatment arm. To compare the association of treatment arm and ORR to induction, chi-squared or Fisher's Exact test will be used, whichever is more appropriate at final analysis., up to 10 years|Complete response rate (CR), Will be assessed using Lugano criteria. CR to induction is defined as the number of patients with complete remission at the end of induction divided by the number of eligible patients who receive at least one dose of the induction regimen. CR to restart of zanubrutinib is only defined for Arm B, as the number of patients with complete remission after restart of zanubrutinib divided by the number of eligible patients that restart zanubrutinib after first disease progression following randomization. CR to induction and CR to restart of zanubrutinib (Arm B patients only) with 95% exact binomial confidence intervals will be calculated by treatment arm. To compare the association of treatment arm and CR to induction, chi-squared or Fisher's Exact test will be used, whichever is more appropriate at the time of the final analysis., Up to 10 years|Event-free survival (EFS) 1, For EFS1, patients without an event will be censored at the last known clinical assessment. Any patient who goes to transplant will be censored at the last known clinical assessment prior to transplant. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of EFS. Cox Proportional Hazards models may be used to further evaluate covariates of interest with EFS., Time from randomization (Arms A and B) until the earlier of first progression, start of an alternative MCL therapy, or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years.|Event-free survival (EFS) 2, For EFS2, patients without an event will be censored at the last known clinical assessment. Any patient who goes to transplant will be censored at the last known clinical assessment prior to transplant. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of EFS. Cox Proportional Hazards models may be used to further evaluate covariates of interest with EFS., Time from randomization (Arm B) until the earlier of second progression, start of an alternative MCL therapy, or death from any cause, assessed up to 10 years.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare time to first progression or death (progression free survival \[PFS\]1) with continuous treatment (Arm A) and time to second progression or death (PFS2) with intermittent treatment that is restarted at first progression (Arm B).

KEY SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare overall survival between patients who achieve a complete remission (CR) with induction therapy subsequently treated with continuous treatment versus (vs.) intermittent treatment as part of maintenance therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall response rate (ORR) and CR rate to induction therapy with zanubrutinib and rituximab in previously untreated MCL.

II. To determine adverse events during induction and post-induction in each study arm (Arm A and B) by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0.

III. To determine PFS1, event free survival (EFS) and overall survival (OS) in each study arm (A and B).

IV. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) and complete response rate (CR) after restarting zanubrutinib, following the first progression, in the intermittent treatment arm (Arm B).

V. To compare burden of symptomatic adverse events (AEs) as assessed by Patient-Reported Outcome Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) between patients randomized to Arm A versus Arm B.

QUALITY OF LIFE PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare health-related quality of life (QOL) at 12 cycles post-randomization as assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) Lymphoma Symptom Index-18 (FLYMSI-18) total score between patients randomized to Arm A versus Arm B.

QUALITY OF LIFE SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare health-related QOL at other time points as assessed by the FLYMSI-18 total score between patients randomized to Arm A versus Arm B.

II. To compare burden of symptomatic AEs as assessed by PRO-CTCAE between patients randomized to continuous (Arm A) versus intermittent (Arm B) zanubrutinib treatment.

QUALITY OF LIFE EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the geriatric functional and cognitive PRO as assessed by Elderly Functional Index (EFLI) and Neurology (Neuro) QOL in Arm A versus Arm B.

II. To compare cognitive function at various time points as assessed by the Neuro-QOL between patients randomized to continuous (Arm A) versus intermittent (Arm B) zanubrutinib treatment.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the completion rate of a lymphoma-specific patient assessment of life survey (PALS) with patient directed questions on life, health, and social determinants of health (SDH) and assess the impact of the survey collected data on outcomes for all enrolled patients (study arms A and B).

II. To evaluate minimal residual disease (MRD) in those patients who achieve a CR after induction therapy (arms A and B) and how detectable MRD status changes after continued therapy vs. discontinuation of therapy (i.e. arms A vs. B).

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive zanubrutinib orally (PO) and rituximab intravenously (IV) on study. Patients undergo bone marrow biopsy and fluciclovine F18 (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/ computed tomography (CT) or CT throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and/or colonoscopy on study as clinically indicated. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients achieving a CR after induction therapy are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive zanubrutinib PO until first disease progression on study. Patients undergo CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or FDG PET/CT throughout the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

ARM B: Patients undergo observation until first disease progression and then receive zanubrutinib PO until second disease progression on study. Patients undergo CT or MRI or FDG PET/CT throughout the trial. Patients may optionally undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed within 30 days and every 6 months for 10 years.