Phase II Study of PARP Inhibitor Olaparib and IV Ascorbate in Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This is a study to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of the combination of olaparib and high-dose IV ascorbate, as second or later line of therapy, in castration resistant prostate cancer patients with no known DNA repair gene mutations (DDRm). In brief, the primary endpoint is PSA50 response , defined by a 50% reduction in PSA from baseline . The secondary endpoints are assessing the PSA doubling time, radiographic and PSA PFS, safety and tolerability as defined by the incidence of grade 3 to 5 toxicities, and measuring overall survival.
Prostate Cancer|Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Olaparib|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin C
PSA50 Response, Number of participants with metastatic castration resistance prostate cancer (mCRPC) who experience a 50% reduction in prostate specific antigen (PSA50) from baseline. PSA50 response will be defined as a decrease in the PSA to 50% less than the baseline PSA upon enrollment in the trial. The decrease must be confirmed by a second measurement at least 4 weeks apart. PSA values will be measured monthly during the trial., up to 5 years
Safety and Tolerability of Olaparib in Combination With IV Ascorbic Acid in Patients With mCRPC, Number of participants experiencing treatment-related adverse events as defined by NCI CTCAE v5.0., up to 1 year 4 months|PSA Doubling Time in Patients With mCRPC Receiving Olaparib in Combination With IV Ascorbic Acid, Median number of months to PSA doubling from the initiation of therapy until the PSA has increased to 200% of baseline value, and confirmed with another measurement at least 4 weeks later, or death. The date of PSA doubling will be the first value recorded (not the confirmatory value)., up to 5 years|Radiographic Progression Free Survival (rPFS) of Patients With mCRPC Receiving Olaparib in Combination With IV Ascorbic Acid, Number of months from initiation of therapy to date of first radiographic progression, death from any cause, or last patient evaluation. Radiographic progression will be defined as soft tissue disease progression by modified RECIST criteria 1.1 (baseline LN size must be \>1.0 cm to be considered target or evaluable lesion) or by development of two or more new bone lesions not consistent with tumor flair for prostate cancer working group 3., up to 5 years|PSA Progression Free Survival (PSA PFS) of Patients With mCRPC Receiving Olaparib in Combination With IV Ascorbic Acid, Number of months to first PSA failure (two consecutive increases in PSA of 50% and \>=5ng/mL above nadir) or death, up to 5 years|Overall Survival of Patients With mCRPC Receiving Olaparib in Combination With IV Ascorbic Acid, Number of months from initiation of therapy to death due to any cause, up to 5 years
This is a study to evaluate the safety and clinical activity of the combination of olaparib and high-dose IV ascorbate, as second or later line of therapy, in castration resistant prostate cancer patients with no known DNA repair gene mutations (DDRm). In brief, the primary endpoint is PSA50 response , defined by a 50% reduction in PSA from baseline . The secondary endpoints are assessing the PSA doubling time, radiographic and PSA PFS, safety and tolerability as defined by the incidence of grade 3 to 5 toxicities, and measuring overall survival.