Icotinib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancers
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of icotinib hydrochloride in treating patients with advanced cancers. Icotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: icotinib hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
MTD of icotinib hydrochloride, defined as the highest dose level at which =< 1 of 6 evaluable patients experiences a dose-limiting toxicity, as graded using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level, subject and tumor site will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., 28 days|PK parameters of icotinib hydrochloride, Parameters include time to maximum concentration (Tmax), maximum concentration (Cmax), drug clearance (CL), half life (T 1/2), area under curve (AUC)0-infinity (inf), and AUC0-last measurable concentration (t) for the dosing interval following single and multiple dose administration., Cycle 1 only: Day -9 or Day -8: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 24, and 48 hours; Day 8: pre-dose, 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 24 (Day 9 pre-dose) hours; Day 15: pre-dose trough
Objective tumor response, assessed using RECIST 1.1, Objective tumor response will be tabulated overall (and by dose level if appropriate). Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in the cohorts (overall and by tumor group)., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Best response, defined to be the best objective status recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started), Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in the cohorts (overall and by tumor group)., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Frequency of toxicities, graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade across all dose levels and cycles. The frequency of toxicities will also be tabulated for the dose estimated to be the MTD., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug
Population pharmacokinetic model, developed utilizing pharmacokinetic timepoints collected, A population pharmacokinetic model will be used to estimate individual AUCs or CL of icotinib hydrochloride. AUC, as well as the observed Cmax, will then be tested for association changes polymorphism (SNP) information. If an observable trend exists among changes in any of the assessed biomarkers, a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic model will be developed to evaluate the exposure-response relationship between the time-course of plasma exposure (e.g., AUC, Cmax) in relation to changes to these biomarkers. Demographic and clinical data will be utilized to assess interpatient variability., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Icotinib hydrochloride-related genes, Icotinib hydrochloride-related genes will be evaluated and their polymorphic variants will be correlated to clinical outcomes including response and toxicity. Fisher's exact tests will be used to compare the tumor response rates between the different tagged SNP subgroups. Kaplan-Meier curves and log rank tests will be used to compare the response rates distributions between the different tagged SNP subgroups. Correlative studies are only exploratory therefore no adjustments for multiple comparisons will be performed for the correlation of the polymorphisms with clinical outcomes., Baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the pharmacokinetic (PK) profiles of icotinib (icotinib hydrochloride) in patients with advanced cancers.

II. To determine the safety, tolerability and maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of icotinib in patients with advanced cancers.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily assess the anti-tumor activity of icotinib in patients with advanced cancers.

II. To characterize the effect, if any, of icotinib on corrected QT interval using Bazett's formula (QTcB).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate single nucleotide polymorphisms in genes encoding for icotinib's target (epidermal growth factor receptor \[EGFR\]), putative transport protein (ATP-binding cassette, sub-family G \[WHITE\], member 1 \[ABCG1\]) and major metabolizing enzyme (cytochrome P450 3A4 \[CYP3A4\]) as well as other genes that may be found to be important in icotinib activity, and correlate these single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with clinical activity and toxicity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive icotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.