Denileukin Diftitox Used in Treating Patients With Advanced Refractory Ovarian Cancer, Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma, or Epithelial Fallopian Tube Cancer
RATIONALE: Biological therapies, such as denileukin difitox, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and may prevent tumor cells from growing. PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of denileukin diftitox in treating patients with advanced refractory ovarian cancer, primary peritoneal carcinoma, or epithelial fallopian tube cancer.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Clear Cell Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Mixed Epithelial Carcinoma|Ovarian Mucinous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Serous Cystadenocarcinoma|Ovarian Undifferentiated Adenocarcinoma|Peritoneal Cavity Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage III Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: denileukin diftitox|PROCEDURE: intraperitoneal administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay|OTHER: flow cytometry
Safety and toxicity profile as assessed by the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program, Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0, From baseline|MTD, From baseline
Efficacy of ONTAK defined as a 25% reduction in the number of Tregs in either the peripheral blood and/or in the peritoneal cavity, From baseline|Clinical impact on course of disease as assessed by serum CA-125 measurements, At baseline and at months 1, 2, 3, and 6|Changes in circulating cytokines IL-2, IL-6, IL-10, TGF-beta2, and TNF-alpha in the peripheral blood and at the site of disease as measured by ELISA, Pre- and post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose of intraperitoneal administration of ONTAK. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To evaluate the change in the number of Tregs in the peritoneum with the administration of ONTAK. II. To evaluate the change in the number of Tregs in the peripheral blood with the administration of ONTAK. III. To assess the clinical impact of ONTAK on tumor burden by serial measurements of CA-125. IV. To assess the level of circulating cytokines IL-2, IL-6, IL-10, TGF-beta2, and TNF-alpha in the peritoneum and peripheral blood before and after I.P. ONTAK. OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study. Patients receive intraperitoneal denileukin diftitox over at least 15 minutes on days 1-3. Treatment repeats every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of denileukin diftitox until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. After the completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 and 2 weeks, monthly for 3 months, and then at 6 months.