Transvaginal NOSES Versus Conventional Laparoscopic Surgery for Right Hemicolectomy
It is controversial that totally laparoscopic right hemicolectomy with transvaginal natural orifice specimen extraction (NOSES VIIIA) can provide non-inferior oncological outcomes compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery with mini-laparotomy in the treatment of right colon cancer. We aim to carry out a multicenter, open-lable, parallel, non-inferiority, phase III, randomized controlled clinical trial, which enrolls 356 female patients with cT1-3NxM0 right colon adenocarcinoma. They are randomly assigned to the experimental group (NOSES VIIIA) or the control group (laparoscopic surgery with mini-laparotomy) in a 1:1 ratio. Perioperative indicators, pathological results, quality of life and cosmetic evaluation will be compared between the two groups. Then, a three-year follow-up of these patients will provide evidence for long-term oncological outcomes of NOSES VIIIA.
Colon Cancer
PROCEDURE: NOSES VIIIA|PROCEDURE: laparoscopic surgery with mini-laparotomy
disease-free survival rate, disease-free survival rate, 3 years after surgery
It is controversial that totally laparoscopic right hemicolectomy with transvaginal natural orifice specimen extraction (NOSES VIIIA) can provide non-inferior oncological outcomes compared to conventional laparoscopic surgery with mini-laparotomy in the treatment of right colon cancer. We aim to carry out a multicenter, open-lable, parallel, non-inferiority, phase III, randomized controlled clinical trial, which enrolls 356 female patients with cT1-3NxM0 right colon adenocarcinoma. They are randomly assigned to the experimental group (NOSES VIIIA) or the control group (laparoscopic surgery with mini-laparotomy) in a 1:1 ratio. Perioperative indicators, pathological results, quality of life and cosmetic evaluation will be compared between the two groups. Then, a three-year follow-up of these patients will provide evidence for long-term oncological outcomes of NOSES VIIIA.