Escitalopram to Placebo in Patients With Localized Pancreatic Cancer
Use of antidepressants for participants with localized pancreatic and periampullary cancer receiving neoadjuvant therapy.
Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Periampullary Cancer
DRUG: Escitalopram|OTHER: Placebo
Change in the rate of depression, The rate of depression will be measured using the Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms (QIDS) survey. This survey has 16 questions that are specific to the symptomatology of depression. Answers are given in the form of a four-point Likert scale ranging from 0-3, with zero relating to a standard sense of well-being and three correlating to the greatest feelings of depression. Depression is reflected by a score ≥ 11 (moderate depression or worse)., 12 weeks from the start of treatment
Quality of Life using FACT-Hep (The Functional Assesment of Cancer Therapy-Hepatobiliary) survey, The FACT-Hep has 27 general questions and 18 questions that are specific to hepatopancreatobiliary cancer, for a total of 45 questions. The general questions span four domains: physical, social/family, emotional, and functional well-being 21. It requires less than 10 minutes to complete and targets the 6th-grade reading level. Answers are given in the form of a five-point Likert scale as follows: 0 (Not at all), 1 (A little bit), 2 (Somewhat), 3 (Quite a bit), and 4 (Very much). Points are re-calibrated and compiled, such that high scores indicate a higher quality of life, Up to 3 years from the treatment date
Anti-depressants have been shown to be beneficial in cancer participants. They reduce depressive symptoms and improve quality of life. Randomized trials have shown that antidepressants can reduce the development of depression in non-depressed participants with breast, melanoma, and head and neck cancers. It has been shown that treating depression can impact survival in cancer participants. Additionally, depressed pancreatic cancer participants have worse survival. Therefore, anti-depressants may also have implications for cancer treatment.