Sunitinib in Treating Patients With Myelodysplastic Syndromes or Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia
This phase II trial is studying how well sunitinib works in treating patients with myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Sunitinib may stop the growth of abnormal cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Chronic Myelomonocytic Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: sunitinib malate
Overall Response Rate (Complete Response, Partial Response, or Hematologic Improvement) Defined by the International Working Group Criteria, Up to 6 years
Number Participants With Complete, Partial or Hematologic Improvement Response, Assessed by achievement of Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Hematologic Improvement (HI), Up to 6 years|Overall Survival, At 6 months and 1 year|Progression-free Survival, At 6 months and 1 year|Time to Progression, At 6 months and 1 year|Highest Severity of Observed Adverse Events Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria or Adverse Events Version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0), Up to 6 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the overall response rate (complete response, partial response, or hematological improvement) in patients with intermediate-2 or high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes or chronic myelomonocytic leukemia treated with sunitinib malate.

II. Determine the duration of response in patients treated with this drug. III. Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this drug. IV. Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with this drug. V. Determine the time to disease progression in patients treated with this drug.

VI. Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sunitinib malate once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3-4 weeks and then monthly thereafter.