Dose Dense Paclitaxel With Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) in Platinum Resistant Ovarian Cancer
The purpose of this study is to find out if the combination of Paclitaxel once per week with Pembrolizumab once every 3 weeks will help participants with this disease. Researchers want to find out the effectiveness of the drug combination to improve the delay of cancer progression or death and compare it to historical data for weekly paclitaxel alone, and assess safety.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Progression-free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, 6-month progression-free survival of the combination of weekly paclitaxel with pembrolizumab (MK-3475) for those patients who received treatment and were evaluable (had one response assessment scan by RECIST 1.1) . 6-month PFS: The proportion of patients at 6 months alive without progressive disease. Progressive Disease (PD): Sum of the longest diameters (SLD) increased by at least 20% from the smallest value on study (including baseline, if that is the smallest)., 6 months|Occurrence of Adverse Events, Safety of the combination of paclitaxel weekly with pembrolizumab every 3 weeks (Q3W). Serious Adverse Events and Adverse Events will be reported in that Results Data section, according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) V4.0., 2 years, 6 months
Response Rate (RR), Proportion of participants who respond to the regimen by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. RECIST v1.1: Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of all extranodal target lesions. All pathological lymph nodes must have decreased to \<10 mm in short axis. Partial Response (PR) - At least a 30% decrease in the SLD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. RR=CR + PR., Up to 36 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR: The percentage of participants complete response, partial response and stable disease to a therapeutic intervention in clinical trials of anticancer agents. Stable Disease (SD) - Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD. DCR=CR + PR + (SD x 2 mo.), Up to 36 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response in months. DOR= Duration from first observation of partial response to the time of disease progression., Up to 36 months|Median Overall Survival (OS), OS: The time from randomization until death from any cause., Up to 36 months
The purpose of this study is to find out if the combination of Paclitaxel once per week with Pembrolizumab once every 3 weeks will help participants with this disease. Researchers want to find out the effectiveness of the drug combination to improve the delay of cancer progression or death and compare it to historical data for weekly paclitaxel alone, and assess safety.