18F-FSPG PET/CT in Imaging Patients With Newly Diagnosed Lung Cancer or Indeterminate Pulmonary Nodules
This clinical trial compares fluorine F 18 L-glutamate derivative BAY94-9392 (18F-FSPG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) to the standard of care fluorodeoxyglucose F-18 (18F-FDG) PET/CT in imaging patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer or indeterminate pulmonary nodules. PET/CT uses a radioactive glutamate (one of the common building blocks of protein) called 18F-FSPG which may be able to recognize differences between tumor and healthy tissue. Since tumor cells are growing, they need to make protein, and other building blocks, for cell growth that are made from glutamate and other molecules. PET/CT using a radioactive glutamate may be a more effective method of diagnosing lung cancer than the standard PET/CT using a radioactive glucose (sugar), such as 18F-FDG.
Lung Carcinoma|Solitary Pulmonary Nodule|Cigarette Smoking Behavior
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|RADIATION: fluorodeoxyglucose F-18|DRUG: Fluorine F 18 L-glutamate Derivative BAY94-9392|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography (PET)
Ability of 18F-FSPG PET/CT to Discriminate Benign From Malignant Nodules, Sensitivity, specificity, overall accuracy and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves will be generated and compared for both 18F-FDG and 18F-FSPG tests.

Sensitivity is the proportion of High(positive) among cancer patients. Specificity is the proportion of low(negative) among benign tumors. Accuracy is the proportion of correctly diagnosed among analyzed patients. Area under the curve(AUC) is the area under the ROC curve, which is the plot of sensitivity by 1-specificity., Up to 2 years
CD44 and xC- Expression Levels in Tissue Samples(0-3), The level of expression of xCT and CD44 proteins in the cytoplasmic membrane of tumor cells were examined by an experienced pathologist who was blinded to any patient and imaging information. The percentage of tumor cells positive for the marker and the intensity of staining were evaluated, the latter using a scale of 0 (none), 1+ (weak), 2+ (intermediate), and 3+ (strong) with a sample being reported as positive if greater than 10% of the tumor cells in the sample were positively stained with any intensity., Up to 2 years|Uptake of 18F-FSPG (Expressed in Maximal Standardized Uptake Value [SUV] Within the Tumor), Maximum standardized uptake values (SUVmax) were normalized to lean body mass and measured with a 1 cm diameter round region of interest over the area of greatest uptake in the lesion being measured., Up to 2 years|Ability of 18F-FSPG PET/CT to Stage of Lung Cancer (Metastatic or Not), Sensitivity, specificity, overall accuracy and ROC curves will be generated and compared for both 18F-FDG and 18F-FSPG tests. Wilcoxon rank-sum or Kruskal-Wallis tests will be applied for the group comparisons of the biodistribution characteristics of 18F-FDG and 18F-FSPG tests.

Sensitivity is the proportion of High(positive) among cancer patients. Specificity is the proportion of low(negative) among benign tumors. Accuracy is the proportion of correctly diagnosed among all patients. Area under the curve(AUC) is the area under the ROC curve., Up to 2 years
Uptake of 18F-FSPG (Expressed in Maximal Standardized Uptake Value [SUV] Within the, Descriptive statistics, including means, standard deviations, and ranges for continuous, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the imaging characteristics of 18F-FSPG PET/CT with standard-of-care, 18F-FDG PET/CT.

II. To compare the imaging characteristics of 18F-FSPG PET/CT to standard-of-care 18F-FDG PET/CT in patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer.

III. To determine whether 18F-FSPG uptake in lung cancer can be predicted based on correlation with CD44 and amino acid transport system xc- (xC-) expression in surgical pathology specimens.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 18F-FDG PET/CT scan per standard of care. Within 15 working days, patients also undergo 18F-FSPG PET scan over 60 minutes followed by an 18F-FSPG PET/CT scan over 30 minutes.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 2 years if needed for diagnosis.