Neoadjuvant PD-1 Antibody Plus Apatinib or Chemotherapy for Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
Immunotherapy with anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1) antibodies has revolutionized the treatment of metastatic and advanced NSCLC, but its application in neoadjuvant setting has not been well established. Results from a pilot clinical study reported the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant PD-1 blockade. There are several neoadjuvant immunotherapy (NEOSTAR, LCMC3, NADIM, IMpower131) ongoing, and the preliminary results are reported in 2019 American Society of Clinical Oncology, which show promising therapeutic prospect. However, the therapeutic response rate (major pathologic response \[MPR\]) are not so good (20% - 45%) for PD-1 inhibitor monotherapy. To improve the therapeutic response, the investigators design a multiple-canter, open-label, phase II trial for stage II-III potentially resectable (resectable and initially unresectale) NSCLC. The participants will receive neoadjuvant PD-1 inhibitor (camrelizumab) combined with antiangiogenic drug (apatinib) or platinum-based chemotherapy.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Camrelizumab
Major pathologic response (MPR), MPR is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy before surgery., up to 5 months
2-year OS, It is defined as the time from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause in 2 years. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., up to 27 months|Objective response rate (ORR), It refers to the proportion of patients who have had a complete response or partial response (according to RECIST1.1) as confirmed by CT evaluation after 3 weeks in all patients who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy. Only patients with measurable lesions at baseline will be analyzed., up to 4 months|Disease-free survival (DFS), It refers to the time from radical surgery to relapse or death of a participant due to disease progression. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the latest evaluation date will be used for interpolation (censoring)., up to 60 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date. In the event of a patient with the survival status unknown, the date when the patient is last known to be alive will be used for interpolation (censoring)., up to 63 months|Safety: frequency of severe adverse events, The frequency of severe adverse events from the participants enrolling to 90 days after the last drug administration or 30 days after surgery or new anti-cancer therapy, which comes first., up to 6 months
Detailed Description:

This is a multiple-canter, open-label, phase II trial, 2-4 cycles treatment will be planned as neo-adjuvant therapy for NSCLC participants in stage II-III.

Study design:

Participants: Newly diagnosed Resectable and Initially Unresectale II-III NSCLC without EGFR/ALK mutation.

Treatment:

Group A：camrelizumab 200 mg q3w i.v. for 2-4 cycles, platinum-based chemotherapy q3w i.v for 2-4 cycles before surgery.

Group B：camrelizumab 200 mg q3w i.v. for 2-4 cycles, apatinib 250mg qd po 3w/cycle for 2-4 cycles before surgery;

Endpoints:

Primary objectives are to assess MPR and safety. Secondary objective is to assess 2-year overall survival (OS), disease-free survival (DFS), OS etc.

Exploratory end point is to explore biomarkers.