A Study of Glembatumumab Vedotin as Monotherapy or in Combination With Immunotherapies in Patients With Advanced Melanoma
This study will examine the effectiveness and safety of glembatumumab vedotin as monotherapy or in combination with immunotherapies in patients with advanced melanoma.
Melanoma
DRUG: glembatumumab vedotin|DRUG: glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab|DRUG: glembatumumab vedotin and PD-1 targeted checkpoint inhibitor (nivolumab OR pembrolizumab)|DRUG: glembatumumab vedotin and CDX-301
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients who achieved best overall response of complete or partial response. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST version 1.1), Complete Response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions and non-target lesions, Partial Response (PR), \>= 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions with no progression in non-target lesions and no new lesions. ORR was the primary outcome for Cohorts 1-3 and a secondary outcome for Cohort 4., Every 6 to 9 weeks following treatment initiation until disease progression.|Adverse Events of the Combination of Glembatumumab Vedotin and CDX-301 (in Cohort 4)., The percentage of patients experiencing one or more adverse events., Up to 18 months following the screening visit
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is the number of months from the time criteria are first met for either CR or PR, until the first date that PD is objectively documented per RECIST 1.1., From start date of partial or complete response (whichever is achieved first) to first date that recurrent of progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 18 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the earlier of disease progression or death due to any cause. Disease progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or progression in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Evaluated every 6 to 9 weeks following treatment initiation until progression.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the number of months from randomization to the date of death due to any cause., During treatment and every 3 months from end of treatment through death or end of study|Correlation of Activity to gpNMB Expression, To investigate if the anti-cancer activity of glembatumumab vedotin as monotherapy or in combination with immunotherapies in advanced melanoma is dependent upon the degree of gpNMB expression in tumor tissue., Up to 18 months following the screening visit|Adverse Events, The percentage of patients experiencing one or more AEs will be summarized by relationship to study drug and severity., Following at least one dose of study treatment through 28 days after last dose of glembatumumab vedotin, or 70 calendar days after last administration of varlilumab, CDX-301 or PD-1 targeted checkpoint inhibitor (whichever occurs latest)
Glembatumumab vedotin consists of an antibody attached to a drug, monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), that can kill cancer cells. The fully human antibody is designed to deliver the drug to cancer cells by attaching to a protein called glycoprotein NMB (gpNMB) that is expressed on the cancer cell. The MMAE is then released inside of the cell, where it interferes with cell growth and can lead to cell death of the targeted cell, as well as neighboring cells. Varlilumab is a fully human antibody that binds to CD27. This antibody allows the body's immune system to work against cancer cells. Nivolumab is a fully human antibody and pembrolizumab is a humanized antibody. Both bind to PD-1. CDX-301 is a fully human protein that helps boost production of certain white blood cells. This protein allows the body's immune system to work against tumor cells.

Eligible patients who enroll in the study will receive treatment with one of the following: glembatumumab vedotin, glembatumumab vedotin and varlilumab, glembatumumab vedotin and CDX-301 or glembatumumab vedotin and either nivolumab OR pembrolizumab.

All patients enrolled in the study will be closely monitored to determine if their cancer is responding to treatment and for any side effects that may occur.