Trial of Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab, and Enzastaurin Versus Paclitaxel, Bevacizumab and Placebo for Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine efficacy and safety of paclitaxel, bevacizumab and enzastaurin versus paclitaxel, bevacizumab, and placebo in participants who are diagnosed with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Enzastaurin|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Placebo
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of study enrollment to the first date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause. PD was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST version 1.0). PD is ≥20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For participants not known to have died and who did not have PD, PFS was censored at the date of the last progression-free assessment. For participants who received subsequent systemic anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to disease progression or death, PFS was censored at the date of last progression-free assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation systemic anticancer therapy. No participant completed a full cycle of therapy and thus no formal analysis was performed., Baseline to measured PD (up to 15 days)
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), assessed according to the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST version 1.0). CR was defined as the disappearance of all tumor lesions; PR was defined as either ≥30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LDs or complete disappearance of target lesions, with persistence (but not worsening) of 1 or more non-target lesions. In either case of PR, no new lesions should have appeared. The percentage of participants with ORR was calculated as a total number of participants with CR or PR from the start of study treatment until disease progression or recurrence divided by the total number of participants treated, then multiplied by 100. No participant completed a full cycle of therapy and thus no formal analysis was performed., Baseline to measured Progressive disease (up to 15 days)|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) or Any Serious AEs (SAEs), A summary of SAEs and all other non-serious AEs, regardless of causality, is located in the Reported Adverse Event module., Baseline to study completion (Day 15) plus 30-day safety follow-up
The purpose of this study is to determine efficacy and safety of paclitaxel, bevacizumab and enzastaurin versus paclitaxel, bevacizumab, and placebo in participants who are diagnosed with locally recurrent or metastatic breast cancer.