LK101 Combined With PD-1 or PD-L1 Monoclonal Antibody in the Treatment of Lung Cancer
This is a open lable, single-center phase Ib/IIa study for patients with local advanced or metastastic NSCLC or ES-SCLC, who failed with previous anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. The aim is to observe and evaluate the safety, tolerability and efficacy of LK101 injection combined with pembrolizumab or durvalumab respectively in the incurable NSCLC and SCLC.
Advanced Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: LK101 injection (personlized neoantigen pulsed DC vaccine )|DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Durvalumab
DLT, incidence of Dose limited toxicity(DLT),incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and immune-related adverse events (irAEs); Clinically significant abnormal changes in laboratory tests and other tests., Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|AE, incidence and severity of adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|irAE, incidence and severity of immune-related adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment|SAE, incidence and severity of serious adverse events, Continuously throughout the study until 90 days after Termination of the treatment
ORR, Objective Response Rate (ORR)according to mRECIST 1.1 standard, accessed up to 24 months from baseline|DoR, Duration of remission, 24 months|DCR, Disease Control Rate, 24 months|TTR, Time to remission, 24 months|TTP, Time to progression, 24 months|PFS, Progression Free Survival, 24 months|OS, Overall Survival, 24 months|Immune response evaluation, T cell response, cytokines, etc., 24 months
Tumor immune microenvironment before and after treatment, CD8+T cell, PD-1, PD-L1, etc., 24 months
This study is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of LK101 injection combined with pembrolizumab or durvalumab, which devided into 2 cohorts:

cohort 1: patients with locally advanced or metastastic (stage IIIB-IV) NSCLC who has progressed/relapsed after anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy. eligible subjects will receive LK101 injection and pembrolizumab treatment.

cohort 2: patients with extensive SCLC who failed with at least first-line standard therapy with PD-L1. eligible subjects will receive LK101 injection and durvalumab treatment.

LK101 will be administered in a prime-boost schedule of 4 priming vaccination followed by 3 booster vaccinations. For the priming phase: LK101 administered once a week at Days 1, 8, 15, 22. For the booster phase: total of 3 vaccinations will be given, Q3W from the end of priming dose. Treatment can be continued according to the investigator's evaluation, subsequent treatment is administered Q6W.

Patients will receive a combination of pembrolizumab(200mg IV) Q3W and durvalumab (1500mg IV) Q3W in NSCLC and SCLC,respectively, until disease progression (PD), intolerable toxicity.