Capivasertib + CDK4/6i + Fulvestrant for Advanced/Metastatic HR+/HER2- Breast Cancer (CAPItello-292)
A Phase Ib/III Open-label, Randomised Study of Capivasertib plus CDK4/6 Inhibitors and Fulvestrant versus CDK4/6 Inhibitors and Fulvestrant in Hormone Receptor-Positive and Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2-Negative Locally Advanced, Unresectable or Metastatic Breast Cancer (CAPItello-292)
Locally Advanced (Inoperable) or Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Capivasertib|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Palbociclib|DRUG: Ribociclib|DRUG: Abemaciclib
Phase Ib: 1. The number of participants with dose-limiting toxicity, as defined in the protocol., Dose-limiting toxicity as described in the protocol that is not related to disease progression, intercurrent illness or concomitant medications and that, despite optimal therapeutic intervention, meets protocol-defined criteria., Within the first 28 day cycle.|Phase Ib: 2. The number of participants with treatment-related adverse events., Data will include clinical observations, ECG parameters, clinical chemistry and haematology and vital signs assessed as the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events., From baseline up to approximately 36 months.|Phase Ib: 3. The number of participants with treatment-related serious adverse events., Data will include clinical observations, ECG parameters, clinical chemistry and haematology and vital signs assessed as the number of participants with treatment-related adverse events., From baseline up to approximately 36 months.|Phase III: 1. Progression Free Survival (PFS)., Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as time from randomization until progression per RECIST v1.1. as assessed by BICR or death due to any cause in the overall population, the altered population, and the confirmed non-altered population. RECIST related endpoints such as PFS, ORR, DoR, CBR will be collected., Up to approximately 47 months.
Phase Ib: 1. PK parameters for Palbociclib, Ribociclib, Abemaciclib: Cmax., Maximum observed plasma (peak) drug concentration., Cycle 0 (Cycle 0 is 3 days), Cycle 1 Day 11 and Cycle 1 Day 14 (Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 2. PK parameters for Palbociclib, Ribociclib, Abemaciclib: AUC0-72h., Partial area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 72 hours post-dose., Cycle 0 (Cycle 0 is 3 days).|Phase Ib: 3. PK parameters for Palbociclib, Ribociclib, Abemaciclib: AUC0-24h., Partial area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 24 hours post-dose., Cycle 0 (Cycle 0 is 3 days), Cycle 1 Day 11 and Cycle 1 Day 14 (Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 4. PK parameters for Palbociclib, Ribociclib, Abemaciclib: Cmin., Minimum observed plasma drug concentration., Cycle 1 Day 11 and Cycle 1 Day 14 (Cycle 0 is 3 days and Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 5. PK parameters for capivasertib: Cmax., Maximum observed plasma (peak) drug concentration., Cycle 1 Day 11 (Cycle 0 is 3 days and Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 6. PK parameters for capivasertib: AUC0-12h., Partial area under the plasma concentration-time curve from zero to 12 hours post-dose., Cycle 1 Day 11 (Cycle 0 is 3 days and Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 7. PK parameters for capivasertib: Cmin., Minimum observed plasma drug concentration., Cycle 1 Day 11 (Cycle 0 is 3 days and Cycle 1 is 28 days).|Phase Ib: 8. Objective Response Rate (ORR)., Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with measurable disease at baseline who have a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), as determined by the investigator at local site per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1)., Up to approximately 36 months.|Phase Ib: 9. Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) at 24 weeks., Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) 24 weeks is defined as the percentage of patients who have a CR or PR or who have SD per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site for at least 23 weeks after date of first dose., Up to approximately 36 months.|Phase Ib: 10. Duration of Response (DoR)., Duration of Response (DoR) will be defined as the time from the date of first documented confirmed response until date of documented progression per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 36 months.|Phase Ib: 11. Progression Free Survival (PFS)., Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as time from date of first dose until progression per RECIST v1.1. as assessed by the investigator at local site or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 36 months.|Phase III: 1. Overall Survival (OS)., Overall survival (OS) - time from randomization until the date of death due to any cause, secondary outcome measure in participants with HR+/HER2- locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer with gene alteration in PIK3CA/AKT1/PTEN - altered population, confirmed non-altered population and overall population., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 2. Objective Response Rate (ORR)., Objective Response Rate (ORR) - the proportion of patients who have a complete or partial response, as determined by BICR per RECIST v1.1 in participants with HR+/HER2- locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer with gene alteration in PIK3CA/AKT1/PTEN - altered population, confirmed non-altered population and overall population., Up to approximately 47 months.|Phase III: 3. Progression Free Survival 2 (PFS2), Progression Free Survival 2 (PFS2) - time from randomization to the earliest of the progression event, after first subsequent therapy or death., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 4. Duration of Response (DoR)., Duration of Response (DoR) - the time from the date of first documented response until the date of progression per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by BICR, or death due to any cause., Up to approximately 47 months.|Phase III: 5. Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) at 24 weeks., Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) at 24 weeks-the % of patients who have a CR or PR or who have SD per RECIST v1.1 as assessed by BICR for at least 23 weeks after randomisation., Up to approximately 47 months.|Phase III: 6. Participant-reported physical functioning, TTD of physical functioning as measured by the physical functioning subscale of the EORTC QLQ-C30., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 7. Participant-reported GHS/QoL in participants, TTD of GHS/QoL as measured by the GHS/QoL subscale of the EORTC QLQ-C30., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 8. Participant-reported overall side effect bother in participants in the capivasertib arm relative to control arm, Proportion of participants experiencing different levels of overall treatment tolerability as measured by the Patient Global Impression-Treatment Tolerability (PGI-TT)., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 9. Plasma concentration of capivasertib pre- and post-dose., Plasma concentration of capivasertib pre-, and post-dose., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 10. The number of participants with adverse events., Data will include clinical observations, ECG parameters, clinical chemistry / haematology / glucose metabolism parameters and vital signs assessed as the number of participants with adverse events., Up to approximately 69 months.|Phase III: 11. The number of participants with serious adverse events., Data will include clinical observations, ECG parameters, clinical chemistry / haematology / glucose metabolism parameters and vital signs assessed as the number of participants with serious adverse events., Up to approximately 69 months.
This Phase Ib/III study (CAPItello-292) aims to evaluate the efficacy, safety and the degree of added benefit of capivasertib combined with CDK4/6i and fulvestrant in participants with locally advanced (inoperable) or metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer. Although the dosing regimens of capivasertib + fulvestrant and of CDK4/6i + fulvestrant are established separately, the dose and schedule for the triplet combinations (capivasertib + CDK4/6i + fulvestrant) need to be confirmed. Therefore, the initial dose finding Phase Ib part of the study will determine the recommended Phase III doses (RP3D) of the triplet combinations. The Phase III part of the study will evaluate the efficacy, safety and the degree of added benefit of the triplet combinations of capivasertib and fulvestrant with investigator's choice of CDK4/6i (either palbociclib or ribociclib at safe and tolerable doses, once identified) in comparison with a control arm (fulvestrant + investigator's choice of CDK4/6i \[palbociclib or ribociclib\]) in a ER+ HER2- maC high risk population that did not receive prior endocrine therapy in the advanced setting.