A Phase I/II Study of MLN0128 in Metastatic Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer and Incurably Poorly Differentiated or Radioidodine Refractory Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
This research study is a phase I/II study of MLN0128 in metastatic anaplastic thyroid cancer(ATC) and incurably poorly differentiated or radioidodine refractory differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC).

Due to changes in the manufacturing process which resulted in increased absorption of MLN0128 from capsules, a run-in phase I prior to the phase II of the study was needed.

Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational intervention to learn whether the intervention works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied. The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved MLN0128 as a treatment for any disease.

MLN0128 prevents tumor cells from dividing and growing by selectively and potently inhibiting a chemical, mTOR kinase, which regulates cell growth and survival. Patients with anaplastic thyroid cancer have been observed to sometimes carry genetic alterations in their tumor cells which may make the cancer more sensitive to inhibition by MLN0128.

Given the activity with everolimus in RAI refractory thyroid cancer, subjects wth metastatic, incurable differentiated RAI refractory and poorly differentiated thyroid cancer were included.
Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer|Thyroid Cancer|Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
DRUG: MLN0128
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) [Phase I Dose Escalation], The MTD is determined by the number of participants who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The MTD is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of participants experience a DLT. If no DLTs are observed, the MTD is not reached but the highest dose received may be the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D)., cycle 1 (cycle duration=28 days)|Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) [Phase I Dose Escalation], DLT is defined as an adverse event based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) or abnormal laboratory value assessed as unrelated to disease, disease progression, intercurrent illness, or concomitant medications, that meets any of the criteria (hematologic, renal, hepatic, endocrine, metabolic/laboratory, pancreatitis, cardiac, neurotoxicity, mood alteration, dermatologic\] listed in section 5.3.2 of the protocol., cycle 1 (cycle duration=28 days)|4-month Progression Free Survival (PFS4) Rate - ATC Cohort [Phase II], PFS4 rate is the percentage of participants remaining alive and progression-free at 4-months from study entry. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: disease progression (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum longest diameter (LD), taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD is appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Disease was assessed radiologically every 2 cycles/ 8 weeks on treatment until the earliest of first progression, death or 24 months from study entry. Relevant for this endpoint was observation at 4-months.
Number of Participants With Grade 3-5 Treatment-related Toxicity [Phase I/Phase II], All grade 3-5 adverse events (AE) with treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on CTCAEv4 as reported on case report forms were counted. Maximum grade toxicity by AE type was then calculated. Incidence is the number of participants experiencing at least one grade 2-5 treatment-related AE during the time of observation., Assessed on treatment at cycles 1 and 2 (days 1 and 15), cycle 3+ on day 1, at the end of treatment and up to 30 days post-treatment. Participants were on treatment up to 21.6 months (median 2.1 months).|6-month Progression Free Survival (PFS6) Rate - DTC Cohort [Phase II], PFS6 rate is the percentage of patients remaining alive and progression-free at 6-months from study entry. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: disease progression (PD) is at least a 20% increase in sum longest diameter (LD), taking as reference the smallest sum on study with at least 5 mm absolute increase or the appearance of one or more new lesions. For non-target lesions, PD is appearance of one or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Disease was assessed radiologically every 2 cycles/ 8 weeks on treatment until the earliest of first progression, death or 24 months from study entry. Relevant for this endpoint was observation at 6-months.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) [Phase II], ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions; PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Confirmatory scan obtained 8 weeks following initial documentation of objective response., Disease was assessed radiologically every 2 cycles/ 8 weeks on treatment until the earliest of first progression, death or 24 months from study entry. Participants were on treatment up to 196 days (PII ATC) and 454 days (PII DTC).|Median Overall Survival (OS) [Phase II], OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Long term follow-up for survival was every 3 months post-treatment end up to 24 months.|BRAF V600E Status [Phase II], Participants were classified by BRAF V600E mutation status evaluated by next generation sequencing (NGS) platforms using tumor tissue collected at baseline., Baseline|Clinical Benefit (CBR) by BRAF V600E Status [Phase II], CBR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions; PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. Confirmatory scan obtained 8 weeks following initial documentation of CR or PR. SD is neither PR or better nor PD (defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum since treatment start, or the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions). Participants were classified by BRAF V600E status based on established methods using tumor tissue collected at baseline., BRAF V600E status per NGS at baseline. Disease response was assessed every 2 cycles on treatment until the first progression, death or 24 months from study entry. Participants were on treatment up to 196 days (PII ATC) and 454 days (PII DTC).
Patients who fulfill eligibility criteria will be entered into the trial to receive MLN0128.