Enasidenib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia With an IDH2 Gene Mutation
This phase II trial studies how well enasidenib works in treating in patients with acute myeloid leukemia with an IDH2 gene mutation that has come back or has not responded to treatment. Enasidenib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. In this study we are investing if enasidenib can be used as maintenance therapy post salvage induction chemotherapy.
Blasts Under 5 Percent of Peripheral Blood White Cells|Bone Marrow Blasts Decreased by 50 Percent or More Compared to Pretreatment Level|IDH2 Gene Mutation|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Enasidenib|PROCEDURE: Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation
Event-free survival (EFS) in each cohort, Defined as the binomial proportion of evaluable patients who are alive and disease free 12 months after enrollment. Two-sided 95% Jeffreys confidence interval estimates will be used to describe the plausible range for the true EFS rate in each patient group. The EFS rates will be estimated separately for each cohort, on an intent-to-treat basis., At 12 months
Success rate of hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), Up to 5 years|Median duration of maintenance therapy in both cohorts, Up to 5 years|Overall survival in each cohort, At 12 and 24 months
Evaluation of IDH2 mutant allele burden, Will use droplet digital polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from baseline study entry and at follow up every 3 months to follow changes in variant allele frequency (VAF)., Up to 5 years|Change in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation signature, Will be evaluated by evaluated by bi-sulfite pyrosequencing., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effect of IDH2 inhibition following conventional high dose salvage chemotherapy with detectable IDH2 mutations on event free survival (EFS) in patients with relapsed/refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effect of IDH2 inhibitor maintenance therapy following intensive salvage therapy: i.e., rate of hematocrit (HCT), duration of maintenance therapy and overall survival in patients with IDH2 mutant relapsed/refractory AML.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the changes in IDH2 mutational variant allelic frequency and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) methylation signature while on enasidenib therapy.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive enasidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo a hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) 7-14 days after treatment. Within 30-100 days following the transplant, patients receive enasidenib QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 24 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive enasidenib PO QD. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 months and then yearly for 5 years.