Patient-Assisted Compression - Impact on Image Quality and Workflow
This study is being conducted to compare the image quality of breast images obtained using standard (technologist-controlled \[TC\]) compression and patient-assisted (PA) compression and to evaluate the impact of PA compression on clinical workflow.
Breast Cancer
DEVICE: Patient-Assisted (PA) Breast Compression|DEVICE: Technologist-Controlled (TC) Breast Compression
Number of Subjects With Acceptable Overall Clinical Image Quality for Patient-assisted (PA) and Technologist-controlled (TC) Image Sets, One PA image set and one TC image set was acquired from each completed subject. The overall clinical image quality acceptability was collected and summarized on a per subject-basis using binary responses of either acceptable or unacceptable for unilateral, two-view PA and TC compression image sets. Two readers evaluated each of the 60 image sets (30 PA and 30 TC compression image sets from 30 completed participants). In cases of disagreement between Readers 1 and 2, a third reader provided adjudication., Through study completion, on average 1 month
Repeat Image Acquisition, Number of incidences per image set when the technologists or readers indicated a repeat acquisition for PA and TC compression modes. More than one incident (i.e. reason for repeat from technologist or view indicated for repeat by readers) could have been selected for a given image set., Through study completion, on average 1 month|Acceptability of Mammographic Attributes, Acceptability of mammographic attributes using a binary response of either acceptable or unacceptable for unilateral, two-view PA and TC compression image sets were summarized., Through study completion, on average 1 month
Comparison of Image Acquisition Time, The length of time it takes for image acquisition using each compression mode (TC Compression and PA Compression) were compared., Through study completion, on average 1 month|Technologist Interventions in PA Compression, Data will be collected regarding any interventions made by the technologist during PA compression and this data were summarized., Through study completion, on average 1 month|Compression Force for PA and TC Compressions, Compression forces (decanewton \[daN\]) for each compression mode (TC and PA compression) were summarized for craniocaudal (CC) and mediolateral oblique (MLO) views. For each subject, both views were collected using both compression modes., Through study completion, on average 1 month|Breast Thickness for PA and TC Compressions, Breast thickness (millimeter \[mm\]) for each compression mode (TC and PA compression) were summarized for craniocaudal (CC) and mediolateral oblique (MLO) views. For each subject, both views were collected using both compression modes., Through study completion, on average 1 month|Radiation Dose for PA and TC Compressions, Radiation dose (entrance skin air kerma \[ESAK\] in milligray \[mGy\]) for each compression mode (TC and PA compression) were summarized for craniocaudal (CC) and mediolateral oblique (MLO) views. For each subject, both views were collected using both compression modes., Through study completion, on average 1 month
Patient-assisted (PA) compression allows the patient to participate in controlling the amount of compression force during mammography and is a personalized approach that has demonstrated successful reduction in discomfort experienced during mammography. GE Healthcare's Senographe Pristina, an innovative mammography platform that provides both two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) imaging capabilities, offers both standard and PA compression modes. This study is being conducted to compare the image quality of breast images obtained using TC compression and PA compression, and to evaluate the impact of PA compression on clinical workflow. The study population will consist of adult asymptomatic women presenting for screening 2D mammography.