Fluorouracil, Hydroxyurea, Cetuximab and Twice-daily Intensity Radiation Therapy for Advanced Head and Neck Cancer
For advanced head and neck cancer, combined radiation and chemotherapy prevents recurrences and for many patients, improves survival. While combined cisplatin and radiation or cetuximab and radiation is more effective than radiation alone, approximately 50% of these patients will still recur. A more aggressive approach may be needed for these patients to prevent recurrence and death. The strategy of using multiple chemotherapy drugs with radiation given twice a day has been tested at Mount Sinai and University of Chicago. Approximately 80% of patients are cured with this strategy. While cure rates are higher than standard chemotherapy and radiation and the treatment is tolerable, side effects during treatment are common. We propose replacing a chemotherapy drug with a less toxic, targeted therapy called cetuximab. Our goal is to reduce toxicity while maintaining or improving cure rates for these patients.
Head and Neck Cancer|Cancer of the Pharynx|Cancer of the Larynx|Nose Neoplasms|Paranasal Sinus Neoplasms|Cancer of the Oral Cavity
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: Hydroxyurea|DRUG: Fluorouracil|PROCEDURE: radiotherapy
Llocoregional Recurrence, Percentage of Participants with Loco-regional recurrence., 2 years|Survival, Overall Survival - Percentage of Participants who survived Disease-Free Survival - measured from the initiation of nonsurgical treatment to either the last follow-up, disease progression, or death using intent-to-treat methodology, 2 years
Long- Term Toxicity, Grade 3 toxicities events, 2 years|UW-QOLR: Quality of Life Score, University of Washington Quality of Life (UW-QOLR) questionnaire - covers 12 domains - pain, appearance, activity, recreation, swallowing, chewing, speech, shoulder function, taste, saliva, mood and anxiety. Each domain have between 3 and 6 response options that are scaled evenly from 0 (worst) to 100 (best) according to the hierarchy of response and reported as one composite score from 0 (worst) to 100 (best)., 2 years|Distant Metastases, Percentage of participants who did not have distant control, 2 years
For advanced head and neck cancer, combined radiation and chemotherapy prevents recurrences and for many patients, improves survival. While combined cisplatin and radiation or cetuximab and radiation is more effective than radiation alone, approximately 50% of these patients will still recur. A more aggressive approach may be needed for these patients to prevent recurrence and death. The strategy of using multiple chemotherapy drugs with radiation given twice a day has been tested at Mount Sinai and University of Chicago. Approximately 80% of patients are cured with this strategy. While cure rates are higher than standard chemotherapy and radiation and the treatment is tolerable, side effects during treatment are common. We propose replacing a chemotherapy drug with a less toxic, targeted therapy called cetuximab. Our goal is to reduce toxicity while maintaining or improving cure rates for these patients.