PK and ECG Determinations Following 8 Weeks of HyBryte Treatment for Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma
To assess the blood levels of hypericin and any electrocardiogram (ECG) changes during 8 weeks of HyBryte (topical hypericin ointment) photodynamic therapy.
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma/Mycosis Fungoides
DRUG: Hypericin
Electrocardiograms (ECG), Assess any ECG QT interval changes (defined as any occurrences of QT interval \>500 ms or changes in QT interval \>60 ms) during standard HyBryte photodynamic therapy., 10 weeks|Systemic Blood Levels, Assess the systemic blood levels of hypericin during standard HyBryte photodynamic therapy., 10 weeks
Number of Responders and Non-Responders With a Treatment Response in 3 Treated Lesions as Defined as a ≥50% Improvement in the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score., A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score at Week 10 when compared to the CAILS score at baseline.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score measures: Erythema (or redness) on a scale of 0 (no redness) to 8 (very red), Scaling on a scale of 0 (no scaling) to 8 (all of the lesion is covered by a very rough surface), Plaque Elevation on a scale of 0 (no evidence of plaque above normal skin level) to 3 (plaque shows marked elevation above normal skin level) and Surface Area on a scale of 0 (no lesion/surface area is 0 cm\^2) to 18 (the lesion is larger than 300 cm\^2). A lower score means a better outcome.

The overall CAILS score was calculated by adding the total score as described above for each of the 3 lesions. The overall CAILS score has a range of 0 to 111. A lower score means a better outcome., 10 weeks|Number of Index Lesions With a Treatment Response as Defined as a ≥50% Improvement in the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score., A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score at Week 10 when compared to the CAILS score at baseline in each of the individual Index Lesions.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score measures: Erythema (or redness) on a scale of 0 (no redness) to 8 (very red), Scaling on a scale of 0 (no scaling) to 8 (all of the lesion is covered by a very rough surface), Plaque Elevation on a scale of 0 (no evidence of plaque above normal skin level) to 3 (plaque shows marked elevation above normal skin level) and Surface Area on a scale of 0 (no lesion/surface area is 0 cm\^2) to 18 (the lesion is larger than 300 cm\^2). A lower score means a better outcome., 10 weeks|Number of Index Lesions With a Complete Response as Defined as a 100% Improvement in the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score., A complete response was defined as a 100% improvement in CAILS score (a CAILS score of 0) at Week 10 in each of the individual Index Lesions.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score measures: Erythema (or redness) on a scale of 0 (no redness) to 8 (very red), Scaling on a scale of 0 (no scaling) to 8 (all of the lesion is covered by a very rough surface), Plaque Elevation on a scale of 0 (no evidence of plaque above normal skin level) to 3 (plaque shows marked elevation above normal skin level) and Surface Area on a scale of 0 (no lesion/surface area is 0 cm\^2) to 18 (the lesion is larger than 300 cm\^2). A lower score means a better outcome., 10 weeks
To assess the blood levels of hypericin and any electrocardiogram (ECG) changes during 8 weeks of HyBryte (topical hypericin ointment) photodynamic therapy.