Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation in Treating Patients With High-Risk Hematologic Cancer
RATIONALE: Umbilical cord blood transplantation may allow doctors to give higher doses of chemotherapy or radiation therapy and kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying allogeneic umbilical cord blood transplantation to see how well it works when given with chemotherapy or radiation therapy in treating patients with high-risk hematologic cancer.
Graft Versus Host Disease|Leukemia|Lymphoma|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Myelodysplastic/Myeloproliferative Diseases
BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin|DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: cyclosporine|DRUG: melphalan|DRUG: methylprednisolone|PROCEDURE: umbilical cord blood transplantation|RADIATION: radiation therapy
rates of durable engraftment in patients, The primary study end point will be hematologic engraftment. Engraftment is defined as achieving ANC larger than or equal to 500 ul/mm3 of donor origin for three consecutive measurements on different days by day +42., day 42
Event-free survival by clinical and pathological disease assessment, at disease progression or death|incidence of recurrent disease in patients post UCB transplant, post transplant
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the rates of hematologic and immune reconstitution in patients with high risk hematologic malignancies who are undergoing high dose chemoradiotherapy followed by unrelated umbilical cord blood (UCB) transplantation.
* Determine the incidence of graft-versus-host-disease in this setting.
* Describe the incidence of recurrent disease in these patients post UCB transplant.
* Describe the incidence of serious infections and secondary lymphoproliferative diseases following transplantation with UCB in these patients.
* Determine specifically whether larger recipients can be durably engrafted with unrelated UCB, and determine whether nucleated cell or progenitor cell content of the graft is predictive of hematological engraftment.

OUTLINE: Patients may undergo a back-up peripheral blood stem cell collection prior to treatment.

Patients receive 9 fractions of total body irradiation (TBI) on days -9 to -5 followed by melphalan IV for three days on days -4 to -2 and antithymocyte globulin IV or methylprednisolone IV for three days on days -3 to -1. On day 0, patients receive umbilical cord blood infusion. If TBI is not tolerated, busulfan is substituted and administered orally every 6 hours for 4 days on days -8 to -5. Cyclosporine and methylprednisolone begin on day -2 and continue for 6 months.

Patients are followed at least monthly for 1 year, then every 6 months for the second year, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: There will be a maximum of 48 patients accrued into this study over 4 years.