A Study of CNTO 328 in Subjects With Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to better understand the safety, tolerability and distribution of CNTO 328 in the bloodstream.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: CNTO 328
Number of Patients With Dose-limiting Toxicity as a Measure of Safety (Parts 1 and 3), Up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Number of Patients With Tumor Response (Parts 2 and 3), Tumor response will be evaluated as sum of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). CR is disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non evaluable disease. PR is 50% or more decrease from baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. No new lesions., Up to Week 11|Serum Concentration of CNTO 328 (Parts 1, 2, and 3), Pre dose, up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (Parts 1, 2, and 3), Up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Change From Baseline in C-reactive Protein (Part 1), Within 2 weeks before first dose, pre dose, post dose (6 weeks after the last dose)|Change From Baseline in Interleukin-6 levels (Part 1), Within 2 weeks before first dose, pre dose, post dose (6 weeks after the last dose)
Serum Antibodies to CNTO 328 (Parts 1, 2, and 3), Serum levels of antibodies to CNTO 328 will be used to evaluate potential immunogenicity., Up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Number of Patients With Clinical Benefit (Parts 1, 2, and 3), Clinical benefit will include assessment of pain (measured using Brief Pain Inventory which includes 4 items assessing pain intensity (pain intensity subscales) and 7 items assessing how much pain has interfered with daily activities (pain interference subscales). The pain intensity score is assessed with 4 questions rated on 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS) ranging from "0 = no pain" to "10 = higher severity of pain". The pain interference score is assessed with 7 questions rated on 11-point numerical rating scale (NRS) ranging from "0 = does not interfere" to "10 = completely interferes". Higher scores indicate worsening), functional impairment (assessed using Karnofsky performance status which quantifies patient's well-being and activities of daily life), weight change (assessed by change in body weight)., Up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Time to disease progression (Parts 2 and 3), Disease progression is defines as greater than or equal to 25% increase in the sum of products of measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, or clear worsening of any evaluable disease, or reappearance of any lesion which had disappeared, or appearance of any new lesion, or failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., Up to 6 weeks after the last dose|Duration of Tumor Response (Parts 2 and 3), Duration of tumor response is defined as sum of complete response which is complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of nonevaluable disease and partial response which is 50% or more decrease from baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. No new lesions., Screening (3 weeks prior to first dose), Week 7, Week 11, and 6 weeks after the last dose|Number of Patients With an Overall Tumor Response (Parts 2 and 3), Overall tumor response is defined as sum of overall CR which is 2 or more objective responses of CR (complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease.) documented for a minimum of 4 weeks apart, overall PR which is 2 or more objective responses of PR (50% or more decrease from baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions.) or better documented for a minimum of 4 weeks apart, and overall stable disease which is at least 1 objective response of SD (radiologic assessments have been evaluated and does not qualify for CR, PR, or progressive disease) at least 3 weeks after baseline., Screening (3 weeks prior to first dose), Week 7, Week 11, and 6 weeks after the last dose|Change From Baseline in Quality of Life Measured Using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Fatigue questionnaire (Parts 1, 2, and 3), FACIT - Fatigue scale is a questionnaire to assess fatigue. It is a 13-item questionnaire that assesses self-reported tiredness, weakness, and difficulty conducting usual activities due to fatigue. Responded to each area are scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Higher scores indicate worsening., Within 2 weeks before dose, prior to first dose, Days 29, 43, 57, and 71, and 6 weeks after the last dose|Change From Baseline in C-reactive Protein (Parts 2 and 3), Within 2 weeks before first dose, pre dose, post dose (6 weeks after the last dose)|Change From Baseline in Interleukin-6 levels (Parts 2 and 3), Within 2 weeks before first dose, pre dose, post dose (6 weeks after the last dose)
This research study uses a type of drug called anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody, also known as CNTO 328. CNTO 328 is a new experimental drug. This study is trying to better understand the safety, the tolerability (side effects), and the distribution of the drug in the blood stream. The effects of CNTO 328 in patients with renal cell carcinoma are currently unknown. However, recent data has shown that treatment with another anti-IL-6 monoclonal antibody reduces the symptoms of renal cell carcinoma.

The study is divided in 3 parts. Part 1 is the phase I portion of the study and evaluated the safety of CNTO 328 in subjects with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. Part 2 and 3 will evaluate efficacy and safety of the drug in this patient population.