Non Invasive Detection of IDH1/2 Mutation in Gliomas
This trial develops a non invasive diagnostic approach of IDH1 mutated gliomas combining mutation detection from free plasmatic DNA, D-2HG dosage in urine samples, and D-2HG detection by Brain Spectro MRI.

In group 1 (25 patients), patients with presumed grade II-III gliomas candidate to surgery will undergo spectro MRI, plasma, urine dosages. Results will then be confronted to tumor mutational status and D-2HG.

In group 2 (15 patients), patients with known IDH1 mutation will undergo spectro MRI, plasma, urine dosages overtime in order to correlate results with the response to treatment.
Glioma|IDH1/IDH2 Mutation
RADIATION: Spectro-MRI|OTHER: Dosage of free circulating plasmatic DNA|OTHER: Dosage of D-2HG in the urine
D-2HG quantified by spectroMRI the measure of the ratio between two pics D-2HG and creatine [Time Frame: 3 months after surgery] [Designated as safety issue: No], This ratio D-2HG/creatine will be correlated with the dosage obtained in tumor tissue performed within three months after the surgery, 3 months after surgery
SpectroMRI [Time Frame: evolution over 12 months] [Designated as safety issue: No], The ratio D-2HG/creatine will be evaluated overtime and correlated with radiological evolution and the response to treatment (group 2: 15 patients) every four months, evolution over 12 months
The aim of this trial is to develop and validate a non invasive diagnostic approach of IDH1 mutated gliomas. It will evaluate the specificity and sensitivity of D-2HG detection by Brain Spectro MRI. This approach will be coupled with mutation detection from free plasmatic DNA and D-2HG dosage in urine samples.

The primary end-point is the quantification of D-2HG by spectro-MRI, and the correlation with the dosage of D-2HG in the tumor fragment, and the mutational status (group 1: 25 patients).

The secondary endpoints include:

1. longitudinal analysis Spectro-MRI overtime (12 months) correlation with radiological evolution and the response to treatment (group 2: 15 patients)
2. Differentiation of tumor recurrence from radiation induced changes
3. Confrontation of Spectro-MRI, D-2HG dosages and IDH mutation detection from plasma DNA, and elaboration of a combined score of prediction