Prospective, Multicenter HCCIS Evaluation Study
With this prospective, multicenter trial the investigators aim to establish the Hepatocellular Immune Score (HCCIS), a score that has been developed in a retrospective study, as a new tool for risk stratification of patients after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma that can be widely used in the clinical practice. The investigators expect to show that this score is a prognosticator for overall survival and also disease free survival. Further, it should be demonstrated that the HCCIS is a risk stratification tool that is independent from clinical or descriptive parameters. Additionally, the investigators plan to elucidate that the respective HCCIS risk groups are not only different with respect to immunological infiltration but are also different with respect to tumor biology. The finding, that tumors of the respective risk groups show different tumor biology leads to the assumption that different therapy strategies need to be applied. Therefore, in a translational approach we aim to build up a data base with HCC tumor organoids and test the effect of CD8+IL-33+ effector-memory cells on HCC tumor organoids of the respective HCCIS risk groups.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Overall survival
The HCC immune score (HCCIS) is a survival prognosticator of patients after liver resection for HCC, Overall survival, 3 years
The HCC immune score (HCCIS) to prognosticate disease free survival of patients after liver resection for HCC, Disease free survival, 3 years
With this prospective, multicenter trial the investigators aim to establish the Hepatocellular Immune Score (HCCIS), a score that has been developed in a retrospective study, as a new tool for risk stratification of patients after resection of hepatocellular carcinoma that can be widely used in the clinical practice. The investigators expect to show that this score is a prognosticator for overall survival and also disease free survival. Further, it should be demonstrated that the HCCIS is a risk stratification tool that is independent from clinical or descriptive parameters. Additionally, the investigators plan to elucidate that the respective HCCIS risk groups are not only different with respect to immunological infiltration but are also different with respect to tumor biology. The finding, that tumors of the respective risk groups show different tumor biology leads to the assumption that different therapy strategies need to be applied. Therefore, in a translational approach we aim to build up a data base with HCC tumor organoids and test the effect of CD8+IL-33+ effector-memory cells on HCC tumor organoids of the respective HCCIS risk groups.