Cetuximab Plus Capecitabine as Maintenance Treatment in RAS and BRAF wt Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This is an open-label, multicenter, randomized study to be conducted in Chinese patients with RAS and BRAF wild-type mCRC. Patients who have already completed 9 cycles of standard first-line induction treatment, without discontinuation for toxicity, of cetuximab or fluorouracil or oxaliplatin,, and achieved disease control (including CR/PR and SD), and are progression free at the end of Cycle 9 will be assigned to 2 maintenance treatment groups by randomization in a 1:1 ratio to receive cetuximab + capecitabine (Arm A) or cetuximab alone (Arm B). The randomization will be stratified by induction treatment response (complete response \[CR\]+ partial response \[PR\] versus stable disease \[SD\]) and primary tumor location (left side only versus right side). All patients from Arm A and Arm B will be treated until progressive disease, death from any cause, unacceptable toxicity or informed consent withdrawal (whichever occurs earlier).
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Cetuximab, Capecitabine|DRUG: Cetuximab
Efficacy: Maintenance PFS, mPFS from randomization to PD or death from any cause, From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months
Number of Participants With Adverse Events During Treatment Period, AEs included SAEs and non-serious AEs. Causality to study treatment was determined by the investigator. Severity was graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months|Number of Participants With Clinical Laboratory Abnormalities During Treatment Period, Clinical laboratory tests include hematology, electrolyte and clinical chemistry., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), Quality of life is assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) C30. It will be evaluated at Screening, Tumor Assessment Visit and End of Treatment visit., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-CR29 (EORTC QLQ-CR29), Quality of life in patients with colorectal cancer is assessed using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire (QLQ) CR29. It will be evaluated at Screening, Tumor Assessment Visit and End of Treatment visit., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months|Overall Survival, Time from randomization to death from any cause, From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months
Change from Baseline in Mutation Status of Selected Genes tested by Next-Generation Sequencing during Treatment Period, Mutation status of selected genes (include but are not limited to KRAS, NRAS, BRAF, HER2, PI3K, NTRK, POLE, etc ) is assessed using Next-Generation Sequencing Method. It will be evaluated at Screening and End of Treatment visit with peripheral blood samples., From Baseline to primary completion date, about 42 months
Coz COVID-19 limited, C-CLASSIC was terminated recruitment on 31Dec2022. Total screen 100 subjects and enroll 80 subjects. All subjects in study will be treatment until meet study endpoint. Then study related subject follow up, data collect, clinical study report will be continued as planned.