Clinical Study Protocol for Cutaneous SCC for Immunocompromised Patients
This is a multi-center clinical study enrolling up to 28 participants. The primary objectives are to determine the objective response rate (ORR) established by the confirmed best overall response (BOR) following intratumoral administration of DaRT - Diffusing Alpha-Emitters Radiation Therapy. Secondary objectives are to:

1. Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS) up to 12 months after Alpha DaRT sources insertion.
2. Assess Overall Survival (OS) of patients treated with DaRT up to 12 months.
3. Assess Local control up to 12 months after DaRT insertion.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Alpha Radiation|Immunocompromised|Carcinoma, Squamous|Skin Cancer|Brachytherapy
DEVICE: DaRT seeds
objective response rate, • Assessment of the objective response rate (ORR) determined by the best overall response using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (Version 1.1)., From Day 14 until 52 weeks
Progression Free Survival, • Determine Progression Free Survival (PFS) up to 12 months after DaRT seed insertion., Up to 12 months after DaRT seed insertion|Overall Survival, • Assess Overall Survival (OS) of patients treated with DaRT up to 12 months., Up to 12 months after DaRT seed insertion|Local control, • Assess Local control up to 12 months after DaRT insertion., Up to 12 months after DaRT seed insertion
Safety Objectives, Assess the safety of the Alpha DaRT treatment, based on the cumulative incidence rate, severity and outcome of device related AEs. Classification of AEs will be done according to CTCAE v5., Up to 12 months following DaRT insertion
This study is a pivotal multicenter, single arm, open label clinical study to assess the efficacy and safety of intratumoral Alpha DaRT-224 for the treatment of of Immunocompromised Patients with Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma

The "Diffusing Alpha-emitter Radiation Therapy (DaRT)", based on the intratumoral placement of an encapsulated Radium-224 source (3.7 days half-life), is described in this study. These sources release short-lived alpha-emitting atoms into the tumor microenvironment by recoil. Alpha DaRT sources will be inserted into Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma tumors and will be removed following 14-21 days.

The The objective response rate (ORR), which is calculated as the percent of patients achieving an objective response. Best overall response using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines (RECIST v1.1). Best overall response is assessed starting from DaRT removal. Safety will be assessed based on the cumulative incidence rate, severity and outcome of device related Adverse Events (AEs). Classification of AEs will be done according to CTCAE v5.