Effectiveness of Oncological Physiotherapy on Painful Shoulder Cervical Ganglion in Head and Neck Cancer
Objective: To estimate whether oncological physiotherapy treatment with neurodynamic and kinesitherapy (passive and active) in patients with "painful shoulder due to accessory spinal nerve dissection" operated on for head and neck cancer is more effective than standard therapeutic exercise therapy with strength.

Design: Randomized Clinical Trial (intervention study, no drugs). Two branches of rehabilitative treatment applied by oncological physiotherapist.

GROUP I: Treatment of passive and active mobilizations together with neurodynamics techniques.

GROUP II (or control group) Current treatment applied as gold standard, consisting of therapeutic strength exercise, which the patient will carry out under the supervision of the physiotherapist.

The frequency of both will be twice a week for two months.

Study subjects: Participants who underwent cervical ganglion dissection surgery for head and neck cancer, and who have, as a surgical sequela, a painful shoulder due to accessory spinal nerve injury.

Determinations: At baseline (t0), at one month (t1m) and at the end (t6m) will be measured, (1) the degree of pain of the participants through the pain scale (EVA), (2) the functionality of the shoulder, with the DASH scale and goniometry, (3) the quality of life with the QLQ H\&N35 questionnaire, (4) the strength with a hand dynamometer and (5) the degree of neurodynamics of the accessory spinal nerve with the neurodynamic test for this nerve.
Cancer|Shoulder Pain|Rehabilitation
OTHER: Therapeutic upper limb strength exercise treatment|OTHER: Treatment with passive and active mobilization of the upper limb.
Eortc QLQ H&N35 questionnaire, The EORTC Quality of Life questionnaires are developed to assess the quality of life of cancer patients, includes 35 items and scales employ a 4-point response format (''not at all" to ''very much"). A higher score indicates better health, Change from baseline at 3 months
Visual analogue scale, The visual analogue scale (VAS) is a 10cm long line where 0 indicates no pain at all and 10 the worst pain imaginable. It is a tool that has shown good reliability values (r = 0.94)., Change from baseline at 3 months|The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire, It is a 30-item questionnaire that looks at the ability of a patient to perform certain upper extremity activities. This questionnaire is a self-report questionnaire that patients can rate difficulty and interference with daily life on a 5 point Likert scale. Scores range from 0 (no disability) to 100 (most severe disability). This score was designed be useful in patients with any musculoskeletal disorder of the upper limb, Change from baseline at 3 months|Handgrip strength test, Grip strength is a measure of muscular strength or the maximum force/tension generated by one's forearm muscles. Handgrip strength will be measured by handgrip dynamometer (JAMAR). Low grip strength is associated with poor healthcare outcomes and, Change from baseline at 3 months
Incident cases of painful shoulder due to accessory spinal nerve injury after cervical lymph node dissection in patients with head and neck cancer. Given that clinical data indicate that at least 60% of patients with cervical lymph node dissection have iatrogenic accessory spinal nerve damage, and that the sequelae significantly impair the patient's quality of life, an improvement in quality of life of up to 30% of the QLQ H\&N35 score is considered to be significant.

Participants will be selected through the Spanish Association Against Cancer's needs assessment and first impact service, which receives patients from different hospitals. The investigators will make a first appointment with patients likely to be included in the study to check whether they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and collect the necessary data.

The investigators will then proceed to randomization to one of the treatment arms. The planned time for the application of the therapy is 2 months. During the course of the clinical trial the participants will attend treatment twice or once a week with a session duration of approximately 30 minutes.

Participants will be seen three times at the oncological physiotherapy service of the AECC during the course of the study \[t0, t1 and 6tf\]. A first one as mentioned above, an intermediate one after one month and a last one at the end of the clinical trial 2 months after inclusion.

At each of the 3 visits, data on the different variables will be collected: the VAS scale, the QLQ H\&N35 quality of life questionnaire and the DASH questionnaire.