LUNG-05: Investigating Chemotherapy Effectiveness for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Metastatic Patients
This is a Single arm, Simon's two stage pilot study in which patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with metastatic disease 2L and beyond will receive OncoChoice-informed chemotherapy following National Cancer Care Network (NCCN) treatment guidelines on dosage and scheduling for NSCLC FDA approved drugs.
NSCLC
DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Vinorelbine
Objective Response Rate (ORR): ORR is defined as number of patients with complete response (CR), ORR is defined as number of patients with complete response (CR) divided by all eligible and treated patients. Responses are evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, 8 weeks|Objective Response Rate (ORR): ORR is defined as number of patients with partial response (PR), ORR is defined as number of patients with partial response (PR) divided by all eligible and treated patients. Responses are evaluated using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline. CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, 8 weeks
Number of participants that have Progression Free Survival (PFS) rate, PFS is defined as the time from enrollment to death or disease progression, whichever occurred first, 8 weeks|Number of participants that have an overall survival (OS) rate, OS is defined as the time from enrollment to death or date of last known alive, 1 month|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High score means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, Screening|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High score means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, 8 weeks|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High scores means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, 8 weeks|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High scores means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, 30 days after last dose|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High scores means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, 3 months after last dose|Number of participants that have Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) issues, HRQoL will be evaluated via self-reported and validated questionnaires, addressing physical, physiological, emotional, and social issues. High scores means worse health outcomes and low score means better health outcomes, 6 months after last dose
This is a Single arm, Simon's two stage pilot study in which patients with Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) with metastatic disease 2L and beyond will receive OncoChoice-informed chemotherapy following National Cancer Care Network (NCCN) treatment guidelines on dosage and scheduling for NSCLC FDA-approved drugs. After confirmation of patient eligibility and patient consent receival, patients will undergo biopsy and/or removal of malignant fluids (paracentesis/ thoracentesis/ PleurX catheter) as part of standard of care procedures. Biosamples will be shared in a timely fashion (within 24 hr post collection) with study sponsors (OncoOptima) to test drug responsiveness. Participants will undergo additional testing as deemed necessary by the treating provider. Any additional treatments will be at the discretion of the treating provider.