Yoga During Chemotherapy Study
This proposal aims to expand non-pharmacologic options for the control of symptoms during chemotherapy using yoga practices. It is particularly focused on sleep disturbance with a secondary focus on fatigue.
Cancer|Sleep Disturbance|Fatigue
BEHAVIORAL: Yoga
Sleep Disturbance as measured by the General Sleep Disturbance Scale, 6 weeks
Fatigue as measured by the Lee Fatigue Scale, 6 weeks
Quality of Life as measured by the Multidimensional Quality of Life Scale--Cancer, 6 weeks|Depressive Symptoms as measured by the CES-D, 6 weeks|Anxiety as measured by the Spielberger State Anxiety Inventory, 6 weeks|Pain as measured by the modified Brief Pain Inventory, 6 weeks|Hot Flashes as measured by the Hot Flash Related Daily Interference Scale, 6 weeks|Mindfulness as measured by the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire, 6 weeks|Body Awareness as measured by the Multidimensional Assessment of Interoceptive Awareness, 6 weeks|Coping and Self Efficacy as measured by the Coping and Self Efficacy Scale, 6 weeks|Social Support as measured by single items on social support, 6 weeks
Sleep disturbance is among the most common symptoms experienced by cancer patients, occurs in up to 80% of patients during chemotherapy, and results in serious impairments in quality of life. Although pharmacologic therapies improve sleep disturbance, they have numerous side effects, problems with tolerance and dependence, and are not well studied in oncology patients. While non-pharmacologic therapies may decrease sleep disturbance, the current level of evidence on their efficacy is insufficient. Fatigue occurs in up to 95% of those receiving chemotherapy, and results in major impairments in functioning and quality of life. Despite its significance, few effective treatments currently exist for fatigue. Prior studies suggest that yoga may be helpful for sleep disturbance and fatigue, but these studies have limitations. An important challenge in yoga research is that it is typically a multi-modality practice that can include physical postures, breathing practices, and/or meditation components. Prior studies have not adequately addressed the effects of individual components. Therefore, key questions remain unanswered about the most effective elements of yoga; how to best combine them for particular problems such as chemotherapy symptoms; and optimal dosing. The current study will address these gaps in the literature and perform key developmental steps to prepare for a large randomized, controlled trial (RCT). It builds on preliminary work in which yoga breathing practices during chemotherapy were found to improve sleep disturbance, showed trends toward improvements in fatigue, and were feasible to implement in patients undergoing chemotherapy. Using a mixed-methods approach to evaluate each intervention component, the investigators will pursue three closely interlinked steps in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. In Aim 1 (n=10), the investigators will manualize an individualized approach to the yoga breathing intervention and iteratively refine it to insure feasibility and acceptability. In Aim 2 (n=20), the investigators will manualize a yoga posture intervention, evaluating both restorative/static poses and flowing poses, and perform iterative refinement to test feasibility and acceptability. In Aim 3 (n=70), the investigators will assess the final multi-modality yoga intervention to select final intervention elements and delivery methods for testing in a planned future RCT. This proposal will help to improve the treatment of debilitating cancer associated symptoms and advance approaches to developing therapeutic yoga intervention trials.