Procaspase Activating Compound-1 (PAC-1) in the Treatment of Advanced Malignancies - Component 1
This Phase I dose escalation study will evaluate Procaspase Activating Compound-1 (PAC-1), a small molecule that activates procaspase -3 to caspase-3, resulting in apoptosis of cancer cells, in patients with advanced malignancies. As of March 1, 2019, only patients with neuroendocrine tumors will be enrolled in Component 1 of this study. PAC-1 is taken orally on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PAC-1 (5 dose levels) will be determined using a modified-Fibonacci dose-escalation 3+3 design. Treatment continues until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, physician discretion, or patient refusal.
Solid Tumor|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: PAC-1
Maximum Tolerated Dose, The primary objective of this study component is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PAC-1 in patients with advanced, previously treated malignancy, by evaluation of toxicity and tolerability., Up to 30 days post last dose
Adverse Effects, Characterize adverse effects (AE) of PAC-1 in patients with advanced malignancy., Up to 30 days post final dose|Disease Response based on RECIST Criteria for patients with solid tumors, Evaluate clinical response of PAC-1 in patients with solid tumors (RECIST v 1.1)., Up to 8 weeks following final dose|Disease Response based on Deauville PET Criteria for patients with lymphoma, Evaluate clinical response of PAC-1 in patients with lymphoma (Deauville PET Criteria)., Up to 8 weeks following final dose
This Phase I dose escalation study will evaluate Procaspase Activating Compound-1 (PAC-1), a small molecule that activates procaspase -3 to caspase-3, resulting in apoptosis of cancer cells, in patients with advanced malignancies. As of March 1, 2019, only patients with neuroendocrine tumors will be enrolled in Component 1 of this study. PAC-1 is taken orally on days 1-21 of a 28-day cycle. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of PAC-1 (5 dose levels) will be determined using a modified-Fibonacci dose-escalation 3+3 design. Treatment continues until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, physician discretion, or patient refusal.