Azacytidine (Vidaza®) Versus Fludarabine and Cytarabine (Fluga Scheme) in Elderly Patients With Newly Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia
The hypothesis is that the replacement of the standard fludarabine and cytarabine based therapy by azacytidine could result in an improvement of RFS and OS rates in the experimental arm. To fulfill the medical needs in such frail and elderly population, improvements in terms of atileukemic efficacy in the azacytidine experimental arm should be attained without increasing the therapy-related toxicity or decreasing the patients QoL.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitadine|DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Lenograstim|DRUG: Filgastrim
Efficacy (overall survival (OS) attained without increasing the therapy-related toxicity or decreasing the patients QoL., To evaluate the overall survival (OS) in one year treatment with 2 first-line regimens in newly diagnosed elderly patients: 3 cycles of induction chemotherapy based on fludarabine and cytarabine (FLUGA scheme) followed by maintenance with reduced doses(Mini-FLUGA) (standard treatment arm) versus subcutaneous azacitidine cycles (experimental treatment arm)., 4 years
Efficacy (Event free survival (EFS), Event free survival (EFS), 4 years|Efficacy (Duration of remission.), Duration of remission., 4 years|Efficacy (Overall survival) Efficcacy, Overall survival at 2nd and 3rd year., 3 years|Safety (Compare hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity), Compare hematologic and non-hematologic toxicity in both arms., 3 years
This is a multicenter, randomized 1:1, open, and at national level, Phase III clinical trial.

This study will be conducted in 3 phases of different duration:

1. Selection phase (up to 14 days from the signature of informed consent): informed consent and review of the inclusion and exclusion criteria performing the relevant assessments.
2. Treatment Phase (from the start of treatment until the end of cycle 9): Induction phase (3 cycles) and consolidation phase (cycles 4-9). Study visits during treatment will be weekly during the induction phase (first 3 cycles) and every 2 weeks until the end of the consolidation phase.
3. Follow-up phase: monthly monitoring will be performed on all patients until they have completed a minimum of 2 years from the start of treatment, whether or not they continue receiving azacitidine cycles or Mini-Fluga according to the protocol. Following these 24 months, follow-up will be carried out at least quarterly. Patients suffering disease progression or relapse of the disease, or being early withdrawn due to any of the reasons specified in the protocol will be followed-up for survival until the end of the study or until the death of all patients, whichever comes first.