Development of a Health-Related Symptom Index for Participants With and Either Treated or Monitored for Anal High-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions
This trial develops a health-related symptom index for participants with and either treated or monitored for anal high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions. The health-related quality of life index may help to capture the symptoms and related experiences of living with or being treated for high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions.
High Grade Anal Canal Squamous Intraepithelial Neoplasia|Human Immunodeficiency Virus
OTHER: Interview|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Development of Spanish-language Version of the Anal Cancer/High-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesions (HSIL) Outcomes Research (ANCHOR) Health-related Quality of Life (HRQoL) Index-Round 1 and Round 2, Participants completed A-HRSI, as aurally administered over telephone to indicate whether there were any items or aspects of the instructions that were difficult to understand, and then complete a process of retrospective probing. Summary reports from the Round 1 interview were coded to highlight any instances where a participant indicated that they experienced difficulty with an item or concept within an item. For any item that was reported by at least three participants as difficult for any reason, that item or concept was reviewed to determine whether the difficulty was due to (1) the concept being measured or (2) a translation issue (i.e., register, jargon, or regionalism). These items were revised during a research team panel discussion and used in Round 2 interviews with additional eligible participants. A similar process was used for Round 2., 45-60 minutes during the telephone call in each round.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To develop a Spanish-language version of the anal cancer/high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions outcomes research (ANCHOR) high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (HSIL) health-related quality of life (HRQoL) index (HQI) using state-of-the-art measure development methodology that captures the most important HRQoL symptoms and concerns of those persons diagnosed with anal HSIL and either treated or untreated for anal HSIL.

OUTLINE:

Participants take part in cognitive interviews in Spanish over 45-60 minutes.