A Study to Evaluate the Efficacy of ALMB-0168 in Solid Tumor Patients With Bone Metastatic Whose Prior Standard Treatment Have Failed
Bone metastasis is a common disease of advanced tumors. It refers to the metastasis of malignant tumors originating in a certain organ to the bones through the blood circulation or lymphatic system. The incidence of bone metastasis in breast and prostate cancer is as high as 65%-75%. Bone metastasis of malignant tumors often leads to severe bone lesions, including bone pain, pathological fractures, spinal cord compression, hypercalcemia and other bone-related events (SRE). SRE caused by bone metastasis of tumors can greatly reduce the quality of life of tumor patients. In severe cases, it can lead to rapid deterioration of the condition or even death, which greatly affects the extension of the patient's survival period. ALMB-0168 is designed to activate Cx43 hemichannels, which release key anti-cancer factors (such as ATP) into the extracellular environment. In several mouse models of breast cancer bone metastasis and orthotopic osteosarcoma, ALMB-0168 dose-dependently inhibited tumor growth and was able to extend the lifespan of tumor-bearing animals, indicating its potential as a therapeutic drug for malignant bone tumors. . Clinical research data from China and Australia show that ALMB-0168 is safe and initially effective in patients with bone metastasis and osteosarcoma;
Advanced Solid Tumors With Bone Only Metastasis
DRUG: ALMB-0168
The 6-month progression-free survival rate (6m-PFSR) of cohort A breast cancer IRC assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria, time (in months) from enrollment to occurrence of any one of following: radiological tumor progressions using response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST 1.1), progression of bone lesions using Prostate Cancer Working Group 3 (PCWG2) criteria or occurrence of death due to any cause. Progression as per RECIST 1.1: at least a 20 percent (%) increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Progression of bone lesions (PCWG3 criteria): first bone scan with \>= 2 new lesions compared to Baseline observed less than (\<) 12 weeks from enrollment and confirmed by a second bone scan performed \>=6 weeks; first bone scan with \>=2 new lesions compared to Baseline observed \>=12 weeks from enrollment, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to approximately 3 years|The 4-month progression-free survival rate (6m-PFSR) assessed by cohort B prostate cancer Independent Review Committee（IRC） based on PCWG 3 criteria Progression-free survival rate (4m-PFSR);, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to approximately 3 years|RP2D, To determine the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of single agent ALMB-0168 (monotherapy) for further exploration, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, up to approximately 3 years
Avoid duplicating information that will be entered elsewhere, such as Eligibility Criteria or Outcome Measures.