A Study of Safety and Effectiveness of Golimumab in Participants With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis Despite Methotrexate Therapy
The purpose of this study is to assess the clinical effectiveness and safety of golimumab intravenous (IV) infusions every 12 weeks with or without Methotrexate (MTX), compared with MTX alone, in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) despite concurrent MTX treatment. In addition, the safety of subcutaneous (SC) golimumab injections following transition from IV golimumab infusions will also be evaluated.
Rheumatoid Arthritis
DRUG: Golimumab|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Participants With an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 50 Response at Week 14, An ACR 50 response is defined as a greater than or equal to 50 percentage improvement from baseline in: 1. Swollen joint count (66 joints) and tender joint count (68 joints) 2. greater than or equal to 50 percentage improvement in 3 of the following 5 assessments: a. Patient's assessment of pain (VAS) (0-10 cm) b. Patient's Global Assessment of Disease activity (VAS) (0-10 cm) c. Physician's Global Assessment of Disease Activity (VAS) (0-10 cm) d. Patient's assessment of physical function as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) e. C reactive protein (CRP)., Week 0 to Week 14
Number of Participants With an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 50 Response at Week 24, ACR 50 response is an improvement of greater than or equal to 50 percentage from baseline in both the tender and swollen joint count and in at least 3 of the 5 assessments (patient's assessment of pain, patient's global assessemnt of disease activity, Physician's global assessment of disease activity (based on a scale of 0=no disease to 10=severe disease), HAQ (20 questions on life activities) and CRP blood test to measure inflammation)., Week 0 to Week 24|Number of Participants With an American College of Rheumatology (ACR) 20 Response at Week 14, ACR 20 response is an improvement of greater than or equal to 20 percentage from baseline in both the tender and swollen joint count and in at least 3 of the 5 assessments (patient's assessment of pain, patient's global assessemnt of disease activity, Physician's global assessment of disease activity \[based on a scale of 0=no disease to 10=severe disease), HAQ (20 questions on life activities\] and CRP blood test to measure inflammation)., Week 0 to Week 14|Number of Participants With a Disease Activity Index Score 28 (Using C-reactive Protein)Moderate or Good Response at Week 14, DAS28 using CRP is a measure of tender and swollen joints (28 joints each) and the patient's assessment of disease activity. Values range from 0 (best) to 10 (worst). A score of higher than 5.1 indicates high disease activity, and a score below 3.2 indicates low disease activity. A "Good" response is defined as a patient with a DAS28 score of \<= 3.2 at Week 14 with improvement from Baseline in DAS28 score of \> 1.2. A "Moderate" response is defined as a patient with DAS28 score of \>3.2-5.1 at Week 14 with improvement from baseline in DAS28 score of \>1.2 or a DAS28 score of \<= 5.1 and improvement from baseline in DAS28 score of \>0.6 to 1.2, Week 0 to Week 14|Physical Component Summary (PCS) Score of the Short Form-36 (SF-36) at Week 14, The SF-36 consists of 8 multi-item scales: limitations in physical functioning due to health problems, usual role activities due to physical health problems, bodily pain, usual role activities due to personal or emotional problems, social functioning due to physical or mental health problems, general mental health (psychological distress and well-being), vitality and general health perception. The values are 100=best to 0=worst., Weeks 0 to Week 14
This is a Phase III, double blind (neither investigator nor participant knows the treatment received), placebo-controlled (an inactive substance that is compared with the study medication to test whether the study medication has a real effect in clinical study), multicenter, 5-arm (treatment groups) study of golimumab at 2 doses (given with or without MTX over a period of 30 minutes) for at least 48 weeks in patients with active RA despite concurrent MTX therapy. The study consists of a treatment period of golimumab IV infusions (IV Period) which ranges from 48 weeks to approximately 140 weeks, assuming an enrollment period of approximately 92 weeks, and a long-term optional extension period (Extension Study) in which golimumab SC injections will be given for 24 weeks. The end of study will be the time the last participant completes the Week E-40 visit (Extension Study) for safety follow-up assessments. For the IV Period, participants will be randomly assigned to 1 of the 5 treatment groups in a 1:1:1:1:1 ratio (approximately 125 patients per group). At Week 16 and Week 24, joint assessment results will be used to allow participants to enter early escape and dose regimen adjustment, respectively, in a blinded fashion. Treatment will be unblinded after the 48-week database lock and participants will be given the option to participate in the Extension Study and receive SC injections of 50mg golimumab (with or without MTX) every 4 weeks for an additional 24 weeks. Safety will be monitored throughout the study. The entire study duration (IV Period plus Extension Study) for each participant will range from 88 weeks up to 192 weeks, assuming an enrollment period of approximately 92 weeks.