Carfilzomib, Clarithromycin (Biaxin®), Lenalidomide (Revlimid®), and Dexamethasone (Decadron®) [Car-BiRD] Therapy for Subjects With Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an investigational new drug called carfilzomib, in combination with dexamethasone in subjects with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma followed by treatment with a combination of drugs clarithromycin (Biaxin®), lenalidomide (Revlimid®) and dexamethasone (Decadron®) \[BiRD\] then lenalidomide alone.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: carfilzomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Clarithromycin|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Response to Car-BiRD Treatment., The best response for all patients who had at least one dose of drug was measured.

Response categories:

Stringent Complete Response (sCR), Complete Remission(CR), Very Good Partial Remission(VGPR), Partial Remission (PR), Progressive Disease (PD), Stable Disease (SD).

The response is evaluated based on the IMWG criteria., From baseline to best response, up to 116 weeks.
Event Free Survival, an event is defined by coming off protocol for any reason, including progression of disease, lack of disease response, regimen intolerability, withdrawal of consent or death., From date of study enrollment until the date of removal of study due to progression of disease, toxicity or withdrawal of consent, up to 1222 days.|MRD Negativity Following CarBiRD Regimen, Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) was assessed for all participants as soon as they achieved CR/sCR, regardless of what phase they were on.

MRD negativity is defined as the complete absence of plasma cells on bone marrow biopsy.

MRD positivity is defined as the presence of residual plasma cells (\<5%) on bone marrow biopsy.

The IMWG criteria were used to determine CR and sCR., From start of study up to Revlimid Maintenance Cycle 4.|Progression Free Survival, Progression was defined using the IMWG criteria., From start of study drug until first incidence of progression, up to 1222 days.|Stem Cells Collection, At the end of the Car Phase, all participants underwent stem cell collection., At the end of the Car Phase, prior to the start of the BiRD Phase, on average after 162 days.
While new anti-myeloma therapies such as bortezomib and immunomodulatory drugs have been developed, multiple myeloma remains an incurable malignancy. Given that obtaining a complete remission (CR) with therapy will allow patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma to enjoy a higher quality of life and longer duration of freedom from disease symptoms, finding an optimally effective and well-tolerated regimen is imperative.

The robust overall response rate of 91% with the BiRD regimen for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma is encouraging and we believe that by adding carfilzomib the overall response rate and CR rate can be improved. As carfilzomib has proven efficacy in myeloma and in patient's who have relapsed on bortezomib, we anticipate that it will synergize with the previous BiRD regimen to induce greater reduction of tumor burden overall.

The primary endpoints include best response rate, toxicities, progression free survival, event free survival, and overall survival. In those patients who are eligible for autologous stem cell transplantation, we will also study the effect of carfilzomib on CD 34+ stem cell yield following mobilization.