Biomarkers for Clinical Hypoxia Evaluation in Cervical Cancer
Patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC) are primarily treated with radiotherapy +/- chemotherapy however 5-year survival rates are \<60% with significant treatment toxicity. Hypoxia is a well-known radioresistant component of solid tumours such as cervical cancer and hypoxia modification therapies have demonstrated immense promise in treating such tumours. A major factor in determining a successful outcome with hypoxia modification is appropriate patient selection as it is hypoxic tumours that receive the most benefit from hypoxia modifying therapies. To date there is no validated hypoxia biomarker to stratify patients for therapy in cervical cancer in clinical use. This project offers a unique opportunity to examine both genetic and imaging biomarkers to optimise patient stratification when receiving curative radiotherapy for cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Biopsy of tumour|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: MRI scans
MRI derived hypoxia scores on 20 participants, 20 patients will undergo functional imaging (hypoxia MRI) at baseline. Following this, serial measurements will be taken on a weekly basis during the first 5 weeks of chemoradiation. The imaging and biopsy cohorts are the same., 2 years|Gene signature derived hypoxia scores on the same 20 participants., Investigators will collect paired biopsies at diagnosis and at brachytherapy in 20 locally advanced cervical cancer patients. The imaging and biopsy cohorts are the same., 2 years
Patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC) are primarily treated with radiotherapy +/- chemotherapy however 5-year survival rates are \<60% with significant treatment toxicity. Hypoxia is a well-known radioresistant component of solid tumours such as cervical cancer and hypoxia modification therapies have demonstrated immense promise in treating such tumours. A major factor in determining a successful outcome with hypoxia modification is appropriate patient selection as it is hypoxic tumours that receive the most benefit from hypoxia modifying therapies. To date there is no validated hypoxia biomarker to stratify patients for therapy in cervical cancer in clinical use. This project offers a unique opportunity to examine both genetic and imaging biomarkers to optimise patient stratification when receiving curative radiotherapy for cervical cancer.