Guadecitabine and Nivolumab in Treating Refractory Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase Ib/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of guadecitabine when given together with nivolumab and to see how well they work in treating participants with colorectal cancer that does not respond to treatment and has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as guadecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as nivolumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving guadecitabine and nivolumab may work better in treating participants with colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|CpG Island Methylator Phenotype|Metastatic Microsatellite Stable Colorectal Carcinoma|Refractory Colorectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVC Colorectal Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Guadecitabine|BIOLOGICAL: Nivolumab
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of guadecitabine when given in combination with nivolumab, MTD defined as the highest dose tested in which none or only one patient experienced dose limiting toxicity (DLT) attributable to the study drug(s), when 6 patients have been treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. DLT defined as toxicity thought to be at least possibly related to study drug(s): Any grade 4 immune related adverse event (irAE); Any \> or = grade 3 colitis; Any grade 3 or 4 noninfectious pneumonitis irrespective of duration; Any grade 2 pneumonitis that does not resolve to \< or = to grade 1 within 3 days of the initiation of maximal supportive care; Any grade 3 irAE, excluding colitis or pneumonitis, that does not downgrade to grade 2 within 3 days after onset of the event despite optimal medical management including systemic corticosteroids or does not downgrade to \< or = grade 1 or baseline within 14 days., Up to 28 days|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of guadecitabine when given in combination with nivolumab, The MTD will be the RP2D, unless other safety considerations intervene. On occasion, the MTD will be expanded to confirm that the doses at the MTD are well tolerated in later courses; if not, a dose lower than the MTD will be selected as the RP2D., Up to 28 days
Incidence and severity of adverse events, Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.03. Will assess frequencies of adverse events (AEs), severe adverse events (SAEs), AEs leading to discontinuation, death, grade 3 and 4 AEs, and grade 3 and 4 laboratory abnormalities occurring up to 30 days after the last dose of study drug., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability, maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/recommended phase 2 dose (R2PD) of guadecitabine in combination with nivolumab in patients with refractory CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP+) metastatic colorectal cancer. (Phase Ib Dose Escalation) II. To assess the overall response rate (ORR) in refractory CIMP+ metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with guadecitabine and nivolumab. (Phase II Expansion)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the incidence of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs) of guadecitabine combined with nivolumab. (Phase Ib Dose Escalation) II. To assess progression-free (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in refractory CIMP+ metastatic colorectal cancer patients treated with guadecitabine and nivolumab. (Phase II Dose Expansion)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Characterize pre and post-treatment morphometric, proteomic and genomic profiles of circulating tumor cells using the high-definition single cell analysis (HD-SCA) platform.

II. Determine associations between circulating cell-free tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) expression, inflammatory T-cell and DNA methylation signatures, with response rate (RR), PFS, OS.

III. Determine associations between tumor PD1/PDL1 expression with RR, PFS, OS.

OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of guadecitabine followed by a phase II study.

Participants receive guadecitabine subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-5 and nivolumab intravenously (IV) over 2 hours on days 8 and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unaccepted toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days and then every 2 months for 1 year.