Ibrutinib in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Follicular Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well ibrutinib works in treating patients with follicular lymphoma that has come back after a period of improvement or does not respond to treatment. Ibrutinib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Grade 3a Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 1 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 2 Follicular Lymphoma|Recurrent Grade 3 Follicular Lymphoma|Refractory Follicular Lymphoma
DRUG: Ibrutinib|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate defined as a partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) as the objective status at any time during treatment, evaluated using the Cheson et al. Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Ninety-five percent binomial confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated.

A CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. A PR is defined as ≥ 50% decrease in the sum of the products of dimensions (SPD) of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes and regression on CT, and no increase in size of liver/spleen., Up to 5 years
Duration of Response, Duration of response is defined as the time from first evidence of a response to the first documented time of progressive disease (PD). Response and Progression were assessed using the Cheson et al. Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. \> \> A CR is defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease. A PR is defined as ≥ 50% decrease in the sum of the products of dimensions (SPD) of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes and regression on CT, and no increase in size of liver/spleen.Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier.\>

\> Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as any new lesion or increase by ≥ 50% of previously involved sites from nadir., Time from the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Overall Survival is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Progression-Free Survival is defined as the time from registration to documented progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Response, Time to response is defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved a confirmed response as the time from the date of registration to the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR.The median and 95% confidence interval will be calculated using the methods of Kaplan-Meier., Time from the date of registration to the date at which the patient's objective status is first noted to be a CR or PR, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Subsequent Treatment, Time to subsequent treatment is defined as the time from registration to the date of initiation of subsequent treatment for lymphoma. The distribution of time to subsequent treatment will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the date of initiation of subsequent treatment for lymphoma, assessed up to 5 years|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure is defined as the time from registration to the date of treatment discontinuation due to any reason. The distribution of time to treatment failure will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the date of treatment discontinuation due to any reason, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the overall response rate of ibrutinib in patients with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the safety and tolerability of ibrutinib in patients with follicular lymphoma.

II. Evaluate overall survival, time to response, duration of response, progression-free survival, time to treatment failure, and time to subsequent treatment.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the relationship between interim positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan results, CT response, and response duration.

II. Biomarker studies including exploring associations between ibrutinib response and somatic mutations identified in follicular lymphoma, whole transcriptome shotgun sequencing (ribonucleic acid-sequencing \[RNA-seq\]), exploration of inhibition of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) and other kinases, expression of cytokines, chemokines, and other proteins with an aim to develop predictors of response and resistance.

III. Assess changes in various cancer-derived molecules in the blood over the course of treatment with ibrutinib.

IV. As part of ongoing research for Phase II Consortium (P2C) studies, we are banking paraffin-embedded tissue blocks/slides and blood products for future studies.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with progressive disease at the end of course 2 may continue on therapy until the end of course 5 at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months until progressive disease, and then every 6 months for 5 years.