Single-Port Versus Multi-Port Robotic Radical Prostatectomy
The purpose of this study is to compare two different techniques to perform the standard of care surgery to treat prostate cancer. This surgery is called robotic radical prostatectomy. There are two robotic surgical systems approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to perform this surgery. First system is called the Da Vinci ® Xi system. With this system, six small incisions are made during the surgery. Second system is called the Da Vinci ® SP system. With this system a single incision is made during the surgery. Same surgery is done with each surgical system. This study aims to understand whether a single incision surgery ends up with better recovery after surgery.
Malignant Neoplasm of Prostate
DEVICE: Da Vinci ® Xi system - MP Robotic Radical Prostatectomy|DEVICE: Da Vinci ® SP system - SP Robotic Radical Prostatectomy
Recovery of Urinary Continence Following Catheter Removal, Continence will be defined as the absence of pads (even safety pads)., Up to 12 months post-treatment
Operative time, Time elapsed from skin incision to placement of the final skin suture, During operation, an average operative time is 192 minutes|Estimated blood loss in milliliters, Estimated blood loss, measured in volume (mL), During operation, an average operative time is 192 minutes|Number of additional ports, Number of additional ports needed in surgery, Within 24 hours of surgery|Number of SP procedures converted to other procedure types, For SP procedures, conversion to MP robotic surgery or standard laparoscopic surgery, or open surgery will be recorded, Within 24 hours of surgery|Intraoperative complication rate, Intraoperative complication rate compared between the two systems, Within 24 hours of surgery|Number of participants requiring Intraoperative Trendelenburg position, Intraoperative Trendelenburg position requirement for the participant will be recorded. Position involves placing the head low and feet elevated, increasing blood return to the heart, cardiac output and vital organ perfusion, Within 24 hours of surgery|Intraoperative peritoneum breach rate, Intraoperative peritoneum breach rate as defined by intraoperative pneumoperitoneum after insufflation of extraperitoneal space, Within 24 hours of surgery|Visual analog pain scale scores, Pain intensity will be evaluated with a visual analog pain scale, a validated instrument scored from 0 to 10, 10 being the worst, Within 7 days of surgery|Units of parenteral morphine equivalents (mg), Analgesic requirements will be obtained from medical charts and reported as units of parenteral morphine equivalents (mg), Up to 1 month post-procedure|Time to liquid oral intake, Time to liquid oral intake, Post-surgery, an average of 16 hours|Time to solid oral intake, Time to solid oral intake, Post-surgery, an average of 16 hours|Number of postoperative complications, Postoperative complications recorded according to the Clavien- Dindo classification, Within 30 days|Body image questionnaire scores, Body image perception, measured using the body image questionnaire, which consists of two sub-scales: the body image scale, which assesses attitudes to bodily appearance and consists of five questions (score 5-20) where higher scores mean worse outcomes, and the cosmetic scale which assesses the degree of satisfaction with the appearance of the scar and consists of three questions (score 3-24), where higher scores mean worse outcomes., Up to 1 year|Participant and Observer Scar Assessment Scale scores, Scar evaluation by using a validated assessment tool, the Participant and Observer Scar Assessment Scale.17 It consists of two scales: the observer scale and the participant scale (Figs. 1 and 2). Both scales contain six items that are scored numerically. Each of the six items on both scales has a 10-step score, with 10 indicating the worst imaginable scar or sensation. The total score of both scales consists of adding the scores of each of the six items (range, 6 to 60). The lowest score, 6, reflects normal skin, whereas the highest score, 60, reflects the worst imaginable scar., Up to 1 year|Number of pads used daily, Urinary continence, assessing the number of pads used daily. Continence will be defined as the absence of pads (even safety pads), Up to 1 year|International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF-5) scale scores, Erectile Function assessed by the IIEF-5 scale, consisting of 5 questions, with scores ranging from 5-25. 25 being great and 5 being the worst, Up to 1 year|Time to return-to-work, Time to return-to-work, reported in days, Up to 1 year|Time to baseline, Time to baseline defined as the amount of time between surgery and when the patient becomes pain free and does not need painkillers, Up to 1 year|Hospital stay in hours, Hospital stay, counted in hours from the time of transfer to the post anesthesia care unit (PACU) to discharge, Post-surgery, an average of 16 hours
The purpose of this study is to compare two different techniques to perform the standard of care surgery to treat prostate cancer. This surgery is called robotic radical prostatectomy. There are two robotic surgical systems approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to perform this surgery. First system is called the Da Vinci ® Xi system. With this system, six small incisions are made during the surgery. Second system is called the Da Vinci ® SP system. With this system a single incision is made during the surgery. Same surgery is done with each surgical system. This study aims to understand whether a single incision surgery ends up with better recovery after surgery.