A Study to Evaluate Pazopanib in Comparison to Pemetrexed in Maintenance Setting in Non-progressing Subjects With Metastatic Stage IVA and IVB Non-squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) Population
This is a Phase II, randomized, open-label, multi-center study in advanced (Stage IVA and IVB subjects per the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) 2009 Lung cancer staging schema) non-squamous NSCLC subjects comparing pazopanib relative to pemetrexed in the maintenance setting. Subjects should have completed 4-6 cycles of induction therapy with carboplatin + pemetrexed or cisplatin + pemetrexed and have had Stable Disease (SD), Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) as the best response to be enrolled into the study. The primary objective is to estimate the hazard ratio of progression free survival (PFS) in advanced NSCLC subjects given maintenance therapy of pazopanib (Arm A) relative to pemetrexed (Arm B). The secondary objectives are: overall survival, response rates, safety and tolerability. A total of approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio. Safety and efficacy assessments will be regularly performed on all subjects.
Lung Cancer, Small Cell
DRUG: pazopanib|DRUG: pemetrexed
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the first documented sign of investigator-assessed (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version 1.1) disease progression (PD) or death, whichever occurs first. The date of documented PD is the date of lesion evaluation in the case of radiological PD and the date of symptomatic cancer progression in the case of symptomatic progression (radiological confirmation is required). PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started. If the participant received subsequent anti-cancer therapy prior to the date of documented progression or death, PFS was to be censored at the last adequate assessment (LAA) prior to the initiation of therapy. Otherwise, if the participant did not have a documented date of progression or death, PFS was to be censored at the date of the LAA., From randomization until the first documented sign of investigator-assessed disease progression or death, whichever occurred first (average of 10 study weeks)
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the interval between the date of randomization and the date of death from any cause., From randomization until disease progression or death (up to Study Week 78)|Number of Participants (Par.) With the Indicated Best Overall Response, A par. was defined as a responder if s/he sustained a CR (The disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph node must be less than 10 millimeters \[mm\] in the short axis) or PR (At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters) that was confirmed after \>=28 days. Response was evaluated by an investigator per RECIST, version 1.1. A par. without a post-Baseline assessment was considered a non-responder. Stable disease (SD) is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD; at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started). To qualify as a best response of SD, a response of SD had to be observed \>=12 weeks after randomization. A par. who was not evaluable had no scans at all or did not have a confirmatory scan., From randomization until the time of the first documented evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (average of 10 weeks)|Number of Participants With Any Non-serious On-therapy Adverse Event (AE: Occurring in >=5% Participants in Any Treatment Arm) and Serious Adverse Event (SAE), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered to be related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect. In addition, all Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities and other medically important events that require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed previously are considered to be SAEs. Refer to the general Adverse AE/SAE module for a complete list of AEs and SAEs., From the time the first dose of study treatment was administered until 28 days following discontinuation of study treatment regardless of initiation of a new cancer therapy or transfer to hospice (up to Study Week 55)|Time on Study Treatment (Pazopanib), as a Measure of Extent of Exposure, Time on study treatment, as a measure of extent of exposure, was assessed in all participants who received pazopanib. Time on study treatment was not measured in participants receiving pemetrexed. For these participants, extent of exposure was measured as the mean number of dosing cycles and dose intensity. See the outcome measures entitled "Mean number of dosing cycles, as a measure of extent of exposure" and "Average dose of pemetrexed for all cycles, as a measure of extent of exposure," respectively, for pemetrexed data., From the first day to the last day of treatment (average of 8 weeks)|Mean Daily Dose, as a Measure of Extent of Exposure, Mean daily dose, as a measure of extent of exposure, was assessed in all participants who received pazopanib. Mean daily dose was not measured in participants receiving pemetrexed. For these participants, extent of exposure was measured as the mean number of dosing cycles and dose intensity. See the outcome measures entitled "Mean number of dosing cycles, as a measure of extent of exposure" and "Average dose of pemetrexed for all cycles, as a measure of extent of exposure," respectively, for pemetrexed data., From the first day to the last day of treatment (average of 8 weeks)|Mean Number of Pemetrexed Dosing Cycles, as a Measure of Extent of Exposure, Duration of therapy/time on study treatment, measured as the mean number of pemetrexed dosing cycles as a measure of extent of exposure, was assessed in all participants who received pemetrexed. The mean number of dosing cycles was not measured in participants receiving pazopanib. For these participants, extent of exposure was measured as the time on study treatment and mean daily dose. See the outcome measures entitled "Time on study treatment (pazopanib), as a measure of extent of exposure" and "Mean daily dose, as a measure of extent of exposure," respectively, for pazopanib data., From the time the first dose of study treatment was administered until discontinuation of the study or death (average of 16 weeks)|Average Dose of Pemetrexed for All Cycles, as a Measure of Extent of Exposure, The average dose of pemetrexed for all cycles, as a measure of extent of exposure, was assessed in all participants who received pemetrexed. The average dose was not measured in participants receiving pazopanib. For these participants, extent of exposure was measured as the time on study treatment and mean daily dose. See the outcome measures entitled "Time on study treatment (pazopanib), as a measure of extent of exposure" and "Mean daily dose, as a measure of extent of exposure," respectively, for pazopanib data., From the time the first dose of study treatment was administered until discontinuation of the study or death (average of 16 weeks)|Number of Participants With Any AE (Serious or Non-serious) Leading to Withdrawal From Study Treatment, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a subject or clinical investigation subject, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect. In addition, all Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities and other medically important events that require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed previously are considered to be SAEs. Refer to the general Adverse AE/SAE module for a complete list of AEs and SAEs. A participant cold have been withdrawn fom study treatment due to an SAE or AE., From the time the first dose of study treatment was administered until withdrawal from study treatment (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With Any On-therapy AE (Serious or Non-serious) Leading to Dose Reductions (DRs) or Interruptions/Delays in the Study, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant or clinical investigation participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose, results in death, is life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, or results in a congenital anomaly/birth defect. In addition, all Grade 4 laboratory abnormalities and other medically important events that require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed previously are considered to be SAEs. Refer to the general Adverse AE/SAE module for a complete list of AEs/SAEs. Management of AEs may require DRs/interruptions in study treatment. If necessary, the pazopanib dose should be reduced stepwise by 200 mg at each step. DRs for pemetrexed were 50-75% of prior dose based on the toxicity leading to DR., From the time the first dose of study treatment was administered until discontinuation of treatment (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Worst-case Change From Baseline in Blood Pressure, Systolic and diastolic blood pressure (BP) were measured. Categories correspond to the following Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) grades: normal, \<120/80 millimeters of mercury (mmHg); prehypertension, 120-139/80-89 mmHg, warranting intervention in participants with high risk; stage I hypertension, 140-159/90-99 mmHg, warranting intervention; and stage II hypertension \>/=160/100, warranting immediate attentive intervention to prevent acute symptoms. An increase is defined as an increase in CTCAE grade relative to Baseline grade. Participants with a missing Baseline value were assumed to have a Baseline value of \<120 for systolic BP (SBP) and \<80 for diastolic BP (DBP)., From the time of the first dose of study treatment until 28 days following discontinuation of study treatment (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With a Increase From Baseline in Bazett's QTc at the Indicated Time Points, The QT interval is a measure of the time between the start of the Q wave and the end of the T wave in the heart's electrical cycle. In clinical studies with pazopanib, events of QT prolongation have occurred., Baseline; Week 6; Week 15; every 9 weeks in the first 6 months; every 12 weeks in the next 6 months; and, after 1 year, every 6 months (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With a Change From Baseline Grade to Grade 3 and 4 for the Indicated Clinical Laboratory Parameters, Hematology and clinical chemistry data were summarized according to National Cancer Institutes (NCI) CTCAE grade, version 4.0. Grade 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3, Severe; Grade 4, Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for only those parameters for which an increase to Grade 3 or Grade 4 occurred. Participants with missing Baseline grades were assumed to have a Baseline grade of 0. Lymphocyte count increased: Grade 3, \<500 - 200/millimeters cubed (mm\^3); \<0.5 - 0.2x 10e9/Liters (L); Grade 4, \<200/mm\^3; \<0.2x 10e9/L. Lymphocyte count decreased: Grade 3, \>20000/mm\^3; Grade 4, NA. Hyperglycemia; Grade 3, \>250 - 500 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL); \>13.9 - 27.8 millimoles per Liter (mmol/L); hospitalization indicated; Grade 4, \>500 mg/dL; \>27.8 mmol/L; life-threatening consequences. Hypophosphatemia (inorganic phosphorus): Grade 3, \<2.0 - 1.0 mg/dL, \<0.6 - 0.3 mmol/L; Grade 4, \<1.0 mg/dL, \<0.3 mmol/L, life-threatening consequences., From the time of the first dose of study treatment until 28 days following discontinuation of study treatment (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Grade Changes From Baseline Grade in Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST), Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT), Alkaline Phosphatase (Alk. Phos.), and Total Bilirubin (TB), The laboratory parameters AST, ALT, Alk. Phos., and TB were summarized according to NCI CTCAE grade, version 4.0. Grade 1, Mild; Grade 2, Moderate; Grade 3, Severe; Grade 4, Life-threatening or disabling; Grade 5, Death. Data are presented for any grade increase, increase to Grade 3, and increase to Grade 4. Participants with missing Baseline grades were assumed to have a Baseline grade of 0. AST/ALT: Grade 1, \>upper limit of normal (ULN) - 3.0x ULN; Grade 2, \>3.0 to 5.0x ULN; Grade 3, \>5.0 - 20.0x ULN; Grade 4, \>20.0x ULN; Grade 5, not available (NA). Alk. Phos.: Grade 1, \>ULN - 2.5x ULN; Grade 2, \>2.5 - 5.0x ULN; Grade 3, \>5.0 - 20.0x ULN; Grade 4, \>20.0x ULN; Grade 5, NA. TB: Grade 1, \>ULN - \>1.5x ULN; Grade 2, \>1.5 - 3.0x ULN; Grade 3, \>3.0 - 10.0x ULN; Grade 4, \>10.0x ULN; Grade 5, NA., From the time of the first dose of study treatment until 28 days following discontinuation of study treatment (up to Study Week 55)|Number of Participants With the Indicated Changes From Baseline Value in Lactate Dehydrogenase (LDH), Change from Baseline in the laboratory parameter LDH was assessed as "decrease to low," "change to normal" of "no change," and "increase to high." Participants with missing Baseline values were assumed to have a normal Baseline value. There is no standard normal range for LDH., From the time of the first dose of study treatment until 28 days following discontinuation of study treatment (up to Study Week 55)
This is a Phase II, randomized, open-label, multi-center study in advanced (Stage IVA and IVB subjects per the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) 2009 Lung cancer staging schema) non-squamous NSCLC subjects comparing pazopanib relative to pemetrexed in the maintenance setting. Subjects should have completed 4-6 cycles of induction therapy with carboplatin + pemetrexed or cisplatin + pemetrexed and have had Stable Disease (SD), Partial Response (PR) or Complete Response (CR) as the best response to be enrolled into the study. The primary objective is to estimate the hazard ratio of progression free survival (PFS) in advanced NSCLC subjects given maintenance therapy of pazopanib (Arm A) relative to pemetrexed (Arm B). The secondary objectives are: overall survival, response rates, safety and tolerability. A total of approximately 200 subjects will be enrolled and randomized in a 1:1 ratio. Safety and efficacy assessments will be regularly performed on all subjects.