Phase I Study of Repotrectinib and Osimertinib in NSCLC Patients
This is a Phase I study of repotrectinib in combination with osimertinib in patients with advanced or metastatic EGFR mutant non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

The study will be conducted in 2 parts, Part Ia and Part Ib, and its purpose will be to find the incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) as defined by the primary safety and tolerability endpoint. The Phase Ia study will also determine the impact of repotrectinib on osimertinib pharmacokinetics (PK) and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), if reached, of repotrectinib given in combination with osimertinib and the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D). Dose escalation will be conducted according to a 'Rolling-6' based study design with 3 dose levels for repotrectinib: 80 mg once a day (QD), 160 mg QD or 160 mf QD during 14 days followed by 160 mg twice a day (BID); in combination with 80 mg QD of osimertinib. A total of 6 patients will be enrolled in each dose level cohort.

In addition, this Phase Ib study will test early drug activity (efficacy) of the proposed combination treatment in an expansion cohort at the RP2D.
Nsclc
DRUG: Repotrectinib|DRUG: Osimertinib
Adverse events (AEs), Number of patients experiencing AEs, both non treatment related and treatment related, classified by severity and graded according to the NCI CTCAE v5.0, Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Incidence of Dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Number of patients experiencing AEs that have been predefined as DLTs: Toxicities resulting in an excessive number of missed doses, Hematologic, renal, hepatic toxicities grade ≥ 3; during the DLT observation period (Cycle 1, 21 days). Only patients in the Part A (dose escalation) of the study., During the treatment cycle 1, 21 days
Objective response rate (ORR), The ORR will be defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). A confirmed response is a response that persists on a repeat-imaging performed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of the response. Patients with a confirmed objective response (CR or PR) will be referred to as responders. Non-responders will include patients without a confirmed objective response, stable disease (SD), not evaluable (NE), or progression disease (PD). Blinded independent central review (BICR)-confirmed ORR will serve as the secondary (optional) analysis., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Complete response rate (CR), Number of patients that achieve a confirmed complete response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. (PR). A confirmed response is a response that persists on a repeat-imaging performed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of the response., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Partial response rate (PR), Number of patients that achieve a confirmed partial response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. (PR). A confirmed response is a response that persists on a repeat-imaging performed at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of the response., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), The CBR will be defined as the proportion of patients with CR, PR, or stable disease. Stable disease refers to a condition where the tumor is neither increasing nor decreasing in extent or severity for at least 6 weeks after the first dose of repotrectinib, per RECIST, v1.1. The CBR and its 95% CI will be estimated using Clopper-Pearson exact confidence interval (CI)., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Duration of Response (DoR), The DOR will be defined from the first date of objective response (either CR or PR) to the first documentation of radiographically-confirmed disease progression, per RECIST v1.1 guideline and will be censored by the last tumor assessment date for patients without radiologically-confirmed disease progression. The DOR will be calculated only for patients with a confirmed, objective tumor response (PR or CR)., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) will be defined as the time from the first dose of repotrectinib to the first radiographically-confirmed case of disease progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Investigator assessment will serve as the primary efficacy for radiographically-confirmed PFS. BICR-confirmed PFS will serve as the secondary (optional) analysis, Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) will be defined as the time from first dose of repotrectinib to the date of death, or lost to follow up, whichever occurs first., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Intracranial Objective Response Rate (IC-ORR), IC-ORR is defined as the proportion of patients with intracranial target lesions that are measurable at Baseline who achieve a PR or CR, per RECIST, v.1.1., Throughout the study period. Approximately 48 months|Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter of osimertinib and repotrectinib. Cmax is the maximum (or peak) serum concentration that the drug achieves in blood after the drug has been administered., on 6 occasions for each patient throughout study: cycle 1 day -1, cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 8, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 2 day 1 and cycle 5 day 1|Tmax, Pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter of osimertinib and repotrectinib. Tmax is defined as the time of maximum concentration of the drug in blood observed after a drug dose administration., on 6 occasions for each patient throughout study: cycle 1 day -1, cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 8, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 2 day 1 and cycle 5 day 1|Area under the curve (AUC), Pharmacokinetics (PK) parameter of osimertinib and repotrectinib. AUC is the definite integral of a curve that describes the variation of a drug concentration in blood plasma as a function of time. AUC reflects the actual body exposure to drug after administration of a dose., on 6 occasions for each patient throughout study: cycle 1 day -1, cycle 1 day 1, cycle 1 day 8, cycle 1 day 15, cycle 2 day 1 and cycle 5 day 1
Osimertinib is a third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) designed to inhibit activating EGFR mutations (exon 19 deletion and L858R) and resistant T790M mutations with low activity against wild type EGFR. Repotrectinib, potently inhibits Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase (ALK), Ros proto-oncogene 1 (ROS1), and Tropomyosin receptor kinases (TRK) family kinases; this novel target drug also inhibits Janus kinase 2 (JAK2), sarcoma (SRC), and focal adhesion (FAK), which have shown to be important targets associated with EGFR TKI resistance.

This is a Phase I study of repotrectinib in combination with osimertinib in patients with advanced or metastatic EGFR mutant NSCLC. The study will be conducted in 2 parts, Part Ia and Part Ib:

Part A: of the Phase I study will enroll approximately 9-18 patients in up to 3 dose levels of 3-6 patients each: 80 mg once a day (QD), 160 mg QD or 160 mf QD during 14 days followed by 160 mg twice a day (BID); in combination with 80 mg QD of osimertinib. Patients will receive the combination treatment daily in 3-week cycles until disease progression occurs.

Part B: of the Phase I study is a dose expansion to assess additional PK and safety parameters. Part B will enroll between 20 and 30 patients in 2 cohorts of at least 10 patients each. The 2 cohorts are defined by treatment history: Cohort I, those who have progressed on osimertinib; Cohort II, those who progressed on any first or second generation TKI.

The phase 1A portion of this study will test the safety, tolerability, PK effects, and preliminary efficacy of the EGFR TKI inhibitor osimertinib in combination with repotrectinib in adult patients with advanced/metastatic EGFR mutant NSCLC. The phase 1B (expansion cohort) of this study will test the efficacy of the combination of osimertinib and repotrectinib in terms of progression-free survival and response rate in EGFR TKI-naïve patients with EGFR mutant NSCLC.