Immunogenicity of an Anti-pneumococcal Combined Vaccination in Acute Leukemia or Lymphoma
The French Public Health Council recommended pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy for all immunocompromised patients in 2012. This strategy consisted in conjugated 13-valent pneumococcal injection followed 2 months later by polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine injection. General practitioners are usually in charge of this vaccination. Conjugated pneumococcal vaccine enhances the immunogenicity of the polysaccharide vaccine. Acute leukemia and lymphoma are treated with multiple courses of chemotherapy, impairing the immune system and potentially the response to vaccination. These patients are more at risk for developing pneumococcal invasive diseases than the general population. However, efficacy of pneumococcal vaccination is poorly documented in this setting. We assume that 70% of the patients are non-responders to vaccination, according to their anti-pneumococcal immunoglobulin G titers and the opsonophagocytic activity. To assess the immunogenicity of the pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy in adult population of acute leukemia and lymphoma, the investigator will measure anti-pneumococcal serotype-specific immunoglobulin G titers and opsonophagocytic activity at different time-points after completion of the combined vaccine strategy. The primary objective is to assess the immunogenicity of pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy at 3 months after the 13-valent pneumococcal injection (corresponding to 1 month after the end of the combined strategy) using immunoglobulin G titers and opsonophagocytic activity. At different time points (day 0, 1 month after the 13-valent pneumococcal injection, the day of the injection of the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine, one month after the injection of the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine, 3-6 months after the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine,9-12 months after the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine), the immunological response to vaccination will be monitored using specific-serotype immunoglobulin G titers, opsonophagocytic activity, and total anti-pneumococcal Immunoglobulin. The investigator will determine predictive factors of non-response to vaccination by comparing demographic data, biological data and treatment received by both acute myeloblastic leukemia and lymphoma patients. The tolerance and safety of the vaccination strategy will also be assessed in this specific hematological population.
Vaccine|Streptococcus Pneumoniae|Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
DRUG: Prevenar13 Pneumo-23
Proportion of patients having a good response to combined strategy, Proportion of patients having a good response to combined strategy at 4 weeks after the end of the combined strategy. A good response to vaccination is defined by 4/7 tested serotypes responding to these 4 criteria: a serotype-specific immunoglobulin G titer ≥ 1μg/L (WHO threshold), a two-fold increase of this immunoglobulin G titer compare to baseline before vaccination, a serotype-specific opsonophagocytic activity ≥1/8, and a four-fold increase of functional antibodies compare to baseline., 39 months
The French Public Health Council recommended pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy for all immunocompromised patients in 2012. This strategy consisted in conjugated 13-valent pneumococcal injection followed 2 months later by polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine injection. General practitioners are usually in charge of this vaccination. Conjugated pneumococcal vaccine enhances the immunogenicity of the polysaccharide vaccine. Acute leukemia and lymphoma are treated with multiple courses of chemotherapy, impairing the immune system and potentially the response to vaccination. These patients are more at risk for developing pneumococcal invasive diseases than the general population. However, efficacy of pneumococcal vaccination is poorly documented in this setting. We assume that 70% of the patients are non-responders to vaccination, according to their anti-pneumococcal immunoglobulin G titers and the opsonophagocytic activity. To assess the immunogenicity of the pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy in adult population of acute leukemia and lymphoma, the investigator will measure anti-pneumococcal serotype-specific immunoglobulin G titers and opsonophagocytic activity at different time-points after completion of the combined vaccine strategy. The primary objective is to assess the immunogenicity of pneumococcal vaccination combined strategy at 3 months after the 13-valent pneumococcal injection (corresponding to 1 month after the end of the combined strategy) using immunoglobulin G titers and opsonophagocytic activity. At different time points (day 0, 1 month after the 13-valent pneumococcal injection, the day of the injection of the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine, one month after the injection of the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine, 3-6 months after the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine,9-12 months after the polysaccharide 23-valent vaccine), the immunological response to vaccination will be monitored using specific-serotype immunoglobulin G titers, opsonophagocytic activity, and total anti-pneumococcal Immunoglobulin. The investigator will determine predictive factors of non-response to vaccination by comparing demographic data, biological data and treatment received by both acute myeloblastic leukemia and lymphoma patients. The tolerance and safety of the vaccination strategy will also be assessed in this specific hematological population.