Ruxolitinib Phosphate, Paclitaxel, and Carboplatin in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Epithelial Ovarian, Fallopian Tube, or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and the best dose of ruxolitinib phosphate when given together with paclitaxel and carboplatin and to see how well they work in treating patients with stage III-IV epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer. Ruxolitinib phosphate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as paclitaxel and carboplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving ruxolitinib phosphate together with paclitaxel and carboplatin may be a better treatment for epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer compared to paclitaxel and carboplatin alone.
Fallopian Tube Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|FIGO Stage III Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IIIA Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IIIA1 Ovarian Cancer|FIGO Stage IIIA2 Ovarian Cancer|FIGO Stage IIIB Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IIIC Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IVA Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IVB Ovarian Cancer 2014|Ovarian Clear Cell Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Stage III Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage III Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Fallopian Tube Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IV Primary Peritoneal Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Ruxolitinib Phosphate|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Dose-limiting Toxicities (Phase I), Will be assessed according to Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 (CTCAE version 5.0 will be used starting 04/01/2018), or delays in treatment caused by toxicities. A DLT is defined as either hematologic or non-hematologic toxicity (assessed in accordance with the CTEP CTCAE Version 4.0), which cause any of the following (any toxicity): a dose delay \> 7 days related to any toxicity, an omission of day 8 or day 15 paclitaxel, any treatment related death. For hematologic toxicity: study treatment-related febrile neutropenia, grade 4 neutropenia lasting \> 7 days, study treatment-related grade 4 thrombocytopenia or bleeding associated with grade 3 thrombocytopenia. For non-hematologic toxicity: study treatment related grade 3 or grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity., 42 days (2 cycles)|Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II), Will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. A log-rank test utilizing the categorized values of the exploratory laboratory parameters or a Cox proportional hazards (PH) model to estimate of the hazard ratio for progression or death in PFS. If feasible, the PH model will examine the effect of continuous measures.

All patients must have measurable disease, and at least one "target lesion" to be used to assess response as defined by RECIST 1.1. Measurable disease is defined as at least one lesion that can be accurately measured in at least one dimension (longest diameter to be recorded). Each lesion must be \>= 10 mm when measured by computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or caliper measurement by clinical exam; or \>= 20 mm when measured by chest x-ray. Lymph nodes must be \>= 15 mm in short axis when measured by CT or MRI, The maximum follow-up time for PFS is 57 months.
Number of Participants With Grade 3 or Higher AE (Phase I and II), Will be assessed according to CTEP CTCAE version 4.03 (CTCAE version 5.0 will be used starting 04/01/2018). Count of Participants with grade 3 or higher AE. The participants included are the patients in Arm I and the patients in Arm II (DL1 and phase 2). The patients in phase 1 DL2 are not included because they are at a different dose level.

The first 17 patients were entered between 11/14/2016 and 10/19/2017. These are the phase 1 patients. Group in DL1 entered 7 patients between 11/14/2016 - 2/17/2017. The DL2 patients were entered between 4/21/2017 and 10/19/2017. There were 10 entered in DL2 because we had a few (3 patients) who were not evaluable and needed to be replaced. From 6/28/2018 to 2/3/2020, we entered the phase 2 patients (42 vs. 88). The first 7 patients were combined with the active therapy on phase 2, for the toxicity comparison (42 vs. 88+7=95 patients)., Serious and other adverse events were collected from baseline until 30 days after last treatment, an average of 10 months.|Frequency of Patients Who Could Not Receive Surgery Within the Defined Timeframe for Reasons Other Than Non-response, Disease Progression, or Medical Contraindications (Phase I), Frequencies will be given by the dose-level administered., Up to 6 weeks|Number of Patients Who Discontinue Ruxolitinib in the First 3 Months of Maintenance Therapy Due to Toxicity (Phase I), Number of patients who discontinue ruxolitinib in the first 3 months of maintenance therapy due to toxicity (Phase I), Up to 3 months in the maintenance phase|Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Phase II) (Subset Analysis), Will be assessed according to RECIST 1.1. Subset analyses within categorized, important exploratory laboratory parameters will examine the treatment effect on PFS. The effect of treatment on PFS will be examined within each of these subsets using a log-rank test or a Cox PH model. Interest will center on whether the hazard of PFS changes from one group to another. The impact of the biomarkers on PFS will be assessed using log-rank tests or Cox PH models., From study entry to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years|Number of Patients Who Have Total Gross Resection (Phase II), The outcome is whether there is a total gross resection rate at time of interval cytoreductive surgery among those who had surgery., At the time of surgery (surgery occurred within 6 weeks after completion of cycle 3, as soon as nadir counts permit and surgery deemed safe by investigator)|Number of Participants With Complete Pathological Response (Phase II), At the time of TRS, complete pathologic response is defined as no evidence of disease on radiographic imaging at the time of radiographic tumor measurement just prior to TRS, no visible or palpable tumor at the time of surgical exploration, and no pathologic evidence of disease in tissue specimens obtained from TRS., At the time of tumor reductive surgery or biopsy after 3 cycles (i.e. after 63 days).|Overall Survival (OS) (Phase II), The effect of treatment on OS will be conducted with a Kaplan-Meier analysis and reported as median survival times., The average (median) OS follow-up time is 38 months.
Change in Cancer Stem Cells (CSC) Observed in Tissue, Landmark analyses will be conducted to see if changes in CSC are associated with PFS. The predictive value of CSC will be formally examined with a Cox model using an interaction term with treatment. Subset analyses will be conducted as well in the event that a formal analysis fails to reject the null hypothesis., Baseline up to 63 days (3 cycles)|Change in Serum C-reactive Protein (CRP), The impact of baseline values on PFS and OS can be assessed for prognostic and predictive significance with log-rank statistics and Cox models. The impact of changes in CRP values on PFS and OS can be examined with landmark analyses or as time dependent covariates., Baseline up to 63 days (3 cycles)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib phosphate (ruxolitinib) in combination with conventional neoadjuvant and post-surgical chemotherapy is safe and tolerable in the primary therapy for epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase I) II. Demonstrate whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with conventional neoadjuvant and post-surgical chemotherapy results in a prolonged progression-free survival when compared to chemotherapy alone, in primary therapy for epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine frequency of patients who do not receive surgery within 6 weeks of completing cycle 3 therapy for reasons other than non-response, disease progression, or medical contraindications. (Phase I) II. Determine if continuation of ruxolitinib as maintenance therapy in participants who complete 6 cycles of standard chemotherapy in combination with ruxolitinib and have not experienced unacceptable toxicity or disease progression is safe and tolerable. (Phase I) III. Determine the impact of ruxolitinib in combination with chemotherapy on progression-free survival as a function of proposed exploratory biomarkers - ALDH+ CD133+ (possibly also CD24+ CK19+) co-staining by AQUA immunofluorescence (IF); ratio of tumor expression of CD8:FOXP3 by immunohistochemistry (IHC); and tumor CD3, CD4, TAI-1, HLA class I and II, CD68 expression by IHC in archived tumor tissue, BRCA status, and serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 levels in pre-treatment serum. (Phase II) IV. Investigate the prognostic significance of exploratory laboratory parameters in terms of both progression-free survival and overall survival in women receiving conventional chemotherapy alone. (Phase II) V. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with conventional chemotherapy is associated with total gross resection rate at time of interval cytoreductive surgery. (Phase II) VI. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with conventional chemotherapy is associated with complete pathologic response defined at interval cytoreductive surgery. (Phase II) VII. Demonstrate whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with conventional chemotherapy results in an improvement in overall survival in primary management of epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase II)

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib phosphate, followed by a phase II study.

PHASE I PORTION OF STUDY IS COMPLETE (04/06/2018)

PHASE I (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21, paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of cycle 3, patients undergo tumor reductive surgery (TRS).

PHASE I (CYCLES 4-6): Within 6 weeks of TRS, patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-21, paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. If TRS is not performed due to non-response or medical contraindications and criteria for discontinuation of protocol therapy have not been met, patients should resume ruxolitinib phosphate, paclitaxel, and carboplatin within 6 weeks of completing cycle 3 of therapy.

MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Within 3 weeks after completion of cycle 6, patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of cycle 3, patients undergo TRS.

ARM I (CYCLES 4-6): Within 4 weeks of surgery (or within 6 weeks of completion of cycle 3 in patients who do not undergo TRS), patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-21 and paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of cycle 3, patients undergo TRS.

ARM II (CYCLES 4-6): Within 4 weeks of surgery (or within 6 weeks of completion of cycle 3 in patients who do not undergo TRS), patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-21 and paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients in phase I are followed up until resolution of adverse events, and patients in phase II are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 3 years.