ALDH Enzyme in CRF With Advanced GI Cancer
Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) enzyme supplementation plays an essential role in the elimination of toxic metabolites and reduction of reactive oxygen species bioactivation, which can protect and relieve chemotherapy-related fatigue (CRF) in cancer patients. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ALDH enzyme in CRF with advanced gastrointestinal cancer patients. The primary endpoint is the change of FACIT-F (Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Fatigue) score on day 15 compared to baseline after chemotherapy. The secondary endpoint including change of FACIT-F on day 29 compared to day 15, change of ESAS (Edmonton Symptom Assessment System) on day 15 compared to baseline, safety and toxicities, and exploratory biomarkers.
Fatigue|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Aldehyde Dehydrogenase
DRUG: ALDH enzyme supplementation
Change of FACIT-F score, Change of FACIT-F score on day 15 compared to baseline after chemotherapy, Day 15 compared to baseline
Change of FACIT-F score, Change of FACIT-F score on day 29 compared to day 15 after chemotherapy, Day 29 compared to day 15|Change of ESAS, Change of ESAS on day 15 compared to baseline after chemotherapy, Day 15 compared to baseline|Change of ESAS, Change of ESAS on day 29 compared to day 15 after chemotherapy, Day 29 compared to day 15|Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, Safety and tolerability assessments, Day 15 and 29|Exploratory biomarker studies - Urine malondialdehyde - ALDH2 polymorphism (ALDH2 *1/*2, rs671 A/G) - Change of inflammatory cytokines, Analysis Inflammatory cytokine and metabolites during ALDH enzyme supplement and explore predictive biomarker using urine malondialdehyde, Day 1, 15 and 29
Chemotherapy-related fatigue (CRF) occurs universally in cancer patients which can be a debilitating symptom that affects patients' quality of life. The impact of CRF has been associated with mood disorder, sleep disturbance, cognitive dysfunction, inflammation mediated putative biological disturbances, and functional morbidities. Although the etiology is heterogeneous and complex, one of the proposed mechanisms is that chemotherapy induced multiple oxidative degradation of the lipid membrane which generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) and tissue damage. These conditions result in inflammation-induced reduction in central dopaminergic neurotransmission, nutritional deficiency (especially in vitamins and minerals), and immunodeficiency, which clinically manifest as CRF. To date, various agents including psychostimulants (methylphenidate, donepezil, and modafinil), dexamethasone, and Korean red ginseng (KRG) were used in the management of CRF. However, the prevalence of CRF is still high primarily due to lack of proven effective therapies. ALDH enzyme supplementation plays an essential role in the eliminates 4-hydoxynonenal, malondialdehyde from lipid peroxidation and reduce ROS bioactivation, which can protect and relieve CRF in cancer patients. Based on these rational backgrounds, the aim or this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ALDH enzyme in CRF with advanced gastrointestinal cancer patients.