Dexamethasone and Ondansetron Hydrochloride or Palonosetron Hydrochloride in Preventing Nausea and Vomiting in Patients Receiving Doxorubicin Hydrochloride and Cyclophosphamide For Early Stage Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Antiemetic drugs, such as dexamethasone, ondansetron hydrochloride, and palonosetron hydrochloride, may help lessen or prevent nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy.

PURPOSE: This clinical trial studies how well giving dexamethasone together with ondansetron hydrochloride or palonosetron hydrochloride works in preventing nausea and vomiting in patients receiving doxorubicin hydrochloride and cyclophosphamide for early stage breast cancer
Male Breast Cancer|Nausea and Vomiting|Stage I Breast Cancer|Stage II Breast Cancer|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer
DRUG: palonosetron hydrochloride|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: dexamethasone|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|PROCEDURE: nausea and vomiting therapy|PROCEDURE: management of therapy complications|DRUG: ondansetron hydrochloride|OTHER: survey administration
Count of Patients Achieving a Complete Response, At 0-24 hours after weekly intravenous doxorubin
Count of Patients Achieving Complete Response, At 24-120 hours after weekly intravenous doxorubicin|Number of Days With Emetic Episodes and Rescue Medicines, Up to 3 months|Number of Participants That Had Emesis Within 48 Hours of Chemotherapy, Count of patients that had emesis within 48 hours of chemotherapy, Up to 48 hours of chemotherapy|Number of Participants That Had First Administration of Rescue Medication Within 48 Hours, Count of patients that had first administration of rescue medication within 48 Hours, up to 48 hours of chemotherapy|Number of Doses of Rescue Medications Used, Days 1-7 of each cycle|Side Effects of Antiemetic Medications Used, Up to 3 months|Severity of Nausea, Count of participants with severe nausea, Up to 3 months|Quality of Life, Up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a complete response (CR), defined as no emesis and no rescue medications in the 0-24 hour time period following weekly intravenous doxorubicin.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a complete response (CR), defined as no emesis and no rescue medications in the 24-120 hour time period following weekly intravenous doxorubicin.

II. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a complete response (CR), defined as no emesis and no rescue medications in the 0-120 hour time period following weekly intravenous doxorubicin.

III. To determine the number of emetic episodes daily and cumulatively for the 24-120, and 0-120 hour time periods.

IV. To determine the time to first emetic episode. V. To determine the time to first administration of rescue medication. VI. To determine the time to treatment failure (time to first emetic episode or administration of rescue medication, whichever occurred first).

VII. To determine the number of doses of rescue medications used. VIII. To determine the side effects of antiemetic medications used. IX. To determine theseverity of nausea. X. To evaluate quality of life.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

All patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1 and oral cyclophosphamide on days 1-7.

GROUP I: Patients receive dexamethasone IV or orally and ondansetron IV on day 1 (prior to each dose of doxorubicin hydrochloride).

GROUP II: Patients receive dexamethasone IV or orally and palonosetron IV on day 1 (prior to each dose of doxorubicin hydrochloride).

Treatment repeats every 7 days for 12-15 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.