Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology Study
To examine the impact of health determinants at the individual (e.g. health related behaviors) and societal level (e.g. environmental factors, health related policy, quality of health systems) on health outcomes (e.g. death, non-communicable disease development) across a range of socioeconomic and health resource settings. Additional components of this study will examine genetic factors for non-communicable diseases. This will be examined both through a cross sectional component, and prospectively (cohort component).
Cardiovascular Diseases|Risk Factor, Cardiovascular|Health Behavior|Environmental Exposure|Lung Diseases|Cancer|Injuries|Renal Disease|Communicable Disease
incident cardiovascular disease, cardiovascular death, stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, mean follow up of 10 years
incident cancer, total and cause specific cancers, mean follow up of 10 years|Incident COPD, development of COPD, mean follow up of 10 years|Incident Asthma, development of asthma, mean follow up of 10 years|Pneumonia, hospitalization for pneumonia, mean follow up of 10 years|Respiratory outcomes, change in pulmonary function test, mean follow up of 10 years|All Cause Hospitalizations, All cause hospitalizations, mean follow up of 10 years|Kidney disease, end stage renal disease, dialysis, transplant, changes in renal function, mean follow up of 10 years|All cause and cause specific mortality, death from all causes, and cause specific deaths, mean follow up of 10 years|incident diabetes, development of diabetes, mean follow up of 10 years|obesity, development of obesity, change in BMI, mean follow up of 10 years|hypertension, development of hypertension and changes in blood pressure, mean follow up of 10 years|incident injuries, assessing fatal and non-fatal injuries due road traffic accidents and falls, mean follow up of 10 years
1. To examine the relationship between societal influences and prevalence of risk factors and chronic noncommunicable diseases. Societal determinants are measured by an index of measures from each of the 4 domains of interest: built environment, food and nutrition policy, psychosocial/socioeconomic factors, and tobacco.
2. To examine the relationship between societal determinants and incidence of chronic noncommunicable disease events (e.g. cardiovascular disease, cancer) and on changes in rates of selected risk factors (e.g. smoking)
3. To examine the relationship between health related behaviors (e.g. diet, physical activity, smoking, alcohol) and health outcomes (e.g. death, non-communicable diseases)
4. The quality of health systems across a diverse range of health resource settings, and how this impacts health outcomes
5. Genetic factors for non-communicable diseases