Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide, Dexamethasone in Transplant Eligible Newly Diagnosed High-risk Multiple Myeloma
Patients with high risk multiple myeloma have shorter remission periods and reduced overall survival. Prognostic significance of minimal residual disease negative remission is being highlighted in many of the newer studies.

The current phase 2 study investigates the combination of carfilzomib together with cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone in patients with high risk multiple myeloma in younger transplant-eligible patients.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib, , Cyclophosphamide, Dexamethasone
Progression Free Survival, To study the progression free survival (PFS) in patients with newly diagnosed high risk multiple myeloma treated with Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide and Dexamethasone, followed by autologous bone marrow transplantation., 2 years
Minimal residual disease negativity, Minimal residual disease burden at different time points, as assessed by multi parameter flow cytometry (MPFC)., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from entering study to death of any cause., 2 years
Carfilzomib is administered over 30 minutes as an infusion. For cycle 1 only, Carfilzomib is administered at 20mg/m2 IV on days 1 and 2, followed by escalation to 36 mg/m2 on days 8,9,15 and 16 on a 28 day cycle. Patients who tolerate 36 mg/m2 dose are kept at this dose for the subsequent cycles on Days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16 on a 28 day cycle. Dose and schedule modifications for intolerable side effects are detailed in the protocol. Additionally Cyclophosphamide is given a fixed dose of 500mg once per week orally, along with dexamethasone, given on the days of Carfilzomib administration, 30 minutes to 4 hours prior to Carfilzomib. Patients will undergo blood tests weekly and serum protein electrophoresis every 4 weeks during treatment. Within completion of 5 cycles of treatment, patients would undergo stem cell collection using chemotherapy and GCSF mobilization. After completion of 6 cycles of treatment, autologous bone marrow transplantation will be performed. Three months following bone marrow transplantation, subjects will undergo further 2 consolidation cycles. After consolidation, subjects will undergo disease assessment by blood and subjects who are in CR will undergo bone marrow investigations and MRD analysis MPFC. Patients who achieve MRD negativity by MPFC will be managed expectantly by watch and wait. Patients who are MRD positive at this stage will receive maintenance for 2 years or till disease progression. Follow up would extend till a minimum of 2 years from completion of the study. At the end of 2 years post maintenance or expectant monitoring, subjects who are in CR will undergo disease assessment by blood and bone marrow investigations and MRD analysis MPFC.