Pazopanib Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Advanced Neuroendocrine Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pazopanib hydrochloride works in treating patients with advanced neuroendocrine cancer. Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
Gastrin-Producing Neuroendocrine Tumor|Lung Carcinoid Tumor|Metastatic Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Multiple Endocrine Neoplasia Type 1|Pancreatic Glucagonoma|Pancreatic Insulinoma|Pancreatic Polypeptide Tumor|Recurrent Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Recurrent Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Regional Digestive System Neuroendocrine Tumor G1|Somatostatin-Producing Neuroendocrine Tumor
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pazopanib Hydrochloride|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response) for Each Cohort Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST), RECIST Criteria: Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR): 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, reference baseline sum LD; Progressive Disease (PD): 20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions, reference smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or appearance 1/\> new lesions; Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, reference smallest sum LD since treatment started., Up to 18 months
Percent Change in Tumor Blood Flow Assessed by Functional CT, Explore the effect on tumor blood flow as determined by functional CT of GW786034 (Pazopanib) 800 mg orally once daily on both arms, carcinoid and pNET., Baseline and week 12
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death., Baseline to 18 months.|Plasma Trough Level of GW786034, assessed at Baseline and day 28, day 28 reported
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) (complete and partial response) of GW786034 (pazopanib hydrochloride) 800 mg administered orally once daily in patients with advanced low or intermediate grade carcinoid tumors (in carcinoid cohort).

II. To determine the objective response rate (ORR) (complete response and partial response) of GW786034 800mg administered orally once daily in patients with advanced low or intermediate grade pancreatic islet cell carcinoma (in islet cell cohort).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the progression free survival (PFS) duration of GW786034 800mg administered orally once daily in patients with low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma.

II. To determine the safety and tolerability of GW786034 800mg administered orally once daily in patients with low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma.

III. To explore the effect on tumor blood flow as determined by functional computed tomography (CT) of GW786034 800 mg orally once daily in patients with low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma.

IV. To assess the trough level of GW786034 800 mg orally once daily in patients with low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pazopanib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 90 days for up to 18 months.