A Psychosocial Intervention for Patients With Colorectal Cancer and Their Family Caregivers
This study aims to develop a smartphone-based psychosocial intervention for patients with colorectal cancer and their family caregivers and to improve patients' confidence in self-care, psychological well-being, social support, quality of life, and satisfaction with care, as well as caregivers' burden, psychological well-being, and quality of life. The study also aims to explore patients' and their caregivers' perceptions of the intervention and routine care. A multi-centre two-arm experimental study design is used in this study. A total of 100 patient-caregiver dyads will be recruited and randomly allocated to either the control group (receiving routine care alone) or the intervention group (receiving routine care plus the psychosocial intervention). After completed the study, 15 patient-caregiver dyads will be invited for interviews to explore their perceptions on the intervention and/or routine care. This study will generate evidence on the effectiveness of the easily accessible and sustainable smartphone-based psychosocial intervention.
Colorectal Cancer
OTHER: An interactive Colorectal Cancer self-Management enhancement smartphone-based psychosocial intervention programme (iCanManage)
Colorectal cancer patients' self-efficacy, The level of patient's self-efficacy will be measured by the 10-item General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSE). The General Self-Efficacy (GSE) Scale is a 4-point Likert scale (1 = not at all true, 2 = hardly true, 3 = moderately true, 4 = exactly true). The sum score ranges between 10 and 40 with a higher score indicating more self-efficacy., Patients' self-efficacy will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Caregivers' quality of life, Caregivers' quality of life will be measured by 35-item Caregiver Quality of Life Index Cancer (CQOLC). Each item is scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The total possible score is 140, with higher scores representing better quality of life., Caregivers' quality of life will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.
Patients' anxiety and depression, Patients' anxiety and depression will be measured by the 14-item Hospital Anxiety and Depression scale (HADS). The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale comprises of 14-item self-report scale, 7 items for anxiety and 7 for depression. Each item on the HADS was scored on a four point (0-3) so the possible scores ranged from 0-21 for anxiety and 0-21 for depression. The scores of 8-10 in each scale may be suggestive of borderline risk of anxiety or depression and 11 or higher were indicative of probable 'caseness' of anxiety or depression (Pritchard, 2011; Snaith, 2003)., will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Patients' Social support, The level of patients social support will be measured by the 19-item Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey (MOS-SSS). The Medical Outcomes Study Social Support Survey (MOS - SSS) measures four aspects of social support including (1) tangible support; (2) affectionate support; (3) positive social interaction and (4) emotional-informational support (Shebourne \& Stewart, 1991; Wang, Zheng, He, \& Thompson, 2013). Without regarding the source of support, the frequency of support available to each participant was captured through response indications from none-of-the-time (= 1) to all-of-the-time (= 5) on a 5-point scale. Tabulated scores for each dimension are then rescaled to a 0 to 100 range, where higher scores indicate higher support availability (McDowell, 2006)., Patients' social support will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Patients' Health-related quality of life, Patients' health-related quality of life will be measured by the 29-item European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Colorectal cancer specific (EORTC QLQ-CR29). The EORTC QLQ-CR29 has 29 questions comprises of four functional scales and 18 symptoms scales. All the items are scored on a four-point Likert scale (1-4). Raw scores will be linearly transformed to a scale scores ranging from 0 to100 according to EORTC scoring manual (Fayers et al., 2001). A high scale score for functional scale represents a better functioning, while a high score for a symptom scale represents a worse symptom., Patients' health-related quality of life will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Patients' Satisfaction with care, Patients' satisfaction with care will be measured by the 1-item 6-point Ordinal Descriptive Scale (ODS) from 1 (very dissatisfied) to 6 (very satisfied)., Patients' satisfaction with care will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) ,and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Caregivers' burden, Caregivers' burden will be measured by the 21-item Caregiver Reaction Assessment (CRA). The CRA contains subscales of self-esteem, family support, finances, schedule, and health. Each item is scored on a five-point Likert scale, ranging from strongly disagree (score 1) to strongly agree (score 5). The items constituting a particular subscale are averaged to generate subscale scores (ranging from 1 to 5). A higher score on the self-esteem subscale indicates a more positive effect of caregiving, higher scores on the other subscales indicate greater negative effects of caregiving in those domains., Caregivers' burden will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.|Caregivers' anxiety and depression, Caregivers' anxiety and depression will be measured by the 14-item Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). HADS comprises of 14-item self-report scale, 7 items for anxiety and 7 for depression. Each item on the HADS was scored on a four point (0-3) so the possible scores ranged from 0-21 for anxiety and 0-21 for depression. The scores of 8-10 in each scale may be suggestive of borderline risk of anxiety or depression and 11 or higher were indicative of probable 'caseness' of anxiety or depression (Pritchard, 2011; Snaith, 2003)., Caregivers' anxiety and depression will be assessed at baseline (around 2 weeks before surgery) and assessing changes between baseline and around 2 weeks after the surgery and 3 months after the surgery.
1. Aims The aims of the study are: (1) To develop an interactive Colorectal Cancer self-Management enhancement smartphone-based psychosocial intervention programme (iCanManage program); (2) To examine the effectiveness of iCanManage for colorectal cancer patients and their caregivers in improving patients' health outcomes including self-efficacy (primary outcome), psychological well-being (anxiety \& depression), social support, health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and satisfaction with care, as well as caregivers' burden, psychological well-being, and quality of life (QoL) (primary outcome); and (3) To explore patients' and their caregivers' perceptions of iCanManage and routine care.
2. Hypotheses Over 3 months' follow-up, compared to patients in the control group,patients who receive iCanManage in addition to hospital routine care will report significantly: (1) higher levels of self-efficacy, social support, HRQoL and satisfaction with care, and (2) lower levels of anxiety and depression; whilst caregivers will report significantly lower levels of burden, anxiety and depression, and higher level of QoL.
3. Methodology A multi-centre two-arm randomised controlled trial will be conducted at two public hospitals in Singapore. A total of 100 patient-caregiver dyads will be recruited via convenience sampling. Participants (patient-caregiver dyads) will be randomly allocated to either the intervention (receiving iCanManage in addition to hospital routine care) or the control group (receiving only hospital routine care). The aforementioned outcomes of both patients and caregivers will be measured at baseline (start of access to iCanManage), 2-weeks post-surgery (end of access to iCanManage) and 3-months post-surgery. Descriptive statistics, repeated measures analysis of covariance, univariate analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) will be used to analyse the data. At the end of the trial, semi-structured interviews will be conducted to explore 30 patients' and 30 caregivers' perceptions on iCanManage and or routine care. The transcribed interview data will be analysed using a thematic analysis.
4. Significance of the study This study will generate evidence on the effectiveness of the easily accessible and sustainable iCanManage. Should the quantitative and qualitative findings support the feasibility and effects of the intervention, it can be adopted by hospital policymakers as added routine care to enhance patients' self-management ability throughout their surgery journey.