An Investigational Scan (64Cu-Labeled M5A Antibody) in Combination With SOC Chemotherapy and Radiotherapy in Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
This early phase I trial investigates how well 64Cu-labeled M5A antibody scan works in assessing tumor activity before and after patients with rectal cancer that has spread to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced) who are undergoing chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Using 64Cu-labeled M5A positron emission tomography imaging may play a significant role in imaging patients with colorectal cancer.
Locally Advanced Rectal Carcinoma|Stage III Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Rectal Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Rectal Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Copper Cu 64 Anti-CEA Monoclonal Antibody M5A|PROCEDURE: Imaging Technique
Number of patients with impactful finding using 64Cu-M5A positron emission tomography (PET) imaging., We seek to evaluate the potential for 64Cu-M5A PET imaging in locally advanced rectal cancer before and after neoadjuvant radio-chemotherapy yet prior to planned surgery. Scan findings will be compared to standard of care imaging studies (eg. CT, MRI and FDG PET scans) and biopsy and findings from endoscopy and surgery performed post neoadjuvant CRT therapy. Each of the 15 cases will be reviewed in a protocol team meeting consisting of a radiologist, radiation oncologist, surgeon and pathologist. Cases will be determined by consensus. Examples of "potentially impactful" would be 1) any new lesion not seen on other imaging modalities and confirmed by pathology, 2) a negative 64CuM5A PET on a suspicious lesion by standard of care (SOC) determined to be negative on pathology, or 3) other important differences as judged by the evaluation team including if findings from initial 64CuDOTA-M5A immunoPET imaging could result in modification and adaption of the radiotherapy plan., Up to 3 years
Count of Adverse Events., The frequency and severity of any adverse events possibly related to 64Cu-M5A PET.

The toxicity will be graded using the NCI common toxicity scale CTCAE v 5., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if the Copper Cu 64 anti-carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) monoclonal antibody M5A (64Cu labeled M5A antibody) demonstrates a potentially impactful finding for patient management either in the pre-treatment scan (potentially impacting choice of therapy or impacting the radiotherapy \[RT\] plan) or the scan immediately prior to planned surgery (after standard care \[SOC\] chemoradiation) in patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety of administration of 64Cu labeled M5A antibody. II. To describe/summarize each of the 15 patients' 64Cu-M5A positron emission tomography (PET) imaging findings and corresponding SOC scans and pathology.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 64Cu labeled M5A antibody intravenously (IV) over 5 minutes on day 0 pre standard of care chemo/radiotherapy and on day 0 post chemo/radiotherapy. Patients also undergo 64Cu-M5A PET scan on day 1 pre chemo/radiotherapy and on day 1 post chemo/radiotherapy.

After completion of the study treatment, patients medical records are reviewed up to 2-3 months.