Sacituzumab Govitecan +/- Pembrolizumab In HR+ / HER2 - MBC
This research study is evaluating the safety and effectiveness of Sacituzumab Govitecan with or without Pembrolizumab in metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer.

The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

* Sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132)
* Pembrolizumab (Keytruda®; MK-3475)
Invasive Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer|HR-Positive Breast Cancer|HER2-negative Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Sacituzumab Govitecan
Progression Free Survival, Compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone. PFS is defined as the time from study randomization to disease progression, according to RECIST 1.1 or medical judgment, the latter based on established clinical parameters, such as rising tumor markers and physical exam evidence of progression, i.e. worsening chest wall disease, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Patients alive without disease progression are censored at the date of last disease evaluation., Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration to primary analysis of PFS is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.
Objective Response Rate, Compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone by assessing Overall Response Rate (ORR) by RECIST 1.1, Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.|Overall Survival, Compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone by assessing overall survival (OS), defined as the time from randomization (or registration) to death due to any cause with censoring at date last known alive, will be reported with Kaplan Meier estimates, Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.|Clinical Benefit Rate, Compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone by assessing clinical benefit rate (CBR). CBR defined as CR, PR or stable disease for ≥ 24 weeks according to RECIST 1.1, Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.|Time to Progression, Compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone by assessing time to progression, Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.|Duration of Response, Compare the efficacy of sacituzumab govitecan with pembrolizumab to that of sacituzumab govitecan alone by assessing the duration of response (the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented or death due to any cause), Assessed at baseline and every 3 cycles/9 weeks with a window of -7 days to + 3 days (e.g., between Cycle 3 Day 15 and Cycle 4 Day 4). Expected study duration is 38 months. The reported data is as of data cutoff of 3/9/2024.
The research study procedures include: screening for eligibility, research blood collections, at least two research biopsies, paired research stool collections, and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

The names of the study interventions involved in this study are:

* Sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132)
* Pembrolizumab (Keytruda®; MK-3475)
* Questionnaires/Data Collection/Sample Collection

Participants will be randomized into one of two groups. Group A: Sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132) and Pembrolizumab Group B: Sacituzumab govitecan (IMMU-132)

Participants will receive study treatment for as long they are benefiting from the therapy. Participants will be followed for the rest of their lives. It is expected that about 110 people will take part in this research study

This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug or a combination of investigational drugs to learn whether the drug or drug combination works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug or drug combination is being studied. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Sacituzumab Govitecan for your specific disease, but it has been approved for other uses. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Pembrolizumab for your specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.