Assessment of Efficacy and Safety of Monalizumab Plus Cetuximab Compared to Placebo Plus Cetuximab in Recurrent or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer
This is a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, global Phase 3 study to assess the efficacy and safety of monalizumab and cetuximab, compared to placebo and cetuximab, in Participants with recurrent or metastatic head and neck cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck
DRUG: Monalizumab|DRUG: Cetuximab|OTHER: Placebo
Overall Survival (OS) in Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-Unrelated Analysis Set, The OS is defined as time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause regardless of whether the participant withdraws from randomized therapy or receives another anti-cancer therapy (i.e. date of death or censoring - date of randomization + 1). The OS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique. Statistical analysis was performed using P-value from a stratified log-rank test and hazard ratio (HR) and confidence intervals (CIs) from a stratified Cox proportional hazards model. Analyses were stratified on World Health Organization/ Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (WHO/ECOG PS) (0 or 1) and number of prior lines of therapy in recurrent or metastatic (R/M) setting (1 or 2)., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)
Overall Survival in Full Analysis Set (FAS), The OS is defined as time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause regardless of whether the participant withdraws from randomized therapy or receives another anti-cancer therapy (i.e. date of death or censoring - date of randomization + 1). The OS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique. Statistical analysis was performed using P-value from a stratified log-rank test and HR and CIs from a stratified Cox proportional hazards model. Analyses were stratified on HPV status (OPC HPV positive or HPV-unrelated), WHO/ECOG PS (0 or 1) and number of prior lines of therapy in R/M setting (1 or 2)., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS) Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 by Investigator Assessment in HPV-unrelated Analysis Set, PFS per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator is defined as time from randomization until date of RECIST 1.1-defined radiological progressive disease (PD) or death regardless of whether participant withdraws from therapy or received subsequent anticancer therapy prior to progression. PD: at least 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions (TLs), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir) and sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm from nadir or unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs (NTLs) or appearance of new lesions. PFS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique. Statistical analysis was performed using P-value from stratified log-rank test and HR and CIs from a stratified Cox proportional hazards model. Analyses were stratified on WHO/ECOG PS (0/1) and no. of prior lines of therapy in R/M setting., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Progression-Free Survival Per RECIST 1.1 by Investigator Assessment in FAS, PFS per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the investigator is defined as time from randomization until date of RECIST 1.1-defined radiological progressive disease (PD) or death regardless of whether participant withdraws from therapy or received subsequent anticancer therapy prior to progression. PD: at least 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions (TLs), taking as reference the smallest sum on study (nadir) and sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm from nadir or unequivocal progression of existing NTLs or appearance of new lesions. PFS was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique. Statistical analysis was performed using P-value from a stratified log-rank test and HR and CIs from a stratified Cox proportional hazards model. Analyses were stratified on HPV status, WHO/ECOG PS (0/1) and no. of prior lines of therapy in R/M setting., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (OR) Per RECIST 1.1 in HPV-unrelated Analysis Set, The OR is defined as the percentage of participants with at least one confirmed investigator-assessed response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by RECIST 1.1 guidelines. The CR is defined as disappearance of all TLs and NTLs, any pathological lymph nodes (target and non-target) must have reduction in short axis \< 10 mm, and no new lesions. The PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters (SoD) of TLs (compared to baseline) and no new lesions. Confirmation of CR and PR is required by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the date of first documentation. Percentage of participants with OR is reported. Participants who had measurable disease at baseline per the site investigator were analyzed for this outcome., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Percentage of Participants With OR Per RECIST 1.1 in FAS, The OR is defined as the percentage of participants with at least one confirmed investigator-assessed response of CR or PR as assessed by RECIST 1.1 guidelines. The CR is defined as disappearance of all TLs and NTLs, any pathological lymph nodes (target and non-target) must have reduction in short axis \< 10 mm, and no new lesions. The PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SoD of TLs (compared to baseline) and no new lesions. Confirmation of CR and PR is required by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the date of first documentation. Percentage of participants with OR is reported. Participants who had measurable disease at baseline per the site investigator were analyzed for this outcome., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Duration of Response (DoR) Per RECIST 1.1 in HPV-unrelated Analysis Set, The DoR is defined as the time from the date of first documented confirmed response until date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression (i.e. date of PFS event or censoring - date of first response + 1). The CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. The PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SoDs of TLs (compared to baseline) and no new lesions. Confirmation of CR and PR is required by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the date of first documentation. The PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoDs of TLs, taking as reference the smallest previous SoDs (nadir) and the sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm from nadir or unequivocal progression of existing NTLs or appearance of new lesions. The DoR was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Duration of Response Per RECIST 1.1 in FAS, The DoR is defined as the time from the date of first documented confirmed response until date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression (i.e. date of PFS event or censoring - date of first response + 1). The CR is defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, no new lesions, and normalization of tumor marker level. The PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the SoDs of TLs (compared to baseline) and no new lesions. Confirmation of CR and PR is required by a repeat, consecutive assessment no less than 4 weeks from the date of first documentation. The PD is defined as at least a 20% increase in the SoDs of TLs, taking as reference the smallest previous SoDs (nadir) and the sum must demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm from nadir or unequivocal progression of existing NTLs or appearance of new lesions. The DoR was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier technique., Baseline (-28 to -1) through 17.5 months (maximum observed duration)|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. TEAEs included events from the first dose of study drug, up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug received or up to the start date of any subsequent anticancer therapy following discontinuation of study drug, or the final safety DCO date of 01Sep2022, whichever occurred first., Day 1 through 21.4 months (maximum observed duration)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Clinical Laboratory Parameters Reported as TEAEs, Participants with abnormal laboratory parameters reported as TEAEs are reported. Laboratory analysis included hematology and clinical chemistry. TEAEs included events from the first dose of study drug, up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug received or up to the start date of any subsequent anticancer therapy following discontinuation of study drug, or the final safety DCO date of 01Sep2022, whichever occurred first., Day 1 through 21.4 months (maximum observed duration)|Number of Participants With Abnormal Vital Signs Reported as TEAEs, Participants with abnormal vital signs (heart rate, blood pressure, temperature, and respiratory rate) reported as TEAEs are reported. TEAEs included events from the first dose of study drug, up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug received or up to the start date of any subsequent anticancer therapy following discontinuation of study drug, or the final safety DCO date of 01Sep2022, whichever occurred first., Day 1 through 21.4 months (maximum observed duration)|Number of Participants With Electrocardiograms (ECGs) Reported as TEAEs, Participants with Abnormal ECGs reported as TEAEs are reported. TEAEs included events from the first dose of study drug, up to 90 days after the last dose of study drug received or up to the start date of any subsequent anticancer therapy following discontinuation of study drug, or the final safety DCO date of 01Sep2022, whichever occurred first., Day 1 through 21.4 months (maximum observed duration)
Participants with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) who had prior immune checkpoint inhibitor and platinum-based chemotherapy treatment will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to monalizumab and cetuximab or placebo and cetuximab. Efficacy and safety assessments will be performed periodically from the time of enrollment and throughout the study. Participants in all arms will continue therapy until progression, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or another discontinuation criterion is met. All Participants will be followed for survival after progression is confirmed.