A Study of Zolbetuximab (IMAB362) in Adults With Pancreatic Cancer
Zolbetuximab is being studied as a treatment for people with pancreatic cancer. Most people with pancreatic cancer have a protein called Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2) in their tumor. Zolbetuximab is thought to work by attaching to CLDN 18.2 in their tumor. This switches on the body's immune system to attack the tumor. Zolbetuximab is a potential treatment for people with pancreatic cancer.

There is an unmet medical need to treat people with pancreatic cancer. This study will help find the dose of zolbetuximab to be used with chemotherapy and provide more information on this treatment in adults with metastatic pancreatic cancer. The study is currently ongoing globally. People in this study will be treated with either zolbetuximab and chemotherapy or chemotherapy by itself.

The study's main aims are to find a suitable dose of zolbetuximab to be used with chemotherapy in the second part of this study, to check if zolbetuximab and chemotherapy compared to chemotherapy by itself can improve the survival of people with pancreatic cancer, and to check the safety of zolbetuximab when given with chemotherapy and how well people cope with medical problems during the study.

Adults with metastatic pancreatic cancer can take part. Their cancer is metastatic, has the CLDN18.2 marker in a tumor sample and has not previously been treated with chemotherapy. Metastatic means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. People cannot take part are if they have recently had radiotherapy and have not recovered, need to take medicines to suppress their immune system, have history of nervous system metastases from their pancreatic cancer, or they have other active cancers that need treatment. People who have a specific heart condition or infections also cannot take part.

This study will be in 2 parts. Part 1 is called the Safety Lead-in Phase. Groups of people will receive 1 of 2 different doses of zolbetuximab: a lower dose or a higher dose, both together with chemotherapy. A medical expert panel will check the results and decide the dose to use in Part 2.

Part 2 is called the Randomization Phase. People will be put in 1 of 2 groups by chance and will be given different treatments either zolbetuximab and chemotherapy or chemotherapy by itself. The chance of receiving zolbetuximab and chemotherapy is twice as high as receiving chemotherapy by itself. In both parts of the study, zolbetuximab and chemotherapy or chemotherapy by itself will be given through a vein. This is called an infusion. Each treatment cycle is 4 weeks (28 days) long and people will have either 2 infusions of zolbetuximab and 3 infusions of chemotherapy or 3 infusions of chemotherapy by itself during each treatment cycle. People will visit the clinic on certain days during their treatment. The study doctors will check for any medical problems from zolbetuximab. Also, people in the study will have a health check including blood tests. On some visits they will also have scans to check for any changes in their cancer. Tumor samples will be taken before treatment if a previous sample is not available. People will have the option of giving a tumor sample after treatment has finished. People will visit the clinic after they stop treatment. They will be asked about any medical problems and will have a health check including blood tests. The number of visits and checks done at each visit will depend on the health of each person and whether they completed their treatment or not.
Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: zolbetuximab|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: gemcitabine
Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLT) - (safety lead in), Incidence of dose limiting toxicities., Up to 28 days|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of death from any cause., Up to 65 months|Safety assessed by Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a subject, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product., Up to 65 months|Safety assessed by incidence of serious adverse events (SAE), Adverse Event (AE) is considered "serious" if the investigator or sponsor view any of the following outcomes: Death, life-threatening, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly or birth defect, hospitalization, or medically important event., Up to 65 months|Safety assessed by incidence of treatment emergent adverse events (TEAE), Treatment Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) is defined as any AE which starts, or worsens, after the first dose of study drug through 30 days after the last dose of study drug., Up to 65 months|Number of participants with laboratory value abnormalities and/or adverse events (AEs), Number of participants with potentially clinically significant laboratory values., Up to 65 months|Number of participants with vital sign abnormalities and /or adverse events (AEs), Number of participants with potentially clinically significant vital sign values., Up to 65 months|Number of participants with electrocardiograms (ECG) abnormalities and or adverse events, 12-lead ECGs will be recorded. Prior to the ECG, participants should rest in supine position for 10 minutes. ECGs will be read and assessed locally., Up to 65 months|Number of participants with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status abnormalities and or adverse events, Number of participants with potentially clinically significant ECOG performance status values. ECOG grades 0-5, where 0 = Fully active, able to carry on all pre-disease performance without restriction; 1 = Restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory and able to carry out work of a light or sedentary nature, e.g., light house work, office work; 2 = Ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities. Up and about more than 50% of waking hours; 3 = Capable of only limited self-care, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours; 4 = Completely disabled. Cannot carry on any self-care. Totally confined to bed or chair and 5 = Dead., Up to 65 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of randomization until the date of radiological progressive disease (PD) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 by investigator evaluation or death from any cause, whichever is earliest., Up to 65 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the proportion of participants who have a best overall response of Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as assessed by investigator evaluation per RECIST 1.1., Up to 65 months|Number of anti-drug antibody (ADA) Positive Participants, Immunogenicity will be measured by the number of participants that are ADA positive., Up to 65 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of participants who have best overall response of stable disease, complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by investigator evaluation per RECIST 1.1, Up to 65 months|Duration Of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from the date of the first response (CR/PR) until the date of progressive disease as assessed by investigator evaluation per RECIST 1.1 or date of death from any cause, whichever is earliest., Up to 65 months|Change in CA (Cancer Antigen) 19-9, Change from baseline in serum CA19-9 will be assessed., Baseline up to 65 months|PK of zolbetuximab: Concentration Immediately Prior to Dosing (Ctrough), Ctrough will be derived from the PK serum samples collected., Up to 65 months|PK of Nab-P: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from the Time of Dosing Extrapolated to Time Infinity (AUCinf), AUCinf will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from the Time of Dosing Until the Last Measurable Concentration (AUClast), AUClast will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Maximum Concentration (Cmax), Cmax will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Time of Maximum Concentration (Tmax), Tmax will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Terminal Elimination Half-life (T1/2), T1/2 will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Clearance (CL), CL will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of Nab-P: Volume of Distribution During the Terminal Phase (Vz), Vz will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from the Time of Dosing Extrapolated to Time Infinity (AUCinf), AUCinf will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Area Under the Concentration-time Curve from the Time of Dosing Until the Last Measurable Concentration (AUClast), AUClast will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Maximum Concentration (Cmax), Cmax will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Time of Maximum Concentration (Tmax), Tmax will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Terminal Elimination Half-life (T1/2), T1/2 will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Clearance (CL), CL will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|PK of gemcitabine: Volume of Distribution During the Terminal Phase (Vz), Vz will be derived from the PK plasma samples collected., Up to 30 days|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30), The EORTC-QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For functional scales, higher scores indicate better functioning, while for symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Pancreatic Cancer Module (EORTC-QLQ-PAN-26), EORTC-QLQ-PAN26 is a 26-item questionnaire that evaluates pancreatic cancer-specific symptoms such as pain, dietary changes, jaundice, altered bowel habits, and emotional problems. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the EuroQOL Five Dimensions Questionnaire 5L (EQ-5D-5L), The EQ-5D-5L is a standardized instrument for use as a measure of health outcome consisting of 6 items that cover 5 main domains (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression) and a general visual analog scale for health status.

Each domain comprises 5 severity levels (no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems, extreme problems). The general visual analog scale records the respondent's self-rated health status on a vertical graduated (0 = the worst health a participant can imagine to 100 = the best health a participant can imagine) visual analogue scale. Responses to the 5 items will also be converted to a weighted health state index (utility score) based on values derived from general population samples., Up to 65 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) scale, The PGIC is a single-item questionnaire that asks participants to provide the overall self-assessment of change in their disease on a 7-point scale ranging from "very much worse" to "very much better" as compared to the participant starting the study treatment. Only PGIC questions assessing pain and overall status will be collected., Up to 65 months|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) measured by the Patient Global Impression of Severity (PGIS) Scale, The PGIS is a single-item questionnaire that asks participants to provide the overall self-assessment of their disease severity on a 4-point scale for the past week, with 1 as "None" and 4 as "Severe". Only PGIS questions assessing pain and overall status will be collected., Up to 65 months|Time to Improvement of pancreatic pain as measured by Quality-of-Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (QLQ-C30), The QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For functional scales, higher scores indicate better functioning, while for symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Time to worsening of global health status (GHS)/quality of life (QoL) as measured by QLQ-C30, The QLQ-C30 is a 30-item cancer-specific instrument consisting of 5 functional scales (physical, role, emotional, social and cognitive), 9 symptom scales/items (fatigue, nausea/vomiting, general pain, dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties) and a global health status scale. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For functional scales, higher scores indicate better functioning, while for symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Time to Improvement of pancreatic pain as measured by Quality of Life Questionnaire - Pancreatic Cancer Module 26 (QLQ-PAN26), EORTC-QLQ-PAN26 is a 26-item questionnaire that evaluates pancreatic cancer-specific symptoms such as pain, dietary changes, jaundice, altered bowel habits, and emotional problems. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Time to worsening of GHS/QoL as measured by QLQ-PAN26, EORTC-QLQ-PAN26 is a 26-item questionnaire that evaluates pancreatic cancer-specific symptoms such as pain, dietary changes, jaundice, altered bowel habits, and emotional problems. Participants rate items on a four-point scale, with 1 as "not at all" and 4 as "very much." For symptom scales/items, higher scores indicate worse symptoms., Up to 65 months|Time to Improvement of pancreatic pain as measured by PGIS, The PGIS is a single-item questionnaire that asks participants to provide the overall self-assessment of their disease severity on a 4-point scale for the past week, with 1 as "None" and 4 as "Severe". Only PGIS questions assessing pain and overall status will be collected., Up to 65 months|Time to worsening of GHS/QoL as measured by PGIS, The PGIS is a single-item questionnaire that asks participants to provide the overall self-assessment of their disease severity on a 4-point scale for the past week, with 1 as "None" and 4 as "Severe". Only PGIS questions assessing pain and overall status will be collected., Up to 65 months
This study will have a safety lead in phase and a randomization phase.