A Randomized Clinical Trial
Acute postoperative pain is a common problem faced by the patient after surgery, most frequently occurring in first 24 hours. Our primary objective was to assess pain score in first 24 hours in PECS block group undergoing mastectomies. Secondary objective was to observe morphine (opioids) and antiemetic consumption in post anesthetic care unit.
Regional Anesthesia
PROCEDURE: PECS block
Change in Pain score over 24 hours, Patient's pain intensity was assessed using NPRS (Numeric Pain scoring system). Pain score was assessed at the time of arrival at PACU (0 minute) and then at 30 minutes after surgery and at discharge from PACU. Pain score was then assessed at the surgical floor at 6hours, 12hours and 24hours., First 24 hrs
Post operative morphine (opioids) consumption in PACU, If the NPRS score was 3 or more, rescue analgesic dose of 1.5 mg of morphine was administered slowly through the IV route and the pain score was reassessed after 15 minutes. If the pain score was still more than 3, additional dose of 1.5 mg morphine was given. This cycle continued till pain resolved., first 24 hours|Antiemetic consumption for treatment of PONV, The incidence of PONV was assessed using a 5-point scale (4-0), where 4 was equivalent to vomiting more than once, 3 was equivalent to one episode of vomit, 2 was equivalent to severe nausea, 1 was equivalent to mild nausea and 0 being no nausea. If the PONV score was more than 2, ondansetron 2 mg IV was administered to treat nausea and vomiting, 120 minutes
Design: Observer Blinded Randomized control trial.

Place and Duration: Department of Anesthesiology, Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital Lahore (SKMCH), from February 2017 to December 2017

Methods: 120 patients more than 18 years, ASA I and II, planned for unilateral elective modified radical mastectomy under general anesthesia were randomly assigned to receive either general anesthesia plus Pectoral Nerve I, II and serratus (PECS) block (n = 60) or general anesthesia alone (n = 60). Pain score at fixed intervals was measured using Numeric Pain Rating Score (NPRS) after surgery.