FOLFIRINOX + NIS793 in Pancreatic Cancer
This research is being done to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of the drug NIS793 in combination with the standard of care treatment FOLFIRINOX (consists of the drugs 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, and Leucovorin), chemoradiation and surgery for people with metastatic pancreas adenocarcinoma.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* NIS793
* FOLFIRINOX (consists of the drugs 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU), Oxaliplatin, Irinotecan, and Leucovorin)

Other interventions include

* chemoradiation
* surgery.
Pancreas Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: FOLFIRINOX|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)|DRUG: NIS793|RADIATION: Chemoradiation|DRUG: Capecitabine|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery
Safety Run In-Recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), Primary endpoint of safety run-in cohort is to define the recommended phase 2 dose as analyzed by 2-dimensional imaging (Computed Tomography, CT) or MRI utilizing Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v.1.1), obtained at 4-cycle therapy intervals., Up to 2 months after baseline|R0 Resection Rate, The primary endpoint of the two-arm non-comparative phase IB study (Part 2) is to estimate the R0 resection rate associated with the FOLFIRINOX/NIS793 therapy administered as neoadjuvant therapy., Up to 8 months after baseline
Disease-Free Survival (DFS), Defined as the time from time of surgical resection of pancreas tumor to the earlier of progression or death due to any cause. Participants alive without disease progression are censored at date of last disease evaluation., Up to approximately 6 years after baseline|Progression-free survival (PFS), Defined from the date of randomization or registration to the earliest date of progressive disease or death due to any cause. Progressive disease must be documented objectively in one or more local and/or distant sites. PFS will be censored at the date of last follow-up for patients alive without documented progression.

PFS curves will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared using the logrank test., Up to approximately 6 years after baseline|Overall survival (OS), Defined as date of randomization or registration to the date of death due to any cause and censored at the date of last follow-up for patients still alive. OS curves will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and compared using the log-rank test., Up to approximately 6 years after baseline|Pathologic complete response (pCR), Defined as no residual cancer in the pancreatic tissue at surgical resection. The pCR rate will be reported among all eligible patients as well as among resected patients with 95% confidence intervals based on the exact binomial distribution. Comparisons between arms may be assessed using Fisher's exact test., up to 8 months after baseline|Resection rate, Percentage of patient who undergo resection of their primary tumor, regardless of microscopic location of residual tumor to location of the resection margin., up to 8 months after baseline
This is a two part Phase 1B study investigating whether NIS793 improves the clinical benefit of FOLFIRINOX treatment for metastatic pancreas adenocarcinoma.The first part is a safety run-in using a dose escalation strategy to determine the recommended phase 2 dose of the drug NIS793. In the second part participants will be a randomized assigned to receive either FOLFIRINOX plus NIS793 or FOLFIRINOX alone.

NIS793 binds to the protein that can be found on tumor cells, called TGFβ, thereby preventing its role in cancer metastasis (spreading). FOLFIRINOX is a combination of 4 chemotherapy drugs that may help shrink tumors.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved NIS793 as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has approved FOLFIRINOX as a treatment option for metastatic pancreas adenocarcinoma The FDA has not approved the combination of NIS793 and FOLFIRINOX as a treatment for any disease.

The research study procedures include screening for eligibility and study treatment including evaluations and follow up visits.

It is expected that about 50 people will take part in this research study.

Novartis, a pharmaceutical company, is supporting this research study by providing funding for the study, including the study drug.