Pembrolizumab After Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best way to give pembrolizumab after radiation therapy in treating patients with pleural malignant mesothelioma. Radiation therapy uses high energy radiation to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving pembrolizumab after radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Pleural Malignant Mesothelioma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Palliative Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, For each study cohort, will tabulate toxicities by dose, severity, and relationship to the treatment plan. If treatment-related toxicity rate is more than 30%, the trial will stop., Up to at least 4 months from start of radiation therapy
Progression-free survival assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors version 1.1, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 5 years|Overall survival assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors version 1.1, Estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability of pembrolizumab administered after radiation therapy in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) who have not undergone extrapleural pneumonectomy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess progression-free and overall survival (progression free survival \[PFS\] and overall survival \[OS\], respectively) in patients receiving pembrolizumab after radiation therapy for malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate biomarkers of interest, including cytokines, measurements of T-cell activation, and serum exosome micro ribonucleic acid (RNA)s with the delivery of pembrolizumab after radiation therapy for MPM.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT 1: Patients undergo hemithoracic radiation therapy.

COHORT 2: Patients undergo palliative radiation therapy over 1-3 weeks to only the region of palliation (a region that does not include the entire side of the chest or thorax).

After radiation therapy, both cohorts receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over about 30 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 weeks for 48 weeks, then every 12 weeks for up to 5 years.