Nintedanib Compared With Placebo in Treating Against Radiation-Induced Pneumonitis in Patients With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery and Are Undergoing Chemoradiation Therapy
This trial studies the side effects and how well nintedanib works compared to a placebo in treating against radiation-induced pneumonitis (inflammation of the lungs) in patients with non-small cell lung cancer that cannot be removed by surgery and are undergoing chemoradiation therapy. Nintedanib may help shrink or slow the growth of radiation-induced pneumonitis by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cells to grow and may prevent the growth of new blood vessels. It may also help reduce the recurrence of non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Carcinoma|Radiation-Induced Pneumonitis|Stage II Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIA Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIB Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Nintedanib|OTHER: Placebo|PROCEDURE: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Portion of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Grade 2 or Higher Radiation Pneumonitis, Will compare the rate of symptomatic radiation pneumonitis in patients who received nintedanib versus placebo. Assessed using the intent-to-treat principle and a one-sided exact test about the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel correlation and regression test.

The grade 2 or higher radiation penumonitis is identified by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events., At 6 months after completion of chemoradiation
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Graded According to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The frequency of toxicities will be tabulated by grade., Up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be reported using standard Kaplan-Meier methods. Comparisons of overall survival between study arms may utilize the two-sided stratified log-rank test., 1 year survival, with follow-up assessed up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival will be reported using standard Kaplan-Meier methods. Comparisons of progression-free survival between study arms may utilize the two-sided stratified log-rank test., 1 year progression-free survival, with follow-up assessed up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Percent Changes in Overall Quality of Life and Symptom Scores, Percent changes in the quality of life and symptom scores may be compared between study arms using the Wilcoxon rank sum or independent sample t-tests, as appropriate.

The quality of life scores are obtained using the Lung Cancer Symptom Scale (LCSS) The scores range from 0 to 68, where 0 indicates poor quality of life and 68 indicates good quality of life. The percent change from baseline was calculated as 100\*(post treatment - baseline) / baseline., Baseline up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Percent Change in Pulmonary Function Tests, Percent change in pulmonary function test, relative to baseline, will be evaluated within each study arm using the Wilcoxon signed rank or paired t-tests, as appropriate. Changes in pulmonary function tests may be compared between study arms using the Wilcoxon rank sum or independent sample t-tests, as appropriate., Baseline up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Changes in Radiation Pneumonitis Scores, Changes in radiation pneumonitis scores, relative to baseline, will be evaluated within each study arm using the Wilcoxon signed rank or paired t-tests, as appropriate. Changes in radiation pneumonitis scores may be compared between study arms using the Wilcoxon rank sum or independent sample t-tests, as appropriate.

The radiation pneumonitis scores were obtained using semi quantitative analysis will be performed for the presence of ground-glass opacity, consolidation, reticulation, mosaic perfusion, traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing for each lung zone and scored on a four point scale (0 = no involvement, 1 ≤ 25%; 2 = 26 50%; 3 = 51 75% and 4 ≥ 76%). The scores are averaged across two radiologists., Baseline up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Responses Rates, Complete response and complete/partial response rates will be reported by study arm and chemotherapy regimen using Wilson 95% confidence intervals. The responses rates will be compared between study arms using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel exact test.

The objective tumor response was assessed using RECIST 1.1:

1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any lymph nodes must have a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm.
2. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.
3. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression.
4. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameter while on study.

Overall response = CR + PR., Up to 2.5 years post-treatment|Biomarker Analysis, The tethered cationic lipoplex nanoparticle biochip, microfluidic cationic lipoplex nanoparticle biochip and real-time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction measurements for the expression of micro ribonucleic acid -1, -21, -127 and -155 will be made. The micro ribonucleic acid expressions, vitamin D levels, and mitochondrial deoxyribonucleic acid levels will be treated as continuous and reported by radiation pneumonitis status using the mean, median and standard deviation. Comparisons will be made between groups using a two-sided permutation t-test., Up to 97 days post-treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of the combination of durvalumab with nintedanib in patients with unresectable Stage II/III/oligometastatic IV non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). (Phase I) II. To compare the rate of symptomatic radiation pneumonitis at 6 months after completion of chemoradiation in patients with unresectable stage II/III/ oligometastatic IV NSCLC who completed chemoradiation followed by nintedanib versus placebo. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the quality of life (QOL) in patients who received nintedanib versus placebo during active treatment until 6 months after completion of treatment.

II. To compare the progression-free survival, overall survival and 1-year progression-free survival rate in patients who received nintedanib versus placebo.

III. To compare pulmonary function test (PFT) results and radiation pneumonitis (RP) score in patients who received nintedanib versus placebo.

IV. To compare the composite index (based on PFT, RP score and QOL) at the end of active treatment and 6 months after completion of treatment between patients who received nintedanib versus placebo.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate blood-based biomarkers in evaluating risk of developing radiation pneumonitis as well as the efficacy of nintedanib.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nintedanib followed by a phase II study. Patients who are not receiving durvalumab as standard of care prior to establishment of the recommended phase II dose are randomized to 1 of 2 arms. Patients receiving durvalumab are assigned to Arm III.

ARM I: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive nintedanib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive placebo capsules PO BID on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM III: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of radiation therapy, patients receive nintedanib PO BID on days 1-28 and standard of care durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment with nintedanib repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles and treatment with durvalumab repeats every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, between 76-97 days, between 166-187 days, and then between 2.5 years.