Targeted Stem Cells Expressing TRAIL as a Therapy for Lung Cancer
The aim of the study is to evaluate the safety and anti-tumour activity of MSCTRAIL in addition to chemotherapy in metastatic Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients in a Phase I/II clinical trial.

In the phase I study, patients will receive cisplatin and pemetrexed on day one followed by MSCTRAIL cells on day 2. This constitutes one cycle of treatment. Each patient will receive 3 cycles of treatment at 21 day intervals. The aim of phase 1 is to estimate the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of MSCTRAIL in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy.

During the phase II study patients will be randomised to either the intervention or the control arm of the study. All patients in both arms will receive cisplatin and pemetrexed on day one of treatment. Patients randomised to the intervention arm will receive the recommended dose of MSCTRAIL from Phase I on day 2 whilst those in the control arm will receive a placebo. As this is a double blind trial both patients and the clinical team will not know whether they are receiving MSCTRAIL or a placebo product. The aim of phase 2 is to assess tolerability and preliminary efficacy of MSCTRAIL in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy.
Adenocarcinoma of Lung
GENETIC: MSCTRAIL|DRUG: Placebo
Determination of recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of MSCTRAIL in combination of cisplatin and pemetrexed treatment (Phase 1), The dose recommended for phase II (i.e. the Maximum Tolerated Dose, or MTD) will be the largest dose that has an estimated risk of causing DLT (defined as MSCTRAIL related adverse event of grade 3 or higher) equal or closest to the target level of 35% (the target toxicity level). A modified Bayesian continual reassessment method (mCRM) will be used., until 21 days after the last dose of MSCTRAIL|Tumour response rate (Phase 2), At each visit patients will be assigned a RECIST visit response of CR, PR, SD or PD depending on the status of their disease compared to baseline and previous assessments.

Objective tumour response rate is defined as the percentage of patients who have a confirmed visit response of CR or PR prior to any evidence of progression (as defined by RECIST 1.1)., 12 weeks post 1st MSCTRAIL infusion
Frequency of adverse events (Phase 1 & 2), Adverse events (AEs) will be listed individually by patient and dose group (dose and schedule). The number of patients experiencing each AE will be summarised by the CTCAE grade. The number and percentage of patients with adverse events in different categories (eg, causally related, CTCAE grade ≥3 etc) will be summarised by dose group, and events in each category will be further summarised., Up to 12 weeks post 1st MSCTRAIL infusion|Best Overall response (Phase 1&2), Tumour response data will be summarised using the following response categories: Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), Progressive Disease (PD) and Non-Evaluable (NE).

Waterfall plots (bar charts) indicating the percentage change from baseline in sum of the diameters of target lesions (TLs) may be produced depending on how much data is obtained in patients with measurable disease at baseline. These may be individual patient plots of changes in tumour size over time or dose level plots with the best percentage change per patient displayed., Until end of follow up period (Phase 1: 1 year post last treatment, Phase 2: 2 years post last treatment)|Progression free survival (Phase 1 & 2), Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from randomization to time of progression (as per RECIST v1.1 criteria) or time of death from any cause. PFS will be analysed using KM plots and will be presented along with median PFS., End of follow up period (Phase 1: 1 year post last treatment, Phase 2: 2 years post last treatment)|Overall survival (Phase 2), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization to time of death from any cause. OS will be analysed using KM plots and will be presented along with median OS., End of follow up period (2 years post last treatment)
Phase 1:

A first-in-human, single-centre, accelerated, dose de-escalation design with a modified Bayesian continual reassessment method (mCRM) to estimate the recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) of MSCTRAIL in combination with pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy.

The first cohort of three patients will receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on day 1 followed by the highest dose of MSCTRAIL, 4x10\^8 cells, on day 2. This schedule will be repeated every 21 days until 3 cycles of treatment have been delivered. It is expected that patients will receive 4-6 cycles of cisplatin/pemetrexed in total and may continue with maintenance pemetrexed thereafter.

If there are no DLTs within the first cohort then a subsequent expansion cohort will receive the same regimen of cisplatin/pemetrexed and MSCTRAIL and data from this expansion cohort will be used to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). Between 6 and 12 patients will be enrolled into phase I of the trial depending on the number of cohorts assessed.

Phase 2:

A multicentre, randomised, placebo controlled trial comparing MSCTRAIL at the RP2D and pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy versus pemetrexed/cisplatin chemotherapy alone.

Patients will be randomised 1:1 between the intervention and control arm. Patients entering the intervention arm will receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on day 1 followed by MSCTRAIL at the RP2D on day 2. This schedule will be repeated after 21 days for 3 cycles.

Patients in the control arm with receive cisplatin 75mg/m2 and pemetrexed 500mg/m2 on day 1 and placebo on day 2. This will be repeated after 21 days for up to 3 cycles.

At this point patients will receive a further 1-3 cycles of pemetrexed/ cisplatin alone. They may then be eligible for maintenance pemetrexed according to clinical response as directed by their Oncologist in line with local standard of care.