A Phase 1b/2 Study of Safety and Efficacy of Rociletinib in Combination With MPDL3280A in Patients With Advanced or Metastatic EGFR-mutant NSCLC
This clinical research study is being carried out in two parts, Phase 1 and Phase 2. The primary purpose of the Phase 1 portion of the study is to observe the safety of the combination of rociletinib and MPDL3280A in EGFR-mutant NSCLC patients.

The primary purpose of the Phase 2 portion of the study is to evaluate the safety and anti-tumor effects of the combination of rociletinib and MPDL3280A, at the best doses for the combination determined in Phase 1, in patients with EGFR-mutant NSCLC.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: MPDL3280A
Number of Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, as Assessed by NCI CTCAE v4.03, The safety analyses will be performed using the safety population. Safety data analysis will be conducted on all patients receiving at least one dose of rociletinib or MPDL3280A., Continuously, up to approximately 18.5 months|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of Rociletinib and Its Metabolites, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. Cmax will be estimated for rociletinib, using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Treatment Day 1 and Day 15|Time to Maximum Concentration (Tmax) for Rociletinib and Rociletinib Metabolites, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. Tmax will be estimated for rociletinib, using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Treatment Day 1 and Day 15|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of Rociletinib and Metabolites, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. Cmin will be estimated for rociletinib, using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Approximately every 6 weeks up to 24 months|Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Rociletinib and Rociletinib Metabolites, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. AUC0 24 will be estimated for rociletinib, using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Treatment Day 1 and Day 8|Maximum Concentration (Cmax) of MPDL3280A, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. Cmax, for MPDL3280A will be assessed using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Cycle 1 Day 1|Minimum Concentration (Cmin) of MPDL3280A, Blood sampling for PK analyses of both rociletinib and MPDL3280A will be conducted in all patients treated with rociletinib and MPDL3280A. Cmin for MPDL3280A will be assessed using non-compartmental models. Comparisons across dose levels will be made to assess proportionality., Approximately every 6 weeks up to 24 months|Objective Response Rate Per RECIST v1.1 in Phase 2, To determine the efficacy of the combination of rociletinib and MPDL3280A based on overall response rate per RECIST v1.1 in the following groups of patients:

* Group A: Patients with EGFRm advanced or metastatic NSCLC who have not previously received an EGFR TKI or chemotherapy.
* Group B: Patients with EGFRm advanced or metastatic NSCLC who have progressed on a prior EGFR TKI., Approximately every 6-9 weeks
Objective Response Rate Per Modified RECIST v1.1, Incorporating Immune-related Criteria, in Phase 2, Conventional response criteria may not be adequate to characterize the antitumor activity of immunotherapeutic agents like MPDL3280A, which can produce delayed responses that may be preceded by initial apparent radiological progression, including the appearance of new lesions. Therefore, modified response criteria have been developed that account for the possible appearance of new lesions and allow radiological progression to be confirmed at a subsequent assessment. In this protocol, patients will be permitted to continue study treatment even after modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for progressive disease are met if the benefit-risk ratio is judged to be favorable.

These modified criteria are derived from RECIST version 1.1 (v1.1) conventions and immune related response criteria (irRC)., Approximately every 6-9 weeks, up to 24 months|Duration of Response Per RECIST v1.1 and Modified RECIST v1.1, Incorporating Immune-related Criteria, in Phase 2, Conventional response criteria may not be adequate to characterize the antitumor activity of immunotherapeutic agents like MPDL3280A, which can produce delayed responses that may be preceded by initial apparent radiological progression, including the appearance of new lesions. Therefore, modified response criteria have been developed that account for the possible appearance of new lesions and allow radiological progression to be confirmed at a subsequent assessment. In this protocol, patients will be permitted to continue study treatment even after modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for progressive disease are met if the benefit-risk ratio is judged to be favorable.

These modified criteria are derived from RECIST version 1.1 (v1.1) conventions and immune related response criteria (irRC)., Approximately every 6-9 weeks, up to 24 months|Progression-free Survival Per RECIST v1.1 and Modified RECIST v1.1, Incorporating Immune-related Criteria, in Phase 2, Conventional response criteria may not be adequate to characterize the antitumor activity of immunotherapeutic agents like MPDL3280A, which can produce delayed responses that may be preceded by initial apparent radiological progression, including the appearance of new lesions. Therefore, modified response criteria have been developed that account for the possible appearance of new lesions and allow radiological progression to be confirmed at a subsequent assessment. In this protocol, patients will be permitted to continue study treatment even after modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria for progressive disease are met if the benefit-risk ratio is judged to be favorable.

These modified criteria are derived from RECIST version 1.1 (v1.1) conventions and immune related response criteria (irRC)., Approximately every 6-9 weeks, up to 24 months|Number of Patients Alive at Study Termination, Patients who received the combination of rociletinib and MPDL3280A alive at the termination of this study., Up to approximately 18.5 months|Longitudinal Changes in Blood Based Biomarkers (eg, Mutations in EGFR) in ctDNA, Tumor tissue, plasma, and blood specimens will be used for pharmacodynamic assessment of rociletinib and/or MPDL3280A activity, to evaluate the concordance of mutant EGFR detection between tissue and plasma, and to explore biomarkers that may be predictive of response or resistance to rociletinib and/or MPDL3280A. Biomarkers and changes in biomarker status will be investigated for associations with rociletinib and/or MPDL3280A exposure, safety, and clinical activity. Given the limited sample size, no formal statistical analysis is planned., Blood samples will be collected from each patient approximately every 3 weeks, up to 24 months
This is a Phase 1b/2, open-label, non-randomized, multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of rociletinib administered in combination with MPDL3280A.

Phase 1: This will be the dose finding phase of the study. Patients will be enrolled to available Dosing Cohort. Patients who have progressed after prior first- or second-generation EGFR TKI, regardless of T790M mutation status, will be enrolled.

Phase 2: Patients will be enrolled into 2 groups. Group A will enroll eligible first-line patients who are EGFR TKI treatment-naïve and chemotherapy-naïve. Group B will enroll eligible patients who have progressed after prior first- or second-generation EGFR TKI, regardless of T790M mutation status.