Safety and Efficacy Study of Pembrolizumab (MK-3475) Combined With Lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) as First-line Intervention in Adults With Advance Melanoma (MK-7902-003/E7080-G000-312/LEAP-003)
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) combined with lenvatinib (MK-7902/E7080) compared to pembrolizumab alone (with placebo for lenvatinib) as first-line treatment in adults with no prior systemic therapy for their advanced melanoma.

The primary study hypotheses are that: 1) The combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib is superior to pembrolizumab and placebo as assessed by Progression-free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), and 2) The combination of pembrolizumab and lenvatinib is superior to pembrolizumab and placebo as assessed by Overall Survival (OS). For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ.
Malignant Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Lenvatinib|DRUG: Placebo for lenvatinib
Progression-free Survival (PFS) as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR) Per Modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1), PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 46 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from date of randomization to date of death from any cause., Up to approximately 46 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR) as Assessed by BICR Per RECIST 1.1, ORR is defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who have a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per RECIST 1.1. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 46 months|Duration of Response (DOR) as Assessed by BICR Per RECIST 1.1, For participants who demonstrated CR (disappearance of all target lesions) or PR (at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions), DOR is defined as the date of the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Per RECIST 1.1, PD is defined as ≥20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of ≥5 mm. Note: The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered PD. For this study, RECIST 1.1 has been modified to follow a maximum of 10 target lesions and a maximum of 5 target lesions per organ., Up to approximately 46 months|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment., Up to approximately 46 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant, temporally associated with the use of study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who discontinued any study treatment due to an AE is presented., Up to approximately 46 months|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 [QLQ-C30] Global Health Status (GHS)/Quality of Life (QoL) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The GHS/QoL combined score consists of participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" GHS/QoL responses range in score from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better outcome., Baseline and Week 21|Change From Baseline in European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer [EORTC] Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 [QLQ-C30] Physical Function (PF) Score, The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The PF Score consists of participant responses to questions regarding PF (5 questions about daily activities \[strenuous activities, long walks, short walks, bed/chair rest and needing help with eating, dressing, washing themselves or using the toilet\]). For PF, responses range in score from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better outcome., Baseline and Week 21|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) Based on Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 GHS/QoL Score, TTD is defined as the time from Baseline to 1st onset of a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) in EORTC-QLQ-C30 GHS Score. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. TThe GHS/QoL Score consists of participant responses to the questions "How would you rate your overall health during the past week?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week?" GHS/QoL responses range in score from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better outcome. A longer TTD indicates a better outcome, Up to approximately 30 months|Time to True Deterioration (TTD) Based on Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 in Physical Function (PF) Score, TTD is defined as the time from Baseline to 1st onset of a ≥10-point negative change (decrease) in EORTC-QLQ-C30 PF Score. The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The PF Score consists of participant responses to questions regarding PF (5 questions about daily activities \[strenuous activities, long walks, short walks, bed/chair rest \& needing help with eating, dressing, washing themselves or using the toilet\]. For PF, responses range in score from 0 to 100, with a higher score indicating a better outcome., Up to approximately 30 months
As of 03-April-2023 active participants, investigator, and sponsor personnel or delegate(s) involved in the treatment administration or clinical evaluation of the participants will be unblinded.