Expectancy as Alternative to Treatment for Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia Grade 2 Among Women 25 - 30 Years of Age
In the Swedish organised cervical screening program precursors of cervical cancer are detected and treated. Most precursor lesions detected by screening heal spontaneously. Those who progress do it slowly. There are three levels from light; CIN1, moderate; CIN2 to severe; CIN3. Women with CIN3 are always treated, regardless of age, according to current clinical guidelines. Women with CIN2 who are below the age of 25 years are offered active expectance for up to two years because there is good evidence that they will spontaneously heal their lesions (regression) in 40-70% of the cases during that time.

Method of treatment is today an excisional procedure of the cervix most often by Large loop excision of the transformation zone (LLETZ/LEEP) Treatment increases the risk of premature birth in a future pregnancy. In 2015 about 1800 excisional procedures of the transformation zone of the cervix were performed in the Västra Götalands regionen (VGR) om Sweden. The average age of first-time mothers in Sweden is rising and in 2014 it was 29 years. Postponed childbearing raises the question whether it is possible to refrain from surgery even for the group of women over 25 years old, with proven CIN2. Existing studies suggest that cure of CIN2 in the age group of and above 25 takes place in the same extent as under 25 years of age.There is lack of evidence concerning clinical follow-up.

In a prospective multicenter clinical cohort study (observational study) with careful monitoring, the investigators will examine what proportion of CIN2 changes regress spontaneously within two years in women, 25-30 years old, and if human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 may can be a marker for poor regression in this group. Instead of LLETZ, active expectance is offered to women this age with CIN2 in five gynecological clinics in VGR. The study protocol includes gynecologist visits every 6 months for two years, including cytology, colposcopy and directed biopsies of the cervix. Power calculation shows 160 women needs to be included, which is expected to occur within one year from the start.
CIN2|Therapy
PROCEDURE: Expectancy
Proportion of regress, Proportion of women with CIN2 at inclusion who will regress to CIN1 or no evidence of disease, 24 months from date of visit when CIN2 was diagnosed
Proportion of regress for women with HPV16, Proportion of women with CIN2 and HPV 16 at inclusion who will regress to CIN1 or no evidence of disease, Proportion of women with CIN2 at inclusion who will regress to CIN1 or no evidence of disease
Available in Swedish