Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW in Detecting Tumors in Patients With Malignant Glioma Undergoing Surgery
This study is a phase 1-2 trial that evaluates the best dose of cetuximab-IRDye 800CW and how well it works in detecting tumors in patients with malignant glioma who are undergoing surgery. Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW is an optical imaging agent that may help detect tumor cells when a special camera is used.
Brain Neoplasm|Malignant Glioma
BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Cetuximab-IRDye 800CW|PROCEDURE: Tumor resection
Tumor to Background Ratio (TBR), Tumor to background ratios (TBR) will be generated from still images by comparing the relative fluorescence of normal and tumor tissue. The average fluorescence will be compared to the average fluorescence of the surrounding tissue using the paired student's T test for each specimen., 1 day
Incidence of Adverse Events, The incidence of serious and non-serious adverse events is reported as the number of adverse events (Grade 2 or higher), as graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0. Data are reported by number of events by treatment level., Up to 30 days
This is a dose-escalation study of cetuximab-IRDye 800CW. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes and a lower dose of cetuximab IRDye800 IV over 30 minutes to 1 hour on day 0.

COHORT II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 30 minutes and a higher dose of cetuximab IRDye800 IV over 30 minutes to 1 hour on day 0.

All patients undergo standard of care surgical resection of tumor on days 2-5.

After completion of study, patients are followed up at days 10 and 30.

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

Determine the efficacy of cetuximab-IRDye 800CW (cetuximab IRDye800) in intraoperatively identifying malignant glioma compared to surrounding normal central nervous system tissue, as measured by tumor-to-background ratio.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

Determine the tolerability of the cetuximab IRDye800 as an imaging agent in subjects undergoing resection of malignant glioma.