A Self-management Based Survivorship Intervention for Chinese Cancer Survivors
This study, using a sequential multiple assessment randomized controlled trial (SMART) approach, will evaluate a cancer survivorship care intervention on physical symptom distress, weight management, self-efficacy in managing cancer and health-related quality of life among Chinese patients recently completed curative cancer treatment.
Physical Symptom Distress|Weight Management|Neoplasms
BEHAVIORAL: Cancer survivorship care intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Step-up targeted personalized intervention|BEHAVIORAL: First stage control intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Second stage control intervention
Proportion of symptom distress caseness (distress prevalence), The 13-items Edmonton Symptom Checklist (ESAS) will be used to assess symptom distress. The ESAS assesses 13 common symptoms, including pain, fatigue, sleep difficulties, numbness, worrying, feeling sad, or feeling nervous, using a 10-point Likert scale. Patients rating at least one symptom at =\>7 will be categorized as moderate-to-severe symptom distress cases., 4-months post-baseline|Proportion of patients with suboptimal weight control, Anthropometric measures include weight, height, and body composition, which will be measured in light clothing and without shoes. Weight and body composition including body fat, total body water, muscle mass, bone mass and BMI will be measured using a high-quality segmental body composition monitor (Tanita InnerScan BC545N). Height will be measured to 0.01cm using a portable calibrated stadiometer (SECA Stadiometer). To minimise measurement error, weight and height will be measured twice with accepted values within 0.1kg and 0.3cm, respectively. If either measure falls outside the accepted range, a third measure will be taken. The average of the two acceptable measures will be used in the analysis., 4-months post-baseline|Change in total score of health-related quality of life, The Standard Chinese version of the European Organization Research Treatment Cancer (EORTC) general quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30) will assess health-related quality of life. The EORTC QLQ-C30 includes 30 items that measure five function scales (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain, and nausea/vomiting), a global health QoL subscale, five single symptom items (dyspnea, appetite loss, sleep disturbance, constipation, and diarrhea) and financial difficulty., Baseline and 4-months post-baseline
Change in total scores of self-efficacy, The process outcome is change in total scores of self-efficacy assessed by Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Disease scale (SEMCDS) from baseline to 4-months post-baseline, and baseline to 12 months post-baseline. This is a 6-item scale assessing patients' confidence to perform six self-management behaviours. Each item is rated on a 10-point Likert scale. A high score indicates high self-efficacy., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline|Fear of cancer recurrence, The 42-items Fear of cancer recurrence inventory comprised of seven subscales will be used to assess the change of fear of cancer recurrence (FCR). Each item is rated on a 5-point Likert Scale with a total score ranging from 0 to 168. Higher scores indicate greater FCR. The subscale, Severity will be used as a screening tool for high level of FCR. A score of 13 or higher was optimal for screening., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline|Illness perception, Cognitive and emotional representations of illness were measured using the nine-item Brief Illness Perception Questionnaire (B-IPQ)., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline|Proportion of symptom distress caseness (distress prevalence), The 13-items Edmonton Symptom Checklist (ESAS) will be used to assess symptom distress. The ESAS assesses 13 common symptoms, including pain, fatigue, sleep difficulties, numbness, worrying, feeling sad, or feeling nervous, using a 10-point Likert scale. Patients rating at least one symptom at =\>7 will be categorized as moderate-to-severe symptom distress cases., 12-months post-baseline|Proportion of patients with suboptimal weight control, Anthropometric measures include weight, height, and body composition, which will be measured in light clothing and without shoes. Weight and body composition including body fat, total body water, muscle mass, bone mass and BMI will be measured using a high-quality segmental body composition monitor (Tanita InnerScan BC545N). Height will be measured to 0.01cm using a portable calibrated stadiometer (SECA Stadiometer). To minimise measurement error, weight and height will be measured twice with accepted values within 0.1kg and 0.3cm, respectively. If either measure falls outside the accepted range, a third measure will be taken. The average of the two acceptable measures will be used in the analysis., 12-months post-baseline|Health state, Health questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) including five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression will be used to assessed participants' health state. Each dimension has 5 levels from no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems to extreme problems. The EQ-5D-5L also records participants self-rated health on a vertical visual analogue scale, where higher values indicate better health the participants can imagine., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline
Demographic data, Demographic data including age, gender, marital status, education level, occupation and monthly family income will be assessed by self-reported questionnaire., Baseline|Clinical data, Clinical data will be extracted from medical records., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline|Lifestyle behavior, Lifestyle behavior e.g. drinking and smoking habit will be assessed using a single item question., Baseline, 4-months post-baseline, and 12 months post-baseline
This study, using this SMART approach, will assess the effect of a cancer survivorship care intervention on physical symptom distress, self-efficacy in managing cancer, weight management and health-related quality of life among Chinese patients recently completing curative cancer treatment. First, the investigators will test the effect of a one-off, multidisciplinary team face-to-face assessment (namely, the cancer survivorship clinic) with personalized advice on symptom management, lifestyle modification and anxiety management in reducing the case prevalence of symptom distress, increasing the proportion meeting the weight management criteria, and improving self-efficacy and health-related quality of life among cancer survivors in post-treatment survivorship, in comparison to those receiving skills-based pamphlets for symptom management and lifestyle recommendations. Secondly, this study aims to explore if a step-up targeted personalized intervention is more effective for patients who continue to have symptom distress and/or not to meet the weight management criteria if patients have attended cancer survivorship clinic (i.e. the embedded adaptive intervention) in comparison to those receiving skills-based pamphlets.