Trabectedin Plus Radiotherapy in Soft Tissue Sarcoma Patients
Phase I-II trial that combines trabectedin plus radiotherapy for tumor reduction response measure in four cohorts of patients:

Cohort A: Patients with diagnosis of non-operable or unresectable or not oncologically recommended metastasectomy of limited to lung metastases soft tissue sarcoma.

Cohort B: Patients with locally advanced resectable Myxoid Liposarcoma. Cohort C: Patients with retroperitoneal and resectable soft tissue sarcoma (liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma).

Cohort D (Phase II only): Patients with well differentiated liposarcoma and G2 dedifferentiated liposarcoma (with less than 30% dedifferentiated component).

Phase I: escalating dose of 1.3 or 1.5 mg/m2. Phase I for cohort C: de-escalating dose of 1.5 or 1.3mg/m2 Radiotherapy for cohort A: 30Gy in 10 fractions (3Gy/fraction). Radiotherapy for cohort B: 45Gy in 25 fractions (1.8Gy/fraction). Radiotherapy for cohort C: 45Gy in 25 fractions (1.8Gy/fraction).

Radiotherapy for cohort D: 45Gy in 25 fractions (1.8Gy/fraction). A translational substudy is developed to analyse different biomarkers predictive value.

Cohorts A and B are closed to recruitment in 2023.
Liposarcoma, Myxoid|Sarcoma, Soft Tissue|Leiomyosarcoma|Liposarcoma|Pleomorphic Liposarcoma
DRUG: Trabectedin|RADIATION: Radiotherapy
Tumor size, Image tumor assessment: RECIST response for the combination of trabectedin plus radiation therapy in cohorts A and B. CHOI response for the combination of trabectedin plus radiation therapy in cohort C., every 6 weeks for 24 months|Relapse-free survival., In cohort D to improve 5-year relapse-free survival (RFS), decreasing the 5-year relapse percentage from 30% to 10% in patients with well differentiated liposarcoma with cellular component and dedifferentiated G2 retroperitoneal resected liposarcoma (20% increase in RFS)., 5 years.
Number and grade of adverse events, CTCAE v4.03 adverse events registration to evaluate safety, every 21 days until 30 days after last dose or during 25 months|Number of months without progression, Progression free survival (PFS), 24 months|Number of months alive, Overall survival (OS), 24 months|Tumor size, Image tumor assessment measured by Choi criteria., every 6 weeks during 24 months (cohort A) or every 4months during 36 months (cohort B and C)|Questionnaire, QLQ-C30 EORTC questionnaire to evaluate patient quality of life, every 3 months during 24 months|Overall response rate (ORR), Sum of complete responses, partial responses and stable diseases, every 6 weeks during 24 months|relapse free survival (RFS) at 3 years (cohorts C and D), percentage of relapses from diagnosis at 3 years, After 3 year since last patient treatment initiation|relapse at 5 years (cohorts C and D), number of months without relapse from treatment initiation until 5 years., After 5 years since last patient treatment initiation|Tumor cells response to the treatment, Number of tumor necrotic cells, Week 11, at surgery|Predictive and prognostic biomarker, percentage of protein and RNA expression of FAS, Ca2+ and NER pathways in tumor samples obtained at baseline and at surgery (approx week 11), Baseline and week 11 (at surgery)
In this study investigators plan to measure tumor response (RECIST and Choi criteria) when administering trabectedin standard dose or inferior with simultaneous radiotherapy treatment. The hypothesis states that administering trabectedin at 1.3mg/m2 or ≤1.5mg/m2 plus Radiotherapy 30-45Gy shows synergic activity that turns into tumor shrinkage.

A phase I trial (dose escalation -or de-escalation for cohort C- level of 1.3 or 1.5 mg/m2) will provide the proper dose level to perform a phase II trial to measure RECIST and Choi response, progression free survival, overall survival and register safety and quality of life details.

Four cohorts are indicated for this trial:

Cohort A: Patients with diagnosis of non-operable or unresectable or not oncologically recommended metastasectomy of limited to lung metastases soft tissue sarcoma.

Cohort B: Patients with locally advanced resectable Myxoid Liposarcoma, Cohort C:Patients with retroperitoneal and resectable soft tissue sarcoma (liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma).

Cohort D: Patients with well differentiated liposarcoma and G2 dedifferentiated liposarcoma (with less than 30% dedifferentiated component) Unlimited cycles of chemotherapy are considered to be beneficial for cohort A patients, whereas cohort B and C only 3 cycles are indicated. About radiotherapy treatment, 30Gy will be given to cohort A patients, whereas cohort B and C will receive 45Gy. TCs and MRI are selected for imaging purposes.

Phase I:

For cohorts A and B:Trabectedin at two dose escalation levels:

0 1.3 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

1 1.5 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

For cohort C:Trabectedin at two dose de-escalation levels:

0 1.5 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

-1 1.3 mg/m2 as a 24h I.V. infusion

Administration of trabectedin with a portable pump, i.v infusion of 24h, in cycles of 3 weeks.

Premedication:

* 4 mg oral dexamethasone 24h and 12h before chemotherapy administration.
* 20 mg I.V. dexamethasone 30minutes before treatment.
* Ondansetron or analogue will also be given prior to trabectedin.

Pathology review, radiology review and radiotherapy review are performed to each patient.

Several biomarkers are selected to perform FFPE tumor assays in relation to prediction