Lenalidomide, Cytarabine, and Idarubicin in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide when given together with cytarabine and idarubicin in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Biological therapies, such as lenalidomide, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop cancer cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and idarubicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving lenalidomide together with cytarabine and idarubicin may kill more cancer cells.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia Arising From Previous Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Inv(16)(p13.1q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(16;16)(p13.1;q22); CBFB-MYH11|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(8;21)(q22;q22); RUNX1-RUNX1T1|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia With t(9;11)(p22;q23); MLLT3-MLL|Adult Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia With t(15;17)(q22;q12); PML-RARA|Alkylating Agent-Related Acute Myeloid Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Previously Treated Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Recurrent Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Untreated Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Idarubicin|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
MTD of lenalidomide, determined according to incidence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, 28 days
Qualitative and quantitative toxicities, graded using NCI CTCAE version 4.0, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Therapeutic response, assessed using International Working Group criteria, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Pharmacodynamic studies, including micro-ribonucleic acid (miRNA)-181 family and target gene expression, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP), alpha gene (CEBPA) expression, and genes involved in erythroid differentiation, Baseline, day 5, and day 28
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide in combination with conventional chemotherapy in two separate cohorts of patients with 1) relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 2) age \>= 60 with untreated AML and recommend starting doses for phase II studies of this combination of agents.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the qualitative and quantitative toxicities of these combinations of agents in regard to organ specificity, time course, predictability, and reversibility.

II. To document the therapeutic response of these combinations of agents in patients with poor risk AML.

III. To conduct pharmacodynamic studies to investigate the potential mechanism of lenalidomide activity in this trial.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

INDUCTION:

COHORT I: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21, cytarabine intravenously (IV) continuously over 96 hours on days 5-8, and idarubicin IV over 1 hour on days 5-7.

COHORT II: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-21, cytarabine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 5-11, and idarubicin as above.

Patients with residual disease on day 18 undergo a second course of induction therapy.

CONSOLIDATION:

COHORT I: Patients receive lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-14, idarubicin IV over 1 hour on days 5-6, cytarabine IV continuously on days 5-7. Treatment continues for 1 course in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients 2 receive 4 courses of consolidation therapy comprising lenalidomide PO QD on days 1-14 and cytarabine IV every 12 hours on days 5, 7, and 9. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.