Optimization and Individualization of Diagnostic Scintigraphy Protocol and Minimally Invasive Radio-guided Parathyroid Surgery
The radio-guided technique offers both help with in-vivo identification and ex-vivo confirmation of parathyroid adenoma. In-vivo accuracy is most important but its results are not satisfactory. The aim of this study was to evaluate if there is a beneficial effect of individualized timing of surgery using preoperative multi-phase 99mTc-MIBI single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/CT on in-vivo characteristics of minimally invasive radio-guided parathyroidectomy.
Primary Hyperparathyroidism|Thyroid Disease|Parathyroid Diseases|Parathyroid Adenoma
PROCEDURE: Conventional (dual-phase) SPECT/CT|PROCEDURE: Multi-phase SPECT/CT|PROCEDURE: Conventional minimally-invasive radio-guided parathyroidectomy|PROCEDURE: Individualised minimally-invasive radio-guided parathyroidectomy
Success of surgery (%), Surgery was considered successful if there were lowering of parathyroid hormone serum level and calcemia to normal and histological confirmation of parathyroid gland adenoma/ hyperplasia., 3 months|In-vivo sensitivity (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. The parathyroid tissue was considered pathologic when the in-vivo radioactive counting was at least 1.15 times more than the background., 3 months|In-vivo specificity (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. The parathyroid tissue was considered pathologic when the in-vivo radioactive counting was at least 1.15 times more than the background., 3 months|In-vivo accuracy (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. The parathyroid tissue was considered pathologic when the in-vivo radioactive counting was at least 1.15 times more than the background., 3 months|Ex-vivo sensitivity (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. Radioactive ex-vivo counts in adenoma/ hyperplastic parathyroid gland greater than 20% of background was used as cutpoint for cure., 3 months|Ex-vivo specificity (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. Radioactive ex-vivo counts in adenoma/ hyperplastic parathyroid gland greater than 20% of background was used as cutpoint for cure., 3 months|Ex-vivo accuracy (%), Calculated from number of true positive, false positive, true negative and false negative cases identified by gamma probe during surgery. Radioactive ex-vivo counts in adenoma/ hyperplastic parathyroid gland greater than 20% of background was used as cutpoint for cure., 3 months
Operating time (minutes), The operating time will be measured and recorded., Duration of surgery|Pathological parathyroid gland volume (ml), The pathological parathyroid gland volume in millilitres will be measured and recorded., Duration of surgery|Pathological parathyroid gland localisation (ectopic x eutopic), The pathological parathyroid gland localisation (ectopic x eutopic) will be recorded., Duration of surgery
Despite the relatively accurate preoperative topographic information, minimally invasive parathyroid surgery can still be very challenging, especially in the case of small adenoma in ectopic localization. Radioguided technique offers both help with in-vivo identification and ex-vivo confirmation of adenoma. Excellent ex-vivo radio guidance results are referred. But, in-vivo accuracy is most important but its results are not satisfactory. The aim of this study was to evaluate if there is a beneficial effect of individualized timing of surgery using preoperative multi-phase 99mTc-MIBI single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT)/CT on in-vivo characteristics of minimally invasive radio-guided parathyroidectomy.