PET Imaging of Intracranial Cancers With 18F-FSPG
The aim of this study is to explore the efficacy of 18F-FSPG in the detection of primary or metastatic brain cancer lesions confirmed by a standard of truth, preferably histology. This is a single center, open labelled, non-randomized study. A total of 30 subjects with brain tumor or brain metastases will be enrolled. All different stages of malignancies will be recruited, including those with different types of pathologies and grades, and newly diagnosed or recurrent disease.
Brain Cancer
DRUG: 18F-FSPG
Location and number of lesions and their location as detected by 18F-FSPG uptake above background in the brain of each study subject following visual inspection of the 18F-FSPG PET/CT scans, 0-75 min
Location and number of lesions detected in the whole body following visual inspection of the 18F-FSPG PET/CT scans, 0-75 min|Location and number of lesions detected in the brain and whole body following visual inspection of the CT, MR or other available PET (e.g. 18F-FDG, 18F-FLT, etc.)., <4 weeks from FSPG PET/CT scan|Lesion size measured by means of ROIs drawn on (contrast-enhanced) MR or CT., <4 weeks from FSPG PET/CT scan|18F-FSPG standardized uptake value (SUV) measured in each detected lesion and in the background (region without lesion)., 0-75 min|SUV measured in each detected lesion and in the background using other available PET tracers (e.g. 18F-FDG, 18F-FLT, etc.)., < 4 weeks from FSPG PET/CT scan|Determination of FSPG PET/CT image quality based on visual inspection., 0-75 min
Subjects with various types and grades of primary brain tumors or brain metastasis will be recruited. The brain tumor needs to be either histologically or clinically confirmed. 18F-FSPG will be injected intravenously into the subjects, and PET/CT imaging performed. Images will be assessed visually and quantitatively.

Available tumor specimens will be analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for example for expression of components of the system xc- and associated biomarkers.