Assessment of safEty, Tolerability, Radiation Dosimetry, and Imaging Properties of 89Zr-labeled giRenTuximab (89Zr-Girentuximab) in patIents With Non-musclE-iNvasive Bladder CancEr (NMIBC)
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of 89Zr-labeled girentuximab (89Zr-TLX250) as a novel, carbonic anhydrase IX (CAIX) targeted PET/CT radiopharmaceutical for the imaging of Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) patients.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: 89Zr-TLX250 PET/CT
PET/CT imaging 89Zr-girentuximab biodistribution assessment, Standardized Uptake Values (SUVs) of bladder and whole body uptake will be evaluated by PET/CT imaging at T0, T0+2 hours, T0+20 hours and T0+44 hours, 3 days|89Zr-girentuximab Blood dosing, 89Zr-girentuximab activity dosing in blood will be measured (Becquerel/ml : Bq/ml) at T0+20 hours, 2 days
Assess the toxicity of 89Zr-girentuximab administered by intravesical instillation, Number of adverse events due to intravesical administration of 89Zr-Girentuximab up to Day 30 after 89Zr-girentuximab administration. Adverse events will be assessed by using CTC-AE scale version 5.0, 30 days|Radiation protection management, Radiation exposure of staff (extremities, lens and Whole body: µSv), 3 days|Radiation protection management, Radiopharmaceutical management from intravesical instillation to elimination (surfasic contamination: counts/cm2 or Bq/cm2), 1 day|Assess the degree of CAIX expression by immunohistochemistry of the tumor, The expression of CAIX will be assessed by immunohistochemistry in tumor sample from TransUrethral Resection of Bladder Tumor (TURBT) or cystectomy, 3 months
There is a real need for treatment of NMIBC. Currently, treatment options include Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) intravesical immunotherapy and mitomycin C chemotherapy. These therapies are efficient for some time but relapses repeat them at more and more close intervals and finally patients are refractory to them and require a radical cystectomy.

CAIX is expressed in 70% to 90% of bladder cancers but not in normal urothelial tissue. CAIX is expressed on the membrane of Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer cells.

Girentuximab, an anti-CAIX antibody could be a promising target in NMIBC. PET/CT with Girentuximab labelled with 89Zirconium will be used for diagnosis purpose. 89Zr-Girentuximab will be administered by intravesical instillation.

In this study, patients with Non-Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer (NMIBC) will be enrolled in this study after confirmation of their eligibility.

A single intravesical administration of 89Zr-Girentuximab will be performed at day 0.

Multiple PET/CT imaging sessions will be performed on day 0, day 1 and day 2 in order to evaluate the bladder and the whole body 89Zr girentuximab uptake.