Single Pulmonary Nodule Investigation
A small proportion of patients with lung cancer present with a solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN). This is an important group of patients because if it is lung cancer, presentation as a SPN represents early disease, which following surgery has a high 5 year survival rate. However as not all SPNs are lung cancer it would be unethical to biopsy every case. Clinical guidelines recommend that SPNs should undergo an initial (FDG)-PET/CT scan, which may give more information about the SPN and may indicate if it is likely to be lung cancer. However in many cases it does not and current practice is to monitor the SPN with a series of CT scans over 2 years to look for changes or growth which may/ but not always indicate lung cancer. If no changes are observed over 2 years the SPN is considered not lung cancer. This is both expensive for the National Health Service (NHS) and worrying for the patient in terms of monitoring CT costs and delayed treatment due to length of time to diagnosis.

This study examines the diagnostic capacity of using a different CT scan. Dynamic Contrast Enhanced -CT(DCE-CT). DCE-CT and FDG-PET/CT scans give different information about the SPN and the investigators will look to see if information from either scan or combined information from both scans may be better in the diagnosis of early stage lung cancer. The investigators will also undertake a review of previous studies that have used these scans and use data from both the review and the trial to look at the cost effectiveness of using DCE-CT in the diagnosis of SPN.

The trial will recruit 375 people who have a SPN detected by a normal CT scan which requires a FDG-PET/CT scan. In addition they will receive a DCE-CT scan either on the same day or within three weeks of the FDG-PET/CT scan. This is the only extra procedure that will take place to normal NHS care, however we will collect clinical and outcome data over the next two years.

The study is coordinated by Southampton University clinical trials unit. Recruitment between January 2013 - April 2016, from up to 14 UK sites. Data analysis and conclusions are expected by the end of 2018.

The study is funded by the NIHR-HTA
Malignant Neoplasm of Lung
Effectiveness of DCE-CT scans and FDG-PET scans to diagnose early lung cancer in SPN, Primary outcome measures will include diagnostic test characteristics (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy) for 18FDG-PET/CT and DCE-CT in relation to a subsequent clinical diagnosis of lung cancer., 2 years|cost effectiveness of using DCE-CT scans in the diagnosis of early lung cancer in SPN, The outcome measures used in the economic model will include accuracy, estimated life expectancy, and quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs will be estimated from an NHS perspective. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios will compare management strategies with DCE-CT to strategies without DCE-CT., 2 years
Effectiveness of DCE-CT scans combined with FDG-PET scans to diagnose early lung cancer in SPN, Diagnostic test characteristics combined DCE-CT/18FDG-PET in relation to a subsequent clinical diagnosis of lung cancer., 2 years|Effectiveness of using analysis of the CT image from the FDG-PET/CT in conjunction with data from the FDG incorporation to diagnose early lung cancer in SPN, Diagnostic test characteristics for 18FDG-PET/CT with incorporation of CT appearances in relation to a subsequent clinical diagnosis of lung cancer., 2 years
Indication: Lung Cancer

Primary Objectives:

* To determine with high precision, the diagnostic performances of DCE-CT and 18FDG-PET/CT in the NHS for the characterisation of solitary pulmonary nodules (SPNs).
* To use decision analytic modelling to assess the likely costs and health outcomes resulting from incorporation of DCE-CT into management strategies for patients with SPNs.

Secondary Objectives:

* To assess, within an NHS setting, the incremental value of incorporating the CT appearances of a SPN into the interpretation of integrated PET/CT examinations.
* To assess whether combining DCE-CT with 18FDG-PET/CT is more accurate and/or cost-effective, in the characterisation of SPNs, than either test used alone or in series.
* To document the nature and incidence of incidental extra-thoracic findings on 18FDG-PET/CT undertaken for the characterisation of SPNs and model their impact on cost-effectiveness.

Rationale:

A small proportion of patients with lung cancer present with a solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN) on diagnostic imaging tests. This is an important group of patients because presentation as a SPN represents early disease with high 5 year survival rates following surgical resection. However, not all SPNs are due to lung cancer and the accurate characterisation of SPNs for diagnosis of early stage lung cancer is a diagnostic challenge with significant associated health costs.

Widely adopted clinical guidelines for the subsequent investigation of SPNs recommend serial CT scans to look for subsequent growth with biopsy to confirm diagnosis. UK, National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines recommend 18FDG-PET for the assessment of SPN in cases where a biopsy is not possible or has failed.

DCE-CT and 18FDG-PET scans give different information about the SPN. Information from either scan or combined information from both scans may be better in the diagnosis of early stage lung cancer.

Trial Design: Prospective Observational

Sample size: 375

Non-CTIMP:Non interventional trial

Concomitant Therapy: As per local practice

Primary Trial Endpoints:

Primary outcome measures will include diagnostic test characteristics (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy) for 18FDG-PET/CT and DCE-CT in relation to a subsequent clinical diagnosis of lung cancer. The outcome measures used in the economic model will include accuracy, estimated life expectancy, and quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs will be estimated from an NHS perspective. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios will compare management strategies with DCE-CT to strategies without DCE-CT.

Secondary Trial Endpoints:

Secondary outcome measures will include diagnostic test characteristics for 18FDG-PET/CT with incorporation of CT appearances and combined DCE-CT/18FDG-PET. The incidence of incidental extra-thoracic findings on 18FDG-PET/CT, subsequent investigations and costs will also be determined.

Total Number of Sites: up to 14