Remote COVID-19 Symptom Tracking for Cancer Patients at Home During the Pandemic
This project will evaluate the benefit of an automated home symptom monitoring system, Symptom Care at Home, to track COVID-19 symptoms, provide instructions to reduce COVID-19 exposure, and reduce cancer symptom severity during the COVID-19 pandemic. The investigators will determine if Symptom Care at Home decreases the need for cancer patients to use emergency departments and hospitalization for cancer symptom care. The project addresses the urgent public health need for cancer patients to reduce their risk for COVID-19 exposure.
Oncology
OTHER: SCH Intervention
Health Care Utilization Comparison, Retrospective chart review of health care utilization of both groups, 5 months
Patient Social Isolation, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System- Short Form v2.0 Social Isolation- 6a. The PROMIS Social Isolation item bank assesses perceptions of being avoided, excluded, detached, disconnected from, or unknown by, others. The item bank does not use a time frame (e.g. over the past seven days) when assessing social isolation. A higher PROMIS T-score represents more of the concept being measured. For negatively-worded concepts like Social Isolation, a T-score of 60 is one SD worse than average. By comparison, a Social Isolation Tscore of 40 is one SD better than average., Monthly for 5 months|COVID-19 Symptoms, Social distancing and Hygiene Practices, Patient reported outcomes collected in automated SCH system daily of COVID-19 symptoms, social distancing and hygiene practices, and COVID-19 related cancer treatment impacts and daily living impacts on cancer patients receiving the SCH -COVID intervention. The investigators will describe patterns of cancer patients and their adherence to social distancing and hygiene practices over time., Daily for 5 months|Patient Global Health, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Scale v1.2- Global Health Survey Short Form 10. High scores reflect better functioning. To find the total raw score for these scales with all questions answered, sum the values of the response to each question for a given respondent., Monthly 5 months|Patient Anxiety/Depression, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) measurement of psychological distress in non-psychiatric patients., Monthly 5 months|Impact of Pandemic and Health Related Quality of Life, COVID-19: Impact of the Pandemic and Health Related Quality Of Life (HRQOL) in Cancer Patients and Survivors, Baseline then 3 months and 5 months from baseline|Cancer symptom severity, Patient reported outcomes collected in automated SCH system daily of cancer symptom severity on a scale of 0-10 with 0 being no pain and 10 being worst pain imaginable. Description of symptom severity over time will be reported, Daily for 5 months.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, there is an opportunity to rapidly flex platforms for remote cancer symptom tracking and management to incorporate COVID-19 symptom monitoring and reinforce risk-reducing precautions. It is critical for cancer patients at home to monitor early indications of COVID-19 symptoms, to adhere to mitigation strategies, as well as to manage their cancer-related symptoms so that patients can decrease the need to utilize the emergency department or unplanned hospitalizations for symptom care, which is a common occurrence during cancer care. Remote monitoring adds a layer of home-based support which can benefit all cancer patients and is not restricted to geographic proximity to oncology providers or distance from a cancer center. The Symptom Care at Home (SCH) system, utilized for the Principal Investigator's currently funded R01CA206522 project to monitor and manage patient-reported (PRO) cancer symptoms, includes these necessary elements: remote PRO symptom monitoring, patient self-management information, and oncology provider (nurse practitioner) notification of symptoms exceeding pre-set thresholds. The overall purpose of this project is to describe the impacts of COVID-19 on cancer patients' well-being at home and evaluate, through a randomized clinical trial, if a systematic patient-reported outcomes (PRO) reporting process improves cancer care during a pandemic as compared to usual care. Specific Aims include: 1) describe patient-reported COVID-19 and cancer symptom trajectories over time, COVID-19 social distancing and hygiene practices, and COVID-19 related cancer treatment and daily living impacts on cancer patients receiving the SCH-COVID intervention and 2) compare the SCH-COVID intervention to enhanced usual care on health care utilization, COVID-19 diagnosis and outcomes, cancer treatment delays or changes, and patient-reported global health, anxiety, mood, and feelings of social isolation.