Sintilimab Plus Chidamide in the Treatment of Relapsed and Refractory Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma: a Multicenter Phase II Study
This is a multicenter prospective single arm phase II study. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficiency of Sintilimab combined with Chidamide in the treatment of relapsed/refractory cutaneous T-cell lymphoma.
Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Chidamide
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the proportion of patients who achieved CR or PR as their best response., From date of signing the informed consent until the date of first confirmed progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 104 weeks
Adverse Events, Graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, From date of signing the informed consent until the date of first confirmed progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 104 weeks|Duration of response (DOR), DOR was defined as the time from the first occurrence of CR or PR to the first diagnosis of PD or relapse., From date of signing the informed consent until the date of first confirmed progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 104 weeks|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as interval from patient enrollment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause., PFS was defined as interval from patient enrollment to the date of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 104 weeks
This is a single-arm phase 2 study with fixed does of combined Sintilimab and Chidamide regimen. This regimen is repeated every 21 days. Sintilimab (200mg) is administered intravenously on day 1 of every cycle. Chidamide is used 20mg twice per week continuously. From the beginning of the trial, sindilimab will be used for 96 weeks, until disease progress, intolerable toxicity or patient/investigator discretion. Patients will continue to receive Chidamide treatment until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion.

The response will be evaluated every 2 cycles in the first 36 weeks and every 4 cycles from week 36 till the end of treatment. The patients who achieve complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR), and stable disease (SD) will receive further treatment. The patients with progressed disease (PD) will be continue on the treatment and reassess after 4-8 weeks to rule out false progression. On confirmation of PD , patients will be withdrawn from the trial and receive salvage regimens.