Patient Reported Symptom Control With THC or CBD Use
This study compares patients' attitudes regarding marijuana products for medical use and other treatments for cancer-related pain. This study may help researchers gain better understanding of patient's perception on their use of marijuana products in treating cancer-related pain and other common cancer-related symptoms.
Cancer-Associated Pain|Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Proportion of patients who prefer opioids with THC-marijuana and/or opioids with cannabidiol (CBD) to opioids alone for their cancer pain relief, Will be calculated and reported along with a 95% confidence interval., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Perception of cancer-related symptom relief, Will be associated with use of THC-Marijuana and/or CBD. Will be evaluated by generalized linear mixed models to account for the dependency among those patients who have used/are using both., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient perception of THC-marijuana and/or CBD, Compared to cancer treatments in treatment of cancer. Will be evaluated by generalized linear mixed models to account for the dependency among those patients who have used/are using both., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To evaluate patient report of adverse effects experienced while using THC-marijuana and/or CBD, Patient reported outcomes will be summarized by frequency and proportion., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To evaluate patient reported concerns while using THC-marijuana and/or CBD, Patient reported outcomes will be summarized by frequency and proportion., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient attitude of dosing, forms and use of THC-marijuana and/or CBD, Patient reported outcomes will be summarized by frequency and proportion., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Demographic, physical and psychosocial factors that influence patient perception and attitudes of THC-marijuana and/or CBD, Will be evaluated by Wilcoxon rank sum (Kruskal-Wallis) test or chi-square (Fisher's exact) test, when appropriate. To further evaluate these associations, univariate and multivariable logistic regression models will be fitted. Multiple comparisons will be adjusted where appropriate., through study completion, an average of 1 year|To explore the difference of patient perception of THC-marijuana and CBD in cancer centers in a legalized vs. a non-legalized state., Differences will be explored., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient reported preference of THC-Marijuana and CBD for cancer pain and symptom relief of patients, Will be explored between a Supportive Care Center vs. Integrative Medicine Center at University of Texas (U.T.) MD Anderson. Will be evaluated by Wilcoxon rank sum (Kruskal-Wallis) test or chi-square (Fisher's exact) test, when appropriate. To further evaluate these associations, univariate and multivariable logistic regression models will be fitted. Multiple comparisons will be adjusted where appropriate., through study completion, an average of 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the patient's reported preference for cancer pain improvement with opioids, opioids with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)-marijuana and/or opioids with cannabidiol (CBD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the association between perception of cancer-related symptom relief and use of THC-marijuana and/or CBD.

II. To compare patient perception of THC-marijuana and/or CBD versus (vs.) cancer treatments in treatment of cancer.

III. To evaluate patient report of adverse effects experienced while using THC-marijuana and/or CBD.

IV. To evaluate patient reported concerns while using THC-marijuana and/or CBD. V. To evaluate patient attitude of dosing, forms and use of THC-marijuana and/or CBD.

VI. To evaluate demographic, physical and psychosocial factors that influence patient perception and attitudes of THC-marijuana and/or CBD.

VII. To explore the difference of patient perception of THC-marijuana and CBD in cancer centers in a legalized vs. a non-legalized state.

VIII. To explore the patient reported preference of THC-marijuana and CBD for cancer pain and symptom relief of patients in a Supportive Care Center vs. Integrative Medicine Center at University of Texas (U.T.) MD Anderson.

OUTLINE:

Patients' medical records are reviewed and then complete questionnaires over 27 minutes.