Selinexor With Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of selinexor when give together with standard chemotherapy, high dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride, in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Selinexor may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving selinexor together with standard chemotherapy may be a better treatment for patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Mitoxantrone Hydrochloride|DRUG: Selinexor
MTD of selinexor based on the dose-limiting toxicity graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, 56 days
Allo-SCT success rate, After completion of induction therapy (6 months to a year)|Incidence of adverse events graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.03, Up to 30 days post-treatment|Incidence of non-relapse mortality, Up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS) rates, The median duration of OS will be estimated based on the 50th percentile of the Kaplan-Meier distribution; additional summary statistics will be presented, including the 25th and 75th percentiles, 95% CIs on the median and other percentiles, and proportion of censored data. Kaplan-Meier survival rates will also be calculated., Date induction chemotherapy to the date of disease relapse or death, assessed up to 1 year|Progression-free survival (PFS) rates, PFS will be estimated based on the 50th percentile of the Kaplan-Meier distribution; additional summary statistics will be presented, including the 25th and 75th percentiles, 95% confidence intervals (CIs) on the median and other percentiles, and proportion of censored data. Kaplan-Meier survival rates will also be calculated., Date induction chemotherapy to the date of disease relapse or death, assessed up to 1 year
MRD status as measured by WT1 transcript levels using quantitative real time-PCR, Cox models may be used to determine MRD status during the treatment course., Up to 1 year
This phase I trial studies the side effects and the best dose of selinexor when give together with standard chemotherapy, high dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride, in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Selinexor may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cytarabine and mitoxantrone hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving selinexor together with standard chemotherapy may be a better treatment for patients with acute myeloid leukemia.