Epigallocatechingallate (EGCG) in Cardiac AL Amyloidosis
In a proportion of patients with AL amyloidosis there is no improvement of cardiac function despite hematologic response to treatment. The aim of the study is to assess whether treatment with EGCG increases the rate of cardiac response in patients with AL amyloidosis who completed chemotherapy.
Primary Amyloidosis of Light Chain Type
DRUG: Diuretics (plus antiarrhythmic drugs, i.e. amiodarone, in case of complex ventricular arrhithmias)|DRUG: Diuretics (plus antiarrhythmic drugs, i.e. amiodarone, in case of complex ventricular arrhythmias) plus EGCG
Cardiac response, The primary objective is to assess whether treatment with EGCG increases the rate of cardiac response following chemotherapy in patients with AL amyloidosis. The primary endpoint is cardiac response at 6 months., 6 months
Rate of adverse events, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months|Rate of cardiac progression, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months|Time to cardiac progression, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months|Rate of cardiac events, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months|Time to cardiac events, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months|Survival, The secondary objectives are to assess the safety of EGCG in cardiac AL amyloidosis, to determine whether EGCG can prevent or delay cardiac progression and to compare survival of patients receiving EGCG compared to subjects receiving SST., 6 months
This will be a phase II open-label randomized trial. Patients with AL amyloidosis and cardiac involvement who have achieved at least partial hematologic response after chemotherapy will be randomized to receive standard supportive therapy (SST) or SST plus Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). After giving written informed consent, the patients will be evaluated for eligibility. Briefly, the subjects with a biopsy-proven diagnosis of AL amyloidosis who achieved at least partial response after chemotherapy, who are not planned to receive further chemotherapy and who have significant cardiac dysfunction will be considered eligible. The patients will be stratified according to the quality of hematologic response and to the severity of cardiac involvement. Following stratification, the patients will be randomized to receive SST or SST plus EGCG. The study comprises 3 periods: screening (including stratification and randomization), treatment (with evaluations of response every 2 months) followed by the end-of-treatment evaluation and follow-up. Therapy will continue for up to 1 year. After treatment patients will be followed for 3 years.