Effect of Physician Attire on Patients' Preference of Physician
The goal of this research study is to learn about the effects of a doctor's characteristics on participant's preference for a doctor. Researchers also want to learn about how a doctor's characteristics affect participant's options about professionalism and compassion.
Malignant Neoplasms of Independent (Primary) Multiple Sites
BEHAVIORAL: Video|BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaires
Participant's Perception of Physician's Compassion, Participant's rating of physician's compassion assessed by using a validated 5-item tool consisting of five 0-10 numerical rating scales assessing five dimensions: warm-cold, pleasant-unpleasant, compassionate- distant, sensitive- insensitive, and caring-uncaring.

The sum of the five scales gives a final score representing physician's compassion on a scale of 0 to 50., 1 day
Participant's Perception of Physician's Professionalism, Participant's rating of physician's professionalism assessed by using a validated 4-item tool assessing politeness, listening, explaining the condition and treatment to the patient and patient's involvement in treatment decisions. Participant rates from poor-1 to very good-5.

The sum of these 4 items gives a final score representing physician's level of professionalism on a scale of 4 to 20., 1 day
If participant agrees to take part in this study, participant will be asked to complete 7 questionnaires. These questionnaires ask about participant's gender, date of birth, ethnicity, marital status, level of education, religion, and information about the disease and treatments participant received. Participant will also be asked about any symptoms participant may be having, how much trust participant has in the medical profession in general, how participant feels about the disease, any depression or anxiety participant may have, and participant's level of hopefulness. These questionnaires should take about 6 minutes to complete.

Participant will be shown 2 videos (each 3 minutes long) and then participant will complete questions about each video. Participant will be asked to rate the doctors participant saw on their professionalism and their compassion.

Caregivers will be required to leave the room or stay silent while the participant is watching the videos.

The total time to watch the videos and complete the second set of questionnaires should be about 7 minutes.

Finally, participant will be asked to complete 3 questionnaires about participant's overall preference for a doctor. These questionnaires will take about 5 minutes to complete.

Length of Study Participation:

Participation in this study is complete after participant answers the final questionnaires.

Overall, this study should take about 30 minutes to complete.

This is an investigational study.

Up to 108 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.