Phase I, Multicenter, Dose Escalation Study of DCR-MYC in Patients With Solid Tumors, Multiple Myeloma, or Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and tolerability of the investigational anticancer drug DCR-MYC. DCR-MYC is a novel synthetic double-stranded RNA in a stable lipid particle suspension that targets the oncogene MYC. MYC oncogene activation is important to the growth of many hematologic and solid tumor malignancies. In this study the Sponsor proposes to study DCR-MYC and its ability to inhibit MYC and thereby inhibit cancer cell growth.
Solid Tumors|Multiple Myeloma|Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma|Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumors|PNET|NHL
DRUG: DCR-MYC
Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability, Part A: 1 patient cohorts with 100% dose increase between cohorts until \>/= Grade 2 study drug-related toxicity during Cycle 1, then expand to 3 patients and move to Part B.

Part B: 3 patient cohorts with 50% dose increase between cohorts until study drug-related DLT during Cycle 1, then expand to 6 patients and move to Part C.

Part C: 3 to 6 patient cohorts with 25% dose increase between cohorts until \> 1 study drug-related DLT, then stop escalation and expand previous MTD cohort to 18 patients., Cycle 1 (3 weeks), longer if DRC-MYC is continued; with 30 days follow-up after last dose
DCR-MYC levels in blood, Samples to be collected Week 1 (Day 1, 2, and 4) and Week 2 (Day 8 and 11), Cycle 1; Week 1 and Week 2|DCR-MYC biological activities, Collection of blood samples for cytokine measurements Week 1 (Day 1, 2, and 4) and Week 2 (Day 8), Cycle 1; Week 1 and Week 2|DCR-MYC biological activities, PET imaging to be performed Cycle 1/Day 1, Cycle 1/Day 11, and End of Cycle 4, Cycle 1, Cycle 2, and Cycle 4|DCR-MYC biological activities, Tumor biopsies (2 total) to be performed in MTD expansion cohort only. Patients will have biopsies performed prior to Cycle 1 and Cycle 2/Day 11, Cycle 1 and Cycle 2|Preliminary antitumor activity, Evaluation for evidence of objective response or disease stabilization, After Cycle 2 (6 weeks), then at 6 week intervals if DCR-MYC is continued
In this first-in human study, DCR-MYC will be administered by 2 hour intravenous (IV) infusion, once weekly for 2 weeks followed by a rest week (3 weeks = 1 cycle), to patients with either solid tumor malignancies, multiple myeloma, or non-Hodgkins lymphoma that have not responded to previous treatment. The highest safe dose of DCR-MYC that can be administered will be identified. In addition, the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile, potential pharmacodynamic (PD) effects, as well as the antitumor activity of DCR-MYC will be evaluated.

There will be 2 expansion cohorts at the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) (or highest safe dose identified for further study which may be lower):

* Biopsy Cohort: 6 patients, tumor biopsies to be performed pre-dosing and Cycle 2/Day 11; same assessments as dose escalation cohorts
* PNET Cohort: Up to 20 patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors; same assessments as dose escalation cohorts, however fewer PD (cytokine) assessments and no PK assessments