EUS-GE vs ES for Palliation of Gastric Outlet Obstruction
Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) is a common complication of luminal malignancies which is associated with substantial morbidity. Palliation of GOO has traditionally been through the surgical bypass of the obstructed lumen by creating an opening between the stomach and small intestine. However, In recent years, a less invasive approach, i.e. endoscopic stenting, has gained wide acceptance to treat unresectable malignant gastric outlet obstruction. In this study, the investigators are going to compare the safety and efficacy of the two different endoscopic techniques including Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided gastroenterostomy (EUS-GE) and enteral stenting (ES).
Gastric Outlet Obstruction
DEVICE: Lumen-apposing metal stent|DEVICE: Self-expandable metal stent
Rate of gastric outlet obstruction recurrence, Recurrence of nausea, vomiting, and inability to tolerate PO intake up to 3 months after the procedure confirmed either endoscopically and/or radiographically., 3 months
Technical success rate, Adequate positioning and deployment of the stent(s) as determined endoscopically and radiographically., Day of procedure|Clinical success rate, The improvement of at least 1 point in the gastric outlet obstruction score within 7 days after stent insertion., 1 week|Length of procedure, Day of procedure|Adverse events rate, 1 week|Post-procedure length of hospital stay, 1 week|Reintervention rate for recurrent gastric outlet obstruction, 3 months|Quality of Life SF-36 questionnaire scoring, The SF-36 general health questionnaire consists of 36 questions evaluating the patient's perception of their quality of life (QoL) in the following eight subscales: physical functioning (PF), role limitations due to physical problems (RP), role limitations due to emotional problems (RE), energy/fatigue (EF), emotional well-being (EW), social functioning (SF), bodily pain (BP) and general health (GH). Subscale scores range from 0 to 100, with 100 being the best and 0 being the worst quality of life., 3 months|Overall survival rate, 1 year|Time to recurrent gastric outlet obstruction, 3 months|Gastric Outlet Obstruction Scoring system (GOOSS), Diet toleration will be scored based on the Gastric Outlet Obstruction Scoring System (GOOSS). The scoring ranges from 0 to 3 in the following format:

0 = no oral intake, 1 = liquids only, 2 = soft solids, 3 = low-residue or full diet, 1 year|Stent Dysfunction Rate, the restenosis of the stent due to tumor ingrowth or overgrowth, stent migration, or fracture, 3 months|Duration of stent patency, Calculated from the time of stent placement to the time of stent dysfunction, 3 months
In recent years, Enteral Stenting (ES) has commonly been used as the first line management of unresectable malignant gastric outlet obstruction. On the other hand, Endoscopic ultrasonography-guided gastroenterostomy (EUS-GE) is the most recently described technique for palliation of malignant GOO, which has the theoretical potential to minimize the risk for stent occlusion while maintaining the less invasive endoscopic approach. This novel endoscopic treatment entails creating a gastroenterostomy under EUS-guidance thereby bypassing the occluded lumen. This endoscopic technique has been performed to treat patients with GOO since 2014, and recent retrospective studies have shown that EUS-GE was comparable to ES in terms of efficacy and safety; however, EUS-GE was associated with a significantly decreased risk of recurrent GOO and reinterventions.

Based on the investigator's clinical experience for the last three years and the above-mentioned study results, the goal of this study is to prospectively compare EUS-GE with ES in the management of unresectable malignant gastric outlet obstruction. The investigators hypothesize that EUS-GE is associated with comparable technical and clinical success and safety profile while requiring fewer re-interventions.