New Onset Diabetes Management for Earlier Detection of Pancreatic Cancer (NODMED)
Bluestar Genomics has developed a non-invasive test that aids in detection of occult pancreatic cancer in patients with new onset type II diabetes (NOD) who are 50 years old or older. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the performance of Bluestar Genomics early-detection pancreatic cancer test in a clinical setting. The study is prospective, longitudinal and interventional; tests will be ordered and results returned to site-investigators. If the test returns a pancreatic cancer signal "detected" result the study participant will undergo MRI imaging to evaluate for the presence of pancreatic cancer. The study is planned to enroll 6,550 newly diagnosed type 2 diabetic subjects according to inclusion and exclusion criteria.
Pancreatic Cancer
OTHER: MRI/Imaging
Positive Predictive Value (PPV), defined as the proportion of participants with pancreatic neoplasia diagnosis out of all subjects with pancreatic signal "detected" test result., 12 months or until diagnostic resolution|Negative Predictive Value (NPV), defined as the proportion of participants with no pancreatic neoplasia diagnosis out of all the subjects with pancreatic signal "not detected" test results., 12 months or until diagnostic resolution|Specificity, defined as the proportion of participants with pancreatic signal "not detected" results out of all subjects with no pancreatic neoplasia diagnosis., 12 months or until diagnostic resolution
Time to pancreatic cancer diagnosis, Median time to pancreatic cancer diagnosis (using Pancreatic Cancer Signal Detection testing) relative to new onset diabetes (NOD) diagnosis compared to Median time to pancreatic cancer diagnosis relative to NOD diagnosis in the absence of Pancreatic Cancer Signal Detection testing, based on published data, 12 months or until diagnostic resolution|Stage Shift, Stage Shift in NODs with Pancreatic Cancer in subjects that have undergone Pancreatic Cancer Signal Detection testing vs subjects without Pancreatic Cancer Signal Detection testing, 12 months or until diagnostic resolution
This is a prospective longitudinal and interventional study of the Bluestar Genomics early detection pancreatic cancer test. The test will be ordered and results returned to site-investigators. The study is planned to enroll 6,550 male and female, ≥ 50 years of age and newly diagnosed with type II diabetes (within 90 days prior to enrollment). NOD subjects will be assessed for eligibility and consented. Each subject can undergo up to 2 blood draws and electronic medical record search at 12 months from diabetes diagnosis.

The study population will be targeted to enroll a subjects with a BMI \< 32. Subjects ≥ 50 years of age will be divided into two cohorts based on age as described below:

Cohort 1 = 65 years old or older Time 0 (T0) = blood draw within 90 days of diabetes diagnosis Time 1 (T1) = blood draw 6 month draw from diabetes diagnosis Time 2 (T2) = 12 months from diabetes diagnosis, no blood draw, only medical record search for all patients for evidence of pancreatic neoplasia developed after T1.

Cohort 2 = 50 - 64 years old Time 0 (T0) = blood draw within 90 days of diabetes diagnosis Time 1 (T1) = blood draw 6 month draw from diabetes diagnosis Time 2 (T2) = 12 months from diabetes diagnosis, no blood draw, only medical record search for all patients for evidence of pancreatic neoplasia developed after T1.

Imaging Strategy MRI imaging (or alternate imaging if subject is unable to undergo MRI) will be performed on subjects whose test result is "detected".

If the imaging study results are abnormal, the subject will be referred back to their enrolling clinician for additional diagnostic work up as part of routine healthcare. If pancreatic cancer or other pancreatic lesion is diagnosed, the diagnostic reports will be collected as part of the study clinical data.