Radiomics Analysis of Focal Liver Lesions Based on Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound Imaging
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) substantially improves the potential of ultrasound (US) for the identification and characterization of focal liver lesions (FLLs). Compared to contrasted-enhanced MRI and CT, it has some unique advantages, such as the absence of ionizing radiation, and easy operability and repeatability. However, the efficacy of CEUS in diagnosing liver lesions is challenged by several factors including being highly dependent on doctor's experience, low signal-to-noise ratio, and low interobserver agreement. Therefore, it is a beneficial attempt to construct an intelligent CEUS diagnosis system using digital information technology. This study aims to collect standard data of CEUS cines recordings and develop deep learning model for accurate segmentation, detection and classification of liver lesions.
Focal Liver Lesions|Contrast-enhanced Ultrasound
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: diagnosis
AUC value, Area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC）, through study completion, an average of 7 year|specificity, diagnosis specificity of intelligent CEUS analysis, through study completion, an average of 7 year|sensitivity, diagnosis sensitivity of intelligent ultrasound analysis, through study completion, an average of 3 year
Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) substantially improves the potential of ultrasound (US) for the identification and characterization of focal liver lesions (FLLs). Compared to contrasted-enhanced MRI and CT, it has some unique advantages, such as the absence of ionizing radiation, and easy operability and repeatability. However, the efficacy of CEUS in diagnosing liver lesions is challenged by several factors including being highly dependent on doctor's experience, low signal-to-noise ratio, and low interobserver agreement. Therefore, it is a beneficial attempt to construct an intelligent CEUS diagnosis system using digital information technology. This study aims to collect standard data of CEUS cines recordings and develop deep learning model for accurate segmentation, detection and classification of liver lesions.