Ph I/II Trial of Systemic VSV-IFNβ-NIS in Combination With Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy in Patients With Select Solid Tumors
The safety run-in portion of this study is designed to identify the optimal dose of VSV-IFNβ-NIS in combination with pembrolizumab in patients with solid tumors and follows the 3+3 design. The expansion portion will use one-sample binomial designs to assess the efficacy of the combination in patients with refractory NSCLC or NEC. The optimal dose (RP2D) determined in the dose escalation portion of the trial will be used for the expansion portion. The study has been conducted with a dose of 1.7 × 1010 as the recommended phase II dose in an expansion cohort of 10 patients with NSCLC. However, current data suggests that VSV-IFNβ-NIS doses of up to 1.7 × 1011 is safe and likely more efficacious. Thus, this study will test a second VSV-IFNβ-NIS dose level, 1.0x1011 TCID50. A safety assessment will be carried out after 3 patients are enrolled. If this dose schedule is well tolerated and virus PK are not negatively impacted, both the NSCLC and NEC expansion cohorts will open using this dose schedule. If 2 of the first 3 patients or 2 of the first 6 patients experience a DLT, the dose will be de-escalated to 5 x 1010. The safety run-in/dose escalation portion of this study is expected to require a minimum of 3 patients and a maximum of 18 patients (6 patients per dose level). The expansion portion of this study is expected to require a minimum of 10 per cohort. The NSCLC and NEC patients enrolled at the identified optimal dose in the dose escalation cohort would be included in the dose expansion cohort if they are evaluable for the primary endpoint in the expansion portion (4 dose escalation patients at the optimal dose are expected to roll over to the expansion). Additionally, up to 16 Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) patients will be treated in the expansion cohort. This will permit up to 86 treated patients.
Solid Tumor|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Neuroendocrine Carcinoma|Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC)
BIOLOGICAL: VSV-IFNβ-NIS|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: ipilimumab + nivolumab
Expansion arms: Overall response rate (ORR), proportion of patients in the analysis population who have complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 imaging, 43 days - 6 months|Safety run-in arm: Number of participants with treatment related adverse events (NCI CTCAE; Version 4.03), Assessment of safety and toxicity of intravenous VSV-IFNβ-NIS in combination with pembrolizumab therapy, 21 days
Overall Survival (OS), Survival time is defined as the time from registration to death due to any cause., 6 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from registration to the earliest date documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, 6 months|Duration of response, defined for all evaluable patients who have achieved an objective response as the date at which the patient's earliest best objective status is first noted to be either a CR or PR to the earliest date progression is documented., 6 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), proportion of patients in the analysis population who have complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) based on RECIST 1.1 imaging on day 43., 6 months|Adverse events, All eligible patients that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for assessing adverse event rate(s). The maximum grade for each type of adverse event will be recorded for each patient., 6 months
All patients will be dosed with VSV-IFNβ-NIS on day 1. For Part A, Part B \[Group 1\], and Part C \[Group 1\] pembrolizumab will be administered on day 1 (concurrent pembrolizumab dosing). For Part A, and Parts B and C \[Group 2\] pembrolizumab may be administered on day 8 (delayed pembrolizumab dosing). pembrolizumab treatment will continue Q3W per the Keytruda® USPI, with efficacy evaluations after cycle 2 then every 9 weeks until PD.

In Part D, NSCLC and NEC patients will be dosed with Nivo + ipi on Cycle 1 Day 1 and with VSV-IFNβ-NIS on day 4 (single dose). Nivo + ipi will continue to be given Q3W with efficacy evaluations at Cycle 3 and every 9 weeks thereafter.

In Part E, RCC patients will be dosed with Nivo + ipi on Cycle 1 Day 1 and with VSV-IFNβ-NIS on day 4 (single dose). Nivo + ipi will continue to be given Q3W for 4 cycles, then Nivolumab monotherapy Q4W fixed dose of 480mg. Efficacy assessments will be performed Q9W.