Gemcitabine, Nab-paclitaxel, Durvalumab, and Oleclumab Before Surgery for the Treatment of in Resectable/Borderline Resectable Primary Pancreatic Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effects of gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel, durvalumab, and oleclumab in treating patients with primary pancreatic cancer that may be able to be removed by surgery (resectable/borderline resectable). Chemotherapy drugs, such as gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab and oleclumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving gemcitabine, nab-paclitaxel, durvalumab, and oleclumab may help control the disease in patients with resectable/borderline resectable primary pancreatic cancer.
Borderline Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Resectable Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Stage IA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Oleclumab
Major pathological response rate (=< 5% viable tumor cells), A Chi square- or Fisher's exact test will be used to evaluate the association between patient prognostic factor and response. Paired t-tests will be used to determine parameter changes before and after surgery in various immune-based conditions., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Assessed using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0., Up to 2 years
Radiographic response rate, Up to 2 years|Recurrence-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and the log-rank test., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan and Meier and the log-rank test., Up to 2 years|Frequency of intraoperative and postoperative complications, Up to 2 years|Change in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) levels, Patient ctDNA levels may be tracked at various time-points during the study to identify patterns of change following therapy with durvalumab and oleclumab and its association to treatment benefit in patients., Baseline to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Estimation of major pathological response (MPR) rate (=\< 5% viable tumor cells).

II. Assess the safety of combining immunotherapy (durvalumab and oleclumab) with gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel as neoadjuvant therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Explore the changes in various immune parameters, including PD-L1 and PD-1 expression in the tumor, during treatment and correlate with efficacy outcomes with the goal of biomarker discovery.

II. Radiographic response rate and CA19-9 response to neoadjuvant therapy. III. Estimate the relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS) in enrolled subjects who undergo surgical resection.

IV. Estimate the frequency of intraoperative and postoperative complications in these patients treated with neoadjuvant therapy.

V. Impact of adjuvant durvalumab/oleclumab +/- gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel on circulating tumor-derived deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) kinetics.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive durvalumab intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on day 1, oleclumab IV over 1 hour, nab-paclitaxel IV, and gemcitabine IV over 1 hour over 30-40 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2-6 cycles. Within 4-8 weeks after completion of last cycle of treatment, patients undergo surgical resection. After surgical resection, patient may receive adjuvant therapy with durvalumab and oleclumab, durvalumab, oleclumab, gemcitabine, and nab-paclitaxel, other chemotherapy, or observation only at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up 28 days and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.