68 Ga-PSMA for High Risk Prostate Cancer
This is a prospective, single-center, open-label pilot study of 68GA-PSMA-11 given at a single time prior to PET/CT imaging in men with localized high risk prostate cancer or biochemical recurrence. The imaging agent (68 Ga-PSMA 11 will be administered on an outpatient basis. It will be administered prior to the PET/CT imaging. The objective is to evaluate the distribution of 68GA-PSMA-11 in tissues and to determine if this alters the planned clinical management.
Prostate Cancer|High Risk
DRUG: 68Ga-PSMA
Proportion of Patients With Lymph Node Involvement, Number of patients with cTxNoMo (clinically localized disease) found on final histological examination to have lymph node involvement as determined by 68GA-PSMA-11 PET/CT., 18 months|Proportion of Patients Which Clinical Management Was Altered, Number of patients in which 68GA-PSMA-11 PET/CT altered the planned clinical management., 18 months
Intensity of Uptake as a Predictor of Clinical Outcome or Aggressiveness, Uptake intensity detected on PET/CT in the prostate and outside of the prostate, 18 months|Number of Patients With Suspicious Lesions, Number of patients in which 68Ga-PSMA 11 PET/CT showed suspicious lesions that are were not seen in standard diagnostic modalities of bone scan, CTs or MRI., 18 months
This is a prospective, open label, single-center, single-arm, pilot diagnostic accuracy study to evaluate the tissue distribution of 68Ga-PSMA Positron Emission Tomography (PET)/CT in 80 patients with high risk localized prostate cancer or biochemical recurrence.

Subjects will receive a single IV dose of 3-7 mCi of 68Ga-PSMA (study drug) followed by PET/CT imaging 60-90 minutes after injection. All patients will be closely monitored with vital signs (blood pressure and heart rate), before and 2 hours following radiotracer administration.

Patients will receive a phone call 2 days following PET/CT to assess for adverse events.

To minimize bias, all PET/CT images will be interpreted by a board-certified radiologist. The radiologist evaluating the images will be blinded to the final outcome, such as the histopathology of any biopsies and the outcome of subsequent imaging.

Patients with study-defined high-risk features who are eligible and scheduled for radical prostatectomy will undergo 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT injection. The results of the 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT may alter patient management in one of several ways, including the decision to not pursue surgical extirpation (e.g. in the event of extensive distant metastasis) in favor of systemic therapy. It is also possible that the extent of surgical resection may be altered, such as non-regional pelvic or retroperitoneal lymph node dissection. The alteration in planned surgical treatment from standard of care will be recorded as a secondary-end point.