Idarubicin vs. Epirubicin TACE in the Treatment of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
In this study, patients with hepatocellular carcinoma were used as the research object to explore the effectiveness and safety of idarubicin hepatic artery perfusion combined with lipiodol embolization, and to preliminarily explore the possibility of idarubicin in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma. Provide evidence-based medicine for the discovery of better TACE combined chemotherapy regimens for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Idarubicin Hydrochloride for Injection|DRUG: Epirubicin
Objective Response Rate, ORR, The number of cases that achieved complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) accounted for the percentage of patients with evaluable efficacy., 24 months
disease control rate, DCR, The number of complete remission (CR), partial remission (PR) and stable disease (SD) cases accounted for the percentage of patients with evaluable efficacy., 24 months|Survival rate, After a period of follow-up, the proportion of patients who are still alive. Observation in this study 1-year survival rate and 2-year survival rate, 24 months|Time to progress, TTP, Time from start of TACE treatment to disease progression, 24 months|Overall survival, OS, Time from the start of TACE treatment to death from any cause, 24 months
China is a country with a high incidence of liver cancer, the annual incidence of nearly 50% of the world. At present, transcatheter Arterial chemoembolization (TACE) has become one of the main treatment methods for primary liver cancer and liver metastasis, and has been recognized as the first choice for inoperable primary liver cancer. In addition, it has also been applied in the treatment of resectable liver cancer, liver cancer with tumor embolus and liver metastasis, which is safe and reliable.

Idarubicin is a DNA topoisomerase II inhibitor that promotes DNA strand breakage, trapping cells in the G2 phase of the cell cycle, DNA cleavage, and cell apoptosis. At the same time, it can be inserted between the DNA base pairs and create freedom. Preclinical studies have shown that Idarubicin has superior antitumor activity than epirubicin, especially against SUN-449 human hepatoma cells. In recent years, foreign scholars have conducted a series of explorations in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma with Idarubicin TACE, and have obtained positive results.

This study aims to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of idarubicin lipiodol emulsion hepatic artery chemoembolization in the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma, in order to provide evidence-based medical evidence for the discovery of a better TACE treatment regimen for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.