A Trial of Anlotinib Combined With Docetaxel in EGFR Mutations Advanced Non Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients
Anlotinib is a multi-target receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor in domestic research and development. It can inhibit angiogenesis-related kinases, such as VEGFR, FGFR, PDGFR and tumor cell proliferation related kinase c-Kit kinase. In the Phase III study, patients who failed at least two systemic chemotherapy (third-line or above) or were intolerant of the drugs were treated with anlotinib or placebo. The PFS and OS in the anlotinib group were 5.37 months and 9.63 months, respectively. The placebo group PFS and OS were 1.4 months and 6.3 months. Therefore, it is envisaged to use anlotinib combined with docetaxel to treat EGFR mutations advanced non small cell lung cancer to further improve the patient's PFS or OS.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Anlotinib Hydrochloride plus Docetaxel
Progress free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death due to any cause., each 42 days up to PD or death (up to 24 months)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of subjects with evidence of a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.1.prior to progression or any further therapy., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR is defined as the proportion of patients with a documented complete response, partial response, and stable disease (CR + PR + SD) based on RECIST 1.1., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of death due to any cause., From randomization until death (up to 24 months)|Quality of Life score (QoL), use EORTC QLQ-C30(version 3) questionnaire to evaluate the quality of life., each 42 days up to intolerance the toxicity or PD (up to 24 months)
This is a single arm clinical trial conducted in China. The purpose of this study is to evaluate and observe the efficacy and safety of Anlotinib Hydrochloride (12mg, QD PO d1-14, 21days per cycle) combined with Docetaxel (75mg/m2 IV d1) in EGFR mutations advanced non small cell lung cancer patients who have progressed after targeted therapy and chemotherapy. After being informed about the study and potential risks, all patients giving written informed consent will undergo a 4-week screening period to determine eligibility for study entry. The expected sample size is 42.