Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. It is not yet known which combination chemotherapy regimen is most effective in treating ovarian epithelial cancer and peritoneal cancer. Randomized phase III trial to compare the effectiveness of various combination chemotherapy regimens in treating patients who have stage III or stage IV ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer.
Primary Peritoneal Carcinoma|Stage III Ovarian Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Pegylated Liposomal Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Topotecan Hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Overall Survival, Proportion of participants whose overall survival exceeded 5 years., Up to 9 years|Progression-free Survival, Median duration in months of progression free survival., From the date of enrollment to first progression or death or last contact, if alive and progression free.
Number of Participants With Observed Adverse Effects (Grade 3 and Above) Assessed by Common Toxicity Criteria Version 2.0, Up to 9 years
OBJECTIVES:

Compare the efficacy of paclitaxel and carboplatin with or without gemcitabine, doxorubicin HCl liposome, or topotecan, in terms of overall and progression-free survival, in patients with stage III or IV ovarian epithelial or serous primary peritoneal carcinoma.

Determine the response rate in patients with measurable disease treated with these regimens.

Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients. Compare the complications in patients treated with these regimens. Determine the dose-intensity and cumulative dose delivery for these regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE:

This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified into 1 of 3 strata according to extent of residual disease and plans for interval cytoreductive surgery: Stratum A: Optimal (microscopic or macroscopic) residual disease without plans for surgery Stratum B: Suboptimal residual disease without plans for surgery Stratum C: Suboptimal residual disease with plans for surgeryPatients are randomized to 1 of 5 treatment arms. Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Arm II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment continues as in arm I. Arm III: Patients receive chemotherapy as in arm I during courses 1-8 and doxorubicin HCl liposome IV over 1 hour on day 1 during courses 1, 3, 5, and 7. Treatment continues as in arm I. Arm IV: Patients receive topotecan IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 3. Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive 4 courses of arm I chemotherapy. Arm V: Patients receive gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 8. Treatment continues every 3 weeks for 4 courses. Patients then receive 4 courses of arm I chemotherapy. Patients with initial unresectable or suboptimal residual disease (more than 1 cm) may undergo interval cytoreductive surgery between courses 4 and 5 of chemotherapy. Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 4,000-5,000 patients (800-1,000 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 3.5-5 years.