Psilocybin-Assisted Therapy for the Treatment of Cancer-Related Anxiety in Patients With Metastatic Cancer
This phase I/II trial tests the safety and side effects of psilocybin in combination with therapy for the treatment of patients with metastatic cancer and symptoms of anxiety and/or depression. Psilocybin is a substance being studied in conjunction with therapy for the treatment of anxiety and depression in patients with cancer. In this study, the psilocybin being used is derived from the mushroom psilocybe cubensis using a patented process that results in a pharmaceutical grade version of psilocybin. Psilocybin acts by activating serotonin receptors on brain cells which can change perceptions and patterns of thinking in ways that may decrease anxiety.
Hematopoietic and Lymphatic System Neoplasm|Metastatic Malignant Solid Neoplasm
OTHER: Counseling|DRUG: Psilocybin|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Number of Instances of Potentially Unattended Psilocybin-related Distress During Psilocybin Sessions., Defined as the occurrence of participant distress among study participants in the small group during the psilocybin administration session on Day 0 that requires 1:1 facilitator attention that cannot be met by the 4-person facilitation team. The size of small groups of different sizes will vary over the course of the study. Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze and will be tabulated on Day 0 after each group intervention. Backup facilitators will be available when this occurs., At psilocybin administration session on day 0
Change in Measured Anxiety and Depression: Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) is a self-administered measure of depression and anxiety. The HADS is not a diagnostic tool, but can screen for anxiety and depression. The HADS has 14 items in total and asks about mood in the past week. Seven items assess depression and seven items assess anxiety. The HADS can be administered repeatedly without impacting on validity. Each item is rated on a 4-point scale and provide a score 0-21. A higher score indicates higher distress., From 14 days before the psilocybin session to 28 days (4 weeks) after the psilocybin session
OUTLINE:

Patients receive psilocybin orally (PO) and participate in group and individual therapy sessions on trial.