Accuracy of 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 PET/ MRI for Prediction of Lymph Node Metastasis in Localized High-Risk Prostate Cancer
This clinical trial evaluates the use of an imaging scan (18F-rhPSMA-7.3 positron emission tomography \[PET\]/magnetic resonance imaging \[MRI\]) for identifying patients who are at risk of having their disease spread to the lymph nodes in those undergoing radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer that has not spread to other parts of the body (localized). Prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/computed tomography (CT) has emerged as an option to stage newly diagnosed high risk prostate cancer patients. PSMA PET/CT has demonstrated improved diagnostic accuracy for identifying metastasis. PET is procedure in which a small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is injected into a vein, and a scanner is used to make detailed, computerized pictures of areas inside the body where the glucose is used. Because cancer cells often use more glucose than normal cells, the pictures can be used to find cancer cells in the body. MRI is procedure in which radio waves and a powerful magnet linked to a computer are used to create detailed pictures of areas inside the body. These pictures can show the difference between normal and diseased tissue. This study may help researchers learn whether 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 PET/ MRI may improve predicting which patients are at risk of lymph node metastases and who are suitable candidates for pelvic lymph node dissection in patients with localized high-risk prostate cancer undergoing radical prostatectomy.
Localized Prostate Carcinoma|Oligometastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage I Prostate Cancer AJCC V8|Stage II Prostate Cancer AJCC V8|Stage III Prostate Cancer AJCC V8|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer AJCC V8
PROCEDURE: Bilateral Pelvic Lymph Node Dissection|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Flotufolastat F-18 Gallium|PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic Radical Prostatectomy with Robotics|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Sensitivity of flotufolastat F-18 gallium (18F-rhPSMA-7.3) positron emission tomography (PET)/magnetic resonance (MRI) for the detection of lymph node metastasis, Defined as the presence of lymph node positivity determined on final pathologic analysis compared to findings on preoperative 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 PSMA PET/MRI. Continuous variables will be summarized as mean (standard deviation) or median (range) while categorical variables will be reported as frequency (percentage). Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the proportion of correct results will be compared between rhPSMA-7.3(18F) PET/MRI and the standard care. Will be two-sided with p value \< 0.05 considered statistically significant., Up to 12 months
Specificity, Defined as absence of lymph node metastasis on final pathologic analysis compared to findings on preoperative 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 PSMA PET/MRI.

Will be calculated as specificity with 95% confidence intervals. Chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test will be used to compare the proportion of correct results between rhPSMA-7.3(18F) PET/MRI and the standard care., Up to 12 months|Positive/negative predictive value, Defined as findings on 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) PET/MRI compared to the presence or absence of lymph node metastasis on final pathologic analysis. Proportion of correct results will be compared between rhPSMA-7.3(18F) PET/MRI and the standard care., Up to 120 months|Prostate specific antigen (PSA): < 5, 5-10, 10-20, > 20, Will investigate the impact of PSA as a clinicopathologic variable on lymph node metastasis when used alone and in combination with PSMA PET/MRI using 18F-rhPSMA-7.3., Up to 12 months|Gleason score, Will investigate the impact of Gleason score as a clinicopathologic variable on lymph node metastasis when used alone and in combination with PSMA PET/MRI using 18F-rhPSMA-7.3. Gleason score is a grading system for prostate cancer ranging from 6 (low-grade cancer) to 10 (high-grade cancer)., Up to 12 months|Digital rectal examination, Will investigate the impact of digital rectal examination as clinicopathologic variable on lymph node metastasis when used alone and in combination with PSMA PET/MRI using 18F-rhPSMA-7.3., Up to 12 months|Number of patients where management has changed, Defined by the number of patients where PSMA PET/MRI depicts metastatic lesions (e.g. visceral/skeletal) or suspicious lymph nodes outside the true pelvis where standard of care imaging was negative. Proportion of correct results will be compared between rhPSMA-7.3(18F) PET/MRI and the standard care., Up to 12 months|Rates of biochemical recurrent disease (BCR), BCR rates will be defined as PSA \> 0.20 between patients with either negative or positive evidence of PSMA avid disease as indicated on the 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 PSMA PET /MRI and correlated to historical controls. Patients with positive and negative preop imaging results will be compared., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To investigate the diagnostic ability of flotufolastat F-18 gallium (18F-rhPSMA-7.3) PSMA PET/MRI prior to radical prostatectomy in newly diagnosed, high-risk prostate cancer patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Calculating the specificity, positive-predictive value, and negative-predictive value for the detection of lymph node positivity.

II. Investigating the rates of biochemical recurrence (BCR) as measured by post-operative prostate specific antigen (PSA) (PSA \> 0.20) at pre-defined timepoints in patients.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 18F-rhPSMA-7.3 intravenously (IV) and undergo PET/MRI up to 30 days prior to standard of care (SOC) robotic radical prostatectomy with bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection. Patients also undergo CT or MRI, bone scan and tissue collection during screening.

Upon completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6 weeks, 3 months, 9 months, and 12 months post-surgery.