Ultra Low-Dose Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage I-IV Stomach MALT Lymphoma
This trial studies how well ultra low-dose radiation therapy works in treating patients with stage I-IV stomach mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma. Ultra low-dose radiation therapy may be able to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors while having fewer side effects in patients with MALT lymphoma.
Gastric Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid Tissue Lymphoma
DRUG: Radiation Therapy
Complete gastric response, The complete response rate at one year will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year
Distant recurrence defined as disease progression outside of the stomach that was not present initially, Distant recurrence rate at one year will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Incidence of acute gastrointestinal toxicity graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v.) 4.03, Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables., Up to 1 year|Incidence of chronic gastrointestinal toxicity graded according to CTCAE v. 4.03, Toxicity data will be summarized by frequency tables., Up to 1 year|Time to local gastric event, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year|Time to distant event, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 1 year|Tumor response, The tumor responses will be summarized stratified by systemic treatments., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the efficacy of ultra-low dose 4 Gy gastric radiation, measured as complete gastric response at one year after 4 Gy treatment in patients with marginal zone lymphoma involving the stomach (mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue \[MALT\]).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate distant recurrence of marginal zone lymphoma at one year. II. To evaluate toxicity associated with gastric radiation therapy.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if microbiome assessment can predict response to ultra-low dose radiation therapy and evaluate the differences in patient microbiome for patients who respond well and poorly to low dose radiation.

II. To determine if micro-ribonucleic acid (RNA) assessment can predict response to ultra-low dose radiation therapy and evaluate the differences in patient microRNA profiles for patients who respond well and poorly to low dose radiation.

III. To explore the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for staging gastric MALT lymphoma and for predicting response to ultra-low dose radiation therapy.

IV. To encourage optional co-enrollment on study PA18-0644 to facilitate collection and archiving of blood based biomarkers and microbiome samples for patients receiving ultra low dose radiation therapy.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo low-dose radiation therapy over 2 fractions for 2 consecutive days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with stable or progressive disease at 12-16 weeks post-treatment, or persistent disease at 1 year may undergo higher-dose radiation therapy at the discretion of treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 1 year.