A Randomized Controlled Trial of Cannabidiol (GWP42003-P, CBD) for Seizures in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (GWPCARE6)
This trial consists of 2 parts: a double-blinded phase and an open-label extension phase. The blinded phase only will be described in this record. Participants will receive 1 of 2 doses of GWP42003-P or matching placebo. The primary clinical hypothesis is that there will be a difference between GWP42003-P and placebo in their effect on seizure frequency.
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex|Seizures
DRUG: GWP42003-P|DRUG: Placebo
Percent Change From Baseline in the Number of Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC)-Associated Seizures During the Treatment Period (Maintenance and Titration), TSC-associated seizures included: focal motor seizures without impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 1 focal motor); focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 2 focal); focal seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures (Type 3 focal); and tonic-clonic, tonic, clonic, or atonic seizures that are countable. Percent change from Baseline was calculated as the (post-Baseline value minus the Baseline value) divided by the Baseline value x 100., Baseline; up to Week 16
Number of Participants Considered Treatment Responders During the Treatment Period (Maintenance and Titration), Treatment responders are defined as those participants with a ≥ 50% reduction in TSC-associated seizure frequency. TSC-associated seizures included: focal motor seizures without impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 1 focal motor); focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 2 focal); focal seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures (Type 3 focal); and tonic-clonic, tonic, clonic, or atonic seizures that are countable. Participants who withdrew from the trial during the treatment period are considered non-responders., Baseline; up to Week 16|Change From Baseline in the Caregiver Global Impression of Change (CGIC) or Participant Global Impression of Change (PGIC) Score at the Participant's Last Visit, The combined caregiver and participant summary uses either the caregiver or participant version if only one version was completed, or the caregiver version if both caregiver and participant versions were completed. The CGIC comprised the following question, to be rated on a 7-point scale (1, Very Much Improved; 2, Much Improved; 3, Slightly Improved; 4, No Change; 5, Slightly Worse; 6, Much Worse; 7, Very Much Worse): "Since your child started treatment, please assess the status of your child's overall condition (comparing their condition now to their condition before treatment)." The SGIC comprised the following question, to be rated on a 7-point scale (1, Very Much Improved; 2, Much Improved; 3, Slightly Improved; 4, No Change; 5, Slightly Worse; 6, Much Worse; 7, Very Much Worse): "Since you started treatment, please assess the status of your overall condition (comparing your condition now to your condition before treatment).", Baseline; up to Week 16|Percent Change From Baseline in Total Seizures During the Treatment Period (Maintenance and Titration), Total seizures included all seizure types combined. Percent change from Baseline was calculated as the (post-Baseline value minus the Baseline value) divided by the Baseline value x 100., Baseline; up to Week 16|Number of Participants With Any Severe Treatment-emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), A TEAE was defined as an AE with a start date on or after the first dose of IMP during the Blinded Phase up to and including the date of first dose of the Open-label Extension (OLE) Phase (OLE Day 1)., up to approximately Week 22
This trial consists of 2 parts: a double-blinded phase and an open-label extension phase. The blinded phase only will be described in this record. Participants will receive 1 of 2 doses of GWP42003-P or matching placebo. The primary clinical hypothesis is that there will be a difference between GWP42003-P and placebo in their effect on seizure frequency.