Lapatinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent and/or Metastatic Adenoid Cystic Cancer or Other Salivary Gland Cancers
Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of lapatinib in treating patients who have recurrent and/or metastatic adenoid cystic cancer or other salivary gland cancers. Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.
High-grade Salivary Gland Carcinoma|High-grade Salivary Gland Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma|Low-grade Salivary Gland Carcinoma|Low-grade Salivary Gland Mucoepidermoid Carcinoma|Recurrent Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Oral Cavity|Recurrent Salivary Gland Cancer|Salivary Gland Acinic Cell Tumor|Salivary Gland Adenocarcinoma|Salivary Gland Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma|Salivary Gland Malignant Mixed Cell Type Tumor
DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Response Rates (Partial and Complete Responses), Per Response - Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions;, Up to 5 years
Duration of Objective Response, From the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented, assessed up to 5 years|Rate of Stable Disease, Number of patients who had Stable disease for more than or equal to 6 months together in both Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) and non-adenoid cyctic carcinoma (non-ACC), 6 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST, From the date of study enrolment to disease progression, death or last contact, or last tumor assessment before the start of further anti-tumor therapy, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), Survival estimates will be computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the date of study enrolment to death or last contact, assessed up to 5 years|Most Frequent Adverse Events of Grade 1-2 by CTCAE Grading, Number of participants that experienced the most frequent adverse events of grade 1-2 by CTCAE grading., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the antitumor activity of GW572016 in recurrent and/or metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma of the salivary glands using objective response rates (partial and complete responses).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the duration of objective response, rate and duration of stable disease, progression-free, median and overall survival rates of GW572016 in recurrent and/or metastatic adenoid cystic carcinoma of the salivary glands.

II. To estimate the antitumor activity of GW572016 in other epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)- and/or erbB2-overexpressing malignant tumors of the salivary glands using objective response rates (partial and complete responses).

III. To document the safety and tolerability of GW572016 in these patient populations

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate if differences in baseline levels of EGFR and/or erbB2 expression, and receptor phosphorylation status in tumor specimens predict outcome to therapy.

II. To investigate if the inhibitory effects of GW572016 on EGFR and/or erbB2 pathway activation in tumor specimens correlate with clinical outcome.

III. To determine the steady state levels of GW572016 achieved, and their correlation with clinical and laboratory correlative endpoints.

OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive oral lapatinib once daily on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

Patients are followed for survival