SUROVA - Surgery in Ovarian Cancer, Comparing Primary and Interval Cytoreductive Surgery
An international worldwide retrospective cohort observational study comparing primary cytoreductive surgery with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval cytoreductive surgery in patients with carcinoma of the ovary, fallopian tubes, and peritoneum.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms|Peritoneal Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Cytoreductive surgery|DRUG: Neoadjuvant chemotherapy|DRUG: Adjuvant chemotherapy
Overall Survival at 5 years, Compare overall survival (OS) at 5 years in patients who underwent primary cytoreductive surgery vs. neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval cytoreductive surgery for stage IIIB-IVB ovarian cancer., From date of the first treatment (chemotherapy in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and cytoreduction in the case of primary cytoreductive surgery) to death from ovarian cancer or last follow up, assessed at the 5-year mark.
Progression Free Survival at 5 years, Compare Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 5 years in patients who underwent primary cytoreductive surgery vs. neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval cytoreductive surgery for stage IIIB-IVB ovarian cancer., From date of the first treatment (chemotherapy in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and cytoreduction in the case of primary cytoreductive surgery) to death from ovarian cancer or last follow up assessed at the 5-year mark.|Time to first and second subsequent anticancer therapy or death., Time to first subsequent anticancer therapy is calculated from the date of first treatment (chemotherapy in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and cytoreduction in the case of primary cytoreductive surgery) until the starting date of the first subsequent anticancer therapy or death, whichever occurs first or date of last contact (censored observation). Maintenance treatments following a cytostatic treatment are not considered separate treatment lines., From date of the first treatment (chemotherapy in the case of neoadjuvant chemotherapy and cytoreduction in the case of primary cytoreductive surgery) to death from ovarian cancer or last follow up assessed at the 5-year mark.|Information on surgical treatment approaches, Gather information on surgical treatment approaches and decision-making processes for patients with advanced high-grade ovarian cancer in worldwide centers, Date of last contact up to 5 years|Aletti surgical score, Extend the surgery according to the Aletti surgical complexity score, which ranges from 1 to 8, with higher scores indicating more complex surgeries., Date of last contact up to 5 years|Surgical complications: requirement of pharmacological treatment; surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention, life threatening complications or death., Documentation of surgical complications., Date of last contact up to 5 years|Breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) influence, Compare the outcomes between patients with BRCA mutations and those without this mutation, Date of last contact up to 5 years|Homologous Recombination Deficiency (HRD) deficiency influence, Compare the outcomes between patients with HRD deficiency and those with HRD proficiency, Date of last contact up to 5 years
SUROVA study tries to compare the outcomes of primary cytoreductive surgery with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and interval cytoreductive surgery in patients with carcinoma of the ovary, fallopian tubes, and peritoneum operated between 2018 and 2019 worldwide.

The objective is to know if the surgical approach influences our patients' survival (OS and PFS). To answer this question, SUROVA is necessary.

While the prospective Trust Trial, with results expected in 2024, is designed to address this question, a limitation of this study is that it is confined to patients treated in high-end hospitals. This limitation could introduce bias in the results, as many patients may lack access to such high-level healthcare facilities. Therefore, the objective is to extend the scope of this study to real life. To achieve this, the investigators are seeking to collect data from patients treated globally during 2018 and 2019, involving both primary and interval cytoreduction.

The investigators hope that the results of this study will be subjected to evaluation at international meetings and published in reputable international journals. Authorship will be based on a rigorous criterion tied to the number of valid cases included in the study. Naturally, the aim is to include as many authors as possible.

The researchers strongly believe that patients would greatly benefit from SUROVA data and that it will address this critical question and provide invaluable insights.