Breast/Cyclosporin A/TNBC (Triple Negative Breast Cancer)
This will be a single arm, non-randomized, pre-surgical clinical trial of women with newly diagnosed triple negative breast cancer with high g-H2Ax (gamma H2AX antibodies) comparing changes in biomarkers from a diagnostic core needle biopsy to surgical pathology specimen or repeat core needle biopsy.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer|DNA Damage Repair Deficiency
DRUG: Cyclosporin A
Ki67 Expression, To evaluate changes in Ki67 expression after administration of CsA for 14-30 days in triple negative breast cancer tumors., 6 weeks
Changes in g-H2Ax, To determine if CsA at a dose of 5mg/kg orally daily for 14- 30 days shows a change in g-H2Ax of triple negative breast cancer., 6 weeks|Changes in apoptosis markers, To evaluate change in apoptosis markers by Tunnel assay after administration of CsA for 14-30 days in triple negative breast cancer tumors., 6 weeks
Patients that are able to be in the study will be asked if they would like to be in the study on their first visit with their medical doctor. Lab work including a complete blood count and complete metabolic panel will be drawn at this time as part of their standard of care work-up. If patients choose to be in the study, they will then sign consent and then have the study drug dispensed on day 1 after a blood sample has being collected. No extra physician visit will be needed to join in the study. Patients will then take the study drug, CsA, until the day before surgery. Mastectomy (breast removal) or lumpectomy (lump removal) is the standard of care for early-stage breast cancer.

Surgery takes about three weeks to schedule, therefore we expect that patient's will take the study medication for between 14 and 30 days. There will be no delays in the standard of care surgery. There will be weekly visits and/or phone calls on Days 8, 15 and 21-30 to get feedback on any adverse effects and how the subject is dealing with changing the dosage, with any changes made to treatment as needed. The patients will stop taking the Cyclosporin (CsA) the day before surgery. Within two weeks after surgery, after the patient has been off drug, they will be questioned, and an assessment of adverse events will be done.