Study of the Consumption of a Food Supplement in a Group of Healthy People
Bioactive supplements might display relevant therapeutic properties according to validated molecular effects. Herein, the effect of a supplement based on diterpenes from Rosmarinus Officinalis L. and alkylglycerols with proven properties against signaling pathways involved in tumorigenesis is evaluated. The biological and molecular effects of this supplement, mainly based on expected effects on immune and genetic modulatory properties is investigated. For this purpose, 60 healthy volunteers were enrolled in a six week, double-blind, randomized and parallel pilot study with two study arms -rosemary and alkylglycerol containing capsules and control capsules. The study includes the analysis of (1) immunological parameters (ex vivo cytokine profile of LPS stimulated PBMC and PBMC phenotyping by cluster differentiation (CD) markers), (2) regulation of the expression of genes linked to immuno-modulation, inflammation, oxidative stress response and cancer, and (3) the analysis of correlation of selected genetic variants (SNPs) with the differential responses among individuals.
Immune System and Related Disorders
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dietary supplementation with capsules containing rosemary and alkylglycerol|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Dietary supplementation with control capsules
Changes in ex vivo cytokine profile produced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), Isolated PBMCs were first incubated for 12h, and then after LPS treated. Supernatants were recovered to determine concentrations of Interleukin (IL) -1B, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IFNy and TNFa using a magnetic bead-based immunoassay (Human High Sensitivity T Cell Magnetic Bead Panel A MAGPIX-Luminex) kit from Millipore, following the manufacturer's instructions. A minimum of 50 beads per parameter was analyzed by the MAGPIX-Luminex system. Raw data (median ﬂuorescence intensity, MFI) were analyzed with the xPONENT software 4.1., Baseline and after 6 weeks of treatment
Changes in oxidative stress status, To evaluate the changes in the oxidative stress the following biomarkers were measured in urine samples:

* Oxidized-low density lipoproteins measured by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) by using the monoclonal antibody mAb-4E6 (Mercodia AB, Sweden)
* Isoprostanes and thromboxane B2 quantified by competitive ELISA (Enzo Biochem, Inc., NY, USA and Oxford Biomedical Research, MI, USA, respectively)., Baseline and after 6 weeks|Changes in lipid profile, To evaluate lipid improvements the following measurements were considered: Triacylglycerol, Total Cholesterol, low Density Lipoprotein and High-Density Lipoprotein measured by routine laboratory (CQS, Madrid, Spain, which follows the UNE-ISO 15189:2007 directives) methods., Baseline and after 6 weeks|Gene expression analysis, Gene-expression assays were performed in a HT-7900 Fast Real time PCR. GAPDH was used as endogenous control. RT-StatMiner software (Integromics® Inc., Madison, USA) was used to detect and determine the quality control and differential expression analyses. The Expression Suite Software (Life Technologies) program was used to obtain the Ct data. The ΔCt (Ct gene-CtGAPDH) was calculated and then the relative expression (RQ) between visits was calculated (V3-V1) following the 2-ΔΔCt method (Livak and Schmittgen 2001), Baseline and after 6 weeks|DNA genotyping, Genotyping was performed using the QuantStudio 12 K Flex Real-Time PCR System (Life Technologies Inc., Carlsbad, CA) with a TaqMan OpenArray plates. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) involved in different parts of the pathogenic processes of inflammation, immune system, obesity, lipid metabolism, redox homeostasis and cancer, were analyzed using TaqMan Genotyper software., Baseline
Bioactive supplements might display relevant therapeutic properties according to validated molecular effects. Herein, the effect of a supplement based on diterpenes from Rosmarinus Officinalis L. and alkylglycerols with proven properties against signaling pathways involved in tumorigenesis is evaluated. The biological and molecular effects of this supplement, mainly based on expected effects on immune and genetic modulatory properties is investigated. For this purpose, 60 healthy volunteers were enrolled in a six week, double-blind, randomized and parallel pilot study with two study arms -rosemary and alkylglycerol containing capsules and control capsules. The study includes the analysis of (1) immunological parameters (ex vivo cytokine profile of LPS stimulated PBMC and PBMC phenotyping by cluster differentiation (CD) markers), (2) regulation of the expression of genes linked to immuno-modulation, inflammation, oxidative stress response and cancer, and (3) the analysis of correlation of selected genetic variants (SNPs) with the differential responses among individuals.