Testing Whether the Combination of Two Immunotherapy Drugs Have Activity in Recurrent or Persistent Clear Cell Ovarian Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab and epacadostat work in treating patients with ovarian clear cell carcinoma that has come back (recurrent), remains despite treatment (persistent), or is growing, spreading, or getting worse (progressive). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Epacadostat may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pembrolizumab and epacadostat may work better compared to usual treatment (surgery, radiation, or cytotoxic chemotherapy) in treating patients with ovarian clear cell carcinoma.
Malignant Ovarian Clear Cell Tumor|Recurrent Ovarian Carcinoma
DRUG: Epacadostat|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Complete or Partial Objective Tumor Response, Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v.) 1.1 criteria. Exact 95% confidence limits, accounting for interim analysis, will be provided in the final report. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=20% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and a 5 mm absolute increase; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., Within 7 months of study entry
Number of Participants With Adverse Events of Grade 3 or Higher, Assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5. Number of participants with an adverse event of grade 3 or higher., Adverse events were assessed from the start of treatment until 30 days after the end of the last treatment cycle. Adverse events were collected for a median time of 5.1 months and a maximum time of 23.8 months.|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Disease progression will be defined using RECIST v. 1.1 criteria. The distributions of PFS will be estimated and graphed using the Kaplan-Meier product limit method. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=20% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and a 5 mm absolute increase; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR." Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from the start of study treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., Radiographic tumor assessments were completed 12 weeks after the start of treatment, then every 6 weeks for 49 weeks, followed by every 12 weeks until disease progression or treatment discontinuation. The median follow-up time was 4.8 months.|Overall Survival (OS), Assessment of deaths starting from the time of enrollment., Overall survival (OS) is defined as the duration of time from the start of study treatment to time of death or the date of last contact. The median follow-up time for OS was 34.9 months.
Ratio of Plasma Tryptophan to Kynurenine (T:K), Will determine whether the ratio of plasma T:K correlates with response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat, by evaluating plasma T:K pre-treatment, during treatment, and at disease progression. Pre-treatment levels of T:K ratio in plasma will be assessed for association with radiographic response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat. Changes between pre-treatment and post-cycle 1 and changes between post-cycle 1 and disease progression for T:K ratio will be evaluated with paired Student's T tests., Up to 5 years|Presence of PD-L1, IDO-1, Tumor-infiltrating Regulatory T Cells (Tregs), CD8 Tumor-infiltrating Lymphocytes (TILs), and Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) Class I in the Tumor Microenvironment, Will determine whether the presence of PD-L1, IDO-1, Tregs, CD8 TILs, and HLA class I in the tumor microenvironment at baseline correlates with objective response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat. Baseline presence of PD-L1, IDO-1, Tregs, TILs, and HLA class I in the tumor microenvironment will also be assessed for correlation with radiographic response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat. Will consider logistic regression models for these analyses of continuous biomarkers, if appropriate given the number of responses and if exact tests of response for categorized levels of the biomarkers., Up to 5 years|Soluble PD-L1 (sPD-L1) Levels in Plasma, Will determine whether sPD-L1 levels in plasma are correlated with response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat, by evaluating sPD-L1 concentrations pre-treatment, during treatment, and at disease progression. Pre-treatment levels of sPD-L1 in plasma will be assessed for association with radiographic response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat. Changes between pre-treatment and post-cycle 1 and changes between post-cycle 1 and disease progression for sPD-L1 will be evaluated with paired Student's T tests., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the objective tumor response (proportion of objective response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] 1.1 criteria) of the combination of pembrolizumab (MK-3475 \[pembrolizumab\]) and epacadostat in patients with recurrent or persistent clear cell carcinoma of the ovary.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the nature and degree of toxicity of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat as assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) in patients with recurrent or persistent clear cell carcinoma of the ovary.

II. To estimate the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in patients treated with combination of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and epacadostat.

EXPLORATORY TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether the ratio of plasma tryptophan to kynurenine (T:K) correlates with response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat, by evaluating plasma T:K pre-treatment, during treatment, and at disease progression.

II. Determine whether the presence of PD-L1, IDO-1, tumor-infiltrating regulatory T cells (Tregs), CD8 tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I in the tumor microenvironment at baseline correlates with objective response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat.

III. Determine whether soluble PD-L1 (sPD-L1) levels in plasma are correlated with response to MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) + epacadostat, by evaluating sPD-L1 concentrations pre-treatment, during treatment, and at disease progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive epacadostat orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once every 3 weeks (Q3W). Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years, and annually thereafter.