Effect of Epstein-Barr Virus on Macrophage M2/M1 Migration and EphA2 Expression in Adverse Drug Reactions
This study aims to investigate the effect of EBV reactivation or EBV reactivation added with dexamethasone(DXM) in patients with adverse drug reactions(CDR) , through evaluating the levels on monocyte, macrophage M2/M1 and cytokines. To investigate whether expression of EBV receptors EphA2 could specifically influence on EBV activation in CDRs. We performed a prospective longitudinal study on the frequencies of Monocyte, Macrophage, M2/M1 and cytokines included IL-4,IL-13,TNF-α,IFN-γ,IFN-β, CXCL9 and CXCL10 after onset of MPE ,SJS/TEN and control groups. PBMCs collected from peripheral blood were cocultured with EBV or EBV with DXM. We next examined whether EBV or EBV with DXM could have a strong impact on the MOs, Mac, M2/M1 and cytokines and which cytokines could be crucial for the interaction between M2/M1 and EBV, by in vitro cocultures. Finally, EphA2 were detected to evaluate reactivation of EBV.
Adverse Drug Reactions
BIOLOGICAL: stimulation with EB virus
changes in the levels of monocytes, macrophages, M2/M1 ratio, and cytokines, 24 hours and 48 hours
This study aims to investigate the effect of EBV reactivation or EBV reactivation added with dexamethasone(DXM) in patients with adverse drug reactions(CDR) , through evaluating the levels on monocyte, macrophage M2/M1 and cytokines. To investigate whether expression of EBV receptors EphA2 could specifically influence on EBV activation in CDRs. We performed a prospective longitudinal study on the frequencies of Monocyte, Macrophage, M2/M1 and cytokines included IL-4,IL-13,TNF-α,IFN-γ,IFN-β, CXCL9 and CXCL10 after onset of MPE ,SJS/TEN and control groups. PBMCs collected from peripheral blood were cocultured with EBV or EBV with DXM. We next examined whether EBV or EBV with DXM could have a strong impact on the MOs, Mac, M2/M1 and cytokines and which cytokines could be crucial for the interaction between M2/M1 and EBV, by in vitro cocultures. Finally, EphA2 were detected to evaluate reactivation of EBV.