Depsipeptide (Romidepsin) in Treating Patients With Metastatic or Unresectable Soft Tissue Sarcoma
This phase II trial studies how well depsipeptide (romidepsin) works in treating patients with metastatic or unresectable soft tissue sarcoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as depsipeptide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing.
Adult Alveolar Soft-part Sarcoma|Adult Angiosarcoma|Adult Epithelioid Sarcoma|Adult Extraskeletal Chondrosarcoma|Adult Extraskeletal Osteosarcoma|Adult Fibrosarcoma|Adult Leiomyosarcoma|Adult Liposarcoma|Adult Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma|Adult Malignant Hemangiopericytoma|Adult Malignant Mesenchymoma|Adult Neurofibrosarcoma|Adult Rhabdomyosarcoma|Adult Synovial Sarcoma|Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor|Metastatic Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma/Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Stage III Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Stage IV Adult Soft Tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: romidepsin
Objective Tumor Response (Complete and Partial), Objective tumor response was evaluated using the criteria proposed by the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) Committee (JNCI 92(3):205-216,2000). Changes in only the largest diameter (unidimensional measurement) of the target lesions are used. A sum of the longest diameter (LD) for all target lesions was calculated and reported as the baseline sum LD. The baseline sum LD was used as reference by which to characterize the objective tumor response. Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, While on treatment - max of 16 months|Time to Progression, Progressive disease is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Time to progression is the number of months from first treatment until the date of progression., Until disease progression - max of 48 months|Toxicity as Assessed Using the Expanded Common Toxicity Criteria Version 3, The outcome reported here is the number (%) of participants who experienced grade 3 or greater toxicity while on study.

A summary of the individual toxicities can be found in the AE/SAE results., During treatment (max of 16 months) and for 1 month following treatment
Survival, Months from first treatment until death or the last date of contact, Max of 98 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the response rates of metastatic or unresectable soft tissue sarcomas to single-agent depsipeptide.

II. To estimate the time to progression of metastatic or unresectable soft tissue sarcomas to single-agent depsipeptide.

III. To evaluate the scope and extent of acute toxicities associated with single-agent depsipeptide when given to patients with soft tissue sarcomas.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive depsipeptide (romidepsin) intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 6 additional courses beyond documentation of CR.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 2 months.