Treating Cancer-Related Fatigue Through Systematic Light Exposure (Light for Fatigue Study)
Cancer related fatigue (CRF) is the most common cancer side effect and can severely interfere with activities of daily living long after completion of medical treatment. Pharmacologic agents to treat CRF have been studied but there is insufficient evidence to recommend their use. Non-pharmacological interventions for CRF have also been studied but are costly to implement and involve significant patient burden. This study investigates a novel low-cost/ low-burden intervention: systematic light exposure to treat CRF. Two hundred survivors of multiple myeloma and Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma between 1 month and 5 years post-autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will be recruited from three medical centers. The light will be administered by a small, personal light glasses daily for 4 weeks. Outcomes will be assessed at five separate time points, including baseline and follow-up. The study will specifically address recommendations made for interventions for CRF from the NCI Clinical Trials Planning meeting (JNCI, 2013).The proposed study will: 1) be the first large multisite study with a carefully delineated comparison condition to investigate the effects of light on CRF among ASCT survivors; 2) focus on a distinct, homogenous patient population; 3) include only survivors who experience clinical levels of CRF; and 4) address possible psychological and biological mechanisms. This study will have major public health relevance as it will determine if an easy-to-deliver, inexpensive, and low patient burden intervention effectively reduces CRF.
Multiple Myeloma|Fatigue
DEVICE: AYO light glasses (Experimental)|DEVICE: AYO light glasses (Comparator)
FACIT-Fatigue Scale, Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT) - Fatigue Scale. 13-item scale, each item 0=not at all to 4=very much, with higher score indicating more fatigue, 4 Years
Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI), Sleep quality measured subjectively by the PSQI. In scoring the PSQI, seven component scores are derived, each scored 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (severe difficulty). The component scores are summed to produce a global score (range 0 to 21). Higher scores indicate worse sleep quality., 4 years|Rest/activity cycles, Sleep quality measured objectively by actigraphy. Actigraphy is a non-invasive method of monitoring rest/activity cycles., 4 years|Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D), Scoring for All Except Questions 4, 8, 12, and 16:

* 0 points Rarely or none of the time (\< 1 day)
* 1 point Some or a little of the time (1-2 days)
* 2 points Occasionally or a moderate amount of the time (3-4 days)
* 3 points Most or all of the time (5-7 days)

For questions 4, 8, 12, and 16, the scoring is exactly the same except that it is reversed: "Most or all of the time" is scored 0 points, "Rarely or none of the time" is scored 3 points Screening test score ranges are less than 15 = no depression, 15-21 = mild to moderate depression, and over 21 = possibility of major depression., 4 years|Correlation between sLE (or "Experimental Light") and depressive changes, Examine whether the effects of sLE on CRF are mediated by changes in depressive symptoms, 4 years|Correlation between sLE (or "Experimental Light") and circadian rhythms, Examine whether the effects of sLE on CRF are mediated by changes in rest/activity circadian rhythms., 4 years|Correlation between Experimental Light compared with Comparison Light and cortisol circadian rhythm, Examine whether the Experimental Light compared with Comparison Light normalizes cortisol circadian rhythms and whether the effects of sLE on CRF are mediated by changes in cortisol circadian rhythms., 4 years|General Anxiety Disorder 7-item questionnaire (GAD-7), The General Anxiety Disorder 7-item questionnaire (GAD-7) is a 7-item questionnaire that asks user to rank how often they have been bothered by seven problems over the past two weeks from "0" (not at all) to "3" (nearly every day). The items that users are asked to rank levels of nervousness, anxiousness, relaxing, restlessness, irritability and fearfulness. Full scale from 0-21, with higher score indicating more symptoms., 4 years|Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS), PANAS is a 20-item scale. Each item rated on a 5-point scale of 1 (not at all) to 5 (extremely), each subscale from 10-50, with higher score indicating more symptoms., 4 years|Patient Assessment of Own Functioning - PAOFI, Patient Assessment of Own Functioning - PAOFI is a 33-item instrument measuring four areas: memory, language and communication, motor/sensory-perceptual, higher level cognitive, and intellectual functions. Each item is rated from 0 (almost never) to 5 (almost always) for experiencing difficulty. Subscales: memory (0-45), language and communication (0-40), sensory-motor (0-25), intellectual (0-45), with total scale 0-155, with higher score indicating lower functioning, 4 years|Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory - Short Form, Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory - Short Form is a 30-item scale, each item from 1 (not at all) to 4 (extremely), full scale from 24-95, with higher score indicating higher levels of fatigue, 4 years|The Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II), The Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI-II) is a 21 item self-report inventory measuring the severity of depression. Scoring is from 0 (minimal) to 3 (severe), with total score from 0-63. Higher total scores indicate more severe depressive symptoms., 4 years|Impact of Event Scale - Revised (IES-R), Impact of Event Scale - Revised (IES-R) A 22-item self-report questionnaire measuring PTSD symptoms. Items are rated on a 5-point scale ranging from 0 ("not at all") to 4 ("extremely"). The IES-R yields a total score ranging from 0 - 88 with higher score indicating more impact. Not a tool for diagnosis, 4 years|Self Compassion Scale -SCS, Self Compassion Scale -SCS - 26-item instrument, full score from 1-5, with higher score indicating higher self compassion, 4 years|Brief Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18), Brief Symptom Inventory-18 (BSI-18) - self-report 18-item instrument. Scores on the 18 items are summarized on the Global Severity Index. Raw scores are converted to t-scores., 4 years|Posttraumatic Growth Inventory - (PTGI) Short Form, Posttraumatic Growth Inventory - (PTGI) Short Form - 10-item instrument, each item scored 0 (no change) to 5 (great degree change), full scale from 0-50, with higher score indicating greater growth., 4 years|Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale (CD-RISC-10), The CD-RISC-10 is a 10 item ordinal scale rated on a 5-point scale: 0 (not true at all) to 4 (true nearly all the time). Full scale from 0-40, with higher scores reflecting greater resilience., 4 years|The Social Constraints Scale (SCS), The Social Constraints Scale (SCS) - The SCS is a 15-item measure that reflects social conditions which cause a trauma survivor to feel unsupported, misunderstood, or otherwise alienated from their social network when they are seeking social support or attempting to express trauma-related thoughts, feelings, or concerns. Each item is scored 1 (never) to 4 (always). Full scale from 15-60, with higher score indicating the more often the person perceive they must inhibit themselves from expressing trauma-related thoughts and feelings to others., 4 years|C/E- Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire, C/E- Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire - A scale measuring treatment expectancy and rationale credibility for use in clinical outcome studies. Full scale from 0-10, with higher score indicating higher treatment expectancy, 4 years|The Anxiety Sensitivity Index-3 - (ASI-3), The Anxiety Sensitivity Index-3 - (ASI-3) is an 18 item measure, each item from 0 (very little) to 4 (very much), there are 3 subscales (physical, cognitive, and social) with each subscale range from 0-24 and the full scale range from 0 - 72, with higher scale indicating higher agreement., 4 years|MEQ- SA - Morningness Eveningness Questionnaire, MEQ- SA - Morningness Eveningness Questionnaire is a 19 item self-rated instrument to determine morningness-eveningness in human circadian rhythms. Full scale from 16-86, with higher score indicating the more the human circadian rhythm is of morning type., 4 years|Perceive Stress Scale (PSS), Perceive Stress Scale (PSS) - A 10-item questionnaire, each item scored 0 (never) to 4 (very often), full scale from 0-40, with higher score indicating higher perceived stress., 4 years|Social Provision Scale, Social Provision Scale - 24 item instrument, each item scored (1) strongly disagree to (4) strongly agree. Full scale from 24 to 96, with higher score indicating higher perception of receiving provision., 4 years
The proposed multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT) will investigate a novel intervention, systematic light exposure (sLE), to treat cancer-related fatigue (CRF) among Multiple Myeloma (MM) and Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL) following autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). Cancer related fatigue (CRF) is persistent exhaustion related to cancer and/or its treatment. CRF is the most common cancer side effect and can severely interfere with activities of daily living long after completion of all medical treatment. Pharmacologic agents to treat CRF have been studied but there is insufficient evidence to recommend their use. Non-pharmacological interventions for CRF (including yoga, cognitive behavior therapy, hypnosis, and exercise) have also been studied; however, such interventions are costly to implement and involve significant patient burden. sLE is a low-cost, low- burden intervention that we have found to have beneficial effects for patients post-ASCT. The investigators initial randomized trial for CRF found that certain light exposure was associated with clinically significant reductions in fatigue (effect size d=0.98) More relevant to the proposed research is the preliminary investigation with sLE to treat CRF in MM and DLBCL which found that patients receiving certain sLE reported significantly less fatigue ( p=0.052). The proposed RCT will test the efficacy of sLE on CRF. It will also assess the effect of sLE on sleep, depressive symptoms, and both activity and cortisol circadian rhythms as these related processes have been hypothesized as possible mechanisms of

sLE's effects on CRF. Two hundred survivors of multiple myeloma and Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma between 1 month and 5 years post-autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT) will be recruited from two medical centers.

The light will be administered by light glasses for 4 weeks. Outcomes will be assessed at five separate time points including baseline and follow-ups.

The researchers' preliminary research has established the feasibility of this proposal. Moreover, in the preliminary research, 75% of participants completed the preliminary trial and data from the light box compliance meters showed that participants used the light boxes 80% of the days that treatment was scheduled. A large sample of fatigued MM and DLBCL ASCT survivors has been identified. The study will specifically address recommendations made for interventions for CRF from the NCI Clinical Trials Planning meeting (JNCI, 2013). It will: 1) be the first large multisite study with a carefully delineated comparison condition to investigate the effects of light on CRF among cancer survivors treated with ASCT; 2) focus on a distinct, homogenous patient population (MM and DLBCL ASCT survivors); 3) include only survivors who experience clinical levels of CRF; and 4) address possible mechanisms. This RCT will have major public health relevance as it will determine if an easy-to-deliver, inexpensive, and low patient burden intervention reduces CRF.