Major De-escalation to 30 Gy for Select Human Papillomavirus Associated Oropharyngeal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that participants with HPV positive and hypoxia negative T1-2, N1-2c (AJCC, 7th ed.) oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma receiving a major de-escalated radiation therapy with 2 cycles of standard chemotherapy is not inferior to comparable subjects treated with the current standard chemoradiation.

Accrual for Cohort A has been completed.

Cohort B is active and continues to enroll participants where surgery is optional and proton is allowed.
HPV-Associated Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Neck
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: F-FMISO PET/CT Scan|RADIATION: 30 Gy over 3 weeks|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: 5Fluorouracil|RADIATION: Proton Therapy
Effectiveness of study treatment for participants receiving de-escalated radiation therapy radiation therapy, comparable to participants treated with the current standard of care chemoradiation by standard CT (or MRI) or tumor site and PET scan, The primary objective of this protocol is to demonstrate that the 2-year locoregional control for this cohort of subjects treated with a major de-escalated radiation dose of 30 Gy is not inferior to comparable subjects treated with the current standard chemoradiation at 70 GY by using a proportion test of patients who demonstrate 2-year locoregional control., 2 years (+/- 3 months)
This non-randomized non-inferiority study will enroll HPV associated oropharyngeal carcinoma subjects. Subjects who also have no evidence of hypoxia will undergo a major de-escalated radiation therapy concurrent with standard chemotherapy. Hypoxia status will be determined by 1 BF-FMISO PET /CT imaging. If this baseline scan shows no evidence of hypoxia, the subject will receive 30Gy concurrent with 2 cycles of chemotherapy. If this baseline scan shows evidence of hypoxia, a repeat 1 BF-FMISO scan will be done 5-10 treatment days after start of radiation therapy. If the repeat 1 BF-FMISO scan PET /CT demonstrates no evidence of hypoxia, the subject will receive 30Gy concurrent with 2 cycles of chemotherapy. If the repeat 1 BF-FMISO scan PET /CT demonstrates hypoxia, the subject will receive 70Gy concurrent with 2 cycles of chemotherapy. At 4 (+/- 4 weeks) months after chemoradiation, a neck dissection will be done unless the subjects FDG PET /CT scan at that time shows no evidence of disease of which the subject can be observed as per current standard of care.