Discomfort Assessment of Senographe Pristina Patient-assisted Versus Standard Compression Mode and Quality Assessment of Screening Mammograms
Senographe Pristina is a new mammography system (hardware and software) designed to improve patient experience, patient throughput, and radiographer experience while maintaining the imaging capabilities and image quality of full-field digital mammography (FFDM) and digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) breast imaging. The purpose of this study is to assess patient experience as it relates to discomfort when patient-assisted compression is compared against the standard compression mode of Senographe Pristina in asymptomatic adult women undergoing screening FFDM mammography.

The technical/clinical quality assessment of mammograms is essential to ensure that high quality images are consistently used in a breast cancer screening program. Advances in mammography equipment may improve the image quality. Therefore, the investigators hypothesize that the introduction of Senographe Pristina may have an effect on the technical/clinical quality of screening mammograms.
Mammography Related Discomfort
DEVICE: bilateral two-view (CC and MLO) FFDM (full field digital mammography) using patient-assisted compression mode|DEVICE: bilateral two-view (CC and MLO) FFDM (full field digital mammography) using standard compression mode
Patient discomfort using an 11-point numeric pain rating scale, Subject-provided pain scores using an 11-point numeric rating scale (NRS) of patient-assisted compression and standard compression will be used as a measure of discomfort. A total of six (6) pain scores will be obtained from each subject, consisting of two (2) baseline pain scores (right/left breast) collected previous to the image acquisition, two (2) patient-assisted compression scores (CC and MLO) and two (2) standard compression scores (CC and MLO). Immediately following image acquisition (i.e. during decompression of the breast), study staff will ask the subject to provide a verbal score, indicating her level of pain for the given compression. A validated 11-point NRS will be used for each assessment, where a score of 0 will indicate no pain and 10 will indicate the worst pain. Pain scores will be documented on Case Report Form (CRFs) by the study staff, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging
Technical/Clinical quality of mammogram using the PGMI system, Two highly trained radiologists will independently assess the quality of the images according to the PGMI system (Perfect, Good, Moderate, Inadequate). In case of disagreement, a third radiologist will assess the quality and a final score will reach by majority. All participating radiologists will be blind to the compression status. Items taken into account for the PGMI are: (i) For CC view: Nipple not in profile, skin folds, images not symmetrical, medial border of the breast not seen, axillary tail of the breast insufficiently seen, inadequate compression/blur, artefacts and incorrect annotation/labeling.(ii) For MLO view: insufficient inframammary angle, nipple not in profile, images not symmetrical, pectoralis major muscle not to nipple level, pectoralis major muscle not at appropriate angle, inadequate compression/blur, and artefacts. Technical/Clinical quality of mammogram using the PGMI system will be documented on CRF by the study staff, Immediately following radiologists analysis|Average glandular dose in mGy, Average glandular dose is provided systematically by the mammography device following image acquisition. Results are expressed in miligray (mGy). Average glandular dose will be documented on CRF by the study staff, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging|Breast thickness in mm, Breast thickness is provided systematically by the mammography device following image acquisition. Results are expressed in milimeters (mm). Breast thickness will be documented on CRF by the study staff, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging|Compression force in daN, Compression force is provided systematically by the mammography device following image acquisition. Results are expressed in decanewton (daN). Compression force will be documented on CRF by the study staff., Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging
Patient experience feedback: Patient preference about patient-assisted compression over standard compression using a 5-point Likert scale, Study staff will provide an online questionnaire to each of the subjects when their imaging exams are completed. Subjects will complete the questionnaires while still at the site, and a member of the study staff will be available to address any questions.

The questionnaire will consist of four (4) items, structured as statements and answered using a 5-point Likert scale: 1. Strongly agree, 2. Agree; 3. Neither agree nor disagree; 4. Disagree; 5. Strongly disagree.

This item's statement is as follows: I preferred the patient-assisted compression exam over the standard compression exam, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging|Patient experience feedback: Patient-assisted compression discomfort as compared to standard compression using a 5-point Likert scale, Study staff will provide an online questionnaire to each of the subjects when their imaging exams are completed. Subjects will complete the questionnaires while still at the site, and a member of the study staff will be available to address any questions.

The questionnaire will consist of four (4) items, structured as statements and answered using a 5-point Likert scale: 1. Strongly agree, 2. Agree; 3. Neither agree nor disagree; 4. Disagree; 5. Strongly disagree.

This item's statement is as follows: The patient-assisted compression screening exam caused less discomfort than the standard compression exam, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging|Patient experience feedback: Expected comfortability in next screening if patient-assisted compression were available using a 5-point Likert scale, Study staff will provide an online questionnaire to each of the subjects when their imaging exams are completed. Subjects will complete the questionnaires while still at the site, and a member of the study staff will be available to address any questions.

The questionnaire will consist of four (4) items, structured as statements and answered using a 5-point Likert scale: 1. Strongly agree, 2. Agree; 3. Neither agree nor disagree; 4. Disagree; 5. Strongly disagree.

This item's statement is as follows: I would feel more comfortable going to my next breast screening exam if patient-assisted compression were available, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging|Patient experience feedback: Patient-assisted compression satisfaction, expressed as the level of agreement to recommend it to friends and family using a 5-point Likert scale, Study staff will provide an online questionnaire to each of the subjects when their imaging exams are completed. Subjects will complete the questionnaires while still at the site, and a member of the study staff will be available to address any questions.

The questionnaire will consist of four (4) items, structured as statements and answered using a 5-point Likert scale: 1. Strongly agree, 2. Agree; 3. Neither agree nor disagree; 4. Disagree; 5. Strongly disagree.

This item's statement is as follows: I would recommend a patient-assisted compression exam to my friends and family, Immediately following full-field digital mammography breast imaging
Leading authorities on breast cancer recommend regular screening mammography for women aged 40 years and older as a means of early detection for breast cancer, which can lead to increased survival rates and more treatment options. Numerous randomized trials have demonstrated that regular mammographic screening reduces breast cancer mortality, with more than 40% reduction in breast cancer deaths. Amidst the success of screening mammography, clinicians struggle to maintain patient participation in regular screening programs. Notably, a systematic review by Whelehan, et al. concluded that pain experienced during screening mammography (e.g. compression pain) contributed to reduced rates of repeat participation in regular screening programs.

Adequate breast compression during mammography creates uniform thickness and flattens tissues, which is necessary to obtain sufficient image quality and reduce radiation dose. Various methods are being investigated to maintain sufficient compression while reducing pain associated with mammography. Specifically, studies have shown that a personalized approach to compression can significantly reduce pain intensity and discomfort experienced by patients while maintaining diagnostic image quality.

Patient-controlled compression allows the patient to control the amount of compression force during mammography and is a personalized approach that has demonstrated successful pain reduction in mammography. GE Healthcare's Senographe Pristina, an innovative mammography platform that provides both two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) imaging capabilities, offers standard and patient-controlled compression modes. The study described herein is being conducted to compare discomfort experienced by asymptomatic women undergoing full-field digital (FFDM) 2D screening mammography with standard and patient-controlled compression modes of Senographe Pristina. Results from this study may be used to support future regulatory submissions.

The population of this study will consist of adult asymptomatic women presenting for screening FFDM. Eligible patients will be enrolled and will undergo bilateral two-view (CC and MLO) imaging with Senographe Pristina.

Each subject will use both standard and patient-assisted compression modes, with one mode randomly assigned to the right breast and the other mode assigned to the left breast. Immediately following image acquisition (i.e. during decompression), subjects will be asked to rate their level of discomfort using a validated 11-point pain rating scale (numeric rating scale). Additional data collected from each subject will include demographic and clinical history information, breast thickness, radiation dose, compression force, and overall patient experience feedback.

Pain scores will be summarized with descriptive statistics and other endpoint data will be analyzed using general statistical methods. Pain results will be compared according to compression mode and multivariate analysis will be performed to assess the potential effect of other variables. The technical/clinical quality assessment of mammograms is essential to ensure that high quality images are consistently used in a breast cancer screening program. Poor image quality may lead to missed diagnoses and compromised detection of breast cancers. In this sense, it has been reported that high image quality leads to higher detection rates and fewer interval cancers.

In order to assess the technical/clinical quality of screening mammograms, the PGMI (perfect, good, moderately good, and inadequate) system will be used. With this system the investigators routinely evaluate the technical/clinical quality of screening mammograms in our center. A random sample of 500 women with two (2) Medio Lateral Oblique (MLO) and two (2) Cranial Caudal (CC) views produced with Senographe Pristina (291 with patient-assisted compression and 291 with standard compression mode) will be assessed by three highly trained radiologists. Technical/clinical image quality will be compared according to compression mode and multivariate analysis will be performed to assess the potential effect of other variables. Additionally, the investigators will compare the technical/clinical image quality of mammograms produced by Senographe Pristina with the image quality observed in the previous routine evaluations performed in our center.