A Study in Non-squamous Non Small Cell Lung Cancer in Asian Patients
To investigate efficacy and safety of the combination with pemetrexed plus carboplatin, followed by pemetrexed in patients with advanced nonsquamous Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who receive at least one dose of the induction therapy.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin
Progression Free Survival (PFS) During the Induction and Maintenance Therapy Periods, PFS defined as time from enrollment date to first date of objective progression of disease or of death from any cause. Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0, which define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. Participants receiving any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy before objective progression or death were censored at date of last objective progression-free disease assessment before starting subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., Enrollment to the date of progressive disease (PD) or the date of death from any cause (up to 18 months)
Overall Survival (OS) During the Induction and Maintenance Therapy Periods, OS was defined as the time from the enrollment date to the date of death from any cause. For participants who were alive, OS was censored at the last contact., Enrollment to the date of death from any cause (up to 30.8 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieve a Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) During the Induction and Maintenance Therapy Periods, Calculated as the percentage of participants who achieved a confirmed CR, PR, or SD. Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0, which define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. CR = disappearance of all target lesions. PR = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Progressive Disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. SD = small changes that do not meet above criteria., Enrollment to date of progressive disease (up to 18 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) During the Induction and Maintenance Therapy Periods, Calculated as the percentage of participants who achieved a confirmed CR or PR. Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0, which define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. CR = disappearance of all target lesions. PR = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Progressive Disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., Enrollment to date of progressive disease (up to 18 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) During the Maintenance Therapy Period, Measured from the date of the first dose of the maintenance therapy. Calculated by subtracting induction therapy period from PFS. Tumor response assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0; define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. Participants receiving any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy before objective progression or death were censored at date of last objective progression-free disease assessment before starting subsequent systemic anticancer therapy., From the start of maintenance therapy in Cycle 5 (21-day cycle) until the date of measured progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause (up to 24.4 months)|Overall Survival (OS) During the Maintenance Therapy Period, OS was defined as the duration from the date of the first dose of the maintenance therapy to the date of death from any cause and was calculated by subtracting the induction therapy period from OS. Participants receiving any subsequent systemic anticancer therapy before objective progression or death were censored at date of last objective progression-free disease assessment before starting subsequent systemic anticancer therapy. For participants who were alive, OS was censored at the last contact., From the start of maintenance therapy in Cycle 5 (21-day cycle) until the date of measured progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause (up to 26.3 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieved a Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) During the Maintenance Therapy Period, Percentage of participants who achieved confirmed CR (disappearance of all target lesions), PR (30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions), or SD (small changes that do not meet above criteria). Response derived from target lesion assessments performed before maintenance therapy (as baseline), during maintenance therapy (as post-baseline), and non-target lesion assessments performed during maintenance therapy according to RECIST guideline version 1.0, defines when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments., From the start of maintenance therapy in Cycle 5 (21-day cycle) until the date of measured progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause (up to 18 months)|Percentage of Participants Who Observe a Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), or Stable Disease (SD) During the Induction Therapy Period, Calculated as the percentage of participants who achieved a CR, PR, or SD (confirmed or not). Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0, which define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. CR = disappearance of all target lesions. PR = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Progressive Disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. SD = small changes that do not meet above criteria., Enrollment to the date of PD, or end of induction period up to Cycle 4 (21-day cycle)|Percentage of Participants Who Achieve a Complete Response (CR) or a Partial Response (PR) During the Induction Therapy Period, Calculated as percentage of participants who achieved a CR or PR (confirmed or not). Tumor response was assessed using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline version 1.0, which define when cancer participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stabilize"), or worsen ("progression") during treatments. CR = disappearance of all target lesions. PR = 30% decrease in sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. Progressive Disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter of target lesions. Stable Disease (SD) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., Enrollment to date of PD, or end of induction period up to Cycle 4 (21-day cycle)
To investigate efficacy and safety of the combination with pemetrexed plus carboplatin, followed by pemetrexed in patients with advanced nonsquamous Non Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) who receive at least one dose of the induction therapy.