Rehabilitation Needs of the Malaysian Haematological Cancer Survivors
Many cancers are being treated more effectively nowadays due to the raised awareness and early detection as well as advancement in researches and technology. Despite the rising number of cancer survivors in the coming years, these survivors are still plagued by the poor quality of life due to physical and psychological impairment. According to the National Cancer Registry Report from 2007-2011, haematological cancer is one of the ten most common cancers in Malaysian population. Many haematological cancer survivors in Malaysia are reportedly having poor quality of life due to multiple physical and emotional impairments which leads to further disability in life. It is thus an important effort to identify the rehabilitation needs in these cancer survivors to implement alternatives to improve the disease outcome through cancer rehabilitation.
Haematological Malignancy|Leukemia, Acute|Lymphoma|Myeloma Multiple|Blood Cancer|Quality of Life
OTHER: WHODAS 2.0 Questionnaire
World Health Organization Disability Assessment Schedule (WHODAS) 2.0, WHODAS 2.0 is a practical, generic assessment tool that measures health and disability at population level or in clinical practice. It identifies possible disabilities in 6 domains of life namely Cognitive, Mobility, Self Care, Relationship, Life Activities and Participation. In view of its resemblance to the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) model, direct identification of functioning and disability separately from the disease condition could be done.

Each domain has few sets of questions pertaining to the activities; the responses and scores of each question are divided into none (0), mild (1), moderate (2), severe (3) and extremely cannot do (4). The scores from each domain will be summed and higher scores signifies higher disability status., 30 days ago from interview date
Identifying patients who are at risk of disability from haemato-oncological illness, Disability outcomes of different groups of patients (of demographics and diagnosis) were analyzed using SPSS program and identification of patients who were vulnerable to haematological cancers were done using ANOVA test., 30 days ago from interview date
A cross-sectional questionnaire-based study will be employed to identify the rehabilitation needs and predictors of needs in outpatient hemato-oncological cohort at UMMC Hemato-oncology Clinic for 12 months. The validated questionnaire employed evaluates the potential disabilities that could affect the aforementioned patients in domains such as communication, independence in mobility, self-care, social participation, handling relationships and domestic activity of daily living a month prior to the survey.

Participants of age between 18 to 80 years old, diagnosed with haemato-oncological illnesses will be screened; excluding potential participants who are too ill or cannot understand English, Malay, or Chinese; to be recruited in the research.

Based on the findings from the analysis, rehabilitation needs could be tailored accordingly to improve quality of life of these patients