Bevacizumab and Sorafenib in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma Multiforme
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Bevacizumab and sorafenib may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Giving bevacizumab together with sorafenib may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well giving bevacizumab together with sorafenib works in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate
6-month Progression-free Survival, Primary Endpoint: 6-month progression free survival (PFS6): The proportion of successes will be estimated using the binomial point estimator (number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients) and the binomial 95% confidence interval estimated. To be classified as a success, an evaluable patient must be alive and progression-free 6 months after registration to the study. Patients who die prior to 6 months after study registration will be considered to have failed. Progression is defined as a \>25% increase in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass or appearance of new lesions or unequivocal increase in size of contrast enhancement or increase in mass effect as agreed upon independently by primary physician and quality control physicians: appearance of new lesions compared to pretreatment MRI and/or CT scan., at 6 months
Time to Progression, Time to progression (TTP) is defined to be the length of time from study registration to a) date of disease progression as defined by section 11.0 of the protocol, or b) last follow-up. If a patient dies without documentation of disease progression, the patient will be considered to have had a tumor progression at the time of death unless there is sufficient documented evidence to conclude no progression occurred prior to death. Time to progression curves were compared via the log-rank test. Progression is defined as a \>25% increase in product of perpendicular diameters of contrast enhancement or mass or appearance of new lesions or unequivocal increase in size of contrast enhancement or increase in mass effect as agreed upon independently by primary physician and quality control physicians: appearance of new lesions compared to pretreatment MRI and/or CT scan., Time from study registration to a) date of disease progression, or b) last follow-up; Up to 15 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the length of time from date of registration to a) date of death due to any cause or b) last follow-up., Time from date of registration to a) date of death due to any cause or b) last follow-up; Up to 15 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Identify the clinical efficacy of bevacizumab and sorafenib, as measured by 6-month progression-free survival, in patients with recurrent glioblastoma multiforme.

Secondary

* Assess time to progression of this patient population.
* Assess overall survival of this patient population.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib once daily on days 1-14 and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo blood and plasma sample collection at baseline and then periodically during study treatment for translational research studies. Translational research studies include analysis of circulating endothelial cells and circulating endothelial progenitor cells by flow cytometry and measurement of angiogenic proteins in plasma by ELISA. DNA and buffy coat are extracted and collected from the blood samples for pharmacogenetic studies.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, prior to every other treatment course, and at the end of treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 28-42 days, every 3 months for 5 years, and then annually for 10 years.