Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Clofarabine, and Busulfan Before Donor Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Refractory B-Cell or T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma or Hodgkin Lymphoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of gemcitabine hydrochloride, clofarabine, and busulfan before donor stem cell transplant and to see how well it works in treating patients with B-cell or T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma or Hodgkin lymphoma that does not respond to treatment. Giving chemotherapy before a donor bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplant helps stop the growth of cancer cells. It may also stop the patient's immune system from rejecting the donor's stem cells. When the healthy stem cells from a donor are infused into the patient they may help the patient's bone marrow make stem cells, red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets.
Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient|Refractory B-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory T-Cell Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Bone Marrow Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|BIOLOGICAL: Anti-Thymocyte Globulin|DRUG: Busulfan|DRUG: Clofarabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Mycophenolate Mofetil|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Pharmacological Study|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Tacrolimus
Optimal Dose of Gemcitabine Hydrochloride Determined by Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose limiting toxicity is defined as number of participants experienced grade 3-4 mucositis lasting for more than 3 days at peak severity, grade 3-4 skin toxicity lasting for more than 3 days at peak severity, occurring within 30 days from transplant, or grade 4 nonhematological/noninfectious toxicity., Within 30 days of transplant|Number of Participants That Had 100 Day Success Rate Post Transplant, Number of participants that are alive, engrafted, without grade 3-4 GVHD within 100 days post transplant., 100 days post transplant
Overall Survival, Number of participants that are still alive 5 years post transplant., Up to 5 years|Treatment Related Mortality, Number of participants that expired from transplant other than disease relapse within the first 100 days post transplant., Up to 100 days post-transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of infusional gemcitabine (gemcitabine hydrochloride) combined with fixed doses of clofarabine and busulfan in patients with lymphoma receiving an allogeneic stem-cell transplant (alloSCT).

II. To estimate the day +100 success rate, defined as percentage of patients who are alive, engrafted and without grade 3-4 graft-versus (vs.)-host-disease (GVHD).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the day +100 success rate (defined as percentage of patients who are alive, engrafted and without grade 3-4 graft-vs.-host-disease \[GVHD\]).

II. To estimate the rate of event-free (EFS). III. To estimate the rate of overall survival (OS). IV. To estimate the response rate (RR) (defined as # of responses / # of patients with measurable tumors).

V. To estimate the complete response (CR) rate (defined as # of complete responses / # of patients with measurable tumors).

VI. To estimate the incidence of grade 2-4 and grade 3-4 acute GVHD. VII. To estimate the incidence of limited and extensive chronic GVHD.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of gemcitabine hydrochloride followed by a phase II study.

PREPARATIVE REGIMEN: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 40-180 minutes on days -6 and -4, clofarabine IV over 1 hour on days -6 to -3, and busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -6 to -3. Patients with matched unrelated donors also receive antithymocyte globulin IV on days -3 to -1 and patients with cluster of differentiation (CD)20-positive disease also receive rituximab IV on days -14, -7, 1, and 8.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo allogeneic bone marrow (BMT) or peripheral blood stem cell transplant (PBSCT) on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously over 24 hours or orally (PO). Beginning on day 0, patients receive mycophenolate mofetil IV over 2 hours or PO thrice daily (TID).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3, 6, and 12 months, and then every 6 months for 4 years.