Salvage Ultrahypofractionated Postoperative External Radiotherapy For Biochemical Recurrence
Recently, the Radiation Oncology Department at Fondazione IRCCS San Gerardo dei Tintori has been renovated and has been equipped with cutting edge technologies to treat prostate cancer. Specifically, the now available technology can track organ motion in real time, thus allowing improved precision in radiation delivery, with increased protection of the surrounding organs at risk. These facilities have already enabled the kickoff of two prospective observational trials, the ABRUPT and the POPART, which are currently ongoing in the treatment of intact prostate and the biochemical recurrence, respectively. Taken together, these observations provide the basis for the prospective clinical study herein proposed. Patients enrolled in the study will undergo salvage single stereotactic RT to the prostate bed by means of image guided volumetric intensity-modulated arc technique (IGRT-VMAT) and state-of-the-art treatment-planning and quality assurance procedures, with emphasis on normal tissue sparing and and pinpoint delivery accuracy via the use of devices that ensure stability and beam location reproducibility
Prostate Cancer (Post Prostatectomy)
RADIATION: SBRT
Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v. 5.0, To prospectively evaluate the cumulative incidence of acute (\< 90 days from the end of treatment) and late (\> 90 days) treatment related toxicities and adverse events, 60 months
QUALITY OF LIFE (QOL) assessed by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC-CP) Questionnaire. For each domain minimum symptom score (=0) means best QOL and maximum symptom score (=12) means worst QOL, To measure symptom scores for each QOL domain (urinary incontinence, urinary irritative/obstructive, bowel, sexual) after SDRT by EPIC-CP Questionnaire, 60 months|Number of participants with urinary incontinence assessed by International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF), ranging from 0 (best) to 21 (worst), To assess urinary continence after postoperative SBRT using ICIQ-SF, 60 months|Number of participants with erectile dysfunction assessed by International Index of Erectile Function Questionnaire ranging from 5 (worst ) to 25 (best), To assess erectile function after postoperative SBRT using IIEF 5, 60 months|Number of participants with biochemical relapse assessed by PSA (cut off 0.20 ng/mL), To assess biochemical outcome after postoperative SBRT using serum PSA levels, 60 months
Patients enrolled in this observational prospective trial undergo image-guided, intensity-modulated radiotherapy using the same equipment, techniques, and treatment-planning procedures as per clinical practice. Eligible patients are those with (1) persistently detectable PSA post-operatively or (2) developing biochemical recurrence after prostatectomy with initially undetectable PSA, without evidence of macroscopic local relapse and/or regional and distant metastases at restaging, proposed for receiving up to 15 Gy in a single session to the prostate bed.

As per current practice, in case of PSMA positivity at the level of prostate bed, the treatment will be intended to cover this area up to 110% of the prescribed dose yet respecting the OARs constraints.

Patients will be followed at approximately one month, then approximately every 3 months for the first 12 months and every 6 months thereafter. At follow-up visit patients will be evaluated for urinary, rectal, and sexual toxicity. Baseline measures of these domains will be obtained prior to treatment. Serum PSA values will be drawn on the same schedule as clinical follow-up.