A Study of mRNA-5671/V941 as Monotherapy and in Combination With Pembrolizumab (V941-001)
This study will determine the safety and tolerability and establish a preliminary recommended Phase 2 dose of V941(mRNA-5671/V941) as a monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab infusion.
Neoplasms|Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung|Pancreatic Neoplasms|Colorectal Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: V941|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), The following toxicities graded for severity using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE), were considered a DLT if judged by the investigator to be possibly related to study investigational products: 1) Grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity (ie. not a laboratory finding). 2) Grade 4 hematologic toxicity lasting ≥ 7 days, except thrombocytopenia: 3) Grade 4 thrombocytopenia of any duration 4) Grade 3 thrombocytopenia associated with clinically significant bleeding 5) Any nonhematologic AE ≥ Grade 3 in severity, with some exceptions 6) Any Grade 3 or Grade 4 nonhematologic laboratory value that meets one of the study criteria 7) Febrile neutropenia Grade 3 or Grade 4 8) Prolonged delay (\>2 weeks) in initiating Cycle 2 due to treatment-related toxicity. 9) Any treatment-related toxicity that causes participant to discontinue treatment during Cycle 1. 10) Grade 5 toxicity 11) Any other clinically significant toxicity judged to be a DLT by investigator., Cycle 1 (Up to 21 days)|Number of Participants Who Experienced an Adverse Event (AE), An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study., Up to approximately 27 months|Number of Participants Who Discontinued Study Treatment Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it is considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurs during the course of the study. The number of participants who discontinued study treatment due to an AE is reported., Up to approximately 24 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of participants with Complete Response (CR: disappearance of all target lesions) or Partial Response (PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1). The percentage of participants who experienced CR or PR as assessed by investigator is reported., Up to approximately 24 months|Presence of Mutant Kirsten Rat Sarcoma (KRAS) Specific T Cells, The presence of mutant KRAS specific T cells (G12D, G12V, G13D, G12C, and Wild type) in blood was assessed using an enzyme linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assay. ELISpot detects interferon gamma (IFN-g) producing T-cells in a participant's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in response to KRAS specific stimulation. Data are presented as spot forming cells (SFC) per 10\^6 PBMC. The post-treatment ELISpot readout for a cycle is reported. A cycle is 3 weeks., Cycle 1 - Cycle 9 (a cycle is 3 weeks) and at the Discontinuation Visit (at the time of withdrawal or up to 30 weeks, whichever occurs first)|Mean Change From Baseline in Quantity of Mutant KRAS Specific T Cells, Mean change from baseline in the quantity of mutant KRAS specific T cells in blood was assessed using an enzyme linked immunosorbent spot (ELISpot) assay. ELISpot detects interferon gamma (IFN-g) producing T-cells in a participant's peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) in response to KRAS specific stimulation. Data are presented as spot forming cells (SFC) per 10\^6 PBMC. The mean change is reported., Baseline and Cycle 1 - Cycle 9 (a cycle is 3 weeks) and at the Discontinuation Visit (at the time of withdrawal or up to 30 weeks, whichever occurs first)
T-cell Receptor (TCR) Clonality and Diversity, TCR clonality and diversity in the periphery and tumor., Up to approximately 24 months
This study will determine the safety and tolerability and establish a preliminary recommended Phase 2 dose of V941(mRNA-5671/V941) as a monotherapy and in combination with pembrolizumab infusion.