Pre-incisional Wound INfiltration and Hypogastric PLEXus Block Using Ropivacaine in Laparoscopic Myomectomy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a comprehensive approach to anesthesia in patients with uterine myoma using pre-incisional infiltration of the anterior abdominal wall and presacral blockade of the hypogastric nerve plexus during laparoscopic myomectomy
Fibroid Uterus|Pain, Postoperative
PROCEDURE: Infiltration of the anterior abdominal wall|PROCEDURE: Upper hypogastric plexus blockade
Frequency of severe pain syndrome, Frequency of severe pain syndrome (≥ 4 points on the visual analogue scale) in the postoperative period after laparoscopic conservative myomectomy., In the postoperative period, an average of 2 days
Mobilization, Timing of post-surgery mobilization (hours after surgery), In the early postoperative period, an average of 24 hours|Opioid analgesic, Frequency of opioid analgesic requirements, In the early postoperative period, an average of 24 hours|Localisation of pain syndrome, A questionnaire is administered to patients to determine the nature of pain: localisation of pain and conditions of its onset are noted The questionnaire indicates the localisation of pain (anterior abdominal wall, small pelvis, right shoulder), the conditions of its occurrence (lying, standing, and during the stress test)., In the postoperative period, an average of 2 days|Patients' satisfaction level, patients fill out the EQ-5D questionnaire to assess the patient's impressions of her hospital stay. EQ-5D is a multidimensional tool for assessing the quality of life, which can be expressed using a single indicator - an index. In this regard, it is also called a health index. Each component is divided into three levels according to the severity of the problem: no problem, moderately severe problem, severe problem. Combining these levels in five components allows to get 243 variants of 'health status'. The second part of the questionnaire is a visual analogue scale, the so-called 'health thermometer'. This is a twenty-centimetre vertical graduated ruler with 0 representing the worst and 100 representing the best state of health., At discharge, an average 2 days after surgery|level of problems on different aspects of functioning, The Picker Patient Experience Questionnaire is designed for patient evaluation of 7 aspects of care: information, consistency, psychological aspect, consideration of patient preferences, physical well-being, involvement of family and friends, and continuity of care laparoscopic myomectomy performed. The total score is calculated as a percentage (0 - no problem in any aspect, 100 - presence of problems in all domains)., At discharge, an average 2 days after surgery
On admission, patients will complete the EQ-5D quality of life questionnaire to assess the level of problems including pain, anxiety and depression, as well as the level of quality of life in general. The Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI-R) is also completed.

Each patient is randomly assigned to one of three groups on admission: standard variant of postoperative analgesia (systemic administration - intravenous, intramuscular, oral - non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, paracetamol, opioid analgesics), prophylactic pre-incisional infiltration of the anterior abdominal wall + standard variant of postoperative analgesia or prophylactic pre-incisional infiltration of the anterior abdominal wall + presacral blockade + standard variant of postoperative analgesia. Randomisation is done in a 1:1:1 ratio. In the early postoperative period, a questionnaire is administered to patients to determine the intensity and nature of pain: hourly VAS value, localisation of pain and conditions of its onset are noted. At discharge, patients fill out the EQ-5D questionnaire and the Picker questionnaire to assess the patient's impressions of her hospital stay.