Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, Cyclophosphamide, Vincristine Sulfate, Prednisolone, and Rituximab in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, and prednisolone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Monoclonal antibodies, such as rituximab, can block cancer growth in different ways. Some block the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Others find cancer cells and help kill them or carry cancer-killing substances to them. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) together with rituximab may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying giving gemcitabine hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, and prednisolone together with rituximab to see how well it works in treating patients with newly diagnosed diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: prednisolone|DRUG: vincristine sulfate
Overall response rate, End of treatment
Toxicity, End of treatment|Progression-free survival, Not specified in protocol|Overall survival, Not specified in protocol
OBJECTIVES:

* To determine whether rituximab, in combination with non-cardiotoxic chemotherapy comprising gemcitabine hydrochloride, cyclophosphamide, vincristine sulfate, and prednisolone, is efficacious in a group of patients who are unfit for CHOP chemotherapy.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8; cyclophosphamide IV, vincristine sulfate IV, and rituximab IV on day 1; and oral prednisolone once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.