Safety and Efficacy of RVU120 Combined With Venetoclax for Treatment of Relapsed/Refractory AML
The goal of this study is to assess the safety, tolerability, efficacy, pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamics (PD) of RVU120 when administered in combination with venetoclax to adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are relapsed or refractory to prior therapy with venetoclax and a hypomethylating agent. The study consists of three parts. Part 1 aims to identify the doses of RVU120 and venetoclax that are considered to be safe and tolerated. Part 2 will assess the safety and efficacy of the doses selected. And Part 3 is a confirmatory cohort where patients will be treated at the same doses assessed in Part 2
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: RVU120|DRUG: Venetoclax
(Part 1) recommended doses of RVU120 and venetoclax for further study, Incidence and severity of toxicities and number of dose limiting toxicities per dose cohort, approx. 12 months|(Parts 2 & 3) CR/CRh rate (Complete Remission/Complete Remission with incomplete Hematologic Recovery), Preliminary efficacy of RVU120 combined with venetoclax to recommended doses from Part 1. A response of CRh is defined as bone marrow with \<5% blasts, peripheral blood neutrophil count \>0.5 x 10(3)/mcL, and peripheral blood platelet count of \>0.5 x 10(5)/mcL, approx. 36 months
Incidence and severity of adverse events (safety and tolerability), Number and grade of adverse events assessed by CTCAE v5.0, approx. 36 months|Duration of response, Time from randomization to disease progression or death in patients who achieve CR/CRh, approx. 36 months|Post baseline transfusion independence rate, Transfusion independence is defined as a period of 56 days with no transfusion between the first dose of study drug and the last dose of study drug + 30 days. The rate of conversion of red blood cells (RBC) and platelets is defined as percentage of participants being post-baseline transfusion independent from baseline transfusion dependent, approx. 36 months|Progression-free survival, Time from randomization until first evidence of disease progression or death, approx. 36 months|Relapse-free survival, Number of participants alive without relapse, approx. 36 months|Overall survival, Time from randomization to death, approx. 36 months|Percentage of patients bridged to hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, Number of hematopoietic stem cell transplantations following response, approx. 36 months|(Parts 2 & 3) Impact of treatment on HM-PRO (hematologic malignancy specific patient reported outcome measure), The HM-PRO consists of two scales, Part A (Impact) that measures treatment impact on patient's health-related quality of life using a three-point Likert scale (Not at all, A little, A lot) and Part B (Signs and Symptoms) that captures the severity of disease or treatment related signs and symptoms on a three-point Likert scale (Not at all, Mild, Severe)., approx. 36 months
In Part 1 dose-escalation participants will receive escalating oral doses of RVU120 starting at 125 mg administered every other day on days 1-13, and escalating oral doses of venetoclax starting with 200 mg administered daily on days 1-14 of each 21-day cycle of treatment. The recommended doses for further study will be based on the observed safety, tolerance, PK and PD.

In Part 2, it will be assessed whether the recommended dose level from Part 1 reaches the targetted response criteria, and if reached, Part 3 will be initiated to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of the recommended doses in a larger population.