Oxaliplatin and Gemcitabine Followed by Radiation Therapy in the Management of Mixed Mullerian Tumors of the Uterus
The purpose of this research study is to determine the feasibility and safety of giving the combination of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine followed by radiation therapy and to learn whether or not this drug combined with radiation therapy works in treating women with Mullerian tumors of the uterus.
Mixed Mullerian Tumors of the Uterus
DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|RADIATION: Radiation
Chemotherapy Completion Rate, Feasibility in this study was based on the chemotherapy regimen. The chemotherapy completion rate is defined as the percentage of patients who complete 3 cycles of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine chemotherapy prior to radiation therapy., 3 cycles of chemotherapy which approximates 3 months given the 28-day cycle
Radiation Therapy Completion Rate, Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and every X cycles on treatment; Treatment continued if radiological exam showed no progressive disease, Radiation therapy was within 4-6 weeks of last chemotherapy dose. Participants received up to 5 weeks of radiation therapy.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary To determine the feasibility of dual modality therapy described as cytotoxic therapy followed by radiation therapy for the management of Malignant Mixed Mullerian Tumors (MMMTs).

Secondary

\* To describe the response rate by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors

STATISTICAL DESIGN:

This study used a two-stage design to evaluate feasibility of oxaliplatin and gemcitabine prior to radiation therapy defined as completing 3 cycles of chemotherapy. The null and alternative therapy completion rates were 25% and 50%. If 3 or more participants enrolled in the stage one cohort (n=9 participants) complete therapy than accrual would proceed to stage two (n=15 participants). If therapy was completed by at least 10 participants in the final set of 24 evaluable participants then this regimen would be deemed worthy of further study. This design had 80% power given one-sided type I error of 5% with the probability of stopping early 0.60.