Diagnostic Performance of Hybrid PET/MRI in the Staging of Endometrial Carcinoma
Endometrial carcinoma (EC) is one of the most common gynecologic malignancy in China. EC is staged surgically according to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) system, including depth of myometrial invasion, cervical invasion, and the presence of lymph node metastases. The benefit of lymph node resection on the prognosis of low-risk EC patients is not definite. An accurate staging method preoperative is needed.The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of simultaneous hybrid PET/MRI in EC preoperative staging.
Endometrial Carcinoma
Diagnostic value in the depth of endometrial infiltration, In EC identified cases, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values will be calculated for depth of endometrial infiltration measured by regular staging method and hybrid PET/MRI method, adopting D\&C pathological results as the gold standard., one month|Diagnostic value of the lymph nodes metastasis, In EC identified cases, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values will be calculated for lymph nodes metastasis detected by regular staging method and hybrid PET/MRI method, adopting D\&C pathological results as the gold standard., one month|Diagnostic value of the distant metastasis, In EC identified cases, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values will be calculated for distant metastasis detected by regular staging method and hybrid PET/MRI method, adopting D\&C pathological results as the gold standard., one month
Detection of endometrial carcinoma by hybrid PET/MRI, In EC suspicious cases, sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive and negative predictive values of hybrid PET/MRI for EC will be calculated, adopting D\&C pathological results as the gold standard., one month
The treatment of EC is mainly surgery, mostly comprehensive staging surgery (complete hysterectomy, bilateral adnexectomy, pelvic and para-aortic lymph node resection). Lymph node metastasis rate in the early low-risk EC patients (histologically graded G1 and G2, myometrium invasion depth \<50%, primary tumor diameter \<2 cm) is low (\<4%). Lymph node resection has no clear benefit on the prognosis of low-risk EC patients, but will bring greater trauma to the patients.

Accurate preoperative assessment of EC staging plays a decisive role in the individualized surgical range for EC patients. Preoperative imaging can assist in optimal treatment planning. Through ultrasound, MRI, PET we always cannot accurately measure the depth of muscle infiltration, lymph node metastasis and extra-uterine lesions. The simultaneous hybrid PET/MRI technology combines the characteristics of MRI in high-resolution imaging of soft tissue and the advantages of PET in strong ability to identify tumor metastases, so it may be capable for more accurate staging.