Oral Infigratinib for the Adjuvant Treatment of Subjects With Invasive Urothelial Carcinoma With Susceptible FGFR3 Genetic Alterations
This is a Phase 3 multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of infigratinib (an oral targeted FGFR1-3 inhibitor) versus placebo, as adjuvant treatment following surgery in adult subjects with invasive urothelial carcinoma and susceptible FGFR3 genetic alterations (mutations, and gene fusions or rearrangements) who have disease that is considered at high risk for recurrence with surgery alone. The study enrolls subjects with either bladder cancer post radical cystectomy or upper tract urothelial cancer post distal ureterectomy and/or nephrectomy. Study treatment is randomized 1:1 between infigratinib or placebo with treatment up to 1 year or until invasive local, distal, or metastatic disease recurrence confirmed by independent imaging reviewer.
Upper Tract Urothelial Carcinomas|Urothelial Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Infigratinib|DRUG: Placebo
Centrally Determined Disease-free Survival (DFS), DFS was defined as the number of months from date of randomization to local/regional invasive or metastatic recurrence or death due to any cause (referred as DFS event), whichever occurs earlier.

Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, results will focus primarily on the primary and key secondary endpoints of the study. Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, data were censored for 85.0% to 89.5% of all subjects. Data cutoff 28 Feb 2023., The number of months from date of randomization to local/regional invasive or metastatic recurrence or death due to any cause.
Investigator-assessed DFS, DFS was defined as the number of months from date of randomization to local/regional invasive or metastatic recurrence or death due to any cause (referred as DFS event), whichever occurs earlier. Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, data were censored for 85.0% to 89.5% of all subjects. Data cutoff 28 Feb 2023., The number of months from date of randomization to local/regional invasive or metastatic recurrence or death due to any cause.|Metastasis-free Survival (MFS), MFS was defined as the time from randomization to any metastatic recurrence as determined by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurred earlier. Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, data were censored for 85.0% to 89.5% of all subjects. Data cutoff 28 Feb 2023., The time from randomization to any metastatic recurrence as determined by the investigator, or death due to any cause.|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival time was defined as the number of months from randomization to death. Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, data were censored for 85.0% to 89.5% of all subjects. Data cutoff 28 Feb 2023., The number of months from randomization to death.|Investigator-reviewed DFS Including Intraluminal Low-Risk Recurrence, Investigator assessment of intraluminal low-risk recurrence as assessed by DFS. Due to early termination of the study by the sponsor, data were censored for 85.0% to 89.5% of all subjects. Data cutoff 28 Feb 2023., The number of months from date of randomization to local/regional invasive or metastatic recurrence or death due to any cause.|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Number of participants with AEs, From first dose to last dose of study treatment +30 days (an average of 4 months for the infigratinib arm and 8 months for the placebo arm).|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Number of Participants with SAEs, From first dose to last dose of study treatment +30 days (an average of 4 months for the infigratinib arm and 8 months for the placebo arm)
This is a Phase 3 multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study to evaluate the efficacy of infigratinib (an oral targeted FGFR1-3 inhibitor) versus placebo, as adjuvant treatment following surgery in adult subjects with invasive urothelial carcinoma and susceptible FGFR3 genetic alterations (mutations, and gene fusions or rearrangements) who have disease that is considered at high risk for recurrence with surgery alone. The study enrolls subjects with either bladder cancer post radical cystectomy or upper tract urothelial cancer post distal ureterectomy and/or nephrectomy. Study treatment is randomized 1:1 between infigratinib or placebo with treatment up to 1 year or until invasive local, distal, or metastatic disease recurrence confirmed by independent imaging reviewer.