A Safety Confirmation Study on Lenalidomide With Dexamethasone In Japanese Patients With Previously Treated Multiple Myeloma
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of lenalidomide with dexamethasone in Japanese patients with previously treated multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Number of Participants Experiencing Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAE), A TEAE was defined as any AE that started on or after the first dose of study drug, and within End of Study (EOS) (28 days after the last dose of study drug received). A serious AE (SAE) = any AE which results in death; is life-threatening; requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent or significant disability; is a congenital anomaly/birth defect; or constitutes an important medical event. The intensity of AEs were graded 1 to 5 according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3.0. For all other AEs not described in the CTCAE criteria, the intensity was assessed by the investigator as mild grade (Grade 1), moderate (grade 2), severe (grade 3), life-threatening (grade 4) or death (grade 5), Day 1 of study drug through 28 days after the last dose of study drug; maximum treatment duration was 60.3 weeks
Myeloma Response Rate, Overall myeloma response rate was determined by the investigator using the Myeloma Response Determination Criteria adapted from Bladé criteria. A responder is any patient who showed at least a partial response. Overall myeloma response rate is defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a Complete Response (CR), plus a Remission Response (RR), plus a Partial Response (PR). A CR is the disappearance of monoclonal paraprotein and maintained for ≥ 6 weeks. RR is a 75-99% reduction in the level of the serum monoclonal paraprotein compared to baseline; 90-99% reduction in 24-hr urinary light chain excretion. PR is a 50-74% reduction in the level of monoclonal paraprotein compared to baseline; 50-89% reduction in 24-hr urinary light chain excretion., From the time of the first dose of study drug to study completion; median duration on study was 42.1 weeks|Kaplan-Meier Estimates of Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response was defined as the time from the first observation of a response (CR, RR or PR) to the first documented disease progression or relapse. For participants who did not progress during the study, duration of response was censored at the last adequate response assessment showing evidence of no disease progression. Disease progression is defined as an increase in M-protein serum monoclonal paraprotein and/or urine paraprotein or evidence of bone marrow plasmacytosis and plasma cells, an appearance of new or existing soft tissue plasmacytomas, an appearance of new or existing lytic bone lesions and/or hypercalcemia \>11.5mg/dL, From the time of the first dose of study drug to study completion; the median duration on study was 42.1 weeks
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of lenalidomide with dexamethasone in Japanese patients with previously treated multiple myeloma.