Endocrine Treatment Alone for Elderly Patients With Estrogen Receptor Positive Operable Breast Cancer and Low Recurrence Score
Multiple neoadjuvant endocrine trials demonstrate that women with good prognosis tumors can be identified. These trials have also demonstrated that there are not adverse effects on overall outcome if women are treated with neoadjuvant endocrine therapy for several months prior to definitive treatment. A new standard of care needs to be defined for elderly women with good prognosis estrogen receptor (ER)+ tumors, since these women may benefit from endocrine therapy alone to treat their cancer without compromising local and distant control. The investigators hypothesize that endocrine therapy alone provides adequate local and systemic control of breast cancer in a subpopulation of women 70 or older with ER+ breast cancer and low Ki67 scores.
Breast Cancer|Cancer of Breast|Breast Neoplasms|Cancer of the Breast
BEHAVIORAL: FACT-B|DRUG: Goserelin|DRUG: Anastrozole|DRUG: Exemestane|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Tamoxifen|OTHER: Archived tissue collection
Response rate, * Response and progression will be evaluated in this study using the new international criteria proposed by the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guideline (version 1.1) \[Eur J Ca 45:228-247, 2009\].
* In each RECIST response category Oncotype DX scores will be summarized with mean, standard deviation, minimum, 1st, 2nd (median) and 3rd quartiles, and maximum values. OncotypeDx scores range from 0 to 100, with scores \<18 indicating low risk., 6 months
Breast cancer-specific survival, 6 months|Breast cancer-specific survival, 1 year|Breast cancer-specific survival, 2 years|Rate of overall survival, 5 years
Multiple neoadjuvant endocrine trials demonstrate that women with good prognosis tumors can be identified. These trials have also demonstrated that there are not adverse effects on overall outcome if women are treated with neoadjuvant endocrine therapy for several months prior to definitive treatment. A new standard of care needs to be defined for elderly women with good prognosis estrogen receptor (ER)+ tumors, since these women may benefit from endocrine therapy alone to treat their cancer without compromising local and distant control. The investigators hypothesize that endocrine therapy alone provides adequate local and systemic control of breast cancer in a subpopulation of women 70 or older with ER+ breast cancer and low Ki67 scores.