Contrast Between Traditional Regression Model and AI in Predicting Prolonged Stay Stay After Head and Neck Tumors
This experiment is an observational study of cohort. By establishing a cohort of patients with head and neck tumors transferred to ICU after surgery, investigators compared the prediction effect of AI and the traditional prediction model on whether patients can be transferred to ICU within 24 hours of head and neck tumors. First retrospective analysis of patients after head and neck tumor surgery, medical records were collected, the test results are divided into training group and validation group according to 7:3, divided into 2 groups according to the patient ICU stay time is greater than 24 hours, the prediction model after the ICU duration of head and neck tumor surgery after more than 24 hours. At the same time, clean the data, train the AI with the data, and compare the effectiveness of both sides with the ROC. After the establishment of prediction model and AI training, the patients included in the cohort were evaluated by prediction model and AI immediately after being transferred to the ICU, predicting the possibility of transferring out of the ICU within 24 hours.
Head and Neck Cancer
roll-out icu, The time of patient transfer from ICU to the general ward was set as transfer out, From the date of ICU admission until the date of ICU discharge or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 30 days
This experiment is an observational study of cohort. By establishing a cohort of patients with head and neck tumors transferred to ICU after surgery, investigators compared the prediction effect of AI and the traditional prediction model on whether patients can be transferred to ICU within 24 hours of head and neck tumors. First retrospective analysis of patients after head and neck tumor surgery, medical records were collected, the test results are divided into training group and validation group according to 7:3, divided into 2 groups according to the patient ICU stay time is greater than 24 hours, the prediction model after the ICU duration of head and neck tumor surgery after more than 24 hours. At the same time, clean the data, train the AI with the data, and compare the effectiveness of both sides with the ROC. After the establishment of prediction model and AI training, the patients included in the cohort were evaluated by prediction model and AI immediately after being transferred to the ICU, predicting the possibility of transferring out of the ICU within 24 hours.