GDC-0449 and Erlotinib Hydrochloride With or Without Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Metastatic Pancreatic Cancer or Solid Tumors That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of erlotinib hydrochloride when given together with GDC-0449 with or without gemcitabine hydrochloride in treating patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer or solid tumors that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as GDC-0449 and gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving GDC-0449 together with erlotinib hydrochloride with or without gemcitabine hydrochloride may kill more tumor cells.
Adult Solid Neoplasm|Pancreatic Acinar Cell Carcinoma|Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Pancreatic Carcinoma|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer AJCC v6 and v7
OTHER: Diagnostic Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Gemcitabine Hydrochloride|DRUG: Vismodegib
Maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib hydrochloride defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients, DLT will be defined as an adverse event, according to CTCAE version 3.0, attributed (definitely, probably, or possibly to the study treatment., 28 days
Adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0, The number and severity of all adverse events (overall, and by dose-level) will be tabulated and summarized., Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Toxicity, defined as adverse events that are classified as either possibly, probably, or definitely related to study treatment, graded using the NCI CTCAE version 3.0, Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Response as assessed by modified RECIST criteria, Summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease., Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Time until treatment related grade 3+ toxicity, Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Time until hematologic nadirs (WBC, ANC, platelets), Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Time to progression, Up to 3 months after completion of study treatment|Time to treatment failure, From registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by the patient, assessed up to 3 months after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 with or without gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with unresectable solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To describe the adverse events profile associated with these treatment regimens.

II. To describe the responses in patients treated with these regimens. III. To assess the effect of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 on selected biomarkers in circulating tumor cells and tumor biopsy samples from patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

IV. To assess the effect of erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 on fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography imaging in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

V. To study the association between clinical (toxicity and/or tumor response or activity) and biologic (pharmacodynamic) results associated with erlotinib hydrochloride and Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of erlotinib hydrochloride.

Patients receive Hedgehog antagonist GDC-0449 orally (PO) once daily (QD) and erlotinib hydrochloride PO QD on days 1-28. Some patients also receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients treated at the maximum tolerated dose undergo fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography at baseline and on day 28. These patients also undergo tumor tissue and blood sample collection at baseline and periodically during study for correlative laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for tyrosine phosphorylated or total MAP-K, EGFR, AKT, and other potential biomarkers of activity/response and for levels of genes transcriptionally activated (e.g., BCL-2, GLI, BFL-1/A1, 4-1BB, PTC1) by immunofluorescence, IHC, and quantitative-PCR.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at 3 months.