A Study of the Safety and Efficacy of Single-agent Carlumab (an Anti-Chemokine Ligand 2 [CCL2]) in Participants With Metastatic Castrate-Resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the safety and effectiveness of the study drug carlumab in participants with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer (cancer of the gland that makes fluid that aids movement of sperm).
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Carlumab
Percentage of Participants With Composite Response, The composite response is measured by change from Baseline in skeletal lesions, extra-skeletal lesions, and prostate specific antigen (PSA) values. A participant is considered to have composite response, if 1 of the following responses occurs after the first dose of carlumab: (1) Complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST), (2) PSA response at 12 weeks and absence of skeletal and extra-skeletal progression or (3) Stable disease at 24 weeks defined as the absence of PSA, skeletal, or extra-skeletal progression., Up to 4 weeks before first dose, every 12 weeks after first dose, Week 12 after last dose of carlumab
Percentage of Participants With Objective Tumor Response, Objective response based on assessment of confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST. CR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeter (mm). PR defined as at least 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of the diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study for at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response., Up to 4 weeks before first dose, every 12 weeks after first dose, Week 12 after last dose of carlumab|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The PFS is defined as the time from the date of initiation of study treatment to the date of initial documented skeletal or extra-skeletal progressive disease, or date of death, whichever occurs first. A participant is considered to have extra-skeletal disease progression if the disease has progressed as per the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) criteria. A participant is considered to have skeletal disease progression if they have 1 post-baseline bone scan demonstrating 2 or more new skeletal lesions compared to Baseline and confirmed by a second bone scan 6 to 12 weeks later or with evidence of clinical progression., Up to 4 weeks before first dose, every 12 weeks after first dose, Week 12 after last dose of carlumab|Overall Survival (OS), The OS is defined as the time from the date of initiation of study treatment to death due to any cause. Participants were followed for 1 year after the last administration of carlumab for survival or until the end of study, whichever occurs first. For participants with unknown survival status as of the data cutoff date, OS was censored at the last date that the participant was known to be alive., Week 8, 12, every 12 weeks up to 1 year after last dose of carlumab|Percentage of Participants With Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) Response, The PSA response for participants with elevated PSA levels at Baseline (more than or equal to 5 nanogram per milliliter (ng/mL) is defined as at least a 50% reduction in PSA from the Baseline value, confirmed by a second PSA value measurement 3 or more weeks later., Up to 2 weeks before first dose, every 4 weeks after first dose, Week 4, 8, 12 after the last dose of carlumab|Percentage of Participants With Urinary Crosslinked N-Telopeptide of Type I Collagen (NTx) Response, Urinary NTx response for participants with elevated NTx level at Baseline (more than or equal to 50 nanomole per millimole (nmol/mmol)) is defined as a 30% reduction from Baseline NTx value, confirmed by a second NTx value 3 or more weeks later., Up to 2 weeks before first dose, every 4 weeks after first dose, Week 4, 8, 12 after the last dose of carlumab|Percentage of Participants With Pain Response, Pain response is defined as 2-point decrease from Baseline in 'worst pain' intensity score (item 3) on the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) questionnaire. The BPI is a nine-item questionnaire with 0 to 10 numeric rating scales in response to each item, where 0=No pain and 10=Pain as bad as you can imagine. Measure can be scored by item, with lower scores being indicative of less pain or pain interference., Up to 2 weeks before first dose, every 4 weeks after first dose, Week 4 after last dose of carlumab|Time to Radiologic Response, Radiologic response based on assessment of confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST. CR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeter (mm). PR defined as at least 30% decrease in sum of the diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study for at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response., Up to 4 weeks before first dose, every 12 weeks after first dose, Week 12 after last dose of carlumab|Duration of Radiologic Response, Radiologic response based on assessment of confirmed CR or PR according to RECIST. CR defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeter (mm). PR defined as at least 30% decrease in sum of the diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters. Confirmed responses are those that persist on repeat imaging study for at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response., Up to 4 weeks before first dose, every 12 weeks after first dose, Week 12 after last dose of carlumab|Minimum Observed Serum Concentration (Cmin), Pre-dose and at the end of infusion for each Dose; 2, 4 hour (hr) and 1 week after Dose 1; 2 hr after Dose 4; Week 1, 4, 8 and 12 post-last dose|Maximum Observed Serum Concentration (Cmax), The maximum observed analyte concentration was measured., Pre-dose and at the end of infusion for each Dose; 2, 4 hour (hr) and 1 week after Dose 1; 2 hr after Dose 4; Week 1, 4, 8 and 12 post-last dose|Area Under the Serum Concentration Versus Time Curve Between 0 And 14 Days (AUC 0-14d), Pre-dose, at the end of infusion, 2, 4 hr and 1 week after end of infusion for the first dose|Half-life (t1/2), The time measured for the serum concentration to decrease by one half., Pre-dose and at the end of infusion for each Dose; 2, 4 hour (hr) and 1 week after Dose 1; 2 hr after Dose 4; Week 1, 4, 8 and 12 post-last dose
Time to Worsening in Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Status Score, A worsening in ECOG performance status score was defined as greater than or equal to 1-point increase from Baseline. Time to worsening is defined as the number of days from first dose to the first day of worsening in ECOG score, or death, whichever occurred first. ECOG is a 5-point scale 0=Fully active, 1=Ambulatory, carry out work of sedentary nature, 2=Ambulatory, capable of all selfcare, 3=Capable of limited selfcare, confined to bed or chair more than 50% of waking hours, 4=Completely disabled, no selfcare, totally confined to bed or chair, 5=Dead., Up to 2 weeks before first dose, pre-infusion, Week 4 after last dose of carlumab
This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), multicenter trial (conducted in more than one center) in participants with metastatic castrate-resistant prostate cancer. The trial consists of 3 phases: screening period, treatment period of approximately 4 months, and a follow-up period (Week 1, 4, 8 and 12 after the last dose) of up to 12 weeks after the administration of last dose. The participants will receive carlumab at the dose of 15 milligram/kilogram (mg/kg) by intravenous (into a vein) infusion (a fluid or a medicine delivered into a vein by way of a needle) at a constant rate over a 90 minute period once every 2 weeks until disease progression. Efficacy of the participants will be primarily evaluated by composite response. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.