Long-pulsed 1064 nm Nd-YAG Laser Versus TCA 20% in Treatment of Keratosis Pilaris
Keratosis pilaris (KP) is a common disorder of keratinization. There are different treatment modalities for KP with variable results. Nd:YAG laser and chemical peels are among these treatment modalities, however, there is no enough evidence in the literature regarding their efficacy. The aim of this study is to assess and compare the efficacy of long pulsed Nd:YAG laser and trichloreacetic acid 20% in treatment of keratosis pilaris.
Keratosis Pilaris
DEVICE: Nd-YAG laser|DRUG: TCA 20%
Change of clinical and dermoscopic scores of KP with Nd-YAG laser, the change in roughness and color of KP by clinical score after 4 sessions of Nd-YAG laser. the score ranges from 0-4. where 0 is no change and 4 is excellent improvement, 4 months|Change of clinical and dermoscopic scores of KP with TCA 20%, the change in roughness and color of KP by clinical score after 4 sessions of TCA 20% peel. the score ranges from 0-4. where 0 is no change and 4 is excellent improvement, 4 months
safety and tolerability of Nd-YAG laser and TCA 20% in treatment of KP: adverse events, adverse effects of treatment modalities, if any, 4 months
Keratosis pilaris (KP) is a genetic disorder of keratinization of hair follicles of skin. It's a very common benign condition that manifests as small, rough folliculocentric keratotic papules, often described as chicken bumps, chicken skin or goose-bumps, in characteristic areas of body, particularly the outer upper arms and thighs.

Trichloreacetic acid (TCA) is a type of chemical peels that is derived from acetic acid by the chlorination of 3 hydrogen ions. It can induce coagulative necrosis of proteins and cells. The depth of action depends on various factors e.g the number of layers applied and its combination with substances that potentiate its action.

Nd: YAG laser is a type of hair removing devices that operates at wave length of 1064nm. This wave length allows for less absorption at the epidermis. It is less absorbed by melanin, which leads to lower side effect and better tolerance but less efficacy in dark skinned patients.