Phase II Study of Eribulin Mesylate, Trastuzumab, and Pertuzumab in Women With Metastatic, Unresectable Locally Advanced, or Locally Recurrent HER2-Positive Breast Cancer
In this study, the investigators are testing the effectiveness of the combination of eribulin, pertuzumab and trastuzumab to learn whether this combination of drugs works in treating advanced HER2-positive breast cancer that had received at least one prior treatment previously. At this point, the standard treatment for HER2-positive cancer that has progressed (grown) after a first treatment is chemotherapy combined with therapies that target the HER2 protein (e.g., trastuzumab or lapatinib).
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: eribulin
Eribulin the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) [Phase I], The RP2D of eribulin in combination with pertuzumab and trastuzumab is determined by the number of patients who experience a dose limiting toxicity (DLT). See subsequent primary outcome measure for the DLT definition. The RP2D is defined as the highest dose at which fewer than one-third of six patients experience a DLT. In this Phase I run-in, only 2 dose levels were under evaluation: a starting dose (D1) and a de-escalation dose (D-1) if 2 or more DLTs are observed in Dose Level 1 (DL1)., The observation period for the RP2D was the 1st cycle of treatment.|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) [Phase I], A DLT was defined as an adverse event that (a) is deemed by the investigator to be probably or likely related with protocol therapy and (b) occurs during and/or begins during the first cycle of the study treatment, and (c) meets any of the following criteria: grade 4 hematologic toxicity with \> 1 week of duration, grade 3 or 4 febrile neutropenia of any duration; or grade 3 or 4 non hematologic toxicity (excluding nausea, vomiting, and alopecia)., The observation period for DLTs was the 1st cycle of treatment.|Objective Response Rate (ORR) [Phase II], The objective response rate (ORR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PR or better overall response assumes at a minimum incomplete response/stable disease (SD) for the evaluation of non-target lesions and absence of new lesions., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and every 2 or 3 cycles in the treatment and extension phase, respectively. Median (range) treatment duration was 7(2-25) cycles for Cohort A and 4(3-18) cycles for Cohort B.
Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) [Phase II], The clinical benefit rate (CBR) was defined as the proportion of participants achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) for 24 weeks or longer based on RECIST 1.1 criteria on treatment. Per RECIST 1.1 for target lesions: CR is complete disappearance of all target lesions and PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum LD. PD is at least a 20% increase in sum LD of target lesions (smallest sum LD reference), new lesions, and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Stable disease (SD) is defined as any condition not meeting the above criteria., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline and every 2 or 3 cycles in the treatment and extension phase, respectively. Median (range) treatment duration was 7(2-25) cycles for Cohort A and 4(3-18) cycles for Cohort B.|Progression-free Survival (PFS) [Phase II], Progression-free survival based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression (PD) or death. Per RECIST 1.1 criteria: progressive disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions. PD for the evaluation of non-target lesions is the appearance of one or more new lesions and/or equivocal progression of non-target lesions.(whichever occurs first)., Disease was evaluated radiologically at baseline, every 2 or 3 cycles in the treatment and extension phase, respectively, and every 9 weeks post-treatment until disease progression. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 15.6 months (up to 20).|Overall Survival (OS) [Phase II], Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from the date of registration to the date of death, or censored at the date the participant was last known alive. OS is estimated based on the Kaplan-Meier method., In long-term follow-up, participants were followed for survival every 6 months up to 1 year after treatment discontinuation. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 15.6 months (up to 20).|Grade 4 Treatment-Related Toxicity Rate, Grade 4 treatment-related toxicity rate is the percentage of participants experiencing at least one treatment-related grade 4 adverse event (AE) of any type during the time of observation as reported on case report forms. 'Treatment-related' is a treatment attribution of possibly, probably or definite based on the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4., AEs were assessed every cycle on treatment. Median (range) treatment duration was 7(2-25) cycles for Cohort A and 4(3-18) cycles for Cohort B.
All of the medications that are being tested in this study are approved by the Food and Drug administration (FDA) for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. However, the combination of these three medications in participants has not yet been tested. Eribulin is a chemotherapy agent that is approved for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer for women who have previously received at least two prior chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of their metastatic disease. Pertuzumab and trastuzumab are also both approved for the treatment of advanced HER2-positive breast cancer. Both agents help treat breast cancer by binding HER2 receptor. However, pertuzumab and trastuzumab bind to different parts of the HER2 receptor. Another scientific goal of this research study is to perform gene sequencing (gene tests) on your cancer cells (obtained from biopsies or surgery) and normal tissues (usually blood). The results of the gene tests will be used to try to develop better ways to treat and prevent cancers.

After the Phase I run-in, two cohorts based on prior exposure to pertuzumab were evaluated. The target accrual for Cohort A, without prior pertuzumab, is 56 participants. Using a two-stage design (n=34 stage 1, n=22 stage 2), there is 90% power assuming 10% Type I error to determine whether objective response (OR) rate is consistent with the alternative rate of 40% versus the null rate of 24%. There is 57% probability of stopping the trial at stage one if the true OR rate is 24%. Cohort B, with prior pertuzumab, is evaluated using a single stage design. There is 91% power to detect an improvement in OR from 10% to 30% with accrual of 25 participants.