Anti-mullerian Hormone in Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood malignancy, with current survival rates exceeding 90%. As cure rates improve, increasing attention is focused on survivor quality of life, including fertility. It is generally accepted that cancer treatments in childhood may interfere with gonadal function, reducing the pool of primordial follicles and consequently causing premature menopause in women. Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) levels is a valuable quantitative indicator of ovarian reserve, being directly related to the number of antral follicles. The evaluation of this hormone makes it possible to identify women at risk of early menopause and to propose them interventions for monitoring and preservation of oocytes, allowing girls to be able to have children once they reach adulthood. The objective of this study is to determine ovarian reserve in girls with ALL before and after treatment by means of the evaluation of the AMH assay.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Evaluation of blood AMH levels before ALL treatment, AMH levels will be evaluated in peripheral blood, Within one months from ALL diagnosis|Evaluation of blood AMH levels after ALL treatment, AMH levels will be evaluated in peripheral blood, 24 months after ALL diagnosis
Acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is the most common childhood malignancy, with current survival rates exceeding 90%. As cure rates improve, increasing attention is focused on survivor quality of life, including fertility. It is generally accepted that cancer treatments in childhood may interfere with gonadal function, reducing the pool of primordial follicles and consequently causing premature menopause in women. Anti-Mullerian hormone (AMH) levels is a valuable quantitative indicator of ovarian reserve, being directly related to the number of antral follicles. The evaluation of this hormone makes it possible to identify women at risk of early menopause and to propose them interventions for monitoring and preservation of oocytes, allowing girls to be able to have children once they reach adulthood. The objective of this study is to determine ovarian reserve in girls with ALL before and after treatment by means of the evaluation of the AMH assay.