Donor Natural Killer Cells, Cyclophosphamide, and Etoposide in Treating Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of cord blood-derived expanded allogeneic natural killer cells (donor natural killer \[NK\] cells) and how well they work when given together with cyclophosphamide and etoposide in treating children and young adults with solid tumors that have come back (relapsed) or that do not respond to treatment (refractory). NK cells, white blood cells important to the immune system, are donated/collected from cord blood collected at birth from healthy babies and grown in the lab. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide and etoposide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving NK cells together with cyclophosphamide and etoposide may work better in treating children and young adults with solid tumors.
Recurrent Cutaneous Melanoma|Recurrent Lip and Oral Cavity Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Endocrine Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Male Reproductive System Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Mesothelioma|Recurrent Malignant Neoplasm of Multiple Primary Sites|Recurrent Malignant Oral Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Pharyngeal Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Skin Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Soft Tissue Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Thyroid Gland Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Urinary System Neoplasm|Refractory Cutaneous Melanoma|Refractory Malignant Bone Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Endocrine Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Female Reproductive System Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Male Reproductive System Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Mesothelioma|Refractory Malignant Neoplasm of Multiple Primary Sites|Refractory Malignant Oral Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Pharyngeal Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Skin Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Soft Tissue Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Thyroid Gland Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Urinary System Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Cord Blood-derived Expanded Allogeneic Natural Killer Cells|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide
Incidence of adverse events, Since toxicity is the primary outcome, patients with non-measurable disease (who are still evaluable) will be included in the analysis and in these cases standard methods for categorizing response of non-measurable disease will be used. Toxicity rate will be estimated separately by dose and cohort along with a 95% confidence interval. Adverse events will be tabulated for all the patients separately by dose levels., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion|Maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended phase 2 dose of cord blood-derived expanded allogeneic natural killer (NK) cells following chemotherapy, Primary analyses in this phase I trial are descriptive and exploratory. Toxicity rate will be estimated separately by dose and cohort along with a 95% confidence interval. Adverse events will be tabulated for all the patients separately by dose levels., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion
Response rate per immune-related therapy trials Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST), Complete response and partial response will be estimated separately by dose and cohort along with a 95% confidence interval. Correlation of NK cell persistence, phenotype, and function with overall response will be estimated using two-sample t-test/Wilcoxon sum-rank test and analysis of variance (ANOVA)/Kruskal-Wallis test as appropriate., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion|NK cell persistence, phenotype, and function, Correlation of NK cell persistence, phenotype, and function with overall response will be estimated using two-sample t-test/Wilcoxon sum-rank test and ANOVA/Kruskal-Wallis test as appropriate., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion|Overall survival (OS), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of OS. The description statistics of rate of OS may be analyzed separately by different tumor types and response/stable patients. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis may also be conducted to model the association between OS and factors of interest., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion|Time to progression (TTP), The Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the distribution of TTP. The description statistics of rate of TTP may be analyzed separately by different tumor types and response/stable patients. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis may also be conducted to model the association between TTP and factors of interest., Up to 30 days after the NK cell infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the safety, maximum tolerated dose and/or recommended phase II dose of cord blood-derived expanded allogeneic natural killer cells (expanded allogeneic cord donor natural killer \[NK\] cells) following chemotherapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the persistence of adoptively-transferred cord NK cells after solid tumor directed chemotherapy.

II. Preliminarily define the antitumor activity to adoptively transferred NK cells following the study preparative regimen in the confines of a phase I study.

III. Determine the immunophenotype and function of the infused NK cell product. IV. Preliminarily evaluate for any correlate of phenotype, killer cell immunoglobulin-like receptor (kir) haplotype, and function with overall response.

OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of cord blood derived allogeneic NK cells.

Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) once daily (QD) over 30 minutes and etoposide IV QD over 60 minutes on days 1-5 in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive cord blood derived allogeneic NK cells IV on day 8.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3-4 days, and then every week for 30 days.