A Proof-of-principle Study of HBO-SRS for Brain Metastases
Patients with brain metastases who are candidates for treatment with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) are potential study participants. SRS delivers high-energy, precisely-focused radiation to each brain metastasis to shrink the tumor, and is the standard-of-care for patients with these tumors. Oxygen enhances the damaging effects of radiation on tumor cells. Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy increases oxygen levels in all kinds of tissues, including tumors. The purpose of this trial is to study whether it is feasible to treat patients with HBO just prior to receiving SRS, given the timing constraints of treating sequentially with HBO and then SRS. Patients will undergo HBO treatment followed by the placement of a Gill-Thomas-Cosman head frame then transported ,via stretcher, to receive SRS. The transfer and placement of the head frame needs to be completed within the 15minute time frame. The trial's secondary objectives are to determine whether it has any effects on outcomes and quality of life. As part of study participation patients will be asked to complete quality of life questionnaires as well as mini mental status questionnaires. These will be done prior to treatment and at follow up appointments throughout the next 3 years while participating in the study. Patients will be given the option to participate in the optional bio marker blood draw study which would require patients to have blood drawn at three time points, pre-treatment, the day after treatment and at their first follow up visit.
Brain Metastases
DEVICE: Hyperbaric oxygen given at 2.4 ATA for 30 minutes immediately prior to SRS - HBOT for 30 minutes - SRS without prior HBO
The Average Time From HBO Chamber Exit to SRS beam-on, Time from end of HBO decompression to start of SRS treatment will be measured to determine feasibility. Feasibility is defined as having been achieved if more than 50% of the 20 evaluable patients start SRS treatment within 30 minutes of leaving the HBO tank, Approximately 30 minutes during SRS Treatment Visit
Overall Survival in Years, Median time to death, 5 year from treatment|Number of Years Until Local Recurrence, Number of years until recurrence of lesion, 5 year from treatment|Number of Years Until Local Recurrence Prior to WBRT, Number of years until local recurrence of lesion prior to whole brain radiation therapy, 5 year from treatment|Number of Participants Developing Intercranial Distant Recurrence, Number of participants who developed intercranial distant recurrence, 5 year from treatment|Number of Months Between SRS Treatment and Whole Brain Radiation Therapy, 5 year from treatment|Number of Lesions Exhibiting Radionecrosis, 5 year from treatment
Average Score of Quality of Life as Measured by St. Louis University Mental Status Exam (SLUMS) Mental Status Exam (SLUMS), SLUMS is an 11-item screening tool to evaluate cognitive ability in adults. The SLUMS score ranges from 1-30. For patients with a high school education, the normal range score is 27-30. For mild neurocognitive disorder, the score range is 21-26. Dementia range is 1-20. For patients with less than a high school education the normal range score is 25-30. For mild neurocognitive disorder, the score range is 20-24. Dementia range is 1-19.

The scores across all time points were averaged to obtain the mean., Baseline, 4 to 6 weeks after treatment and then every 3 months for a minimum of 1 year, up to 5 years|Average Score of EORTC Global Health Status (QL2), Averages score QL2 determined by responses to aggregate combined results of questionnaires (QLQ C-30 and BN-20).

EORTC Quality of Life Questionnaire C-30 (QLQ C-30): 30-item self-report questionnaire rating items on a 4-point scale (1 "not at all" to 4 "very much") It measures several domains (physical, role, emotional, cognitive, and social functioning, fatigue, pain, nausea and vomiting) and several single items. Scores are averaged for each scale and transformed to 0-100 scale; higher score indicates better QoL on global health status and functional scales and worse QoL on symptom scales and financial difficulty scale.

EORTC QLQ BN-20 (BN-20): 4 scales comprised of multiple items and 7 single items. All items are rated on a 4-point Likert-type scale, 1=not at all' to 4=very much, and linearly transformed to a 0-100 scale, higher scores indicating more severe symptoms.

The scores across all time points were averaged to obtain the mean., Baseline, 4 to 6 weeks after treatment and then every 3 months for a minimum of 1 year, up to 5 years|Presence of S100 and NSE (Serum Markers for Tissue Apoptosis and for Neuronal Damage), Serum markers for tissue apoptosis and for neuronal damage, 24-48 hours after the SRS treatment
Patients with brain metastases who are candidates for treatment with stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) are potential study participants. SRS delivers high-energy, precisely-focused radiation to each brain metastasis to shrink the tumor, and is the standard-of-care for patients with these tumors. Oxygen enhances the damaging effects of radiation on tumor cells. Hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy increases oxygen levels in all kinds of tissues, including tumors. The purpose of this trial is to study whether it is feasible to treat patients with HBO just prior to receiving SRS, given the timing constraints of treating sequentially with HBO and then SRS. Patients will undergo HBO treatment followed by the placement of a Gill-Thomas-Cosman head frame then transported ,via stretcher, to receive SRS. The transfer and placement of the head frame needs to be completed within the 15minute time frame. The trial's secondary objectives are to determine whether it has any effects on outcomes and quality of life. As part of study participation patients will be asked to complete quality of life questionnaires as well as mini mental status questionnaires. These will be done prior to treatment and at follow up appointments throughout the next 3 years while participating in the study. Patients will be given the option to participate in the optional bio marker blood draw study which would require patients to have blood drawn at three time points, pre-treatment, the day after treatment and at their first follow up visit.