Camrelizumab Plus Docetaxel and Cisplatin in Recurrent or Metastatic Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients
the purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of camrelizumab plus Docetaxel and Cisplatin as First-line Therapy in Recurrent or Metastatic Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma Patients
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Camrelizumab Plus Docetaxel and Cisplatin
Participants Experiencing an Adverse Event (AE), An AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which did not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavourable and unintended sign, symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product or protocol-specified procedure. Any worsening of a pre-existing condition that was temporally associated with the use of the Sponsor's product was also an AE. The number of participants that experienced at least one AE was reported for treatment arm, 24 months
Objective remission rate (ORR), radiographically confirmed complete or partial response, 24 months|overall survival, the time from enrolled to death from any cause, 24 months|progression -free survival, the time from enrolled to radiographically confirmed disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurred first), the time from enrolled to radiographically confirmed disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurred first)|Duration of remission (DOR), the time from first documented complete or partial response to radiographically confirmed disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first, 24 months
Head and neck cancer is the sixth most common cancer in the world, with more than 550,000 cases and 300,000 deaths worldwide each year. About 75,000 Chinese suffer from head and neck cancer each year, and currently, there are a total of 176,000 patients with head and neck cancer in China. More than 95% of head and neck cancers are squamous cell carcinomas, and head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (SCCHN) disrupts and affects the patient's appearance and basic physiological functions, sensory functions, and language functions, thus affecting the patient's quality of life. Most head and neck squamous cell carcinomas are incurable, and they will develop local recurrence and metastasis.

More than 60% of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma have stage III or IV disease characterized by large size tumors with marked local invasion, evidence of metastasis to regional lymph nodes, or both. Locally advanced head and neck cancer has a high risk of local recurrence and distant metastasis and a poor prognosis. Over the past 20 years, multimodal treatment approaches have steadily improved cure rates while striving to maintain patient function and quality of life.

This clinical study involved Recombinant Humanized Anti-PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody Injection (Camrelizumab), a Class 1 new therapeutic biological product developed by Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine Co., Ltd., which was approved by NMPA in May 2019 for the treatment of relapsed or refractory classical Hodgkin's lymphoma, by NMPA in March 2020 for the treatment of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma who have received sorafenib and/or oxaliplatin-based systemic chemotherapy, and in June 2020 for the second-line treatment of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and first-line treatment of non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer.

Preclinical study data showed that camrelizumab had comparable in vivo efficacy and safety compared with similar drugs abroad. Since 2015, Hengrui has simultaneously carried out a number of phase I/II clinical trials in Australia and China to preliminarily verify the safety, tolerability and efficacy of camreibizumab in the treatment of advanced solid tumors.