TAS102 in Combination With NAL-IRI in Advanced GI Cancers
This phase I/II trial studies the best dose and how well trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 (TAS-102) and nanoliposomal irinotecan work in treating patients with gastrointestinal cancers that have spread to other places in the body (metastatic) or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in the chemotherapy, such as trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 and nanoliposomal irinotecan, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Gastric Adenocarcinoma|Metastatic Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma|Non-Resectable Cholangiocarcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer|Stage III Colorectal Cancer|Stage III Gastric Cancer|Stage III Pancreatic Cancer|Unresectable Digestive System Adenocarcinoma|Unresectable Pancreatic Carcinoma
DRUG: Nanoliposomal Irinotecan|DRUG: Trifluridine and Tipiracil Hydrochloride
Incidence of adverse events of trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 in combination with nanoliposomal irinotecan, Assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 3 years after end of treatment|Overall response rate based on modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1, Defined as the proportion of patients who achieved a complete response (complete response: disappearance of all target tumors) or a partial response (partial response: ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target tumors)., Up to 3 years after end of treatment
Progression free survival, Will be evaluated., Up to 3 years after end of treatment|Response duration, Will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier method. P values will be two-sided with significance level of .05., From initial response until documented tumor progression, assessed up to 3 years|Response rate, Response assessment will be done according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. A repeat imaging scan of the same modality and technique will be repeated after 4 weeks for confirmation of response., Up to 3 years after end of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the recommended phase II dose for the combination of TAS-102 and nanoliposomal irinotecan (nanoliposomal \[nal\]-IRI). (Phase I)

II. Evaluate the activity of the combination of TAS102 and nal-IRI in previously treated patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and pancreatic cancer. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Define the toxicity profile of the combination of TAS-102 and nal-IRI.

II. Evaluate the response duration, progression free, and overall survival of the combination of TAS-102 and nal-IRI in previously treated patients with metastatic colorectal cancer and pancreatic cancer.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive nanoliposomal irinotecan intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1 and trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-5. Cycles repeat every 2 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days and then every 8 or 12 weeks thereafter.