The Effect of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome Phenotypes on Quality of Life and Sexual Function
This study was planned to examine whether different phenotypes of PCOS have an effect on quality of life, depression inventory and sexual function.
Polycystic Ovary|Depression|Sexual Dysfunction
OTHER: Female Sexual Function Index
Effect of PCOS phenotypes on SF-36., The aim of this study was to investigate whether different phenotypes of PCOS have an impact on quality of life, depression inventory and sexual function., 6 months|Effect of PCOS phenotypes on FSFI., The aim of this study was to investigate whether different phenotypes of PCOS have an impact on quality of life, depression inventory and sexual function., 6 months|Effect of PCOS phenotypes on Beck Deppression scale, The aim of this study was to investigate whether different phenotypes of PCOS have an impact on quality of life, depression inventory and sexual function., 6 months
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrinologic pathology in women of reproductive age. Although the prevalence varies according to race, ethnicity and geographical region, it averages between 5-10%. The so-called Rotterdam criteria are: 1. Oligo- and/or anovulation, 2. Clinical and/or biochemical signs of hyperandrogenism, 3. Polycystic ovarian morphology on ultrasound, 4. Other conditions causing or associated with androgen elevation must be ruled out before a diagnosis of PCOS is made. Treatment needs, types and options vary according to phenotypic characteristics. The OD+HA+PKOM phenotype is considered a complete (classic) phenotype according to the Rotterdam classification and has the highest rate. Other phenotypes according to the Rotterdam criteria can be OD+HA (non-PCO phenotype), HA+PKOM (ovulation phenotype) or OD+PKOM (non-HA phenotype). Clinical pictures (phenotype A: HA + OD + PCOM; phenotype B: HA + OD; phenotype C: HA + PCOM and phenotype D: OD + PCOM). According to the Rotterdam criteria, endocrine and metabolic abnormalities are lowest in the OD+PCOM group among these 4 different phenotypes. The prevalence and distribution characteristics of metabolic abnormalities (insulin resistance, metabolic disease pattern and glucose intolerance) did not differ significantly between the 4 groups. Therefore, metabolic abnormalities and distribution characteristics are not used to differentiate the different clinical PCOS phenotypes.

Studies have shown that the "classic" PCOS group (phenotypes A and B) is more strongly associated with marked menstrual irregularity, elevated insulin levels and risk of metabolic syndrome; body mass index and obesity compared to the non-classic or non-hyperandrogenic PCOS phenotypes (phenotypes C and D).

There are numerous studies on whether phenotypic differences are based on ethnicity. Studies have shown that African-American women and women of Hispanic origin are more prone to obesity and the development of metabolic syndrome, while Middle Eastern women and women of Mediterranean origin are more prone to hirsutism. PCOS symptoms such as clinical hyperandrogenism, anovulation and menstrual irregularities can lead to a reduced quality of life, depression, mood disorders and sexual dysfunction. The physical, emotional and environmental scores were significantly lower in Group A patients compared to the other PCOS groups and the control group. The Short Form 36 (SF 36), which has the characteristics of a general scale among quality of life scales and provides broad measurement, was developed and put into use by the Rand Corporation in 1992. The scale was designed to be short and easy to administer and has a wide range of applications. The main feature of the SF-36, whose psychometric properties and scope have been expanded, is that it is a self-report scale that includes items on physical functioning, social functioning, role limitations related to physical functioning, role limitations related to emotional problems, mental health, energy/vitality, pain, and general perception of health.

The relationship between the severity of depressive symptoms and the different PCOS phenotypes is controversial. The Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II), developed by Dr. Aaron T. Beck, is a questionnaire with 21 multiple-choice questions that can be used to measure the severity of depression. Scores ≥17 indicate severe depression requiring treatment.The depression inventory scores were higher in PCOS patients with infertility problems. A study found that there was no difference in depression scores between infertile and fertile groups.

The Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) inventory was used to assess sexual dysfunction in obese PCOS patients. The Female Sexual Function Index was developed in 2000 to assess sexual function in women. The scale consists of 19 items and has 6 sub-dimensions: Pleasure, Arousal, Lubrication, Orgasm, Satisfaction and Pain. The scale reflects women's sexual functioning in the past month by calculating 6 subgroup scores and the FSFI score. The FSFI score is calculated by adding the subgroup scores. The Female Sexual Function Index has proven to be a valid and reliable tool for measuring sexual function in Turkish women.

Based on this information, the aim of this study was to investigate whether different phenotypes of PCOS have an impact on quality of life, depression inventory and sexual function.