PGL4001 Efficacy Assessment in Reduction of Symptoms Due to Uterine Leiomyomata
Phase III, multicentre, randomized, double-blind, parallel group, long-term study investigating the efficacy and safety of the 5mg and 10mg doses of PGL4001 for the treatment of uterine myoma.
Uterine Fibroids
DRUG: PGL4001 5 mg|DRUG: PGL4001 10 mg
Percentage of Subjects Who Are in Amenorrhea at the End of All Four Treatment Courses, Amenorrhoea was defined as no more than 1 day of spotting within a 35 day interval. Subjects need to be in amenorrhoea at the end of all four treatment courses, i.e for at least 4x35 days., 18 months study duration per subject (4 3-month intermittent treatment courses)
Percentage of Subjects Who Were in Amenorrhea at the End of Treatment Course 4, Amenorrhoea was defined as no more than 1 day of spotting within a 35 day interval., After 18 months|Percentage of Subjects With Controlled Bleeding at the End of All 4 Treatment Courses, Controlled bleeding was defined as no episodes of heavy bleeding and a maximum of 8 days of bleeding during the last 56 days of a treatment course.

Subjects need to be in controlled bleeding at the end of all 4 treatment courses i.e. for at least 4x56 days., After 18 months|Percentage of Change From Baseline to End of Treatment Course 4 in the Total Volume of the 3 Largest Fibroids, For the 3 largest myomas at baseline and the 3 largest myomas at the end of treatment course 4 identified by transvaginal ultrasound, length, height and depth were measured and the volume was estimated by applying the equation for the voulme of an ellipsoid (length x height x depht x π/6).

Subjects were exposed to 4 3-month intermittent courses., After 18 months|Percentage of Change From Baseline to End of Treatment Course 4 in Quality of Life (Uterine Fibroid Symptom Severity (UFSQoL), Quality of Life was assessed using a validated questionnaire measuring uterine fibroid symptom severity (UFSQoL) where lower scores indicate fewer symtoms and where a level of 23 has been reported for healthy subject (scale 0-100).

Subjects were exposed to 4 3-month intermittent courses., After 18 months|Percentage of Change From Baseline to End of Treatment Course 4 in Quality of Life -Uterine Fibroid Health Related Quality of Life (HRQL), Quality of Life was measured using a validated uterine fibroid symptom questionnaire. Total score for health related quality of Life (HRQL) range from 0 to 100 with higher scores indicating better Quality of Life.

Subjects were exposed to 4 3-month intermittent courses., 18 months|Percentage of Change From Baseline to End of Treatment Course 4 in Pain Using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Pain was assessed using a Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) ranging from 0 to 100 with higher score indicating more severe pain.

Subjects were exposed to 4 3-month intermittent courses., After 18 months
The target population is composed of pre-menopausal women with symptomatic uterine myoma(s) characterised by heavy bleeding.The main objective of this study is to assess the sustained efficacy and safety of long term on-off treatment with PGL4001 5 or 10mg doses on uterine bleeding, myoma size, pain and quality of life.