BEAM vs. 90-Yttrium Ibritumomab Tiuxetan (Zevalin®)/BEAM With ASCT for Relapsed DLBCL
This randomized phase III trial studies 90-yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan and combination chemotherapy compared with combination chemotherapy alone before stem cell transplant in treating patients with diffuse large b-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma that has returned after a period of improvement. Radioactive substances linked to monoclonal antibodies, such as 90-yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan, can bind to cancer cells and give off radiation which may help kill cancer cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carmustine, etoposide phosphate, cytarabine, and melphalan (BEAM), work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether 90-yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan and BEAM before a stem cell transplant are more effective than BEAM alone in treating patients with diffuse large b-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
Recurrent Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Refractory Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
RADIATION: 90-Yttrium Ibritumomab tiuxetan|DRUG: Carmustine|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab
Overall Survival, Survival estimates will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method, Measured from randomization to date of death or last follow up date, whichever occurs first, for up to 5 years post randomization
Progression-free Survival, Survival estimates will be calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method, Measured from randomization until death, relapse/progression, receipt of anti-lymphoma therapy, or last follow up whichever comes first, for up to 5 years post randomization|Time to Progression, Time-to-event will be measured from the date of ASCT., Up to 5 years|Number of Patients With Complete or Partial Response at Day 30, Definition of disease status is based on the article of Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma Response Definitions for Clinical Trials (Cheson et al, 2007). Tests used for evaluation of disease status would be physical examination, laboratory testing, bone marrow testing, bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, PET scan, and CT scans of neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis as indicated., Day 0 to Day +30 post-HCT|Time to Neutrophil Engraftment, Time to neutrophil engraftment will be compared between treatment arms using a log-rank test, and the cumulative incidence curves will be estimated., Day 0 to Day 100 post-HCT|Incidence of Infection, Microbiologically documented infections will be reported by site of disease, date of onset, severity, and resolution, if any. The incidence of definite and probable viral, fungal and bacterial infections will be tabulated for each patient. The proportion of patients developing infections will be compared between treatment arms., Day 0 to Day +100 post-HCT|Incidence of Non-relapse Mortality (NRM) Defined as Death Occurring in a Patient From Causes Other Than Relapse or Progression, The cumulative incidence of NRM will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al. Differences between cumulative incidence curves in the presence of a competing risk will be tested using the Gray method., From randomization until non-disease related death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first, assessed up to 5 years|Cumulative Incidence of Secondary Malignancies, Incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and secondary acute Myelogenous leukemia (AML) will be compared between the treatment arms using Gray's test., Up to 5 years|Time to Platelet Engraftment, Time to platelet engraftment will be compared between treatment arms using a log-rank test, and the cumulative incidence curves will be estimated., Day 0 to Day 100 post-HCT|Number of Patients With Grade 3-5 Toxicities Graded by the NCI CTCAE Version 4.0, Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type and severity. In accordance with the secondary study objectives, descriptive analyses on these data will be performed., Day -21 to Day +100 post-HCT|Cumulative Incidence of New, Abnormal Cytogenetics, The cumulative incidence of therapy related new, abnormal cytogenetics will be estimated for both groups taking into account the competing risk of death among patients who do not develop a second malignancy., Day 0 to Year 5 post-HCT
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To compare overall survival (OS) between the two transplant arms, with at least a two year of follow-up. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS), complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) proportion at day 100, time to hematopoietic recovery, incidence of infection, grade III-IV toxicities, treatment-related mortality, incidence of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), and secondary acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on days -21 and -14, and 90-yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan IV on day -14. Patients also receive BEAM comprising carmustine IV over 4 hours on day -6; cytarabine IV over 2 hours twice daily (BID) on days -5 to -2; etoposide IV over 1 hour BID or once daily (QD) on days -5 to -2; and melphalan IV on day -1. Patients then undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant on day 0. ARM II: Patients receive BEAM as in Arm I and undergo PBSC transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 30 days, 100 days, 6 months, 1 year, every 3 months for 1 year, and then annually for 3 years.