RAD001 and Intravesical Gemcitabine in BCG-Refractory Primary or Secondary Carcinoma In Situ of the Bladder
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of gemcitabine applied to the bladder directly combined with different oral doses of everolimus and to assess the right doses. Gemcitabine will be given at a fixed dose. Up to 3 dose levels of everolimus will be evaluated. The purpose of the phase II part is to test the combination of gemcitabine applied to the bladder directly combined with different oral doses of everolimus and to study the effects of these two drugs together. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, this treatment has on the patient and the cancer.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Everolimus and Intravesical Gemcitabine
Phase I - Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), Everolimus (mg) given in conjunction with intravesical gemcitabine, 8 weeks|Phase II - Patients Who Are Free of Disease at 1 Year, following start of therapy., 1 year|Phase I - Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), of Everolimus given in conjunction with intravesical gemcitabine, 8 weeks
Complete Response (CR) Rate, Complete Response (CR) is defined as no evidence of disease (by cytology and cystoscopy). Partial Response is defined as negative cystoscopy and positive cytology. Progression is defined as the development of invasion or metastasis. If the participant develops a recurrence, they will be considered having failed treatment. Participants will also be considered having failed treatment if there is no response to treatment after two cycles., 1 year|Survival of Patients Treated, With Everolimus in combination with intravesical gemcitabine. Overall survival following start of therapy will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods., 1 year|Activated mTOR (Mammalian Target of Rapamycin) Pathway Markers as Well as Phosphatase and Tensin Homolog (PTEN) Status and Serine/Threonine Kinase (AKT) Activation Evaluation, In all pre-treatment specimens and analysis of post treatment specimens when available., 1 year
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of gemcitabine applied to the bladder directly combined with different oral doses of everolimus and to assess the right doses. Gemcitabine will be given at a fixed dose. Up to 3 dose levels of everolimus will be evaluated. The purpose of the phase II part is to test the combination of gemcitabine applied to the bladder directly combined with different oral doses of everolimus and to study the effects of these two drugs together. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, this treatment has on the patient and the cancer.