Vaccine Therapy With or Without Sargramostim in Treating Patients Who Have Undergone Surgery for Melanoma
This randomized phase II trial is studying vaccine therapy and sargramostim to see how well they work compared to vaccine therapy alone in treating patients who have undergone surgery for stage IIB, stage IIC, stage III, or stage IV melanoma. Vaccines made from peptides may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells. Colony-stimulating factors such as sargramostim increase the number of immune cells found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Combining vaccine therapy with sargramostim may make a stronger immune response.
Ciliary Body and Choroid Melanoma, Medium/Large Size|Extraocular Extension Melanoma|Iris Melanoma|Stage IIB Melanoma|Stage IIC Melanoma|Stage IIIA Melanoma|Stage IIIB Melanoma|Stage IIIC Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: tyrosinase peptide|BIOLOGICAL: gp100 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|DRUG: Montanide ISA 51 VG|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Immune response, Summarized using means and confidence intervals (after transformation to render the data compatible with the assumptions of the normal distribution)., Baseline|Immune response, Summarized using means and confidence intervals (after transformation to render the data compatible with the assumptions of the normal distribution)., Week 106
Disease-free survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be drawn to display the survival and time to recurrence. The log-rank test and estimates of relative risk based on the log-rank statistics will be performed. 95% confidence intervals will be constructed for the median DFS and OS., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier curves will be drawn to display the survival and time to recurrence. The log-rank test and estimates of relative risk based on the log-rank statistics will be performed. 95% confidence intervals will be constructed for the median DFS and OS., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate immune reactivity to a tyrosinase:368-376 (370D) /gp100: 209-217 (210M)/MART-1 26-35 (27L) peptide vaccine with Montanide ISA 51 with or without GM-CSF administered as a booster for five vaccinations over two years.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, parallel, continuation study. Patients are stratified according to response to prior vaccination (response to 1 peptide vs response to 2 or more peptides). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

Arm I: Patients receive vaccination comprising tyrosinase peptide, gp100 antigen, and MART-1 antigen emulsified with Montanide ISA-51 and ISA-51 VG subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of weeks 0, 26, 52, 78, and 104 (total of 5 vaccinations).

Arm II: Patients receive vaccination comprising tyrosinase peptide, gp100 antigen, and MART-1 antigen emulsified with Montanide ISA-51 and ISA-51 VG as in arm I. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days 1-5 of weeks 0, 26, 52, 78, and 104.

In both arms, treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed at 2-4 weeks, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients (20 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this study within 1 year.