Impact of Standing Orders Optimization
This trial will look at the impact of optimizing human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine standing orders. The research team will work with primary care clinics. Some clinics will receive communication training. Other clinics will receive the same training and tools for increasing the use of their standing orders.
Human Papilloma Virus
BEHAVIORAL: Communication training|BEHAVIORAL: Communication training enhanced with standing orders optimization
HPV vaccination (≥1 dose), 9-12 year olds, Proportion of unvaccinated children who initiate the HPV vaccine series between baseline and 12-month follow-up, among those who were ages 9-12 at baseline., from baseline to 12 months
HPV vaccination (≥1 dose), 9-12 year olds, Proportion of unvaccinated children who initiate the HPV vaccine series between 13- and 24-month follow-up, among those who were ages 9-12 at 13 months., from 13 months to 24 months|HPV vaccination (≥2 doses), 9-12 year olds, Proportion of unvaccinated children who complete the HPV vaccine series between baseline and 12-month follow-up, among those who were ages 9-12 at baseline., from baseline to 12 months|HPV vaccination (≥2 doses), 9-12 year olds, Proportion of unvaccinated children who complete the HPV vaccine series between 13- and 24-month follow-up, among those who were ages 9-12 at 13 months., from 13 months to 24 months|Standing orders attitude rating, Positive attitude toward using HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more positive attitudes., up to 6 months|Standing orders norms rating, Norms in favor of using HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more supportive norms., up to 6 months|Standing orders self-efficacy rating, Confidence about using HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating higher confidence., up to 6 months|Standing orders adoption rating, Adoption of HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating greater adoption., up to 6 months|Standing orders acceptability rating, Acceptability of HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating higher acceptability., up to 6 months|Standing orders appropriateness rating, Appropriateness of HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating greater appropriateness., up to 6 months|Standing orders role rating, Understanding of role under HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating better understanding of role., up to 6 months|Standing orders feasibility rating, Feasibility of HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating greater feasibility., up to 6 months|Standing orders sustainability rating, Sustainability of HPV vaccine standing orders will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating greater sustainability., up to 6 months|Estimated time spent on recommendations, Time spent on HPV vaccine recommendations will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 0-99 minutes, with higher values indicating more time spent., up to 6 months|Estimated recommendation frequency, 9-10 year olds, Frequency of recommending HPV vaccine for children ages 9 or 10 will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more frequent recommendations., up to 6 months|Estimated recommendation frequency, 11-12 year olds, Frequency of recommending HPV vaccine for children ages 11 or 12 will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more frequent recommendations., up to 6 months|Recommendation attitudes rating, Positive attitudes toward recommending HPV vaccine for ages children ages 9 or 10 years will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more positive recommendation attitudes., up to 6 months|Recommendation self-efficacy rating, Confidence in recommending HPV vaccine for children ages 9 or 10 will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating higher recommendation confidence., up to 6 months|Recommendation norms rating, Norms in favor of recommending HPV vaccine for children ages 9 or 10 will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT. The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating more supportive norms., up to 6 months|Recommendation intentions rating, Intentions to recommend HPV vaccine for children ages 9 or 10 will be measured by one item on the survey, taken by clinical staff two months after attending the AAT The range for this measure will be 1 to 5, with higher values indicating higher recommendation intentions., up to 6 months
The researchers will conduct a cluster randomized clinical trial. The trial will look at the impact of optimizing HPV vaccine standing orders. The recruitment goal for the trial is 34 clinics in healthcare systems, including 9 rural-serving clinics. The researchers will randomize clinics using simple randomization (1:1). Some clinics will receive a communication training. Other clinics will receive a communication training and tools for optimizing the use of their standing orders. The researchers will use medical record data to compare changes in HPV vaccination among children ages 9-12. Clinics will be followed for 24 months. The researchers will also use survey data to compare HPV vaccine communication and implementation of standing orders among clinical staff. The study will engage clinical staff. Researchers will not have direct contact with children or their families.