Efficacy and Safety of Tixel Treatment on Facial and/or Scalp Actinic Keratoses.
Evaluation of the Efficacy and Safety of a thermal fractional skin treatment system (Tixel) for the treatment of facial and/or scalp actinic keratoses
Actinic Keratoses
DEVICE: Tixel C
Efficacy of Tixel for Treatment of Actinic Keratosis, The overall mean percentage reduction in actinic keratoses lesion count performed by the investigator manually, confirmed and documented using photograph images taken at baseline and at 12 weeks follow-up visit (or 12-weeks post last treatment if less than 3 treatments were done) (before and after marking the present actinic keratoses using a washable eyeliner) calculated as the relative change from baseline at 12 weeks. New lesions which were not existed in baseline will not be counted., up to 12 weeks post last treatment
Efficacy Evaluation of Tixel for Treatment of Actinic Keratosis, The mean change in actinic keratoses lesion count, performed by the investigator manually, confirmed and documented using photograph images, from baseline at 4 and 12 weeks follow-up visit., up to 12 weeks post last treatment|Efficacy Evaluation of Tixel for Treatment of Actinic Keratosis, The overall mean percentage reduction in actinic keratoses lesion count performed by the investigator manually, confirmed and documented using photograph images taken at baseline and at 4 weeks follow-up visit (before and after marking the present actinic keratoses using a washable eyeliner) calculated as the relative change from baseline at 4 weeks follow-up visit. New lesions which were not existed in baseline will not be counted., up to 4 weeks post last treatment|Efficacy of Tixel for Treatment of Actinic Keratosis - Percentage of Subjects That Demonstrated Reduction in Actinic Keratosis Lesion Count 3 Months After the Last Treatment., * Percentage of subjects that demonstrate a 26-50% in reduction in actinic keratoses lesion count 3 months after the final treatment.
* Percentage of subjects that demonstrate a 51-75% in reduction in actinic keratoses lesion count 3 months after the final treatment.
* Percentage of subjects that demonstrate more than 76% in reduction in actinic keratoses lesion count 3 months after the final treatment., up to 12 weeks post last treatment|To Evaluate the Subject's Satisfaction., Subjects' satisfaction assessed at the final follow-up visit (based on the subject experience questionnaire which includes 3 questions relating to treatment results, treatment experience and treatment expectations) graded on a score of 1- 5; 1 being not satisfied and 5 being very satisfied)., up to 12 weeks post last treatment|Safety Evaluation - Adverse Events, Procedure-related Adverse events during the study., up to 12 weeks post last treatment|Subject Subjective Downtime Assessment, Defined as the period of time following the procedure during which the subject felt unable/unwilling to go out in public due to skin reactions. The assessment will be recorded by the subject using the Subject Subjective Downtime Assessment following each treatment and will be collected at the site at the follow-up visits up to 4 weeks FU following treatment 3 (third treatment)., up to 4 weeks post last treatment|VAS Assessment, Procedure related pain by the subjects using VAS for pain of 0-10 where a higher score indicates greater pain., up to 8 weeks (treatments period)
Single-center, Prospective, Open-Label, with Before-After Study Design. Up to 25 subjects will be enrolled to the study to provide at least 20 evaluable subjects. Subjects will be examined to determine the severity and extent of actinic keratoses.

All subjects will undergo 1-3 treatments (determined by the investigator assessment), 3-4 weeks apart.

Follow-up visits will be performed after the last treatment visit: 4 weeks (±7 days) and 12 weeks (±7 days).

The inclusion criteria would be mild to moderate thickness confluent actinic keratoses located to scalp and/or face.

Each subject will participate in the study for up to 20 weeks. Total study duration is estimated to be up to 12 months from enrollment of the first subject until last subject visit (including FUs).