Tucatinib, Palbociclib and Letrozole in Metastatic Hormone Receptor Positive and HER2-positive Breast Cancer
This is a multicenter run-in phase Ib / roll-over phase II study of triple targeted drug combination (HER2-targeted small molecule inhibitor tucatinib, CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib and aromatase inhibitor letrozole) as a first or second line of therapy in patients with metastatic hormone receptor positive and HER2-positive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Tucatinib in Combination with Palbociclib and Letrozole|DRUG: Tucatinib in Combination with Palbociclib and Letrozole
Phase Ib Primary Outcome: Proportion of Patients Who Experienced DLTs Attributable to Palbociclib, Tucatinib, or Both, To measure safety and tolerability of tucatinib used in combination with palbociclib and letrozole, we will assess the proportion of subjects experiencing dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) potentially attributable to tucatinib, palbociclib, or both drugs, and compare them to predefined safety thresholds. DLT was defined as any grade ≥ 3 nonhematologic adverse event, grade 3 neutropenia with fever, grade 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, or any hematologic toxicity grade ≥ 4 using NCI CTCAE version 4.03. Safety was considered clinically meaningfully altered if ≥60% of subjects experienced DLTs secondary palbociclib, ≥20% of subjects had toxicity secondary to tucatinib, or ≥50% of subjects had DLTs attributable to both drugs. If the proportion of patients with DLTs cross safety boundaries, doses of tucatinib, palbociclib or both medications would be decreased. Letrozole dose was kept constant for all study subjects., 15 months (From date of first consent until final safety analysis of Phase Ib)|Phase II Primary Outcome: Median Progression-free Survival (mPFS), To measure efficacy of tucatinib used in combination with palbociclib and letrozole, the median PFS (primary objective of Phase II) will be assessed. mPFS is defined as the time from allocation to the first documented disease progression according to RECIST 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For subjects with brain metastatic disease enrolled in the study, assessment of bi-compartmental mPFS in the non-CNS and CNS compartments, defined as the time from allocation to the first documented disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 and/or RANO-BM criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first.

For patient with CNS metastases who had an event of isolated CNS progression, underwent local therapy, and remained on study per protocol, mPFS was calculated as the time from the start of treatment until the first CNS progression., 4 years (data cutoff of PFS calculation was when PFS became mature according to study statistician)
Phase Ib Secondary Outcome: Tucatinib and Palbociclib AUC[0-6] Post Tucatinib and Palbociclib Dose, Pharmacokinetic (PK) assessments of blood levels of tucatinib and palbociclib will be performed on Cycle 1 Day 15 and Cycle 2 Day 1 of therapy in 20 participants enrolled in the phase Ib part of the study. Plasma samples will be collected to measure levels of tucatinib and its hydroxyl metabolite ONT-993, as well as levels of palbociclib and, if needed, its metabolites at steady state on Cycle 1 Day 15. The area under the curve (AUC) of the concentration vs. time plot is computed from 0 to 6 hours after the tucatinib and palbociclib dose., 0, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 hours post-dose|Phase II Secondary Outcome: Palbociclib AUC[10-19] Post Tucatinib and Palbociclib Dose, Additional pharmacokinetic (PK) assessment will be done in 5 to 10 patients enrolled in phase II part of the study to evaluate the levels of tucatinib and palbociclib. These PKs will be done on Cycle 1 Day 9 and Cycle 2 Day 9. Prior to the first set of PKs, on Cycle 1 Days 1-8, patient will take palbociclib and letrozole; tucatinib will be on hold. Tucatinib will be started per usual study schedule after the first set of PKs is obtained on Day 9. Prior to the second set of PKs, on Cycle 2 Days 1-8, patient will take palbociclib, letrozole and tucatinib (all study drugs) per usual study schedule. On the day prior to PK evaluation (Day 8 of Cycle 1 and Day 8 of Cycle 2), patient should consume high calorie / high fat meal and take study drugs. On the next day, plasma samples will be collected to measure PKs at 10, 13, 16 and 19 hrs +/- 10 minutes post dose., 10, 13, 16, and 19 hours post-dose|Phase II Secondary Outcome: Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate (CBR) was assessed in patients with measurable lesions and defined as the proportion of patients with complete response, partial response, or stable disease for 6 months or more. It is one of the parameters used to assess tumor response in this study and was evaluated using RECIST 1.1 (and/or RANO-BM for patients with CNS disease)., 4 years|Phase II Secondary Outcome: Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of subjects who had complete or partial response by RECIST 1.1 (and/or RANO-BM for patients with CNS disease)., 4 years|Phase II Secondary Outcome: Median Duration of Response (mDOR), Median duration of response (mDOR) is defined as the time from enrollment in the clinical trial until objective tumor progression or death, whichever occurs first., 4 years
This is a multicenter, single arm, open-label, run-in phase Ib / roll-over phase II study of novel HER2-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor tucatinib in combination with CDK4/6 inhibitor palbociclib and aromatase inhibitor letrozole in subjects with HR+/HER2+ locally advanced unresectable or metastatic breast cancer. The study will enroll post-menopausal women and premenopausal women if on treatment with or willing to be treated with standard ovarian suppression. The phase Ib part of the study will determine safety and tolerability of the combination of tucatinib, palbociclib and letrozole to confirm that current RP2D of tucatinib and FDA approved dosing of palbociclib remains the same in the triplet combination. The dose of letrozole will be constant through the study period. Once the safety of the combination is established, we will move to the phase II part of the study in the expansion cohort of subjects at RP2D for the purpose of assessing efficacy while further refining assessment of safety of the combination treatment.