The Role of Preoperative Immunonutrition on Morbidity and Immune Response After Cystectomy (INCyst Trial)
The goal of this clinical trial research study is to evaluate the impact of preoperative oral immunonutrition (IN) on post-operative complications in patients undergoing a cystectomy.

As a secondary focus, this study will aim to develop a signature that would identify patients that would benefit the most from IN.

This is a multicentric (Swiss: N=3), prospective, controlled, pragmatic, parallel-group comparative study with block randomization stratified by centers.
Bladder Cancer|Interstitial Cystitis|Painful Bladder Syndrome|Neurogenic Bladder|Hemorrhagic Cystitis|Endometriosis|Bladder Disease
DRUG: Immunonutrition
Infectious complication after cystectomy, Determination of infectious complications rate at 30 days after surgery (pneumonia, urinary tract infection, surgical site infection, sepsis, shock)., 30-days afetr surgery
Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI), Determination of the Comprehensive Complication Index (CCI) at 30 and 90 days after surgery. The range is between 0 (no complication) to 100 (death)., 30 and 90 days after surgery|Mortality rate, Determination of the mortality rate at 30 and 90 days after surgery, 30 and 90 days after surgery|Complication-free survival rate, Determination of the post-operative complication-free survival, 90-days after surgery|Treatment compliance rate, Serum arginine levels will be assessed at enrolment (between Day -30 and Day -10) and at preoperative admission after intake of the allocated nutrition (Day -1) in all patients treated at Lausanne, CHUV., Between Day -30 and Day -10 and at preoperative admission after intake of the allocated nutrition (Day -1)
Cancer-specific survival rate, Long term overall and cancer-specific survival for bladder cancer patients, Postoperative time|Quality of life assessment, Assessment of the quality of life after surgery through a questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), 30 and 90 days after surgery|Identification of biomarkers predictive of postoperative complications, Identification of biomarkers predictive of postoperative complications studying the patient's immune and microbiome signature: analysis of immune cells in the blood, analysis of the polyfunctionality of blood T cells, analysis of immune-related proteins in the urine and serum, microbiota analysis, expression of Argininosuccinate synthetase 1, Before and after immunonutrition treatement
Despite standardized surgical technique and the development of new perioperative care protocols, cystectomy morbidity remains a serious challenge for urologists. Most common postoperative complications, such as infections, often lead to longer length of stay and worse survival. Malnutrition has been identified as an independent and modifiable risk factor for both mortality and morbidity. Immunonutrition (IN), containing arginine, ribonucleic acid and omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids, aims to improve the nutritional status, immunological function and clinical outcome of surgical patients. Meta-analyses have demonstrated that preoperative IN reduces complications and length of hospital stay after major bowel surgery. Evidence-based data on preoperative oral IN support for cystectomy patients are lacking, which does not allow this treatment to be widely accepted, recommended, or reimbursed by health insurances in most European countries. Uncertainties also remain about the exact mechanism by which IN modulates the host immune response.

Complication rates after cystectomy range from 40-75%. Malnutrition has been identified as an independent and modifiable risk factor for both mortality and morbidity. To date, and in the last 20 years, no single intervention has allowed for a significant reduction in morbidity after cystectomy, which remains one of the highest in surgery. The present adequately powered multicenter RCT has the potential of changing current practice by recommending preoperative IN before cystectomy in case of positive results. If the present RCT demonstrates a benefit in administrating IN prior to cystectomy, urological guidelines will be modified accordingly to this new evidence. IN will then be recommended before cystectomy for the patient's benefit. The investigators truly believe that the proposed study is of high clinical importance with potential impact on perioperative urology guidelines.