Niraparib Monotherapy as Maintain and Recurrent Treatment of Endometrial Serous Carcinoma
Endometrial Serous carcinoma (ESC) has similar molecular characteristics to high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) and basal cell-like breast cancer, such as similar Chromosomal instability, somatic copy number variation profiles and somatic mutations. The clinical treatment of ESC also refers to the treatment model of HGSOC. The PARP inhibitor niraparib used in this study, which was approved by FDA for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy on March 27, 2017.

The homologous recombination related gene mutations in total endometrial cancer accounted for 22%. Homologous Recombination Repair Defect (HRD) +ARID1A accounted for 48%, and 53% of endometrial cancer cell lines were sensitive to PARP inhibitors. The incidence of HRD in endometrial cancer with high copy number (the pathological type is mainly ESC) is 50%, suggesting potential clinical applications of PARP inhibitors for the treatment of ESC.
Endometrial Carcinoma|Serous Carcinoma
DRUG: Niraparib
PFS%（1 year）, for maintenance therapy arm, assessed up to 12 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), for maintenance therapy arm, assessed up to 30months]
PFS%（2 year）, for maintenance therapy am, assessed up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), for maintenance therapy am, assessed up to 30 months|Median PFS, for recurrent therapy am, assessed up to 30 months|TEAEs, for maintain and recurrent therapy arms, assessed up to 30 months
PFS/ORR of Participants with BRCA+ or HRD+, for maintain / recurrent therapy arms, assessed up to 30 months
Endometrial Serous carcinoma (ESC) has similar molecular characteristics to high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) and basal cell-like breast cancer, such as similar Chromosomal instability, somatic copy number variation profiles and somatic mutations. The clinical treatment of ESC also refers to the treatment model of HGSOC. The PARP inhibitor niraparib used in this study, which was approved by FDA for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy on March 27, 2017.

The homologous recombination related gene mutations in total endometrial cancer accounted for 22%. Homologous Recombination Repair Defect (HRD) +ARID1A accounted for 48%, and 53% of endometrial cancer cell lines were sensitive to PARP inhibitors. The incidence of HRD in endometrial cancer with high copy number (the pathological type is mainly ESC) is 50%, suggesting potential clinical applications of PARP inhibitors for the treatment of ESC.