Exercise for Advanced Prostate Cancer: a Multicomponent Feasibility Trial
This feasibility study will investigate whether men with metastatic prostate cancer can take part in and progress through a home-based exercise program. This study will evaluate the effects of exercise on a range of disease and treatment-related outcomes.
Prostate Cancer Metastatic|Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Exercise
Feasibility - recruitment., The number of participants that agree to participate or are excluded., At baseline.|Feasibility - adherence to the exercise intervention., Determine the percentage of patients adhering to the program and the weekly behavioral consultation sessions., Throughout the 24 week study period.|Feasibility - attrition rates., The number of patients that withdraw., Throughout the 24 week study period.|Feasibility - safety / adverse events., Any safety / adverse events, in general or in relation to the exercise program, will be documented by the research team., Monitored throughout the 24 week study period.|Feasibility - patient experience., Determined by qualitative evaluation, using semi-structured interviews, to assess experiences, accessibility and acceptability of the exercise intervention., Following the study conclusion at 24 weeks.
Anthropometric assessment., Height will be measured in cm and body weight in kg, which will be combined to report BMI in kg/m(squared)., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Hip and waist circumference analysis., Hip and waist circumference will be measured in cms., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Functional ability assessment., The amount of repetitions achieved during a 30 second sit-to-stand test will be recorded., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Physical fitness assessment., Distance covered in meters during a six minute walk test will be recorded., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Objectively measure of physical activity levels., Patients will wear an accelerometer for 7 full days., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Perceived physical activity levels., Patients will complete an International Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ-SF). This questionnaire will comprise 4 generic items to obtain comparable health-related physical activity. Patients will detail the number of days, hours and minutes that they undertake (1) vigorous exercise (2) moderate exercise (3) walking exercise and (4) sitting. Total physical activity will be generated and monitored for improvement or decline., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Cancer-related fatigue by questionnaire., Fatigue will be measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue) questionnaire. Patients will score several fatigue items over the past 7 days on a scale (0 = not at all; 4 = very much), generating a total (0 - 52) with higher scores linked to greater quality of life., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Quality of life will be measured using a questionnaire., Quality of life will be measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Prostate (FACT-P) questionnaire. Patients will score a series of questions (0 = not at all; 4 = very much) in five sections (physical well-being; social/family well-being; emotional well-being; functional well-being; additional concerns) for the past 7 days. Higher scores will suggest better quality of life., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Quality of life will be measured using questionnaires., Quality of life will be measured by the EuroQOL Five Dimension Questionnaire (EQ5D). Patients will select a level of difficulty (I have no - I have extreme) on that particular days health for mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain / discomfort and anxiety / depression. Patients will then rate 'how good' or 'how bad' their health is on that day using a 100 point scale (0 = worst health you can imagine; 100 = best health you can imagine)., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.|Pain will be measured through a questionnaire., Bone pain will be monitored using the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF)., At baseline, 12 and 24 weeks.
This 12 week multicomponent, tailored, progressive program will consist of both moderate intensity walking and strengthening exercises at home. This single centre, single arm study will incorporate a behavioural change consultation at baseline and weekly behavioural support throughout. This study will follow-up patients at 24 weeks to determine exercise maintenance. Outcome measures will be completed at baseline, 12 and 24 weeks. A qualitative evaluation will be conducted after the 24 week follow-up to determine impact, patient experience and measures that might assist in refining the program.