Zr-89 Crefmirlimab Berdoxam and Immuno-Positron Emission Tomography for the Imaging of Patients With Resectable Brain Tumors
This phase I trial studies how well zirconium (Zr)-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam and immuno-positron emission tomography (PET) identifies areas of immune cell activity in patients with brain tumors that can be removed by surgery (resectable). One important predictor of the immune response is the presence and change in CD8 positive (+) tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) cells. Identifying the presence and changes in CD8+ cells can be challenging, particularly for participants with central nervous system (CNS) tumors, and usually requires invasive procedures such as repeat tissue biopsies, which may not accurately represent the immune status of the entire tumor. Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam is known as a radioimmunoconjugate which consists of a radiolabeled anti-CD8+ minibody whose uptake can be imaged with PET. Upon administration, Zr 89 crefmirlimab berdoxam specifically targets and binds to the CD8+ cells. This enables PET imaging and may detect CD8+ T-cell distribution and activity and may help determine the patient's response to cancer immunotherapeutic agents more accurately. Giving Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam along with undergoing immuno-PET imaging may work better at identifying immune cell activity in patients with resectable brain tumors.
Glioma|Malignant Brain Neoplasm|Meningioma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain
PROCEDURE: Advanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Brain Surgery|OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|PROCEDURE: Immuno-Positron Emission Tomography Scan|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Stereotactic Biopsy|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Zirconium Zr 89 Crefmirlimab Berdoxam
Incidence of adverse events, Analyses will be examined graphically and summarized by descriptive statistics. Data transformation may be applied to quantitative variables prior to analyses if deemed necessary., Up to 1 month|Zirconium (Zr)-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam uptake, Will be determined by standardized uptake value-based quantitative measures relative to CD8+ tumor infiltrating lymphocytes density determined by immunohistochemistry from tumor biopsy samples. Analyses will be examined graphically and summarized by descriptive statistics. Data transformation may be applied to quantitative variables prior to analyses if deemed necessary. Will correlate immuno-positron emission tomography uptake with cytotoxic T-cell density across all tumor samples. Multivariate cox and log rank tests will be used to compare survival outcomes., Up to 24 hours
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To verify the specificity of Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam CD8+ minibody immunoPET in identifying regions of immune cell activity in human glioma patients using stereotactic image-guided biopsies and multiplexed immunohistochemistry (IHC).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the associations between exploratory biomarkers, clinical outcomes, and adverse events which include:

Ia. Exploring whether changes in specific magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) parameters correlate with tumor and peripheral blood immune responses; Ib. Assessing the potential change in Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam uptake in tumor tissue and correlation with CD8 infiltrate in tumor tissue; Ic. Explore the correlation of visual and semi-quantitative Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam PET measurements with clinical outcome.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam intravenously (IV) over 5-10 minutes 3 days prior to scheduled surgical resection. Approximately 24 hours after receiving Zr-89 crefmirlimab berdoxam, patients undergo immuno-PET scans. Patients then undergo scheduled standard of care surgical resection of the brain tumor and brain biopsy. Additionally, patients undergo advanced physiologic and metabolic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and MRI prior to surgery on study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up until death.