Efficacy and Patient Satisfaction of Miralax and Gatorade Versus Movi Prep
This study will be comparing patient satisfaction, efficacy comparing miralax with gatorade versus Movi Prep for outpatient colonoscopy.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: comparing 2 drugs on their effect on the bowel preparation for colonoscopy
Bowel Prep Efficacy - Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS), To assess the bowel prep efficacy in cleansing the colon for colonoscopy - Scale used is the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS), Integer Scale from 0-3, where 3 indicated the best outcome and 0 the worst. The BBPS was estimated during the procedure (Colonoscopy) by an endoscopist and a nurse and retrospectively by a second endoscopist postoperatively. Scores were averaged by for each subject by location (Right colon, Transverse colon, and Left colon) and then for each group/arm by location., Outcome BBPS was measured during surgery for endoscopist #1 and nurse raters and post-operatively (at any time before the end of the study) by endoscopist #2
Renal Function Pre and Post Bowel Prep (mg/dL), Changes in electrolytes pre and post bowel preparation administration. Pre bowel prep measures were taken at study randomization (up to one week before surgery) and post bowel prep measures were taken prior to the procedure (less than 5 hours before start of procedure on day of procedure). Change is electrolytes are presented as pre bowel prep value minus post bowel prep value but prior to procedure (Pre-Post). Units = Milligrams/deciLiter (mg/dL), Pre bowel prep measures were taken at study randomization (up to one week before surgery) and post bowel prep measures were taken prior to the procedure (less than 5 hours before start of procedure on day of procedure).|Renal Function Pre and Post Bowel Prep - Continued (mmol/L), Changes in electrolytes pre and post bowel preparation administration. Pre bowel prep measures were taken at study randomization (up to one week before surgery) and post bowel prep measures were taken prior to the procedure (less than 5 hours before start of procedure on day of procedure). Change is electrolytes are presented as pre bowel prep value minus post bowel prep value, but prior to procedure (Pre-Post). Units=Millimoles per Liter (mmol/L), Pre bowel prep measures were taken at study randomization (up to one week before surgery) and post bowel prep measures were taken prior to the procedure (less than 5 hours before start of procedure on day of procedure).
Non-Serious Adverse Events on Self Report Scale, Non-Serious Adverse Events on self report scale - 5 point scale from "No Complaints (0)" to "Very Severe (4)" with 4 indicating the worst outcome and 0 the best., During Bowel Preparation (Pre-Operative)
Study is the purpose of evaluating patient satisfaction and at the same time efficacy of the bowel regimen in cleansing the colon