A Study of Atezolizumab Compared With a Single-Agent Chemotherapy in Treatment Naïve Participants With Locally Advanced or Recurrent or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Who Are Deemed Unsuitable For Platinum-Doublet Chemotherapy
This Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab (an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 \[anti-PD-L1\] antibody) compared with a single agent chemotherapy regimen by investigator choice (vinorelbine or gemcitabine) in treatment-naïve participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who are deemed unsuitable for any platinum-doublet chemotherapy due to poor performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group \[ECOG\] performance status of 2-3).
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab (MPDL3280A), an engineered anti-PD-L1 antibody|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. Kaplan-Meier (KM) estimates were used to calculate median., From randomization up to death from any cause (up to approximately 55 months)
OS Rates at the 6, 12, 18, 24-Months Timepoints, OS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. OS rate at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months were estimated for each treatment arm using Kaplan Meier methodology. Percentages were rounded off to the nearest decimal point., 6, 12, 18 and 24 months|Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, as Determined by the Investigator Using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1), Objective response rate (ORR)=best overall response (BOR) of either complete response (CR)/partial response (PR), as determined by investigator with use of RECIST v1.1. CR= disappearance of all target lesions or any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) having a reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm). PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. A minimum interval of 6 weeks (42 days) was considered for stable disease (SD) to be assigned as BOR, i.e. in case the single response is SD, PR or CR, this single response must have been assessed no less than 6 weeks (at least 42 days) after start date of study treatment. SD=neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum of the diameters while in the study. Percentages were rounded off to the nearest decimal point., From randomization to the first occurence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 55 months)|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), as Determined by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression as determined by the investigator with the use of RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Progressive disease (PD) was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum during the study (nadir), including baseline. KM estimates were used to calculate median., From randomization to the first occurence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 55 months)|Duration of Response (DOR), as Determined by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1, DOR was defined as the time from the first tumor assessment that supports the participants' objective response (CR or PR, whichever is first reported) to documented disease progression as determined by the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, among participants who have a best overall response as CR or PR. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions or any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) having a reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters. PD was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum during the study (nadir), including baseline. KM estimates were used to calculate median., Time from the first occurrence of a documented objective response to the time of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 55 months)|Percentage of Participants With At Least One Adverse Event (AE), An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in participant administered a pharmaceutical product \& regardless of causal relationship with this treatment. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable \& unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom/disease temporally associated with use of investigational product, whether or not considered related to investigational product. AEs were reported based on the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for AEs, version 4.0 (NCI-CTCAE, v4.0)., Baseline up to 90 days after last dose of atezolizumab (approximately 62 months)|Change From Baseline in European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (EORTC-QLQ-C30) Score, EORTC QLQ-C30 consists of 30 questions that assess 5 aspects of patient functioning (physical, emotional, role, cognitive, and social), 3 symptom scales (fatigue, nausea and vomiting, pain), global health/quality of life, and six single items (dyspnea, insomnia, appetite loss, constipation, diarrhea, and financial difficulties). It was scored according to EORTC scoring manual (Fayers et al. 2001). All EORTC scales \& single-item measures are linearly transformed so that each score has a range of 0-100. A high score for a functional/global health status scale represents a high/healthy level of functioning/HRQoL (Health-Related Quality of Life); however a high score for a symptom scale represents a high level of symptomatology or problems. A ≥10-point change in the symptoms subscale score was perceived by participants as clinically significant (Osoba et al. 1998). A positive change from baseline=improvement \& negative change from baseline indicated worsening., Baseline, Day 1 of each treatment cycle up to 30 days after last dose (up to approximately 55 months) (Cycle length = 21 days)|Change From Baseline in EORTC QLQ Supplementary Lung Cancer Module 13 (EORTC QLQ-LC13) Score, The EORTC QLQ-LC13 module incorporates one multiple item scale to assess dyspnea and a series of single items assessing pain, coughing, sore mouth, dysphagia, peripheral neuropathy, alopecia, and hemoptysis. The EORTC QLQ-LC13 was scored according to the EORTC scoring manual (Fayers et al. 2001). All EORTC scales and single-item measures are linearly transformed so that each score has a range of 0-100. A high score for a functional/global health status scale represents a high or healthy level of functioning/HRQoL (Health-Related Quality of Life); however, a high score for a symptom scale or item represents a high level of symptomatology or problems. A≥10-point change in the symptoms subscale score was perceived by participants as clinically significant (Osoba et al. 1998). A positive change from baseline indicates improvement and negative change from baseline indicated worsening., Baseline, Day 1 of each treatment cycle up to 30 days after last dose (up to approximately 55 months) (Cycle length = 21 days)|Time to Deterioration (TTD) in Patient-Reported Lung Cancer Symptoms as Assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30 Score, TTD with use of the EORTC was defined as the time from randomization to the first confirmed clinically meaningful deterioration in EORTC symptom scores. Confirmed clinically meaningful deterioration in lung cancer symptoms was defined as a = 10-point increase above baseline in a symptom score that must be held for at least two consecutive assessments or an initial = 10-point increase above baseline followed by either (a) death within 6 weeks from the last assessment through Week 48 or (b) death within 9 weeks from the last assessment from Week 48 thereafter. A = 10-point change in the EORTC scale score was perceived by participants as clinically significant (Osoba et al. 1998)., From baseline up to approximately 55 months|TTD in Patient-Reported Lung Cancer Symptoms As Assessed by EORTC QLQ-LC13 Score, TTD with use of the EORTC was defined as the time from randomization to the first confirmed clinically meaningful deterioration in EORTC symptom scores. Confirmed clinically meaningful deterioration in lung cancer symptoms was defined as a = 10-point increase above baseline in a symptom score that must be held for at least two consecutive assessments or an initial = 10-point increase above baseline followed by either (a) death within 6 weeks from the last assessment through Week 48 or (b) death within 9 weeks from the last assessment from Week 48 thereafter. A = 10-point change in the EORTC scale score was perceived by participants as clinically significant., From baseline up to approximately 55 months|OS in Participants With Programmed Death-Ligand 1 (PD-L1) Positive Status, OS was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause. OS was assessed in participants whose tumors express PD-L1 protein (i.e., tumor cell (TC) ≥1%) as measured by PD-L1 SP263 immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay. KM estimates were used to calculate the median., From randomization up to death from any cause (up to approximately 55 months)|PFS as Determined by the Investigator Using RECIST v1.1 in Participants With PD-L1 Positive Status, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression as determined by the investigator with the use of RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. PD was defined as at least 20% increase in the sum of diameters of lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum during the study (nadir), including baseline. Investigator-assessed PFS was assessed in participants whose tumors express PD-L1 protein as measured by PD-L1 SP263 IHC assay. KM estimates were used to calculate the median., From randomization to the first occurence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first (up to approximately 55 months)
This Phase III, global, multicenter, open-label, randomized, controlled study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of atezolizumab (an anti-programmed death-ligand 1 \[anti-PD-L1\] antibody) compared with a single agent chemotherapy regimen by investigator choice (vinorelbine or gemcitabine) in treatment-naïve participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who are deemed unsuitable for any platinum-doublet chemotherapy due to poor performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group \[ECOG\] performance status of 2-3).