ACY-1215 for Relapsed/Refractory Lymphoid Malignancies
This will be an open-label, single agent, multi-institutional phase Ib/II study of ACY-1215 for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoid malignancies. The target population will include patients with histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or Hodgkin's lymphoma, with an expansion cohort of patients with mantle cell lymphoma.

The phase Ib will be conducted to determine the safety and tolerability of two dosing schedules of ACY-1215 monotherapy in patients with lymphoid malignancies. Patients will be accrued simultaneously to two dose cohorts (Arm A and Arm B) of ACY-1215. Selection into each cohort will occur by alternation. All patients will take the prescribed dose of ACY-1215 orally for 28 consecutive days. Patients enrolled into Arm A will take ACY-1215 160 mg daily (QD), whereas patients enrolled into Arm B will take ACY-1215 160 mg twice daily (BID). ACY-1215 will be supplied as a liquid for oral administration (PO). Each dose will be administered at least 1 hour after ingestion of food followed by at least 4 ounces of water. Patients will be instructed not to ingest food or other oral medication for at least 2 hours after each ACY-1215 dose. Frequency in phase II will be determined based on Phase Ib results.
Lymphoma|Lymphoid Malignancies
DRUG: ACY-1215
Number of Patients Who Experience a Dose-limiting Toxicity (DLT), This is designed to establish the safety of 2 dose schedules of ACY-1215 in patients with relapsed or refractory lymphoid malignancies treated with ACY-1215. If more than 1/3 or 2/6 patients experience a DLT in Phase I, there will be no expansion., Up to 1 year|Objective Response Rate, The anti-tumor activity of ACY-1215 will be measured by the number of subjects with the response rate in Phase II: complete response \[CR\] and partial response \[PR\].

Complete Response (CR) - Disappearance of all non-target lesions by PET/CT. Nodal Mass: (a) FDG-avid or PET positive prior to therapy; mass of any size permitted if PET negative or (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression to normal size on CT. Spleen/Liver: Not palpable, nodules disappeared.

Partial Response (PR) - Regression of measurable disease and no new sites. Nodal Mass: 50% decrease in SPD of up to 6 largest dominant masses; no increase in size of other nodes, (a) FDG-avid or PET positive prior to therapy; one or more PET positive at previously involved site; (b) Variably FDG-avid or PET negative; regression on CT. Spleen/Liver: 50% decrease in SPD of nodules., Up to 3 years
The emergence of epigenetic therapies has identified pan-class deacetylase (DAC) inhibitors as effective therapeutic agents for the treatment of lymphoma. While pan-class DAC inhibitors have led to FDA indications, clinical activity has been limited to the T-cell derived malignancies. The mechanism of action remains largely unknown and off-target effects lead to side effects including fatigue, gastrointestinal disturbances, and cytopenias. Recently, the development of isoform selective DAC inhibitors have opened the opportunity to investigate their mechanism. It is now recognized that DAC inhibitors not only have epigenetic properties, but have direct effects on transcription factors (p53), oncogenes (Bcl6), and protein degradation pathways (aggresome). Proteolysis occurs primarily through the ubiquitin-proteosome pathway. In states where this pathway is physiologically overwhelmed or therapeutically inhibited, the aggresome sequesters proteins for degradation. DAC6 is a class IIb deacetylase that facilitates misfolded protein transport to the aggresome for proteosome-independent proteolysis. Inhibition of the aggresome activates the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathway, a cellular quality control mechanism with two primary functions: (1) to promote survival during cellular endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress by chaperoning proteins back for re-folding and halting further transcription until homeostasis is restored and (2) to signal CCAAT/enhancer binding protein (C/EBP)-homologous protein (CHOP) mediated apoptosis when homeostasis cannot be reestablished\[9\]. While most cells depend on both branches of the UPR to coordinate protein folding, lymphocytes physiologically down-regulate the UPR-apoptosis pathway, specifically CHOP, to allow for generation of high affinity antibodies. In addition to initiating genetic abnormalities (translocations and point mutations) lymphomas inherit this biology, and thus gain a survival advantage.

It has been shown ACY-1215, an Histone Deacetylase 6 (HDAC6)-selective, orally active small-molecule enzyme inhibitor has had single agent activity in a panel of lymphoma cell lines and mouse models, and marked synergistic activity with several agents such as bortezomib, carfilzomib, and ibrutinib, unpublished data. ACY-1215 has been studied in vivo in models of multiple myeloma and lymphoma with marked activity both as a single agent and in combination with bortezomib. Therefore ACY-1215 will be investigated for treatment of lymphoma as a single agent leading to future studies evaluating its effects in combination with other targeted agents known to be active in lymphoma and synergistic with ACY-1215.