Potential Effect of Topical Imiquimod on Atrial Ectopy in Patients With Actinic Keratosis
The purpose of this study is to determine the potential effect of topically applied 3.75% imiquimod cream on atrial ectopy in actinic keratosis (AK) patients. The primary endpoint is the change in the 24-hour supraventricular premature beat count. The secondary endpoint is the change in 24-hour supraventricular premature couplet and run counts and atrial fibrillation (% time); change in 24-hour mean heart rate; change in 24-hour ventricular premature beat count, ventricular premature couplet and run counts.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: Imiquimod cream 3.75%|DRUG: Placebo cream
Change in 24-hour supraventricular beat count, Day 14 of each treatment period
Change in 24-hour supraventricular premature couplet and run counts and atrial fibrillation (% time), Day 14 of each treatment period|Change in 24-hour mean heart rate, Day 14 of each treatment period|Change in 24-hour ventricular premature beat count, ventricular premature couplet and run counts, Day 14 of each treatment period
This study is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, 2-way crossover study designed to assess the potential effect of topically applied 3.75% imiquimod cream on atrial ectopy in actinic keratosis (AK) patients. Candidates for study participation will begin screening procedures up to 28 days prior to enrollment. Qualified subjects shall be admitted to the CRU on Day -1 for baseline evaluations and will be randomized to one of two possible treatment sequences. Each subject will receive both the active 3.75% imiquimod cream and the matching placebo in a randomized crossover fashion with a 2-week washout in between each treatment. The application area is the entire face (exclusive of nares, vermilion, periocular areas and ears) or balding scalp. Atrial ectopy will be monitored for 24 hours at Baseline (Day -1; prior to the first dose of study medication), and at the conclusion of each 14-day treatment period using a continuous 12-lead digital Holter recorder.

Adverse events, concomitant medication use, study medication accountability, and subject compliance will be reviewed at each visit.