ARFI Imaging for Targeted Prostate Biopsy
The purpose of this study is to evaluate a new ultrasound technique. This technique may provide additional and improved information about the stiffness and sizes of the internal structures of your prostate in order to improve the guidance for a targeted biopsy. The investigational, custom-designed probe and needle guide will be used to produce images of your prostate and provide guidance for up to 4 additional biopsy samples (cores) prior to a standard magnetic resonance (MR) ultrasound fusion biopsy procedure. Above the time required for the MR ultrasound fusion biopsy, this study will take up to 30 additional minutes of time for collection of the investigational device guided collection of biopsy samples Risks of participation include increased time under anesthesia (to collect additional biopsies) and slight heating of tissue.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI)|DEVICE: Ultrasound
Number of Participants in Whom the Biopsy Approach Detected the Presence of Prostate Cancer (PCa) of Any Grade, Up to 30 minutes|Length of Cancerous Tissue, Length of carcinoma per cancer-positive biopsy specimen as reported by the pathology findings, computed from all cancer-positive biopsy specimens from a given biopsy approach for each participant in whom cancer of any grade was detected by any biopsy approach., Up to 30 minutes|Grade Group of Cancerous Tissue, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk. For each subject, the highest grade group detected by a given biopsy approach is assigned to that subject for that biopsy approach., Up to 30 minutes|Gleason Score, A commonly used method to classify how cells appear in cancerous tissues; the less the cancerous cells look like normal cells, the more malignant the cancer; two numbers, each from 1 to 5, are assigned to the two most predominant types of cells present. These two numbers are added together to produce the Gleason score with a total range of 2 to 10. Higher numbers indicate more aggressive cancers. For each subject, the highest Gleason score detected by a given biopsy approach is assigned to that subject for that biopsy approach., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 1 Cancer, In Whom Cancer Was Detected, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 2 Cancer, In Whom Cancer (of Any Grade) Was Detected, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 2 Cancer, Graded as Grade Group 2, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 3 Cancer, In Whom Cancer (of Any Grade) Was Detected, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 3 Cancer, Graded as Grade Group 3, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 4 Cancer, In Whom Cancer (of Any Grade) Was Detected, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 4 Cancer, Graded as Grade Group 4, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 5 Cancer, In Whom Cancer (of Any Grade) Was Detected, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes|Number of Participants With Grade Group 5 Cancer, Graded as Grade Group 5, The grading system has five grade groups, 1 to 5. Grade group 1 (Gleason score ≤ 6) represents low or very low risk; grade groups 2 and 3 (Gleason score 3+4=7 and 4+3=7, respectively) represent intermediate risk; and grade groups 4 and 5 (Gleason score 8 and 9-10, respectively) represent high and very high risk., Up to 30 minutes
The purpose of this study is to evaluate a new ultrasound technique. This technique may provide additional and improved information about the stiffness and sizes of the internal structures of your prostate in order to improve the guidance for a targeted biopsy. The investigational, custom-designed probe and needle guide will be used to produce images of your prostate and provide guidance for up to 4 additional biopsy samples (cores) prior to a standard magnetic resonance (MR) ultrasound fusion biopsy procedure. Above the time required for the MR ultrasound fusion biopsy, this study will take up to 30 additional minutes of time for collection of the investigational device guided collection of biopsy samples Risks of participation include increased time under anesthesia (to collect additional biopsies) and slight heating of tissue.