Screening of Serum Exosomal miRNA as a Biomarker for Ocular Muscle Myasthenia Gravis
Ocular muscle myasthenia gravis (Ocular Myasthenia Gravis, OMG) has a high incidence and is difficult to diagnose. It is very necessary to find specific diagnostic indicators for OMG. By collecting peripheral blood of OMG, systemic myasthenia gravis and healthy people, extract miRNAs derived from exosomes in the serum and perform high-throughput sequencing, then use bioinformatics analysis methods to screen specifically expressed miRNAs as biomarkers for OMG diagnosis .
Myasthenia Gravis
DEVICE: Body fluid diagnosis
A specific miRNA maybe miR-340-5p，miR-106b-5p or miR-27a-3p is a biological marker for diagnosis of OMG, find some specific miRNA to diagnose OMG., 12,2022
Part I: (1) Collect peripheral blood samples from patients with early-onset OMG, early-onset GMG and healthy subjects of age and sex matched who have been diagnosed for the first time and have not undergone any drug treatment. There are 6 cases in each group. Extract the secretion miRNA in serum and conduct high-throughput sequencing. Analyze and compare the differential expression miRNAs between OMG, GMG and healthy control groups by edgeR. The standard of differential expression is set as \| logFC \|\>1, p\<0.05. Use miRTarBase, TargetScan, and miRDB to predict target genes for differentially expressed miRNAs. Conduct GO enrichment and KEGG signaling pathway analysis on target genes. The STRING tool is used to construct the target gene protein interaction network (PPI). According to the importance of the target gene calculated by the maximum population concentration ratio (MCC) method, the top ten genes (hub genes) are selected and analyzed.

(2) Randomly collect peripheral blood samples from patients with early-onset OMG, early-onset GMG, and age-matched healthy subjects, with 10 samples in each group. The differentially expressed miRNAs obtained during the sequencing phase were validated using real-time fluorescence quantification (RT-qPCR). Construct a receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) curve to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of the identified miRNA.