Study of MLN8237 in Combination With Irinotecan and Temozolomide
The goal of the first part of this clinical trial (Phase I portion) is to study the side effects, drug breakdown (pharmacokinetics), and dosing of the drug MLN8237 when added to standard chemotherapy drugs, irinotecan and temozolomide.

The goal of the second part of this clinical trial (Phase II portion) is to learn how many children and young adults show improvements in their neuroblastoma when treated with the combination of MLN8237, irinotecan, and temozolomide.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: MLN8237|DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: Temozolomide
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma, The MTD was the highest dose level tested at which fewer than two of six patients had first course DLT. Hematologic DLT was defined as grade 4 neutropenia for more than 7 days, need for platelet transfusion for a platelet count of less than 20,000/mL twice within a 7-day period, or greater than 14-day delay in the start of a subsequent course because of neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. Nonhematologic DLT was defined as any nonhematologic toxicity that delayed the start of a subsequent cycle by more than 14 days or any grade ≥3 toxicity with the exception of the following grade 3 toxicities: nausea, vomiting, anorexia, or dehydration resolving to grade ≤ 2 within 72 hours; increase in hepatic transaminase or electrolyte abnormality resolving to grade ≤ 1 within 7 days; diarrhea persisting for less than 72 hours; fever; infection; or febrile neutropenia. DLT definitions included only toxicities deemed at least possibly related to therapy., 21 days, from study day 1|Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Data Associated With the Determination of the Recommended Phase 2 Dose, The MTD was the highest dose level tested at which fewer than two of six patients had first course DLT. Hematologic DLT was defined as grade 4 neutropenia for more than 7 days, need for platelet transfusion for a platelet count of less than 20,000/mL twice within a 7-day period, or greater than 14-day delay in the start of a subsequent course because of neutropenia or thrombocytopenia. Nonhematologic DLT was defined as any nonhematologic toxicity that delayed the start of a subsequent cycle by more than 14 days or any grade ≥3 toxicity with the exception of the following grade 3 toxicities: nausea, vomiting, anorexia, or dehydration resolving to grade ≤ 2 within 72 hours; increase in hepatic transaminase or electrolyte abnormality resolving to grade ≤ 1 within 7 days; diarrhea persisting for less than 72 hours; fever; infection; or febrile neutropenia. DLT definitions included only toxicities deemed at least possibly related to therapy., 21 days, from study day 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Alisertib Day 4 Trough, Day 5 Trough and Cmax, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Alisertib Tmax and Half-life, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Alisertib AUC, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Irinotecan Cmax, APC Cmax, SN-38 Cmax, and SN-38G Cmax, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Irinotecan AUC, APC AUC, SN-38 AUC, and SN-38G AUC, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics When Given Together With Fixed Doses of Irinotecan and Temozolomide in Children and Young Adults With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma: Irinotecan Clearance, Outcomes included Alisertib, irinotecan, APC, SN-38, and SN-38G. APC, SN-38, and SN-38G are metabolites of irinotecan., 1st week of cycle 1|Response Rate for Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Neuroblastoma Treated With MLN8237, Irinotecan, and Temozolomide at the Identified MTD, Response was graded according to version 1.2 of the NANT response criteria that classifies patients as having one of the following overall response categories based upon underlying response at soft tissue sites, MIBG positive sites, and bone marrow disease: complete response (CR); CR with minimal residual disease (CR-MRD); partial response (PR); minor response (MR); stable disease (SD); and progressive disease (PD). These criteria utilize RECIST criteria for measurable tumors, Curie score for MIBG scan response, and bone marrow (BM) morphology. BM response was graded as CR (required two time points to confirm), CR unconfirmed (one time point only), CR-MRD (bone marrow involvement \< 5% at study entry with negative follow-up biopsies), SD, or PD. Patients with at least SD or better underwent central review of MIBG scans, CT scans, and bone marrow pathology slides. Overall responses of CR, CR-MRD, or PR were considered objective responses., Cycles repeated every 21 days for up to 34 cycles.
Aurora A Expression, To explore whether MYCN status and markers of expression of Aurora A in archival tumor tissue are associated with the antitumor activity of the combination of MLN8237, irinotecan, and temozolomide, From date of study enrollment to the date of progression or withdrawal from the study, up to 34 cycles (about 2 years).|UGT1A1 Genotype, To explore whether UGT1A1 genotype is associated with toxicity in children with refractory neuroblastoma treated with the combination of MLN8237, irinotecan, and temozolomide, Day 7 of cycle 1|AURKA Genotype, To explore whether AURKA genotype is associated with antitumor activity in children with refractory neuroblastoma treated with the combination of MLN8237, irinotecan, and temozolomide., Day 7 of cycle 1|One Year Progression Free Survival Rate, To determine the progression free survival rates for patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma treated with MLN8237, irinotecan, and temozolomide at the identified MTD, 1 Years after completion of study
The Aurora A kinase has been shown to play an important role in neuroblastoma growth. Inhibition of Aurora A kinase activity attenuates the growth of neuroblastoma cells. MLN8237 is a selective small molecule inhibitor of Aurora A kinase that has completed pediatric single-agent phase I testing, as well as stage 1 phase 2 testing in patients with Neuroblastoma. MLN8237 showed activity against the NCI-sponsored Pediatric Preclinical Testing Program neuroblastoma in vivo panel that exceeded the activity level observed with chemotherapy agents routinely used in the treatment of neuroblastoma. Additional in vitro and in vivo studies have shown that Aurora A kinase inhibitors result in enhanced cytotoxicity when used in combination with chemotherapy. Irinotecan and temozolomide is a commonly used salvage regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma. This combination has a modest objective response rate (16%) and is well-tolerated, suggesting that it will provide a useful platform for the study of novel compounds in combination with chemotherapy. Preclinical studies demonstrate marked enhancement of anti-neuroblastoma activity with the addition of MLN8237 to irinotecan and temozolomide. This study therefore evaluates the tolerability and activity of MLN8237 in combination with irinotecan and temozolomide in children with refractory or relapsed neuroblastoma. Patients receive irinotecan (50 mg/m2/dose IV) and temozolomide (100 mg/m2/dose orally) once daily for 5 days along with MLN8237 orally once daily for 7 days. The doses of irinotecan and temozolomide will be fixed and the dose of MLN8237 will be dose-escalated. In the phase I portion of the study, the primary aims are to determine the recommended phase II doses of this combination, describe the toxicity of this combination, and characterize the pharmacokinetic profile of MLN8237 and irinotecan when used in combination. In the phase II portion of the study, the primary aim is to determine the objective response rate of this combination in patients with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma. With Amendment 5, the tolerability and pharmacokinetics of an MLN8237 oral solution will be evaluated. Optional correlative studies will evaluate UGT1A1 polymorphisms as predictors of toxicity and archival tumor tissue Aurora A expression as a predictor of response with this combination.