Pembro and HER2Bi-Armed Activated T Cells in Treating Patients With Metastatic Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well pembrolizumab and HER2Bi-armed activated T cells work in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. HER2Bi-armed activated T cells are made using T cells and may target and kill cancer cells. Giving pembrolizumab and HER2Bi-armed activated T cells may work better in treating patients with castration resistant prostate cancer.
Castration Levels of Testosterone|Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma Metastatic in the Bone|PSA Progression|Stage IV Prostate Adenocarcinoma AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: HER2Bi-Armed Activated T Cells|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Progression-free Survival, Percentage of patients achieving clinical progression-free interval at 6 months from study registration, Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the clinical efficacy of 8 infusions of HER2 HER2Bi-armed activated T cells (BATs) (up to 10\^10/infusion) twice per week for 4 weeks in combination with pembrolizumab once every 3 weeks starting with one dose 3 weeks before the 1st BATs infusion, by assessing the percentage of patients free of clinical progression at 6 months after registration.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate phenotype, cytokine profiles and IFN-gamma enzyme-linked immunosorbent spots (ELISpots), cytotoxicity and antibodies directed at laboratory prostate cancer cell lines for proof of principle of immune system activation and to correlate with clinical outcomes of response, progression free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

II. Evaluate the magnitude of change in tumor infiltrating T cells, PD-1 expression, and the Th1/Th2 ratio in prostate cancer tumor tissue before and after immunotherapy and correlate it with the clinical outcomes of response, PFS, and OS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 3 weeks. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning at least 1 week after pembrolizumab, patients receive HER2Bi-armed activated T cells IV over 5-15 minutes 2 times a week for 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.