A Study of MTL-CEBPA in Combination With a PD-1 Inhibitor in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumours (TIMEPOINT)
This is an open label Phase 1a/1b study in patients who have advanced solid cancer tumours. Patients will receive MTL-CEBPA (an experimental drug) in combination with pembrolizumab (a drug which has been given approval for use for some tumour types).

The Phase 1a dose escalation part of the study is designed to establish which doses of MTL-CEBPA are safe and well-tolerated when combined with the standard dose of pembrolizumab. Patients recruited to this part of the study will be those whose cancer progressed on standard treatment(s) or for whom no treatments are available.

Phase 1b the dose expansion part of the study will further explore how safe and well-tolerated these two drugs are when combined and will assess if the combination of drugs could potentially reduce the size of tumours. Participants in this part of the study will receive the experimental drug (MTL-CEBPA) at a dose which is considered safe and well-tolerated based on data from the first part of the study (Phase 1a). Participants will remain in the study taking study drugs until either death, or they choose to withdraw from the study.
Solid Tumor, Adult
DRUG: MTL-CEBPA|DRUG: Pembrolizumab
Adverse events, Frequency of adverse events graded according to toxicity criteria (NCI CTCAE v 5.0) and categorised by body system and diagnosis., From screening visit through study completion, an average of 1 year|Anti-tumour activity, Change from baseline CT scan using the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) guideline version 1.1 modified RECIST(mRECIST) and irRECIST, information on how the event is determined and over what estimated period of time (e.g., "From date of sceening visit until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 60 months
Pharmokinetic analysis of the study drug MTL-CEBPA when co administered with pembrolizumab, Blood sampling Blood samples collected at pre-defined timepoints will be analysed to define the maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) of MTL-CEBPA after intravenous administration., Blood samples will be collected on Days 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9 10, and 11 of the study
Phase 1a comprises three planned dose cohorts (ascending dose, 3+3 design, at the following dose levels: 70 mg/m2 QW, 98 mg/m2 QW, and 130 mg/m2 QW) of MTL-CEBPA combined with standard dose of pembrolizumab (given every 3 weeks). The aim is to assess the safety and tolerability of MTL-CEBPA in combination with pembrolizumab, recruiting patients whose disease progressed on standard of care therapy or for whom no therapy is available.

In the first dose cohort the first participant enrolled will receive MTL-CEBPA treatment at the 70mg/m2 QW dose level. Pembrolizumab (200mg) will be administered on Day 2 of the first cycle and subsequently every 3 weeks whilst participant is on treatment. MTL-CEBPA and pembrolizumab will not be administered on the same day.

Phase 1b of the study will further evaluate safety, tolerability, and assess the clinical activity of MTL-CEBPA and a PD-1 inhibitor (pembrolizumab) in combination.

Participants will receive MTL-CEBPA at a dose considered most appropriate, with regards to safety, tolerability, and efficacy, for further development (based on data from Phase 1a of the study).

Patients with the following (but not limited to) solid tumours will be specifically targeted: breast, lung, ovarian, pancreatic, gall bladder, HCC, neuroendocrine, and cholangiocarcinoma.