Vaccine Therapy of Prostate Cancer Patients With Recombinant Soluble Prostate-Specific Membrane Antigen (Rs-PSMA) Plus the Immunological Adjuvant Alhydrogel
The purpose of this research is to help us study a vaccine treatment for patients with prostate cancer. A vaccine is a medicine that teaches the body to destroy harmful infections and other diseases, such as cancer. Your immune system is made up of many different types of cells which fight infection and disease in your body. A vaccine may stimulate the immune system to destroy the cancer cells. It may also help to slow the growth of the cancer. The vaccine is a solution given as an injection into or under the skin. It is made up of several parts. The first part is PSMA, a protein present in many cancers, especially prostate cancer. It is referred to as rsPSMA when made in a laboratory for this study and is mixed with a material called Alhydrogel速 (aluminum hydroxide suspension) which helps the immune system to make more cancer-fighting cells.
Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: rsPSMA protein plus Alhydrogel速 vaccine
Is to investigate the safety and tolerability of treatment with increasing dose levels of rsPSMA protein when administered with the adjuvant Alhydrogel速., conclusion of study
To evaluate the immune response to increasing dose levels of rsPSMA protein., conclusion of study|To study the pattern of change in PSA after vaccination., conclusion of study
The purpose of this research is to help us study a vaccine treatment for patients with prostate cancer. A vaccine is a medicine that teaches the body to destroy harmful infections and other diseases, such as cancer. Your immune system is made up of many different types of cells which fight infection and disease in your body. A vaccine may stimulate the immune system to destroy the cancer cells. It may also help to slow the growth of the cancer. The vaccine is a solution given as an injection into or under the skin. It is made up of several parts. The first part is PSMA, a protein present in many cancers, especially prostate cancer. It is referred to as rsPSMA when made in a laboratory for this study and is mixed with a material called Alhydrogel速 (aluminum hydroxide suspension) which helps the immune system to make more cancer-fighting cells.