Selinexor in Treating Patients With Intermediate- and High-Risk Acute Myeloid Leukemia or High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome After Transplant
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of selinexor when given after stem cell transplant in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that is at intermediate or high risk of spreading or coming back (intermediate- or high-risk), or myelodysplastic syndrome that is at high risk of spreading or coming back (high-risk). Selinexor works to stop cancer growth by blocking an enzyme, which may cause cancer cells to die and also kill cells that cause the cancer to grow, which commonly do not respond to regular chemotherapy.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|de Novo Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Secondary Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Secondary Myelodysplastic Syndrome
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Selinexor
MTD of selinexor, determined according to incidence of DLT as graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03, Up to 29 days
Incidence of acute GVHD, Summary tabulations of the number and percentage of patients within each category (with a category for missing data) of the parameter will be presented, as well as two-sided 95% CIs., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), graded according to NCI CTCAE version 4.03, AEs will be summarized by patient incidence rates, therefore, in any tabulation, a patient contributes only once to the count for a given AE. The number and percentage of patients with any treatment emergent AE (TEAE) will be summarized for each treatment group, classified by system organ class and preferred term. The number and percentage of patients with TEAEs assessed by the investigator as at least possibly related to treatment will also be tabulated. The number and percentage of patients with any grade \>= 3 TEAE will be tabulated in the same manner. Serious adverse events also tabulated., Up to 2 years|Incidence of chronic GVHD, Summary tabulations of the number and percentage of patients within each category (with a category for missing data) of the parameter will be presented, as well as two-sided 95% CIs., Up to 2 years|Incidence of non-relapse mortality, Summary tabulations of the number and percentage of patients within each category (with a category for missing data) of the parameter will be presented, as well as two-sided 95% confidence intervals (CIs)., Up to 2 years|Lymphoid and myeloid chimerism post transplantation, Up to 2 years|Overall survival (OS), The median duration of OS will be estimated based on the 50th percentile of the Kaplan-Meier distribution; additional summary statistics will be presented, including the 25th and 75th percentiles, 95% CIs on the median and other percentiles, and proportion of censored data. Kaplan-Meier survival rates will also be calculated. Additional exploratory Cox models may be used to determine the effect of other prognostic factors, such as MRD status at the time of treatment., From the date of allo-SCT to the date of disease relapse or death, assessed up to 2 years|PFS, The median duration of PFS will be estimated based on the 50th percentile of the Kaplan-Meier distribution; additional summary statistics will be presented, including the 25th and 75th percentiles, 95% CIs on the median and other percentiles, and proportion of censored data. Kaplan-Meier survival rates will also be calculated. Additional exploratory Cox models may be used to determine the effect of other prognostic factors, such as MRD status at the time of treatment., From the date of allo-SCT to the date of disease relapse or death, assessed up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of selinexor in patients with hematologic malignancies, especially acute myeloid leukemia (AML)/myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), after allogeneic (allo)-stem cell transplant (SCT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the toxicities of selinexor as maintenance treatment after allo-SCT.

II. To determine the incidence of non-relapse mortality. III. To determine 2 years post SCT progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival rates.

IV. To determine the incidence of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).

V. To assess lymphoid and myeloid chimerism post transplantation.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To analyze donor immune re-constitution after allo-SCT with selinexor maintenance.

II. To monitor minimal residual disease (MRD) by Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) during selinexor treatment in AML/MDS patients.

III. To characterize the physiopathology of the leukemia initiating cells (LIC) at the time of disease relapse on selinexor maintenance and compare that at initial diagnosis of the disease.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Beginning on day 60-100 after allo-SCT without evidence of GVHD above grade 1 and disease relapse with stable hematopoietic recovery, patients receive selinexor orally (PO) on day 1 of each week or on days 1 and 3 of weeks 1-3. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.