Individualized Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Stage IV Melanoma That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This clinical trial studies individualized temozolomide (TMZ) in treating patients with stage IV melanoma that cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as TMZ, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving TMZ at different times, which are determined individually for each patient based on the phase (biorhythm) of the immune system response against the tumor may allow for a better drug response and may kill more tumor cells
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
DRUG: temozolomide|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: staining method|PROCEDURE: biopsy|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Progression-Free Survival at 4 Months, The distribution of time to progression will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier and the 4 month progression-free rate (percentage) will be provided. Progression is defined as: At least one of the following must be true: At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (\< 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to ≥ 1.0 cm short axis during follow-up. At least a 20% increase in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the MSD. In addition, the PBSD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm from the MSD., Time from registration to the earliest date of documentation of disease progression, assessed at 4 months
Progression-Free Survival, Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death resulting from any cause, whichever comes first. Progression is defined as:At least one of the following must be true: At least one new malignant lesion, which also includes any lymph node that was normal at baseline (\< 1.0 cm short axis) and increased to ≥ 1.0 cm short axis during follow-up. At least a 20% increase in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the MSD (Section 11.41). In addition, the PBSD must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 0.5 cm from the MSD. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause. The median and 95% confidence intervals are estimated using the Kaplan-Meier estimator., Up to 2 years|Toxicity, Assessed Using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0 (v4), The maximum grade for each type of toxicity will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine toxicity patterns within patient groups. In addition, we will review all adverse event data that is graded as 3, 4, or 5 and classified as either "unrelated" or "unlikely to be related" to study treatment in the event of an actual relationship developing. The overall toxicity rates (percentages) for grade 3 or higher adverse events considered at least possibly related to treatment are reported below., Up to 2 years
To Evaluate the Impact of Timed TMZ Chemotherapy on Immune Biomarkers and the Anti-tumor Immune Biorhythms., 6 months|To Evaluate the Parameters of Immune Homeostasis That Are Associated With the Anti-tumor Immune Biorhythm in Order to Gain Insight Into the Mechanism of the Observed Clinical and Immunological Effect of Timed TMZ Chemotherapy, 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess the clinical activity of timed administration of TMZ therapy in patients with stage IV melanoma who have or have not received prior chemotherapy for metastatic melanoma. SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. To assess the toxicity profile of timed administration of TMZ therapy in patients with stage IV melanoma who have or have not received prior chemotherapy for their metastatic disease. II. To evaluate the parameters of immune homeostasis that are associated with the anti-tumor immune biorhythm in order to gain insight into the mechanism of the observed clinical and immunological effect of timed TMZ chemotherapy. III. To evaluate the impact of timed TMZ chemotherapy on immune biomarkers and the anti-tumor immune biorhythms. OUTLINE: Prior to initiation of therapy patients will undergo a period of immunologic monitoring to analyze the bioperiodicity of their anti-tumor immune response. Patients with an established biorhythm will receive TMZ orally (PO) starting on the recommended day for 5 days. Treatment repeats every 21-42 days (based on the established biorhythm) until of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients without an established biorhythm are given the option to go off study or receive TMZ PO on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.