GnRHa + Letrozole in Non-obese Progestin-insensitive Endometrial Cancer and Atypical Hyperplasia Patients
To investigate the efficacy of GnRHa plus letrozole vs Diane-35 plus metformin in non-obese progestin-insensitive early-stage endometrial cancer (EEC) and atypical hyperplasia(EAH) patients asking for conservative treatment.
Endometrial Neoplasms|Atypical Endometrial Hyperplasia|Progesterone Resistance
DRUG: GnRHa|DRUG: Letrozole 2.5mg|DRUG: Diane-35|DRUG: MET
Complete response rates within 28 weeks of treatment, The cumulative 28-week CR rates will be calculated in two groups. Patients will be evaluated with an hysteroscopy every 12 weeks. For some may delay the evaluation as personal reasons, we define the primary outcome measure as complete response rates within 28 weeks of treatment., From date of randomization until the date of CR, assessed up to 28 weeks
Adverse events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v5.0 will be recorded, as well as incidence of adverse events., From date of randomization until the date of CR or date of hysterectomy, assessed up to 28 weeks|Time to achieve complete response, The median CR time will be calculated in two groups, From date of randomization until the date of CR or date of hysterectomy, assessed up to 28 weeks.|Relapse rates, Up to 2 years after the treatment|Rates of fertility outcomes, Including pregnancy and live-birth rates, Up to 2 years after the treatment|Compliance, Data on treatment and hysteroscopy management will be collected, and deviations from study protocol will be recorded in writing. For example, the time of drug interruptions due to related toxicities or AEs, and delay of hysteroscopy for personal reasons.
There were more and more women with early endometrioid endometrial cancer (EEC) and atypical endometrial hyperplasia (EAH) who want to preserve fertility. Approximately 70% to 80% of females who meet the criteria for conservation treatment are able to achieve CR after progestin therapy, with a median time of 6-7 months, but about 20% to 30% of patients get no response or need to take longer time to achieve remission (over one year). With long duration of treatment, there will be more side effects such as weight gain, impaired liver function, endometrial injury, ovarian reserve inhibition etc. which will decrease the efficacy of conservative treatment. Previous researches had shown that GnRHa plus letrozole or ethinylestradiol cyproterone plus metformin could be a better second-line treatment for progestin-insensitive patients. Till now, no similar studies were found, so we design this study to explore the efficacy of GnRHa plus letrozole and ethinylestradiol cyproterone plus metformin in progestin-insensitive EEC and EAH patients to provide new evidences for improving conservative treatment efficacy. Considered there will be more thrombotic risks in obese patients using ethinylestradiol cyproterone, we enrolled patients with BMI \< 30kg/m2 only in this study.

This will be a single-centred prospective pilot study. Patients diagnosed as progestin-insensitive EAH or EEC by dilatation and curettage (D\&C) or hysteroscopy will be enrolled. Non-obese patients will be stratified by pathological diagnosis (EEC or EAH) and then they will be randomly assigned (1:1) to two arms. One will be GnRHa + letrozole group and another will be ethinylestradiol cyproterone + metformin group.

The primary endpoint is cumulative complete response (CR) rate at 28 weeks of treatment. The secondary endpoints include adverse events, duration of complete response, recurrent rate, pregnancy rate and quality of life of patients.