Multiparametric Imaging-based Intraoperative Navigation for Guidance of Surgical Resection and Postoperative Radiotherapy in Patients With Head-and-neck Tumors
The overarching goal of the NAVIGATORR trial is the improvement of local tumor control in head-and-neck cancer (HNC) by increasing the precision of surgical resection and individualization of radiotherapy. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) together with salivary gland carcinomas (adenoid cysytic Carcinoma (ACC), mucoepidermoid Carcinoma (MEC), adenocarcinoma (AC)) represent the most common entities in German head and neck oncology. In localized tumors, primary tumor resection with possible adjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy is still the treatment of choice. Advances in targeted therapy and immunotherapy have greatly expanded the repertoire of medical oncology in recent years. In particular, prognosis of patients with end-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been improved and even patients with advanced head and neck disease can be offered new second line regimes. Importantly, all of these advances are based on personalized and targeted therapies. Unfortunately, surgical oncology in the head-and-neck region has not yet shown such developments towards individualized treatment, so that the rates of safe oncological resections (clear resection margins) haven been stagnating. Despite advances in reconstructive surgery that allow the resection of head-and-neck tumors that would not have been operable 10 - 15 years ago, the basic principles of the resection margin and especially margin evaluation have remained unchanged. The technique of navigation-based tumor resection and the annotation of biopsies by titanium clip-markings or special annotation have been described, but only in small case series and without proving the benefit of the method concerning clinically relevant parameters.

Therefore, the NAVIGATORR trial will enroll 60 patients with HNC of the midface that will undergo navigation-based surgery. Importantly, interdisciplinary data exchange of the intraoperative navigation data between surgeons, pathologists and radiation oncologists will be established. Clear surgical margins (distance between tumor cells and resection border \> 5 mm) have been defined as primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints such as dosimetric assessment of individualized radiotherapy plans, local tumor control or overall survival should then be compared to data from the literature to further assess this multidisciplinary approach.
Head and Neck Tumors
OTHER: intraoperative navigation and creation of tumor resection maps
Safety of tumor resection, occurence of clear resection margins according to NCCN guidelines., within 24 month after radiotherapy
local tumor control, Local progression is defined as progressive disease at the original tumor site according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) in the current version 1.1., within 24 month after radiotherapy
distant tumor control, Distant progression is defined as progressive disease according to RECIST v1.1 outside the original tumor site, within 24 month after radiotherapy|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the time interval from surgical resection until the day of a progressive disease according to RECIST v1.1 at any site or death of any cause, within 24 month after radiotherapy|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time interval from surgical resection until death, within 24 month after radiotherapy|Treatment-related toxicity, Treatment-related side effects will be assessed clinically and radiographically according to the CTCAE version 5.0, within 24 month after radiotherapy
The overarching goal of the NAVIGATORR trial is the improvement of local tumor control in head-and-neck cancer (HNC) by increasing the precision of surgical resection and individualization of radiotherapy. Squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) together with salivary gland carcinomas (adenoid cysytic Carcinoma (ACC), mucoepidermoid Carcinoma (MEC), adenocarcinoma (AC)) represent the most common entities in German head and neck oncology. In localized tumors, primary tumor resection with possible adjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy is still the treatment of choice. Advances in targeted therapy and immunotherapy have greatly expanded the repertoire of medical oncology in recent years. In particular, prognosis of patients with end-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has been improved and even patients with advanced head and neck disease can be offered new second line regimes. Importantly, all of these advances are based on personalized and targeted therapies. Unfortunately, surgical oncology in the head-and-neck region has not yet shown such developments towards individualized treatment, so that the rates of safe oncological resections (clear resection margins) haven been stagnating. Despite advances in reconstructive surgery that allow the resection of head-and-neck tumors that would not have been operable 10 - 15 years ago, the basic principles of the resection margin and especially margin evaluation have remained unchanged. The technique of navigation-based tumor resection and the annotation of biopsies by titanium clip-markings or special annotation have been described, but only in small case series and without proving the benefit of the method concerning clinically relevant parameters.

Therefore, the NAVIGATORR trial will enroll 60 patients with HNC of the midface that will undergo navigation-based surgery. Importantly, interdisciplinary data exchange of the intraoperative navigation data between surgeons, pathologists and radiation oncologists will be established. Clear surgical margins (distance between tumor cells and resection border \> 5 mm) have been defined as primary endpoint. Secondary endpoints such as dosimetric assessment of individualized radiotherapy plans, local tumor control or overall survival should then be compared to data from the literature to further assess this multidisciplinary approach.