Prospective Comparison of the Four Biopsy Methods for Prostate Cancer Detection
The aim of this study is to compare clinically significant prostate cancer detection rate by the 4 biopsy methods: TRUS-guided, cognitive, fusion and transperineal template mapping biopsy.

It is recommended to combine MRI-guided biopsy with systematic (TRUS-guided or transperineal template mapping biopsy) biopsy for high yield of prostate cancer diagnosis. Nevertheless, it remains unclear which biopsy combination is more precise for prostate cancer detection.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
PROCEDURE: consequently performed 4 biopsy methods (TRUS-guided biopsy, cognitive, fusion and transperineal template mapping biopsy)
Clinically significant prostate cancer detection rate, Ratio of patients with preoperative Pi-RADS ≥3 with defined clinically significant prostate cancer (ISUP ≥2) in relation to total number of patients, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods
Overall prostate cancer detection rate, Ratio of patients with preoperative Pi-RADS ≥3 with defined prostate cancer in relation to total number of patients, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Clinically insignificant prostate cancer detection rate, Ratio of patients with preoperative Pi-RADS ≥3 with defined clinically insignificant prostate cancer (ISUP 1) in relation to total number of patients, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Positive biopsy cores' number, Ratio of cores with detected prostate cancer in relation to overall numbers of cores, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Maximum cancer core length, Median length of core with prostate cancer in realtion to whole biopsy core, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Number of missed clinically significant prostate cancer, Ratio of patients with preoperative Pi-RADS ≥3 with downgraded ISUP score in relation to maximum ISUP score obtained among biopsies, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Added value of prostate cancer, Ratio of patients with preoperative Pi-RADS ≥3 with upgraded ISUP score in relation to maximum ISUP score obtained among biopsies, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Predicting factors of PCa detection, Prognostic factors of clinically significant and overall prostate cancer detection rate, 2 weeks after performed 4 biopsy methods|Comparison of biopsies and post-prostatectomy pathological results, Gleason score obtained within biopsy and the post-prostatectomy pathology, 2 weeks after radical prostatectomy
Taking into consideration the variety of prostate biopsy methods (TRUS-guided, cognitive, fusion and transperineal template mapping biopsy), the issue of indications for each of them remains unresolved. Current EAU guidelines recommend combining MRI-guided biopsy with systematic (TRUS-guided or transperineal template mapping biopsy) one for high yield of prostate cancer diagnosis. Nevertheless, it also remains unclear which biopsy combination is more precise for prostate cancer detection.

This is a prospective single-arm study.

All patients underwent prostate TRUS examination and mpMRI. Suspicious lesion found on MRI were classified with the Pi-RADS v2.1. First step: the "unblinded" urologist №1 performed a fusion and transperineal template mapping biopsy. Second step: the "blinded" urologist №2 performed TRUS-guided and cognitive biopsy.

Objectives of the study: to determine clinically significant prostate cancer detection rate, overall cancer detection rate, clinically insignificant prostate cancer detection rate, sampling efficiency (positive biopsy cores' number, maximum cancer core length (MCCL)). Results were calculated for each biopsy method separately and for combinations of TRUS-guided and cognitive biopsy (combination №1) and fusion and transperineal template mapping biopsy (combination №2).