Chromoendoscopy to Detect Early Synchronous Second Primary Esophageal Carcinoma
Patients with HNSCC represent a high-risk group for the development of SESCC. Thus, esophagogastrofibroscopy should be performed to detect possible synchronous esophageal carcinomas in these patients.

Although only two patients with synchronous primary carcinomas were found among the patients with newly diagnosed HNSCC in this study, esophagoscopy and better some of advanced endoscopic methods should be recommended after detection of HNSCC to exclude secondary esophageal carcinoma or dysplasia. Staining of the esophagus with Lugol's solution is an easy and inexpensive option and can be done in most of gastroenterology offices.
Squamous Cell Carcinomas of the Head and Neck
PROCEDURE: Esophagoscopy and chromoendoscopy
To detect early synchronous second primary esophageal carcinoma, To evaluate the use of flexible esophagoscopy and chromoendoscopy with Lugol's solution in the detection of early esophageal carcinomas (second primary carcinomas) in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC).

All patients with newly diagnosed HNSCC underwent office-based Lugol chromoendoscopy. After flexible esophagoscopy with white light, 3.0% Lugol iodine solution was sprayed over the entire esophageal mucosa. Areas with less-intense staining (LVLs) were evaluated and biopsies taken., The primary measure was assessed immediately after the completion of the study by individual patients.
ABSTRACT Objective: To evaluate the use of flexible esophagoscopy and chromoendoscopy with Lugol's solution in the detection of early esophageal carcinomas (second primary carcinomas) in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (HNSCC).

Methods: All patients with newly diagnosed HNSCC underwent office-based Lugol chromoendoscopy. After flexible esophagoscopy with white light, 3.0% Lugol iodine solution was sprayed over the entire esophageal mucosa. Areas with less-intense staining (LVLs) were evaluated and biopsies taken.