Combination Chemotherapy and TAK-659 as Front-Line Treatment in Treating Patients With High-Risk Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
The purpose of this research study is to evaluate a new investigational drug, TAK-659, given in combination with standard chemotherapy, for the treatment of Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL). ?Investigational? means that TAK-659 has not been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use as a prescription or over-the-counter medication to treat a certain condition. The primary purpose of this study is to find the appropriate and safe dose of the study drug to be used in combination with standard chemotherapy for the treatment of your disease and to determine how well the drug works in treating the disease. Other objectives include measuring the amount of the study drug in the body at different times after taking the study drug.

Participation in the study is expected to last for up to 3 years after receiving the last dose of the study drug. Patients will receive the study treatment for up to 18 weeks, as long as they are benefitting.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Activated B-Cell Type|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Germinal Center B-Cell Type|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma With MYC and BCL2 and/or BCL6 Rearrangements|High Grade B-Cell Lymphoma, Not Otherwise Specified|T-Cell/Histiocyte-Rich Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Spleen Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor TAK-659|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), Determine the safety and establish the maximum tolerated dose of TAK-659 when combined with R-CHOP in the front-line treatment of high-risk DLBCL using only patients who are evaluable for dose limiting (DLT) toxicities. MTD for TAK-659 will be determined using a 3+3 dose escalation method. The starting dose was 60 mg with possible escalation to 80 mg and 100 mg. Patients may be de-escalated to 40 mg if DLT's were met at dose level 1., The first 21 days after the participant received their first dose of TAK-695
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Using Lugano criteria (2014), ORR will be defined as the percentage of subjects with a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the investigators. Response will be assessed by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT)., PET/CT after the completion of Cycle 3|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves at 12 month and 18 months during survival follow-up., Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and maximum tolerated dose of TAK-659 when combined with R-CHOP in the front-line treatment of high-risk diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess preliminary efficacy of TAK-659 combined with R-CHOP in the front-line treatment of high-risk DLBCL.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of TAK-659 in combination with R-CHOP.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of spleen tyrosine kinase inhibitor TAK-659.

Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV), cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 3-5 minutes, and vincristine sulfate IV on day 1, and prednisone orally (PO) on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning in course 2, patients also receive spleen tyrosine kinase inhibitor TAK-659 PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years.