Onalespib in Treating Patients With Locoregionally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck Receiving Radiation Therapy and Cisplatin
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of onalespib when given together with intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and cisplatin in treating patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck that has spread from where it started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes. Onalespib works by blocking a protein called HSP90. HSP90 helps protect cells from stress and supports many other proteins that cause cell growth. When HSP90 is blocked, tumor cell growth may be slowed or stopped and may die more easily when treated with chemotherapy and radiation. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. IMRT is a specialized radiation therapy that delivers beams of radiation of different intensities aimed at the tumor from many angles and may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving onalespib with cisplatin and IMRT may kill more tumor cells.
Stage III Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage III Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage III Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVA Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Hypopharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IVB Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma AJCC v7
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Onalespib|OTHER: Pharmacological Study
Maximum tolerated dose determined by dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) of onalespib in combination with concurrent cisplatin and radiation therapy graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0, 8 weeks|Pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of onalespib in combination with cisplatin and radiation therapy, Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Baseline, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 24 hours on day -7; baseline, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 24 hours on day 9; and baseline on day 24|PK profile of cisplatin in combination with concurrent onalespib and radiotherapy, Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Baseline, at end of cisplatin infusion, at 2, 4, 6, and 8-9 on day 8, and 24 hours on day 9, and at baseline on days 22 and 29
Incidence of non-DLT adverse events (AEs), Frequency and severity of AEs will be tabulated using counts and proportions detailing frequently occurring, serious and severe events of interest. AEs will be summarized using all AEs experienced, although a sub-analysis may be conducted including only those adverse events in which the treating physician deems possibly, probably or definitely attributable to one or both study treatments. Attempts to model associations between pharmacokinetic data with toxicity profiles will be performed primarily using descriptive statistics; however, logistic regression may be used if warranted., Up to 2 years|Antitumor activity, Predictors of clinical outcomes will be investigated using logistic regression, Cox proportional hazards regression and/or generalized estimating equations as appropriate. Potential predictors include clinical predictors and molecular correlates. Descriptive statistics and plotting of data will also be used to better understand potential relationships., Up to 2 years|Predictive biomarkers for individual cancer patients utilizing biopsies and genomic sequencing technologies, Up to week 7
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of onalespib (AT13387) in combination with concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with locoregionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA-SCCHN). (Dose Escalation Phase) II. To preliminarily evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of AT13387 in combination with concurrent cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with LA-SCCHN. (Dose Expansion Phase)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of AT13387 in combination with cisplatin and radiotherapy.

II. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of cisplatin in combination with AT13387 and radiotherapy.

III. To assess for pharmacodynamics biomarkers for proof-of-mechanism. IIV. To assess for potential predictive biomarkers of efficacy. V. To document the toxicities associated with the administration of AT13387 in combination with cisplatin and radiotherapy in patients with LA-SCCHN.

VI. To explore and characterize predictive biomarkers for individual cancer patients utilizing genomic sequencing technologies.

VII. To provide preliminary disease-free survival, locoregional control, distant metastases-free survival, and overall survival.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of onalespib.

Patients receive onalespib intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days -7, 3, 10, 24, 31, and 38 and cisplatin IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43. Patients also undergo IMRT once daily (QD), 5 days a week over 7 weeks for a total of 35 fractions. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 8 weeks, every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year. Beyond the first 2 years, patients may be followed up every 6 months for up to 3 years per institutional standards.