Midostaurin in Treating Older Patients With Mutated Acute Myeloid Leukemia Post-Transplant
This phase 2 trial studies the side effects and how well midostaurin works in treating older patients with acute myeloid leukemia with change in genetic material post-hematopoietic cell transplantation. Midostaruin may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving midostaruin post-transplant may improve patient outcomes.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Gene Mutations|Adult Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Remission
DRUG: Midostaurin
Event-free survival, Up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Up to 30 days|Overall survival, Calculated and reported with Kaplan Meier curves. The statistical analyses will focus on estimation rather than hypothesis testing. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be presented, using the Clopper-Pearson method for proportions and using Greenwood's formula for time to event outcomes., Up to 1 year|Relapse free survival, Calculated and reported with Kaplan Meier curves. The statistical analyses will focus on estimation rather than hypothesis testing. Two-sided 95% confidence intervals will be presented, using the Clopper-Pearson method for proportions and using Greenwood's formula for time to event outcomes., Up to 1 year
Relapse rate after allogeneic transplant, Described using proportions., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the efficacy and safety of maintenance midostaurin (a fms related tyrosine kinase 3 \[FLT3\] inhibitor) for elderly patients with FLT3-internal tandem duplication (ITD)/tyrosine kinase domain (TKD) mutated acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who were previously enrolled on study HEMAML0022/CPKC412AUS27T and have then undergone allogeneic transplant.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether maintenance midostaurin after allogeneic transplant decreases the relapse rate in patients with FLT3-ITD/TKD mutated AML.

OUTLINE:

Beginning 30 days post-hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), patients receive midostaurin orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then up to 1 year.