Utility of Biparametric MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) as a Screening Tool for Prostate Cancer in a High-Risk Cohort
To determine whether using bpMRI in subjects who are at high risk of developing prostate cancer in conjunction with PSA will improve prostate cancer screening protocols.
Prostate Cancer|Magnetic Resonance Imaging|Population at Risk
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Bi-parametric MRI
Proportion of suspicious lesions on MRI in men with PSA less than 2.5 ng/ml, To determine the incidence of positive mpMRI prostate in a high-risk cohort of men as a screening tool for prostate cancer., 3 months
Prostate cancer detection rate using 3T bpMRI in patients with high risk and suspicious lesions on bpMRI, Proportion of men with suspicious lesion found to have cancer on biopsy, this is the PPV based on the prevalence of this population., 3 months|Association of whether findings on bpMRI and serum PSA (i.e. PSA density) are associated with future diagnosis of prostate cancer., Proportion diagnosed with prostate cancer over 5 year follow-up among patients who were not diagnosed with prostate cancer based on findings of initial mpMRI (i.e. mend who either did not have any suspicious lesions or had suspicious lesions but were negative for cancer on biopsy), 5 years|To correlate bpMRI findings with future changes in PSA, PSA density will be measured every year for five years, 5 years
The Investigators propose a pilot study which utilizes bpMRI in conjunction with PSA in the early detection of clinically significant prostate cancer in a high-risk group. Our study would focus on these high-risk subjects between the ages of 40-55 with a normal PSA ranging from ≥1.0 to \<2.5 ng/mL. bpMRI would be obtained in this group of subjects. If any suspicious lesions are found, the recommendation is to undergo MRI/US fusion biopsy. Subjects with negative bpMRI will be followed every year with serum PSA. Subjects with a positive bpMRI will have a prostate fusion and systematic biopsy performed. Those with a benign biopsy will be followed every year with serum PSA. Those who have a biopsy positive for cancer will be managed and followed according to the standard of care. All subjects will be followed for 5 years. Our hypothesis is that bpMRI in conjunction with above average PSA in a high-risk group will increase detection of clinically relevant prostate cancer and provide a useful addition to PSA screening.