Bioenergetic Profiling and Cognition in GBM Patients
This trial studies the use of blood-based bioenergetic profiling and cognitive testing in assessing patients with glioblastoma undergoing chemoradiation therapy. The purpose of this pilot research study is to find out if it is possible to see changes in participants' mitochondria, parts of a cell that produce energy, that might be associated with changes in participants' brain function after chemoradiation therapy.
Glioblastoma
PROCEDURE: Cognitive Assessment|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Blood Collection|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Bioenergetic Profiling
Number of Patients Completing Bioenergetics Profiling, The primary outcome will be the proportion of patients who are able to have bioenergetic profiling completed at all three time points (baseline, one month after radiotherapy, three months after radiotherapy). The proportion and its 95% confidence interval will be calculated., 3 months
Proportion of Participants with Decline in Cognitive Function, Cognitive decline as defined as a decline from pre-radiotherapy baseline by one standard deviation on any cognitive test of memory, executive function, or attention at any time point subsequent to baseline. Cognitive function will be evaluated using a customized cognitive battery of tests designed for brain tumor patients at Wake Forest University Comprehensive Cancer Center. Each participant's raw score performance on each assessment measure will be transformed to a z-score, based on available normative data. A composite mean can then be calculated for overall performance to allow for comparison between time points. The proportion of cognitive decline at one-month and 3-month visits will be calculated., Three months after completion of radiotherapy|Bioenergetics Profiling Testing - Seahorse XFe24 Analyzer, High-throughput respirometry parameters will be collected to compare cognitive decline v. non-decline in participant bioenergetics profile from baseline and at each follow-up visit. The respirometry parameters will be obtained simultaneously (basal respiration, leak respiration, ATP-linked respiration, maximal respiration, spare respiratory capacity and non-mitochondrial respiration). Wilcoxon rank sum test will be used to compare pre-RT bioenergetics profile and the change in bioenergetics profile in the cognitive decline groups (decline vs. non-decline) at each follow-up visit. Simple Spearman's rank correlation coefficients will be used to relate pre-RT bioenergetics profile or change in cognitive testing to change in bioenergetics profile at each follow-up visit., Three months after completion of radiotherapy|Bioenergetics Profile Testing - Oroboros O2K, High-resolution respirometry parameters will be collected simultaneously to compare cognitive decline v. non-decline in participant bioenergetics profile from baseline and at each follow-up visit - (routine respiration, outer mitochondrial membrane integrity measure, fatty acid β-oxidation mediated respiration, fatty acid β-oxidation and complex I, II and glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase mediated respiration, maximal electron transport chain respiration, spare respiratory capacity, maximal electron transport chain after complex I inhibition, non-mitochondrial respiration, complex IV respiration, leak respiration, complex I and II mediated maximal electron transport chain respiration and cell viability). Wilcoxon rank sum test and Simple Spearman's will be used to compare pre-RT bioenergetics profile and the change in bioenergetics profile in the cognitive decline groups (decline vs. non-decline) at each follow-up visit., Three months after completion of radiotherapy
Primary Objective:

• To determine the feasibility of performing bioenergetic profiling in glioblastoma patients receiving chemoradiation by ascertaining the proportion of patients who have enough white blood cells in a 16 mL blood to successfully perform the profiling assays.

Secondary Objectives:

• To determine if either pre-radiotherapy bioenergetic profile or the change in bioenergetic profile from pre-radiotherapy to post-radiotherapy are predictive of subacute cognitive decline after radiation.

OUTLINE: Patients undergo neurocognitive testing over 1 hour using a customized battery of tests designed for brain tumor patients at Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center. Patients also undergo blood collection at baseline and at 1 and 3 months post radiotherapy.