The Immune Reaction Upon COVID-19 Vaccination in the Belgian Cancer Population.
This study investigates the immune response in the cancer population in Belgium being vaccinated with an approved vaccine types being authorized for use in Belgium. This question needs to be answered to make sure that this vulnerable population is properly protected against possible SARS-CoV-2 infection and that vaccine administration is safe.
Cancer
OTHER: Blood sampling
Immune response, The primary endpoint is the quantification of different anti-SARS-CoV-2 specific IgG antibodies 4 months after (first) vaccine administration. Antibody titers to the full Spike, S1, S2, RBD (receptor binding domain) and N (nucleocapsid) protein of SARS-CoV-2 will be measured quantitatively. For this measurement a multiplex SARS-CoV-2 immunoassay will be used., 4 months
Duration of the immune response, To study the evolution and duration of the immune response after vaccination: using serological assays to analyze anti-RBD IgG titers 6 months after (first) vaccine administration., 6 months|Neutralizing capacity, To analyze the titer of neutralizing antibodies both 4 and 6 months after (first) vaccine administration, 6 months|Efficacy of the immune response, This will be assessed by the SARS-Cov2 infection rate based on information collected through questionnaires on incidence of (PCR-confirmed) SARSCoV-2 infection within a time-frame of 12 months after the start of the study., 12 months|Vaccine safety, Safety will be reported in terms of incidence and severity of systemic adverse events (AEs) during a continuous App based reporting system or using a questionnaire 3 days after vaccine administration., 12 months
Rationale: Patients with cancer have an increased risk of adverse outcome of COVID-19 and should be at high prioritisation for vaccination against SARS-CoV-2. The COVID-19 vaccine trials have not included cancer patients as such, the efficacy and duration of immunity in patients with cancer are still unknown. Keeping in mind that cancer patients are often immunocompromised, the immune response upon vaccination needs further investigation.

The REAL-V is a prospective, multicenter cohort study. The humoral immunity response based on anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies upon COVID-19 vaccination will be investigated in blood samples taken 4 months, 6 months and 12 months after (first) vaccine administration. Potential factors that affect immunity, will be recorded, such as type and stage of cancer, anti-cancer treatment, concomitant medication,..To investigate the safety of different COVID-19 vaccines, incidence and severity of systemic adverse events will be reported using an App based system answering questionnaires about specific vaccine related complaints.