Genistein in Preventing Breast Cancer in Women at High Risk for Breast Cancer
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well genistein works in preventing breast cancer in women at high risk for breast cancer. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming, growing, or coming back. The use of genistein may prevent breast cancer in women at high risk for breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: placebo|DRUG: genistein|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Change in Breast Epithelial Cell Proliferation as Measured by Ki-67 Labeling, Breast epithelial tissue samples are used to measure the expression of the cell proliferation marker Ki-67, by counting the percentage of positive MIB-1 immunostained cells, denoted the Ki-67 labeling index. Mean change in the Ki-67 labeling index is assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline
Measurement of Change in Concentration of Epidermal Growth Factor (EGF) Found in Nipple Aspirate Fluid (NAF), Mean change in the concentration of EGF found in nipple aspirate fluid is assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline|Change in Cytomorphologic Assessment of Atypia and Spectral Imaging Analysis of Atypica Features in Epithelial Cells., Cytologic atypia evaluation was performed on Papanicolau stained Thin Prep slides using standard criteria, which were also used for spectral spatial imaging. Cell clusters were used to generate image stacks with the Nuance LCTF-based imaging system (CRI Inc). The image data was collected as percent pixels assigned as "atypical". Mean change in the percent pixels assigned "atypical" is assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline|Breast Endocrine Environment Measured in Nipple Aspiration Fluid (NAF): Estradiol, Mean change in concentration of estradiol measured in nipple aspiration fluid assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline|Monitor Drug Delivery by Measuring Plasma Genistein by HPLC, Drug delivery is measured be concentration of genistein in plasma using High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC). Mean change in concentration of plasma genistein is assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline|Plasma Concentration of Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG), 6 months - baseline|Breast Endocrine Environment Measured in Nipple Aspiration Fluid (NAF): Cathepsin D, Mean change in concentration of Cathepsin D measured in nipple aspiration fluid assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 months - baseline|Breast Endocrine Environment Measured in Nipple Aspiration Fluid (NAF): ps2, Mean change in concentration of protein ps2 measured in nipple aspiration fluid assessed from baseline to 6 month follow up., 6 month - baseline
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the effect of genistein on the proliferation of breast epithelial cells obtained by fine needle aspiration (FNA), as measured by Ki-67 labeling index, in women who are at high risk for breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine the effect of this drug on cellular and molecular parameters using epithelial cells obtained by FNA, nipple aspirate fluid, and blood from these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are stratified according to menopausal status (premenopausal vs postmenopausal) and history of breast cancer (no history of breast cancer vs history of estrogen receptor \[ER\] positive breast cancer vs history of ER negative breast cancer). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral genistein once daily.

ARM II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily.

In both arms, treatment continues for up to 6 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30-37 days.