68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 PET/CT in Healthy Volunteers and Lung Cancer Patients
This is an open-label dynamic whole-body PET/CT (positron emission tomography/computed tomography) study for investigation of radiation dosimetry, plasma pharmacokinetics, biodistribution, safety and diagnostic performance of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients. A single dose of nearly 111 MBq 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 ( ≤ 40 µg BNOTA-PRGD2) will be intravenously injected into healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients. Visual and semiquantitative method will be used to assess the PET/CT images. Changes of blood pressure, pulse, respiration, temperature, routine blood and urine tests, serum alanine aminotransferase, albumin, and creatinine, and any adverse events will be collected from the volunteers. Adverse events will also be observed in the patients.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2
Visual and semiquantitative assessment of lesions and biodistribution, Visual analysis will be performed by consensus reading by at least 3 experienced nuclear medicine physician. The semiquantitative analysis will be performed by the same person for all the cases, and the standardized uptake values (SUVs) of tumor and organs will be measured., One year
Blood pressure, Blood pressure of healthy volunteers will be measured at three time points: right before injection, after scanning, and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Pulse, Pulse will be measured at three time points for each healthy volunteer: right before injection, after scanning, and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Respiration frequency, Respiration frequency will be measured at three time points for each healthy volunteer: right before injection, after scanning, and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Temperature, Temperature will be measured at three time points for each healthy volunteer: right before injection, after scanning, and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Routine blood test, Routine blood test of healthy volunteers will be measured at two time points: right before and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Routine urine test, Routine urine test of healthy volunteers will be measured at two time points: right before and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Serum alanine aminotransferase, Serum alanine aminotransferase of healthy volunteers will be measured at two time points: right before and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Serum albumin, Serum albumin of healthy volunteers will be measured at two time points: right before and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Serum creatinine, Serum creatinine of healthy volunteers will be measured at two time points: right before and 24 hours after treatment., One year|Adverse events collection, Adverse events within 5 days after the injection and scanning of healthy volunteers and patients will be followed and assessed., One year
Integrin αⅤβ3 is an important member of this receptor family and expressed preferentially on various types of tumor cells and the activated endothelial cells of tumor angiogenesis, but not or very low on the quiescent vessel cells and other normal cells. Therefore, the integrin αⅤβ3 receptor is becoming a valuable target for diagnosis and response evaluation of malignant tumors.

The tri-peptide sequence of arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) can specifically bind to the integrin αⅤβ3 receptor. Accordingly, a variety of radiolabeled RGD-based peptides have been developed for non-invasive imaging of integrin αⅤβ3 expression via positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). Among all the RGD radiotracers studied, two PET imaging agents, 18F-Galacto-RGD and 18F-AH111585, have been investigated in clinical trials, and the results demonstrated that both radiotracers allowed the specific imaging of various types of tumors, and the tumor uptake correlated well with the expression of integrin αⅤβ3. Recently, series of RGD dimeric peptides with PEG linkers have been studied. The new types of RGD peptides showed much higher in vitro integrin αⅤβ3-binding affinity than the single RGD tri-peptide sequence, and importantly, they exhibited significantly increased tumor uptake and improved in vivo kinetics in animal models. As a representative, 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 could be easily prepared and exhibited excellent in vivo behaviors in animal models. No adverse reactions are observed in animal models to date.

For the further interests in clinical translation of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2, a open-label dynamic whole-body PET/CT study was designed to investigate radiation dosimetry, plasma pharmacokinetics, biodistribution, safety and diagnostic performance of 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 in healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients. A single dose of nearly 111 MBq 68Ga-BNOTA-PRGD2 ( ≤ 40 µg BNOTA-PRGD2) will be intravenously injected into healthy volunteers and lung cancer patients. Visual and semiquantitative method will be used to assess the PET/CT images. Changes of blood pressure, pulse, respiration, temperature, routine blood and urine tests, serum alanine aminotransferase, albumin, and creatinine, and any adverse events will be collected from the volunteers. Adverse events will also be observed in the patients.