Irinotecan and Cetuximab With or Without Bevacizumab in Treating Patients With RAS Wild-Type Locally Advanced or Metastatic Colorectal Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well irinotecan and cetuximab with or without bevacizumab work in treating patients with RAS wild-type colorectal cancer that has spread to other places in the body (locally advanced/metastatic) and cannot be removed by surgery. Irinotecan may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab and bevacizumab, may help the body?s immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving irinotecan and cetuximab with or without bevacizumab may work betting in treating patients with colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|RAS Wild Type|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Colorectal Cancer AJCC v7
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|BIOLOGICAL: Cetuximab|DRUG: Irinotecan|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The hazard ratio (HR) with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors. Progression (PD) is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir)., From the date of randomization to the date of 1st documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months|6-month and 12-month Progression-free Survival (PFS) Rates, The distribution of PFS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Six and 12 month PFS rates by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The hazard ratio (HR) with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors. Progression (PD) is defined according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir)., From the date of randomization to the date of 1st documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 24 months
Number of Participants Who Experienced at Least One Grade 3 or Higher Adverse Events, The number of participants who experienced at least one grade 3 or higher adverse events assessed by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0., Up to 30 days from last dose of study treatment|Overall Survival (OS), The distribution of OS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Median OS by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The HR with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors., From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|12-month, 18-month, and 24-month Overall Survival (OS) Rates, The distribution of OS by group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Twelve, 18- and 24-month survival rates by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The HR with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors., From randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control is defined as maintaining Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) as the tumor assessment result during the defined time window. DCR (percentage) is defined as number of patients with success of disease control divided by total number of patients in the analysis population multiplied by 100, excluding patients who refuse treatment before the initiation of any treatment. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of disease, PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir, SD: Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR, nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD taking as reference the MSD, Up to 2 years|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The response rate (percentage) is the percent of participants whose best response was Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as defined by RECIST 1.1 criteria. Percentage of successes will be estimated by 100 times the number of successes divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Response rates (including complete and partial response) will be tested using Fisher's exact test. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of disease, PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, Up to 2 years|Duration of Response (DOR), The distribution of DOR by treatment group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Six and 12 month durable response (i.e. maintaining CR or PR without progressive disease \[PD\]) rates by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The HR with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors.CR: Disappearance of all evidence of disease, PR: Regression of measurable disease and no new sites, PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir, From the date of first tumor assessment with the response status being CR or PR to the date of 1st documented progressive disease, assessed up to 12 months|Percentage of Participants With Treatment Failure at 6 Months, TTF is defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of treatment discontinuation due to PD, death, or severe AE. The distribution of TTF by treatment group will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier. Six month event-free rates by treatment group with confidence intervals will be estimated based on Kaplan-Meier curves. The HR with confidence interval will be estimated based on stratified Cox models (stratified by levels of stratification factors), without and with adjusting for baseline clinical/pathological factors. PD: Any new lesion or increase by ≥50% of previously involved sites from nadir, assessed at 6 months|Relative Dose Intensity (RDI), RDI is defined as the total dose of protocol therapy a patient actually received (i.e., summation of actually received dose at each cycle) divided by the total planned dose (i.e., summation of planned dose level at each cycle) multiplied by 100. Separate RDIs will be calculated for irinotecan and cetuximab. Agent-specific RDI will be summarized by medians, and min and max values, all of which will be compared between the two treatment groups by the Wilcoxon Rank sum test., Up to 2 years
Change in Genotype Concentrations of Prespecified Gene Mutations in Circulating Cell-free Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) (cfDNA), The mean and median change in mutation concentration for each prespecified gene, and provide the corresponding 95% confidence intervals will be estimated. Cox proportional hazards models will be applied to explore the predictive value of pretreatment mutation status for cetuximab sensitivity and resistance, using PFS and OS as the outcome variables., Baseline up to 2 years|Dynamic Change in Mutation Concentration While the Patient is Receiving Cetuximab Treatment, Scatter plots and box plots will be used to illustrate such change., Baseline up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess and compare the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients receiving irinotecan, cetuximab, and bevacizumab with patients receiving irinotecan, cetuximab and placebo, in the population of patients with RAS wild-type, irinotecan-refractory metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who also previously received bevacizumab in at least one prior line therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the adverse event (AE) profile and safety of the proposed treatment in this population.

II. To assess and compare the overall survival (OS) between treatment arms in this population.

III. To assess and compare the disease control rate (DCR) between treatment arms in this population.

IV. To assess and compare the overall response rate (ORR) between treatment arms in this population.

V. To assess and compare the duration of response between treatment arms in this population.

VI. To assess and compare time to treatment failure between treatment arms in this population.

VII. To assess relative dose intensity of treatment agents between treatment arms in this population.

CORRELATIVE OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the change in genotype concentrations of prespecified gene mutations in circulating cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) collected serially during protocol treatment.

II. Explore the predictive value of pretreatment mutation status, germline single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), and gene expression signatures for cetuximab sensitivity and resistance.

III. Explore the predictive value of dynamic changes in mutation status and gene expression signatures for cetuximab sensitivity and resistance.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 90-120 minutes, bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 90-120 minutes, placebo IV over 30-90 minutes, and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.