Axillary Lymph Node Preservation Surgery in Reducing Lymphedema in Patients With Breast Cancer
This pilot phase I and randomized phase II trial studies the best way to perform axillary lymph node preservation surgery and to see how well it works in preventing lymphedema in patients with breast cancer. Lymph node mapping may help in planning surgery to remove breast cancer and affected lymph nodes. It is not yet known whether reverse mapping guided axillary lymph node dissection is more effective than standard axillary lymph node dissection in preventing lymphedema.
Breast Cancer
PROCEDURE: axillary lymph node dissection|DRUG: isosulfan blue based lymphatic mapping|PROCEDURE: axillary lymph node dissection|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire administration
Percentage of Patients With Arm Lymphatics Above, at, or Below the Axillary Vein, A Fisher's exact test with a one-sided alpha of 0.05 will be used to determine if the percentage of patients with arm lymphatics above, around, or below the axillary vein in the standard dissection group is superior to the experimental dissection group., Up to 4 years|Percentage of Patients With Positive Axillary Reverse Mapping (ARM) Identified Nodes, A Fisher's exact test with a one-sided alpha of 0.05 will be used to determine if the percentage of patients with positive ARM identified nodes excised in the standard dissection group is superior to the experimental dissection group., Up to 4 years|Percentage of Patients With Lymphedema, Difference between arms in patients developing lymphedema at any point during the study will be evaluated using chi-squared tests., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. To produce a map of the lymphatic drainage of the upper extremity as it relates to breast drainage, to determine the proportion of women undergoing axillary lymphadenectomy at risk for lymphedema. II. To determine if blue lymphatics contain lymph node metastases. III. To evaluate the incidence of lymphedema and associated other surgical related quality of life in those undergoing this procedure as compared to the current standard of care.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I study followed by a randomized phase II study.

PILOT PORTION: Patients receive isosulfan blue dye subcutaneously (SC) and then undergo reverse mapping-guided axillary lymph node dissection.

RANDOMIZED PORTION: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. ARM I: Patients receive isosulfan blue dye subcutaneously (SC) and then undergo reverse mapping-guided axillary lymph node dissection. ARM II: Patients undergo standard axillary lymph node dissection and then receive isosulfan blue dye SC.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.