Acupuncture for Mucositis Pain in Cancer Care
This research is being done to see if acupuncture helps relieve mucositis pain in patients with leukemia who are undergoing chemotherapy. Many patients receiving chemotherapy develop mucositis (painful sores or blisters in the mouth or throat). Mucositis is not only a frequent complication in cancer care and extremely painful, but also increases the risks of infection and malnutrition and often leads to discontinuing or delaying the chemotherapy treatments.
Mucositis|Pain|Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Real Acupuncture|PROCEDURE: Sham Acupuncture
Compliance, Retention/ dropout rate, 12 weeks|Sham credibility rate, 12 weeks|Frequency of any adverse effects, Bleeding, infection, bruising, etc, 12 weeks
Pain levels, 12 weeks|Mucositis Grade, CTC Scoring, Hopkins Scoring; Oral Mucositis Daily Questionnaire (OMDQ), 12 weeks|Total amount of conventional analgesics used and Total days on Analgesic, 12 weeks
Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical procedures in the world. The practice originated in China more than 2,000 years ago, and is widely used by doctors in Korea, China, Japan, and other countries to ease pain or various symptoms. In the past two decades, acupuncture has grown in popularity in the United States, and by 2002, an estimated 8.2 million adults in the US report having used acupuncture.

The term acupuncture describes a family of procedures involving stimulation of anatomical points on the body by a variety of techniques. The acupuncture technique that has been most studied scientifically involves penetrating the skin with thin, solid, metallic needles that are manipulated by the hands or by electrical stimulation. Acupuncture needles are metallic, solid, and hair-thin. People experience acupuncture differently, but most feel no or minimal pain as the needles are inserted. Some people are energized by treatment, while others feel relaxed.

Acupuncture has been used to ease some cancer treatment-related side effects such as nausea and vomiting. In this study we will assess the potential usefulness of acupuncture to ease the pain associated with mucositis.