A Study of AT-101 in Combination With Docetaxel in Squamous Cell Carcinoma Of The Head and Neck
This study will examine the effects of an investigational drug called AT-101 in combination with an FDA approved cancer drug called Docetaxel. It is hoped that AT-101 will help the Docetaxel to have a better effect in slowing or stopping cancer cell growth. This study will help the researchers learn what effects, if any, the combination of AT-101 and Docetaxel has on your cancer. For instance, will the combination cause your tumor(s) to shrink or stop growing? The researchers will also learn about the safety of the combination of AT-101 and Docetaxel. For instance, are there any side effects? If so, what kind of side effects does the combination cause? How severe are the side effects, and how often do they occur?
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN)
DRUG: AT-101|DRUG: Docetaxel
Number of Patients With a Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR), The primary objective is to estimate the proportion of patients with a complete response (CR) and partial response(PR) defined by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors). CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions and PR is defined as at least a 20% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 12 months
Median Duration of Response For All Groups Combined, 3 years|Incidence of Grade 3 and 4 Toxicities by Arm, Measure the grade III/IV toxicities experienced by patients with advanced, locally recurrent, or metastatic SCCHN, 3 years|Median Overall Survival in Months, 3 Years|Median Progression Free Survival in Months, Progression is defined, by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., 3 Years
This study will examine the effects of an investigational drug called AT-101 in combination with an FDA approved cancer drug called Docetaxel. It is hoped that AT-101 will help the Docetaxel to have a better effect in slowing or stopping cancer cell growth. This study will help the researchers learn what effects, if any, the combination of AT-101 and Docetaxel has on your cancer. For instance, will the combination cause your tumor(s) to shrink or stop growing? The researchers will also learn about the safety of the combination of AT-101 and Docetaxel. For instance, are there any side effects? If so, what kind of side effects does the combination cause? How severe are the side effects, and how often do they occur?