Multiple Myeloma (MM) Quality of Life (QOL) Study
The main purpose of this study is to examine differences in quality of life and psychological distress for both Multiple Myeloma patients receiving treatment and their caregivers and to assess patient and caregiver prognostic understanding (understanding of the likely course of a disease over time) of Multiple Myeloma to guide development of more personalized treatment plans.

This study looks to further understand quality of life changes throughout multiple myeloma therapy for both patients and caregivers to help determine ways to improve patient and caregiver understanding of illness and in turn, tailor customized treatment that best aligns with patient preferences.

The study will use a series of questionnaires to measure quality of life, mood, coping strategies, and prognostic understanding.
Multiple Myeloma|Quality of Life|Symptom, Behavioral
BEHAVIORAL: Questionnaire
Quality of life (QOL) Patient Description, Describe patient QOL scores by lines of therapy. Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Multiple Myeloma(FACT-MM) will be used to assess QOL, which has been validated for use in multiple care settings.\[10\]. The FACT-MM consists of four subscales assessing well-being across four domains (physical, functional, emotional, and social). These self-reported measures possess strong psychometric properties and have been validated for patients with cancer \[Appendix E\]., Up to 1 year|Quality of life (QOL) Caregiver Description, Describe cargiver QOL scores by associated patient line of therapy, Up to 1 year
QOL-Functional Assessment, Describe and compare patient QOL Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Multiple Myeloma (FACT-MM) scores by line of therapy. The FACT-MM consists of four subscales assessing well-being across four domains (physical, functional, emotional, and social). These self-reported measures possess strong psychometric properties and have been validated for patients with cancer, Up to 1 year|Patient Burden Assessment-ESAS, Describe and compare patient symptoms (ESAS) scores by line of therapy. The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) will be used to ascertain the symptom burden experienced by patients. This previously validated survey assesses nine symptoms frequently reported by patients with cancer: pain, tiredness, nausea, depression, anxiety, drowsiness, appetite, well-being, and shortness of breath \[, Up to 1 year|Patient Fatigue Symptoms, Describe and compare patient fatigue symptoms (FACIT-Fatigue) by line of therapy.

The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-Fatigue), a 13-item FACIT subscale specific to fatigue that measures an individual's level of fatigue during their usual daily activities over the past week.\[13, 14\] The level of fatigue is measured on a 4-point Likert scale ., Up to 1 year|Patient anxiety symptoms, Describe and compare patient anxiety and depression symptoms Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) to assess symptoms of depression and anxiety in all study participants. The HADS is a 14-item questionnaire that contains two 7-item subscales assessing depression and anxiety symptoms during the past week.. Scores on each subscale range from 0 to 21, with a cutoff of 8 or greater denoting clinically significant anxiety or depression, Up to 1 year|Patient Depression symptoms, Describe and compare patient anxiety and depression symptoms Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) to assess symptoms of depression and anxiety in all study participants. The HADS is a 14-item questionnaire that contains two 7-item subscales assessing depression and anxiety symptoms during the past week.. Scores on each subscale range from 0 to 21, with a cutoff of 8 or greater denoting clinically significant anxiety or depression, Up to 1 year|Patient Post-traumatic stress symptoms, Describe and compare post-traumatic stress symptoms (PCL-C) by line of therapy The Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder Checklist (PCL) to assess symptoms of post-traumatic stress in patients and caregivers. The PCL is a 17 item self-reported measure that evaluates symptoms of post traumatic stress disorder according to the criteria of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders-IV, Up to 1 year|Patient coping, Describe and compare patient coping (Brief Cope) by line of therapy. The Brief Cope, a 28-item questionnaire that assess 14 methods of coping (e.g., self-distraction, humor, denial) using a 4-point Likert scale, Up to 1 year|Caregiver Quality of Life (QOL), Describe and compare caregiver burden and QOL (CARGOQOL) scores by line of therapy. CareGiver Oncology QOL questionnaire (CARGOQOL) will be used to measure caregiver QOL. The CarGOQOL is a 29-item well-validated instrument to measure QOL in multiple domains., Up to 1 year|Caregiver Burden, Describe and compare caregiver burden and QOL (CARGOQOL) scores by line of therapy. CareGiver Oncology QOL questionnaire (CARGOQOL) will be used to measure caregiver QOL. The CarGOQOL is a 29-item well-validated instrument to measure QOL in multiple domains., Up to 1 year|Caregiver anxiety, Describe and compare caregiver anxiety and depression symptoms (caregiver HADS) by line of therapy. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be used to (HADS) to assess symptoms of depression and anxiety in all study participants (patients and family caregivers). The HADS is a 14-item questionnaire that contains two 7-item subscales assessing depression and anxiety symptoms during the past week. Scores on each subscale range from 0 to 21, with a cutoff of 8 or greater denoting clinically significant anxiety or depression, Up to 1 year|Caregiver Depression, Describe and compare caregiver anxiety and depression symptoms (caregiver HADS) by line of therapy. The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale will be used to (HADS) to assess symptoms of depression and anxiety in all study participants (patients and family caregivers). The HADS is a 14-item questionnaire that contains two 7-item subscales assessing depression and anxiety symptoms during the past week. . Scores on each subscale range from 0 to 21, with a cutoff of 8 or greater denoting clinically significant anxiety or depression, Up to 1 year|Caregiver Coping, Describe and compare caregiver coping (Brief Cope) Brief Cope, a 28-item questionnaire that assess 14 methods of coping (e.g., self-distraction, humor, denial) using a 4-point Likert scale, Up to 1 Year
This research study's procedures include screening for eligibility, participant designation of a caregiver and a series of questionnaires.

- It is expected that about 180 people undergoing treatment for multiple myeloma and up to 180 of their caregivers will take part in this research study.

-- The questionnaires are completed one time only and measure quality of life, mood, coping strategies, and prognostic understanding and can be completed in the hospital, clinic, over the email, or telephone with assistance provided as needed.Questionnaires take approximately 20 minutes to complete.