Green Tea and Reduction of Breast Cancer Risk
RATIONALE: Green tea extract contains ingredients (catechins) that may lower the risk of breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well green tea extract works in preventing breast cancer compared to a placebo in postmenopausal women with high breast density.

The investigators have hypothesized that green tea consumption reduces breast cancer risk, and this effect is seen primarily in women who have the low-activity COMT genotype. The investigators will test this by evaluating the effects of green tea extract on breast cancer biomarkers including mammographic density, plasma insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1), IGF binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3), estrone, estradiol, androstenedione, sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), urinary estrogen metabolites and plasma F2-isoprostanes.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Green tea extract supplement|OTHER: Placebo
Mammographic Density, Percent mammographic density was measured on digital images using a computer-assisted and quantitative method., Baseline and month 12|Circulating Concentrations of Reproductive Hormones Including Estrone, Estradiol, Androstenedione, Testosterone, and Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG), Circulating levels of reproductive hormones including estrone, estradiol, androstenedione, testosterone and SHBG were measured in fasting blood samples by liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry method., Baseline and month 12|Circulating Concentrations of IGF Axis Proteins Including IGF-1 and IGFBP-3, Circulating levels of IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 were measured in fasting blood samples by ELISA method., Baseline and month 12
OBJECTIVES:

1. Primary:

   1.1 To determine the effects of green tea extract consumption (containing 800 mg EGCG per day) for 12 months on the following recognized biomarkers of breast cancer risk:
   1. Mammographic density
   2. Circulating concentrations of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and IGF binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3)
   3. Circulating concentrations of reproductive hormones (estrone, estradiol, androstenedione) and sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG)

   1.2 To determine the effects of COMT genotype on the green tea extract effects described above.
2. Secondary:

2.1 To determine the effects of green tea extract consumption (containing 800 mg EGCG per day) for 12 months on the following hypothesized biomarkers of breast cancer risk:

1. Urinary estrogen metabolites (estrone, estradiol, and their 2-hydroxy, 4-hydroxy, 2-methoxy, and 4-methoxy metabolites, estriol, and 16- hydroxyestrone)
2. Circulating concentrations of F-2 isoprostanes, a recognized biomarker of systemic oxidative stress

2.2 To determine the effects of COMT genotype on the green tea extract effects described above.

2.3 To determine the effects of COMT genotype on catechin metabolism and excretion, as measured by circulating and urinary concentrations.