An Intervention to Help Patients and Caregivers Manage Stress and Improve Communication Skills When Talking About Cancer
This study will test an intervention to improve patients' and their caregivers' ability to manage difficult emotions and communicate about the patient's illness. There will be two versions of the intervention used for this study: a culturally tailored version for Latinx participants refined during Phase 1 of this study, and a version of the intervention that was not culturally tailored for Latinx patients and caregivers developed in previous work. The two interventions differ in minor content areas. We will use the culturally tailored intervention for Latinx participants and the non-tailored intervention for non-Latinx participants. This culturally sensitive intervention has the potential to reduce Latino/a patient and caregiver distress and improve patient and caregiver quality of life, shared understanding of the patient's illness, and patients' and caregivers' ability to discuss, identify, and document patients' treatment preferences. The intervention is designed to minimize burden to patients, caregivers, and healthcare institutions to allow for easy integration into clinical practice.
Metastatic Cancer|Locally Advanced Cancer|Thoracic Cancer|Gynecologic Cancer|Genitourinary Cancer|Lymphoma
BEHAVIORAL: Weekly 45 minute Sessions
Feasibility of patient-caregiver communication-based intervention defined by participant enrollment, 3 months|Feasibility of patient-caregiver communication-based intervention defined by participant retention, 3 months
This study will test an intervention to improve patients' and their caregivers' ability to manage difficult emotions and communicate about the patient's illness. There will be two versions of the intervention used for this study: a culturally tailored version for Latinx participants refined during Phase 1 of this study, and a version of the intervention that was not culturally tailored for Latinx patients and caregivers developed in previous work. The two interventions differ in minor content areas. We will use the culturally tailored intervention for Latinx participants and the non-tailored intervention for non-Latinx participants. This culturally sensitive intervention has the potential to reduce Latino/a patient and caregiver distress and improve patient and caregiver quality of life, shared understanding of the patient's illness, and patients' and caregivers' ability to discuss, identify, and document patients' treatment preferences. The intervention is designed to minimize burden to patients, caregivers, and healthcare institutions to allow for easy integration into clinical practice.