Thymectomy With and Without Povidone-iodine Pleural Lavage in Stage IVA Thymic Malignancies
To evaluate whether intraoperative pleural lavage with providone-iodine following complete resection and pleural reductive surgery for stage IVA thymoma reduces recurrent rates compared to surgery without providone-iodine lavage
Stage IVA Thymoma
DRUG: Intraoperative providone-iodine lavage
Progression free survival, Progression free survival as compared to that of matched patients in a prospectively enrolled international database of thymic malignancies (ITMIG), 5 years
Pleural recurrence, Pleural recurrence will be assessed with CT scans of the chest every 6 months starting 6 months after the index operation and continuing for 3 years. After 3 years, if no recurrence has been identified yet, patients will get CT scans of the chest on an annual basis., 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival will be assessed by regular patient evaluations, which will correspond with the CT scans of the chest. If a patient expires, date and cause of death will be recorded. Causes related to thymic malignancy will be differentiated from other causes of mortality to arrive at disease-specific survival and all-cause overall survival., 5 years|Patient and disease characteristics, Identification of patient and disease characteristics associated with improved responses to providone-iodine lavage.

Variables examined will include demographic data such as age, sex and comorbidities. Additional data evaluated will include specific aspects of the primary thymic tumor such as burden of thoracic disease (confined to mediastinum, extension into ipsilateral pleura, burden of disease in pleura), and pathology characteristics (WHO Type, level of differentiation)., 5 years
Following the surgical portion of the procedure, assuming frozen section confirms the suspected diagnosis, pleural lavage using 10% povidone-iodine (warmed to normothermic 37°C) will begin. The 10% povidone-iodine is mixed with sterile water with a dilution of 1/10. A total of 6-14 liters of solution will be prepared in advance of the procedure, pending the size of the patient's chest cavity. The warmed PVP-I will be instilled into the chest cavity to a volume that fills involved thoracic cavity or cavities. Once filled, the solution will be allowed to dwell for 15 minutes. At the conclusion of the 15 minutes, the PVP-I solution will be suctioned out of the chest. This process will be repeated for a total of three dwell sessions.

At the conclusion of the PVP-I lavage, chest tubes should be placed in the chest cavity to re-expand the lung adequately. Chest tube management will be at the discretion of the individual thoracic surgeons, including suction vs water seal and plan for removal.

An honest attempt to maintain the management according to the study protocol will be made. However, if it deemed inappropriate for that patient due to clinical signs, symptoms, or anticipated problems, the surgical team can make whatever changes are deemed necessary. The reason for the deviation must be documented. This patient's data will continue to be collected and analyzed on an intent-to-treat basis for the primary, secondary and tertiary endpoints.