Efficacy Study Comparing Velcade Dexamethasone Thalidomide Versus Velcade Cyclophosphamide Dexamethasone as Induction Treatment in the Initial Management of Multiple Myeloma (IFM2013-04)
This is a phase III, multicenter, prospective with a clinical benefit, open-label and randomized study to compare two different treatments : Velcade (Bortezomib) Thalidomide Dexamethasone (VTD) versus Velcade (Bortezomib) Cyclophosphamide Dexamethasone (VCD) as an Induction Treatment prior to Autologous Stem Cell Transplantation in patients with Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma.

Eligible patients will be randomized into 2 treatment arms. Each patient will receive 4 consecutive 21 day cycles of an induction treatment with either VTD or VCD.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Thalidomide®|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Velcade®|DRUG: Dexaméthasone
Response assessment according to the criteria IMWG, compare the Response assessment in both arms: the Very good partial remission rate (according to the criteria IMWG) achieved with four courses of VTD with that achieved with four courses of VCD, 15-17 month
Response assessment according to the criteria IMWG, compare the Response assessment in both arms: the following parameters after induction treatment with four courses of VTD or four courses of VCD the Complete remission rate (according to the criteria IMWG), 15 - 17 month|Number of Adverse Events, To evaluate the Safety of induction therapy, 15-17 month|Number of collected stem cell, 17 month|Number of death, To evaluate Overall and Progression-Free Survival, 17 month|Response assessment according to the criteria IMWG, compare the Response assessment in both arms: Compare the following parameters after induction treatment with four courses of VTD or four courses of VCD the Partial remission rate (according to the criteria IMWG), 15-17 month|Number of relapse according to the criteria IMWG, Progression-Free Survival, 17 month
Comparison of three techniques for the quantification of urinary monoclonal components in patients with Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma., The detection and the estimation of the urinary monoclonal components is an inescapable element of the diagnosis and the evaluation of the therapeutic efficacy in the myeloma.

Urinary protein, electrophoresisin agarose gel is the quantitative method of choice. In these labs, the quantification of the urinary monoclonal peak is not performed. In the absence of quantitative data on urinary monoclonal components, the patient is considered as non-assessable. Recently, the company Sebia has developed the quantification on two other materials used specifically for the characterization of monoclonal component and / or proteinuria (HYDRAGEL BENCE JONES and HYDRAGEL URINE PROFILE).

The objective of this study is to compare the quantification of monoclonal components between the reference HR electrophoresis technique and the other two above-mentioned techniques., 17 month
The patient population will consist of adult men and women who have a confirmed diagnosis of Multiple Myeloma and who meet eligibility criteria. They will be recruited from among the patients consulting in an investigating centre's haematology service for newly diagnosed, symptomatic, untreated multiple myeloma.

in each treatment arm there will be :

1. Induction therapy : 4 cycles of VTD (21 days)or VCD
2. Systematic stem cell harvest after cycle 3