Mechanisms of Ethnic/Racial Differences in Lung Cancer Due to Cigarette Smoking Clinical and Biomarkers Core
The purpose of the study is to collect human biological samples and measurements from people of various ethnic and racial backgrounds for projects related to the "Mechanisms of Ethnic/Racial Differences in Lung Cancer Due to Cigarette Smoking" Program Project Grant. These samples will be used to evaluate and compare biomarkers of tobacco exposure across Japanese Americans, Whites, and Native Hawaiians and to add to the Multiethnic Cohort (MEC) biorepository to develop or assess future biomarkers.
Tobacco Use
Project 3: Analysis of 1,3-butadiene DNA adducts, Ethnic differences in butadiene-DNA adducts across racial groups to determine the relationship of DNA adducts to lung cancer and the influence of carcinogen metabolizing genes on DNA adduct formation, repair, and toxicity/mutagenicity., Baseline|Project 4: Correlation of DNA adducts of buccal cells and urinary markers and lung cancer risk, DNA adduct levels in oral cells, themselves or together with urinary biomarker levels, correlate with lung cancer risk across various ethnic/racial groups, Baseline|Project 2: NNK α-hydroxylation, Analysis of biomarkers of NNK α-hydroxylation (bioactivation) pathway and the effect of P450 2A6 activity on this process., Baseline
This cross-sectional, observational study will primarily recruit smokers from the MEC study. The biological samples from these smokers are being collected since they do not currently exist in the biorepository (e.g. buccal cells). Potential smokers from the three racial groups who meet specific inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the study. Should recruitment from the MEC sample be insufficient, smokers who meet the criteria will be recruited from the general population. This study will involve one to two home visits where tobacco use and medical history and biological samples will be collected including blood, buccal cells and urine.

Approximately 300 smokers will be recruited from the Multiethnic Cohort (MEC) study or the general population in Hawai'i. 100 participants from each of the three designated ethnic/racial groups: Native Hawaiians, Japanese Americans and Non-Hispanic Whites. All participants will be recruited from Hawai'i to reduce variation due to geographical location and maximize ability to recruit the targeted ethnic/racial groups.

This study will involve one to two home visits where demographics, tobacco use and exposure history, medical history and medication use, questionnaires assessing tobacco dependence, alcohol use, and environmental exposures will be administered. and biological samples will be collected including blood, buccal cells and urine.