SBRT, Chemotherapy, and AK112 Neoadjuvant Therapy for Luminal-type Breast Cancer
Studies have indicated that the improvement in pathological complete response (pCR) is significantly correlated with luminal breast cancer patients' overall survival (OS). Patients with luminal breast cancer have poor efficacy for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The combination of neoadjuvant therapy with immunotherapy and chemotherapy has been demonstrated to enhance the pCR rate of luminal-type breast cancer patients, increasing it from 13-15% to approximately 24%. Therefore, how to further improve the pCR rate of luminal-type breast cancer became the main objective of this study. Stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT) not only kills tumor cells directly, but also kills the distant unirradiated tumor cells by promoting the cross-initiation of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells, a phenomenon known as the abscopal effect. Our research team has recently discovered that the triple therapy model of SBRT + anti-vascular targeting + anti-PD-1 was safe and efficacious in lung cancer patients. Ivonescimab (AK112) is an anti-PD-1/VEGF-A bispecific antibody. In order to improve the pCR, a single-arm, open, phase II clinical study was proposed to explore the safety and efficacy of SBRT+AK112+chemotherapy, a neoadjuvant treatment modality, in the treatment of luminal breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Lvonescimab (AK112)
Complete pathologic remission (pCR) rate, pCR is defined as ypT0/Tis and ypN0, Up to the 30 weeks
Objective response rate, Defined as percentage of participants achieving assessed complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) by the investigator according to the RECIST 1.1., Up to the 30 weeks|EFS, Event free survival, Up to 12 months after surgery|Quality of life assessment, Using the EORTC QLQ-BR2. It is based on the core cancer scale EORTCQLQ1-C30 with 23 additional scales specific to breast cancer patients. The questions are specified in the QLQ1C30, and by summing all the questions, a score (0-100) is obtained that is positively related to the quality of life of breast cancer patients., Up to 12 months after surgery
Studies have indicated that the improvement in pathological complete response (pCR) is significantly correlated with luminal breast cancer patients' overall survival (OS). Patients with luminal breast cancer have poor efficacy for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The combination of neoadjuvant therapy with immunotherapy and chemotherapy has been demonstrated to enhance the pCR rate of luminal-type breast cancer patients, increasing it from 13-15% to approximately 24%. Therefore, how to further improve the pCR rate of luminal-type breast cancer became the main objective of this study. Stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT) not only kills tumor cells directly, but also kills the distant unirradiated tumor cells by promoting the cross-initiation of tumor-specific CD8+ T cells, a phenomenon known as the abscopal effect. Our research team has recently discovered that the triple therapy model of SBRT + anti-vascular targeting + anti-PD-1 was safe and efficacious in lung cancer patients. Ivonescimab (AK112) is an anti-PD-1/VEGF-A bispecific antibody. In order to improve the pCR, a single-arm, open, phase II clinical study was proposed to explore the safety and efficacy of SBRT+AK112+chemotherapy, a neoadjuvant treatment modality, in the treatment of luminal breast cancer.