Comparison of Two Preparations for the Study of the Colon Through Colonoscopy
Compare the quality of bowel preparation between two groups of patients, who will undergo two different preparations: 1. Moviprep + diet; 2. Plenvu + diet
Colon Cancer|Colon Polyp|Colon Adenoma|Colon Rectal Cancer
DRUG: PLENVU|DRUG: MoviPrep
Quality of bowel preparation between the two groups of patients, The colonoscopist assessed each of the 3 colon segments on the BBPS and assigned each a score of 0 to 3. Successful overall bowel preparation is defined as a BBPS score of \>6 with no individual segment scoring \<2., Patients were instructed to report any possible adverse events for up to 1 month after the procedure.
Degree of satisfaction with the two bowel preparation, The level of patient satisfaction with the 2 bowel preparation regimens was also assessed through a comparative analysis of the patient satisfaction questionnaire, Patients were instructed to report any possible adverse events for up to 1 month after the procedure.|Quality of bowel preparation in patients who had a morning or afternoon colonoscopy and those who received written, oral and additional telephone re-education on the day before the colonoscopy versus written and oral information only., The colonoscopist assessed each of the 3 colon segments on the BBPS and assigned each a score of 0 to 3. Successful overall bowel preparation is defined as a BBPS score of \>6 with no individual segment scoring \<2., Patients were instructed to report any possible adverse events for up to 1 month after the procedure.
The quality of bowel preparation is essential for the success of a colonoscopy, reducing colonoscopy duration, and increasing the rate of cecal intubation and of polyp detection. There are several types of preparations available on the market and, irrespective of the choice, the split-dose regimen should be followed. A reduced volume preparation makes the process easier and more tolerable, increasing adhesion. Regarding the diet to be applied before the examination, there are no advantages to a liquid diet compared to a low fiber diet, and there is no evidence on the duration of the diet. In addition, a restrictive diet has an impact on satisfaction and also on adherence to treatment.