Pemetrexed Disodium in Treating Patients With Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer and ECOG Performance Status 3
This pilot phase II trial studies how well pemetrexed disodium works in treating patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 3. Performance status means how well patients are able to perform daily activities and care for themselves. Patients with a performance status of 3 have a limited ability to move around. Currently, only patients who are able to perform most of their daily activities may receive chemotherapy, due to the side effects it may cause. Pemetrexed disodium causes fewer side effects than many chemotherapy drugs and may help treat patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer and a lower performance status.
Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Pemetrexed Disodium|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Change in Quality of Life (QOL), Assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30 (QLQ-C30) and QLQ-Lung Cancer 13-item (LC13), Quality of life will be assessed at each treatment time (i.e. every three weeks). A longitudinal mixed models analysis will be used to look at QOL over the time course. A paired t-test will also be calculated to see if the average change is more than 0 (worsening) versus a two-sided alternative that the difference is 0 or better. Score range from 0-100 (1 = not at all, 2 = a little, 3 = quite a bit, or 4 = very much). The higher the score, the greater the change in the quality of life for the worse., Baseline to 12 weeks|Time to Tumor Progression, It will be determined whether each patient has a progression (or dies) before or after 12 weeks. A 95% exact (Clopper Pearson) confidence interval will then be around the proportion with PFS greater than or equal to 12 weeks. If this confidence interval includes 50% then that would provide evidence that the therapy is potentially promising. If the upper bound of the confidence interval does not include 50% then this would indicate that the treatment may not be promising for patients. In addition, a Kaplan Meier survival curve will be constructed to describe the time to progression data., The duration of time from the start of treatment to the time of progression, death, or date of last contact, assessed up to 2 years
Incidence of Hematologic Toxicity, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0, The number and type of toxicities observed during this protocol will be estimated, focusing on unexpected grade 3 or higher toxicities. No formal statistical tests will be done on these estimates., Up to 30 days|Overall Survival, Examined by estimating a Kaplan-Meier survival curve using all patients enrolled., The duration of time from the start of treatment to date of death or date of last contact, assessed up to 2 years|Response Rate, Response rate will be estimated every 6 weeks for patients, and these estimates will be presented with confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of single agent pemetrexed (pemetrexed disodium) on tumor progression in ECOG performance status 3 patients with stage IV non-squamous histology non-small cell lung cancer in a single arm pilot study.

II. To evaluate the effect of single agent pemetrexed on quality of life in ECOG performance status 3 patients with stage IV non-squamous histology non-small cell lung cancer in a single arm pilot study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate toxicity associated with single agent pemetrexed on tumor progression in ECOG performance status 3 patients with stage IV non-squamous histology non-small cell lung cancer in a single arm pilot study.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) over 10 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for at least 30 days and then every 6 weeks thereafter.