Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of CG428 Cutaneous Solution on Chemotherapy Induced Alopecia; Controlled Study (ELAN)
Phase II clinical trial
Alopecia
DRUG: CG 428 cutaneous solution|DRUG: Placebo cutaneous solution
Rate of hair loss at different time points based of on Olsen's Visual Analog Scale (OVAS) and using the Severity of Alopecia Tool score (SALT score), Physical examination of the scalp: skin AEs, hair status (alopecia graded according to CTCAE v.4.03.), Every 3 to 8 weeks (variable). The following investigations will be performed every 3 to 4 weeks during the study treatment
Rate of grade 2 alopecia according to CTCAE v. 4.03., CTCAE v. 4.03 : Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Event (skin toxicity), Every 3 weeks for 24 weeks.|Time to reach grade 2 alopecia during chemotherapyaccording to CTCAE v. 4.03. ., CTCAE v. 4.03 : Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Event (skin toxicity), Every 3 weeks for 24 weeks.|Time to recover to grade 1 and grade 0 according to CTCAE v. 4.03 after the last dose of the selected chemotherapy, CTCAE v. 4.03 : Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Event (skin toxicity), Every 3 weeks for 24 weeks.|Percent of hair loss according to OVAS (Olsen's visual analog scale) at different time points after the end of the chemotherapy., Olsen's visual analog scale : visual aid for estimating percentage scalp hair loss., Every 3 to 8 weeks (variable). The following investigations will be performed every 3 to 4 weeks during the study treatment|Adverse events based on the CTCAE 4.03., Every 3 to 8 weeks (variable). The following investigations will be performed every 3 to 4 weeks during the study treatment|Patient's subjective assessment through questionnaire, Every 3 weeks for 24 weeks.
The aim of this trial is to compare the degree of efficacy, safety and tolerability of CG 428 cutaneous solution versus placebo on prevention of chemotherapy induced alopecia (CIA) in female patients with metastatic cancer treated with selected regimens inducing alopecia.