Evidence Based Information Provision to Improve Decision Making After Oesophagogastric Cancer Diagnosis (SOURCE)
The overarching aim of the programme 'Stimulating evidence based, personalized and tailored information provision to improve decision making after oesophagogastric cancer diagnosis' (SOURCE) is to provide oesophagogastric cancer patients at all disease stages with evidence based and personalized information about survival, treatment-related side-effects and/or complications and health related quality of life, tailored to patients' specific information needs, to facilitate informed decision making about treatment and thereby optimize personal care and outcomes.

For this purpose the Source tool and training were designed. The Source tool is a prediction model based website to be used by care givers for informing patients about the outcomes of treatment. The Source training for care givers is designed to learn care givers how to inform patients effectively, especially about the outcomes of treatment.
Oesophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
OTHER: Tool and training
SOURCE observational scale, The SOURCE observational scale is developed to primary answer the following question: Does the combination of the tool and the training improve observed (numerical) precision of information about treatment outcomes in clinical consultations? Min. value: 1 Max. value:4 Higher scores mean higher (numerical) precision, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Continuing professional development (CPD) reaction Questionnaire, Health care providers' intention to inform patients about treatment outcomes using numbers (effect training only), through study completion, an average of 1 year|Patient Satisfaction Questionnaire (PSQ-5 patient and doctor version), Patient and physician satisfaction with communication and decision making, 2 weeks|Shared Decision Making Questionnaire (SDMQ-9), Patient-reported shared decision making, 2 weeks|Decisional Conflict Scale (DCS), Patients' evaluation of the decision made, 2 weeks|EORTC QLQ - INFO25 + tailor made items on treatment outcome information, Patients' evaluation and knowledge of the information provided by the health care provider, 2 weeks|EORTC QLQ-C30, Patients' health related quality of life, cancer specific, 3 months vs. baseline|EORTC QLQ-OG25, Patients' health related quality of life, gastro-intestinal cancer specific, 3 months vs. baseline|Trust in the Oncologist Scale (TiOS-sf), Patients' trust in the health care provider, 2 weeks|State-Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAI), Patients' anxiety, 2 weeks vs. baseline|((Mini-)Mental Adjustment to Cancer scale ((Mini-)MAC), Patients' helplessness/hopelessness + fighting spirit, 2 weeks vs. baseline|Duration of consultation in minutes (min.), Consultation time, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Health care providers' personalization of treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Frequency of explicitly personalizing treatment outcome information, based on audio tapes Min. value: 0 Max. value: endless Higher values mean more utterances of personalization, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Health care providers' tailoring of treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Frequency of explicitly tailoring treatment outcome information, based on audio tapes Min. value: 0 Max. value: endless Higher values mean more utterances of tailoring, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Health care providers' use of visualizations of treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Frequency of explicitly showing visualizations treatment outcome information, based on audio tapes Min. value: 0 Max. value: endless Higher values mean more utterances of showing visualizations, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Health care providers' use of time frames when giving treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Presence of time frame when giving treatment outcome information, in utterances coded for the primary outcome Min. value: 0 Max. value: 1 Value 1 means time frame present, value 0 means time frame absent, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Treatment outcome category of health care providers' treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Treatment outcome category of health care providers' treatment outcome information, in utterances coded for the primary outcome Values: Survival, Health-related Quality of Life, Side effects and complications, Progression of tumor Non-ordinal variable, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Person initializing treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale, Person taking the initaitive for the health care provider's treatment outcome information, in utterances coded for the primary outcome Values: Health care provider, Patient Non-ordinal variable, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Health care providers' (numerical) precision of treatment outcome information measured with SOURCE observational scale simulated patient consultations (effect intervention), Health care providers' (numerical) precision of treatment outcome information measured in simulated patient consultations (effect intervention) Min. value: 1 Max. value:4 Higher scores mean higher (numerical) precision, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Observed presence of Source tool measured with SOURCE observational scale, Health care providers' observed use of the Source tool Min. value: 0 Max. value:1 Value 0 means absence of Source tool in consultation, Value 1 means presence of Source tool in conversation, through study completion, an average of 1 year|SOURCE evaluation questionnaire (tailor made evaluation questionnaire), Health care providers' evaluation of the Source tool, training and e-learning Min value: 1 Max value: 10 Higher scores mean better evaluations, through study completion, an average of 1 year
The overarching aim of the programme 'Stimulating evidence based, personalized and tailored information provision to improve decision making after oesophagogastric cancer diagnosis' (SOURCE) is to provide oesophagogastric cancer patients at all disease stages with evidence based and personalized information about survival, treatment-related side-effects and/or complications and health related quality of life, tailored to patients' specific information needs, to facilitate informed decision making about treatment and thereby optimize personal care and outcomes.

For this purpose the Source tool and training were designed. The Source tool is a prediction model based website to be used by care givers for informing patients about the outcomes of treatment. The Source training for care givers is designed to learn care givers how to inform patients effectively, especially about the outcomes of treatment.

The primary aim of the SOURCE trial is to investigate the effect of the tool and training on the (numerical) precision of information about outcomes of treatment in the treatment information consultation. Secondary outcomes include: patients' satisfaction, evaluation and knowledge of the information provided by the health care provider, evaluation of the decision made and health related quality of life.

A pragmatic stepped wedge design will be used to test the effect of intervention. 21 health care providers will include 3 patients as control measurements (before intervention) and 3 patients as intervention measurements (after intervention). Participating centers will be divided into geographical subgroups, in which the transition period (in which the intervention will take place) will be spread across time.

All oesophageal and gastric cancer patients scheduled for a treatment information consultation with a participating health care provider are suitable for inclusion and will be approached for participation in the SOURCE study. Measurements include audio recordings of the treatment information consultation and questionnaires filled in by patients and health care providers at different moments in time. Audio recordings will be scored and analyzed based on a study specific coding scheme.

The investigators estimate the physical burden/risk of this study to be negligible.