Dream2Heal: An Adaptive Stepped-care Intervention for Chinese Cancer Survivors With Mild-to-moderate Insomnia
The primary objective of this feasibility study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability, and potential clinical significance of an adaptive stepped-care intervention for improving sleep quality among Chinese cancer patients with mild-to-moderate sleep disturbance, using a sequential multiple assessment randomized controlled trial (SMART) design.
Neoplasm|Sleep Disturbance
BEHAVIORAL: iDream2Heal|BEHAVIORAL: Easy Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: Dream2Heal|BEHAVIORAL: iDream2Heal & Easy Exercise
Feasibility outcome (1.1), Rate of subject recruitment: number of participants consent and being randomized/number of eligible patients x 100, baseline (T0)|Feasibility outcome (1.2), Rate of subject retention: number of participants who complete follow-up assessments at 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3)/number of participants enrolled x 100, baseline (T0), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3)|Feasibility outcome (1.3), Completion/adherence rate to intervention: number of participants who complete the intervention/number of being allocated to attend the intervention x 100, post-intervention (T1) and 4-month post-intervention (T2)|Feasibility outcome (2), Intervention satisfaction will be assessed using a tailored questionnaire asking whether different components of the intervention are useful, from a scale of 0-5, 1 being disagree, 5 being completely agree. Participants are also able to comment on whether the intervention's length, duration and frequency of sessions are suitable; as well as provide suggestions for areas for improvement., post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline) and 4-month post-intervention (T2)|Sleep disturbance, Sleep outcomes will be assessed using the 19-item Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) evaluating specific features of sleep quality with the global score ranging from 0-21., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).
Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), HADS is a 14-item scale with seven items each for anxiety and depression subscales. Each item is scored between 0 (no impairment) and 3 (severe impairment), with a maximum score of 21 for anxiety or depression., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).|European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) quality of life questionnaire (QLQ-C30), The EORTC QLG Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) is a 30-item instrument designed to measure quality of life in all cancer patients. Most items are scored 1 to 4, with range of 3, with the exceptions of the items contributing to the global health status / QoL, which are scored 1-7 with a range of 6. All EORTC QLQ-C30 scale scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score for a functional scale represents a high / healthy level of functioning., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).
Dysfunctional Beliefs and Attitudes about Sleep (DBAS), The DBAS consists of 16 items assessing sleep-related cognitions. The items are rated on a 10-point Likert scale from 0 to 10, indicating to what degree the participant agrees with the statement. Higher scores indicates more dysfunctional beliefs and attitudes. The total score is based on the average score of all items (0-10)., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).|Global Physical Activity Questionnaire (GPAQ), The GPAQ consists of 16 questions designed to estimate an individual's level of PA in 3 domains (work, transport and leisure time) and time spent in SB (Sedentary behaviour). Levels of total physical activity will be calculated using a specified formula and classified as High, Moderate or Low., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).|Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale (PSAS), The Pre-Sleep Arousal Scale (PSAS) includes 16 items. There are two subscales, namely cognitive and somatic arousal. The response to each item ranges between 1 and 5, in which 1 = not at all and 5 = extremely. The total score ranges between 16 and 80., baseline; preintervention (T0), post-intervention (T1; 5 weeks post-baseline), 4-month post-intervention (T2) and 10-month post-intervention (T3).
The primary objective of this feasibility study is to assess the feasibility and acceptability, and potential clinical significance of an adaptive stepped-care intervention for improving sleep quality among Chinese cancer patients with mild-to-moderate sleep disturbance, using a sequential multiple assessment randomized controlled trial (SMART) design. First, the investigators will test the effect of a low intensity web-based cognitive behavioural therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) intervention (iDream2Heal; iD2H), in comparison to a low intensity web-based exercise intervention (Easy Exercise; eEX). Secondly, this study aims to explore if a stepped-up face to face, therapist led CBT-I intervention (D2H) is more effective for patients who continue to have sleep disturbance, in comparison to an augmented intervention, in which is a combined, web-based intervention that covers the content of both iD2H and eEX interventions.