Efficacy of 1540 Nanometer Erbium Glass Laser to Improve Benign Dermatofibromas
This study is to find a more effective treatment for itchy, painful or unsightly dermatofibromas, that will improve symptoms of itch and/or pain and/or improve the appearance of dermatofibromas. This is an open-label study where subjects will receive a laser treatment at week 0, and week 4, and then 2 additional follow-up visits. Photographs will be taken at each visit and rated by blinded reviewers after the study to determine efficacy.
Dermatofibroma of Skin
DEVICE: 1540 nanometer Erbium glass laser
Modified Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale Color Component Comparing Change From Baseline to Week 12., Patient reported assessment scale of pain, itch, color, and texture. Each element (pain, itch, color, and texture) is graded on a 1-10 scale.

The lowest score is '1', which corresponds to the situation of normal skin/no symptoms (i.e. not different in color, not different in texture, no itching, no pain). Score 10 equals the largest difference from normal skin (i.e. severely painful, severely itchy, vert different color, very different texture)., 12 weeks
Modified Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale Itch Component Comparing Change From Baseline to Week 12., Patient reported assessment scale of pain, itch, color, and texture. Each element (pain, itch, color, and texture) is graded on a 1-10 scale.

The lowest score is '1', which corresponds to the situation of normal skin/no symptoms (i.e. not different in color, not different in texture, no itching, no pain). Score 10 equals the largest difference from normal skin (i.e. severely painful, severely itchy, vert different color, very different texture)., 12 Weeks|Modified Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale Texture Component Comparing Change From Baseline to Week 12., Patient reported assessment scale of pain, itch, color, and texture. Each element (pain, itch, color, and texture) is graded on a 1-10 scale.

The lowest score is '1', which corresponds to the situation of normal skin/no symptoms (i.e. not different in color, not different in texture, no itching, no pain). Score 10 equals the largest difference from normal skin (i.e. severely painful, severely itchy, vert different color, very different texture)., 12 Weeks|Modified Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale Pain Component Comparing Change From Baseline to Week 12., Patient reported assessment scale of pain, itch, color, and texture. Each element (pain, itch, color, and texture) is graded on a 1-10 scale.

The lowest score is '1', which corresponds to the situation of normal skin/no symptoms (i.e. not different in color, not different in texture, no itching, no pain). Score 10 equals the largest difference from normal skin (i.e. severely painful, severely itchy, vert different color, very different texture)., 12 weeks
The main objective of this study is to find a more effective treatment for itchy, painful or unsightly dermatofibromas, that will improve symptoms of itch and/or pain and/or improve the appearance of dermatofibromas. A secondary objective of this study is to better understand the 1540 nanometer Erbium glass laser and its impact on the skin.

This is an open-label study where subjects will receive a laser treatment at week 0, and week 4, and then have 2 additional follow-up visits (no laser treatment at these visits). Photographs will be taken at each visit and photographs from pre-treatment and follow-up 1 (week 8) will rated by blinded reviewers after the study to determine efficacy.