Cyclophosphamide or Denileukin Diftitox Followed By Expanding a Patient's Own T Cells in the Laboratory in Treating Patients With HER-2/Neu Overexpressing Metastatic Breast Cancer, Ovarian Cancer, or Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Previously Treated With HER-2/Neu Vaccine
This phase I trial studies the safety and the ability to expand laboratory-treated T cells when given together with cyclophosphamide or denileukin diftitox in treating patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER)-2/neu overexpressing metastatic breast cancer, ovarian cancer, or non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with HER-2/neu vaccine. Laboratory-expanded T cells may help the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cyclophosphamide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Biological therapy, such as denileukin diftitox, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Giving laboratory-treated T cells together with cyclophosphamide or denileukin diftitox may allow the immune system to kill more tumor cells
HER2-positive Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor|Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Stage IV Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor
DRUG: ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cells|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: denileukin diftitox|OTHER: flow cytometry|OTHER: immunoenzyme technique
Feasibility of expanding HER2 specific T cells ex vivo to achieve a target T cell expansion of 1x10^10 HER2 specific T cells, The procedure will be defined as feasible if the minimum target expansion of HER2 specific T cells is achieved in 2/3 expansions in 4/5 subjects within an arm., Up to day 40|Safety of infusing HER2 specific T cells, Toxicity grading will be evaluated according to the CTEP CTCAE v3.0 criteria. A specific dose of HER2 specific T cells will be defined as safe if 4 of 5 subjects in a study arm tolerate that dose without dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)., Up to day 40
Number of patients in whom the precursor frequency of antigen specific T cells is increased by 10-fold over baseline within one week after the last infusion, Up to one week following last infusion|Number of patients in whom an immune response is demonstrated if baseline immune response was below detection, Up to one week following last infusion|HER2 specific CD4+ or CD8+ precursor frequencies as assessed by cytokine flow cytometry or ELISPOT, Up to 1 year following last infusion|Anti-tumor effects of HER2 specific T cells as assessed by RECIST criteria, Day 40|Persistence of T cell immune augmentation in vivo after adoptive transfer of HER2 specific T cells, Up to 1 year following last infusion
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of expanding HER2 specific T cells ex vivo for infusion into subjects who have advanced HER2 overexpressing cancer.

II. To assess the toxicity associated with infusing autologous HER2 specific T cells into patients using either a single dose of cyclophosphamide or ONTAK (denileukin diftitox) prior to T cell infusion.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate to what extent HER2 specific T cell immunity can be boosted in individuals treated with a single dose of cyclophosphamide of ONTAK followed by infusion of autologous HER2 specific T cells.

II. To investigate the potential anti-tumor effects of HER2 specific T cells in patients with HER2 overexpressing advanced-stage cancers.

III. To evaluate how long tumor antigen specific T cell immune augmentation persists in vivo after a single dose of cyclophosphamide or ONTAK followed by infusion of autologous HER2 specific T cells.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cells. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups.

GROUP A: Patients receive low-dose cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on day -1 and 3 escalating doses of autologous ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cells IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 10, and 20.

GROUP B: Patients receive ONTAK (denileukin diftitox) IV over 1 hour on day -1 and 3 escalating doses of autologous ex vivo-expanded HER2-specific T cells IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 10, and 20.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.