Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (MK-2870) in Post Platinum and Post Immunotherapy Endometrial Cancer (MK-2870-005)
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with endometrial cancer (EC) who have previously received treatment with platinum based therapy (a type of chemotherapy) and immunotherapy. Immunotherapy is a treatment that helps the immune system fight cancer. This clinical study will compare sacituzumab tirumotecan to chemotherapy. The goal of the study is to learn if people who receive sacituzumab tirumotecan live longer overall and without the cancer getting worse compared to people who receive chemotherapy.
Endometrial Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Sacituzumab tirumotecan|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Progression-free Survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as Assessed by Blinded Independent Central Review (BICR), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented disease progression per RECIST 1.1 based on BICR or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 4 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to approximately 4 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a Complete Response (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions) or a Partial Response (PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions) as assessed using RECIST 1.1. based on BICR., Up to approximately 4 years|Duration of Response (DOR) per RECIST 1.1 as Assessed by BICR, For participants who demonstrate confirmed CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by BICR, DOR is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to approximately 4 years|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 4 years|Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Intervention Due to an AE, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to approximately 4 years|Change from Baseline in Global Health Status/Quality of Life Score (European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life Questionnaire Core 30 [EORTC QLQ-C30]), The EORTC QLQ-C30 is a questionnaire to assess the overall health status and quality of life of cancer patients. Participant responses to the questions, "How would you rate your overall health during the past week (Item 29)?" and "How would you rate your overall quality of life during the past week (Item 30)?" are scored on a 7-point scale (1= Very poor to 7=Excellent). Using linear transformation, raw scores are standardized, so that scores range from 0 to 100. A higher score indicates a better overall health status and quality of life. The change from baseline in EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30 combined score will be presented., Baseline, up to approximately 4 years
Researchers are looking for new ways to treat people with endometrial cancer (EC) who have previously received treatment with platinum based therapy (a type of chemotherapy) and immunotherapy. Immunotherapy is a treatment that helps the immune system fight cancer. This clinical study will compare sacituzumab tirumotecan to chemotherapy. The goal of the study is to learn if people who receive sacituzumab tirumotecan live longer overall and without the cancer getting worse compared to people who receive chemotherapy.