Prospective Cohort Study Depending on the Use of Palliative Care for Advanced Stage of Cancer Patients
This study evaluates the change of quality of life, treatment decision and utilization of health care depending on the use of palliative care in advanced cancer patients by a prospective cohort study. Participants will be separated into different groups by their intentions for using palliative care. Every participant will carry out the questionnaire per 3 months. This cohort study will be ended a year after each participant enrolls. However, if the participant didn't survive during this study, the caregivers will be asked to fill out additional questionnaire after 3 months of the death.
Stage IV Breast Cancer|Stage IV Pancreatic Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Gastric Cancer|Stage IV Lung Cancer|Stage IV Liver Cancer|Malignant Hematologic Neoplasm|Biliary Cancer Metastatic|Pediatric Leukemia|Pediatric Lymphoma|Pediatric Brain Tumor|Pediatric Solid Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: Early palliative care|BEHAVIORAL: Routine hospice care
Change from baseline Overall QOL of EORTC QLQ - Core 15 at 6 months items, to measure quality of life of adult patients developed by European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer for Palliative Care, Baseline, 3 months, 6 months
Patients survival and Physicians Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment (POLST) documentation, Patients survival and POLST(Physician Order for Life-Sustaining Treatment) documentation whether patients survive during the study period and write POLST documentation (Since POLST has no legal form in Korea, it is based on the format of each institution.), Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Patient Health Questionnaire-9, "Patient Health Questionnaire-9 items" is used as assessment tool to measure depression of both patients and their caregivers by completing the questionnaire., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Decision Conflict Scale, "Decision Conflict Scale" is used as assessment tool to measure a level of decision conflict in treatment of both patients and their caregivers by completing the questionnaire., Baseline, 6 months|Understanding the illness, to measure the awareness of patients' status of prognosis in both patients and caregivers through two questions in the questionnaire. The first question is about the idea of the possibility of curing the patient's disease and asks patients thought about whether treatment is available for cure and prolong survival. The second question concerns the life expectancy of the patient., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Self-reported Health Status, to measure the perceived holistic health status(physical, mental, social, spiritual and general) in both patients and caregivers. caregivers (The patient is asked to answer the perceived health status into five stages.), Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|KG-7(The Korean Cancer Study Group Geriatric Score), To measure Daily functional skills in elderly only in 65-year or order patients., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Medical cost in KRW/person/month, Direct medical cost will be collected through National Health Insurance Corporation and Indirect cost will be collected by caregiver's questionnaire. In addition, "EuroQoL 5 Dimensions 5 Levels (EQ-5D-5L)" tool will be included in the patient's questionnaire to measure the condition of patients at the same time., 3 months, 6 months|Utilization of healthcare services, In order to analyze the cost effectiveness, investigate the frequency of use of early palliative care programs, the use of life-sustaining treatment and hospicee, and the use of complementary and alternative medicine(CAM). CAM include Chinese medicine, aromatherapy, diet, and yoga, etc., 3 months, 6 months|Preference of Advance care and Palliative care, to assess the patient's awareness of advanced care planning and willingness to construct advanced care planning. The preference for palliative care is divided according to the life expectancy. Investigate the preference of palliative care in each case - if the life expectancy is within a year, within a few months, or within a few weeks., 3 months, 6 months|Mcgill Quality of Life (MQOL), To measure mental, social, spiritual quality of life of both patients and caregivers, Baseline, 3 months, 6 months|Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory, "Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory(Peds QL)" will be used as assessment tool for QOL among pediatric patients., Baseline, 3 months, 6 months
Patients with advanced cancer report physical, emotional, social and economic problems that may be due to the cancer itself or its treatment. Previous studies have shown the benefit of early palliative care in oncology. However, many Korean patients tend to start palliative care late even in general hospital. Because of the late start of palliative care, the burden of medical expenses increases, on the other hand, the quality of life of terminally ill patients decrease.

In this study, the use of palliative care in advanced cancer patients will be evaluated by a prospective cohort study. The goals of this study are as follow:

First, the clinical, psycho-social, and cognitive factors affecting quality of life, decision making, and hospital utilization (palliative medical team medical treatment, hospice and medical care) of patients with advanced stage cancer will be investigated.

Second, this study will explore the effects of age-specific characteristics on quality of life and care.

Third, an index, which reflects age-specific characteristics and predicts the time and content of terminal care will be developed. Improvements on the quality of life and care of patients with advanced stage of cancer or metastatic cancer are expected to establish effective terminal care strategies through this study.

The patients' symptom and quality of life, choice of medical care, advance care planning and caregiver's burden of care will be evaluated every 3 months after confirming the willingness to use palliative care for cancer patients. 3 months after the death, a caregiver evaluation will be conducted and hospice use, medical expenses will be analyzed.