ME-401 and R-CHOP in Newly Diagnosed Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
This study is being done to evaluate if ME-401 can improve the treatment of patients with diffuse large b-celllymphoma (DLBCL). Many patients with DLBCL that are treated with the standard of care (R-CHOP) are cured. However, a little less than half of patients will have their cancer come back despite being treated. Once DLBCL comes back, it is much harder to treat and treatment is much more aggressive. This study will combine ME-401 with R-CHOP. There are 2 parts to this study: part1 referred to as phase I and part 2 referred to as phase 2. The goal of the phase I study is to find the safest dose to give patients in combination with R-CHOP. The goal of the phase 2 study is to use the safest dose (found in phase 1) in combination with R-CHOP to see if it decreases the rate of cancer coming back after it is treated.
Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: ME-401|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Prednisone
Phase I: Number of Clinically Significant Non-hematologic Grade 3 or 4 Treatment-related AEs or Hematologic Grade 3 or 4 Treatment Related AEs, Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) as defined by non-hematologic clinically significant grade 3 or 4 treatment-related AEs or hematologic grade 3 or 4 treatment related AEs that are clinically significant during the first cycle, graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Version 5.0., Up to 24 months after treatment|Phase II: Progression Free Survival (PFS) Assessed by Lugano Criteria, PFS, as defined as time from study treatment initiation to documented disease progression per Lugano Criteria, or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., 24 months (2 years)
Phase I: Number of Treatment-related AEs, Number of treatment-related AEs in Phase I.

Participants will be followed for toxicity for 30 days after treatment has been discontinued or until death, whichever occurs first. The clinical course of each event will be followed until resolution, stabilization, or until it has been determined that the study treatment or participation is not the cause with a cut off of 24 months after completion of therapy., Up to 24 months after treatment|Phase II: Number of Treatment-related AEs, Number of treatment-related AEs in Phase II

Participants will be followed for toxicity for 30 days after treatment has been discontinued or until death, whichever occurs first. The clinical course of each event will be followed until resolution, stabilization, or until it has been determined that the study treatment or participation is not the cause with a cut off of 24 months after completion of therapy., Up to 24 months after treatment|Phase II: Number of Days Treatment is Delayed, Number of days treatment is delayed, Up to 24 months after treatment|Phase II: Overall Response (OR) Assessed by Lugano Criteria, OR assessed by Lugano criteria. OR is defined as achieving either CR or PR at any stage from time of commencement of protocol treatment to time of treatment cessation for whatever reason, 24 months (2 years)|Complete Response (CR) Assessed by Lugano Criteria, CR assessed by Lugano criteria, 24 months (2 years)|Partial Response (PR) Assessed by Lugano Criteria, PR assessed by Lugano criteria, 24 months (2 years)|Phase II: Duration of Response (DoR), DoR defined as the time from documented response (CR or PR) to the time of confirmed disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, 24 months (2 years)|Phase II: Overall Survival (OS), OS defined as the time from first dose of study treatment to death from any cause, 24 months (2 years)|Phase II: Time to Treatment Failure, Time to Treatment Failure defined as the time from study entry to any treatment failure., 24 months (2 years)
This study is a multi-institution, open-label, phase I/II study designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of R-CHOP + ME-401 for participants with newly diagnosed DLBCL.

Objectives for the phase I portion of this study are as follows:

Primary objectives:

* To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of ME-401in combination with R-CHOP for participants with newly diagnosed DLBCL.
* To describe tolerability of ME-401 in combination with R-CHOP for participants with newly diagnosed DLBCL.

Objectives for the phase II portion of this study are as follows:

* To estimate the clinical activity of ME-401 in combination with R-CHOP in participants with newly diagnosed DLBCL, as measured by 1 year PFS rate
* To estimate the response rates (complete and partial remission),duration of response (DOR), time to progression (TTP), and overall survival (OS) with ME-401 plus R-CHOP.
* To characterize treatment-related AEs in participants treated with ME-401 plus R-CHOP.