Neoadjuvant Combination Therapy of Lenvatinib and TACE for Transplant-Eligible Large Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients
This study will examine the effects of a six-month regimen of neoadjuvant lenvatinib in combination with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) prior to liver transplantation in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) beyond Milan Criteria. Clinical, outcomes, and exploratory data will be compared to a matched, retrospective cohort.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Lenvatinib|PROCEDURE: Transcatheter Arterial Chemoembolization
Percent Tumor Necrosis, Percent tumor necrosis measured via pathology of explanted liver at time of transplant, At time of transplant surgery
Adverse Event Occurrence, Proportion of adverse events with grade 3 or higher score based on the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v.5, At time of first dose of lenvatinib; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 months after first dose|Response Rate to Lenvatiib, Response rate (RR) of lenvatinib following TACE by assessing radiologic images (relative to baseline scans) using the modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST) criteria, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after enrollment|Tumor Staging, Proportion of tumors that are down-staged to standard Milan criteria (tumors \< 5cm) based on CT/MRI imaging, relative to baseline CT/MRI imaging of abdomen and pelvis., 3, 6, 9, and 12 months after enrollment|Serum Biomarkers, Concentration of VEGF, VEGF receptor-2, antiopoietin-2, FGF19, and FGF23 in serum., At eligibility screening; within 14 days prior to the administration of the first dose of lenvatinib; at time of administration of first dose of lenvatinib; 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 months after first dose|Microvessel Density, Microvessel density of explanted tumor tissue evidenced by CD31 immunohistochemistry., At time of transplant surgery|Explant Biomarkers, Concentration of VEGF, VEGF receptor-2, antiopoietin-2, FGF19, and FGF23 on explant tissue., At time of transplant surgery
HCC is the third leading cause of cancer death worldwide with more than 230,000 cases of HCC since 2000 and an estimated 42,000 new cases next year. The purpose of this trial is to examine if combination therapy of lenvatinib (LENVIMA®, Eisai Inc., Woodcliff Lake, NJ) plus transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) will promote tumor necrosis evidenced by explant pathology in patients with large HCC (\>5 cm). TACE blocks blood supply to the tumor and induces tumor necrosis, but this causes hypoxia and subsequent angiogenesis.

In 2015, HCC was the leading diagnosis among liver transplant recipients (27.2%). Transplantation of patients diagnosed with HCC is largely based on tumor size, since this is thought to correlate with posttransplant outcomes. However, emerging evidence shows that tumor stability or response to locoregional therapy (LRT) can be surrogate markers of favorable biology and improved outcomes following transplantation. LRT, including TACE or radiofrequency ablation, that promote tumor stability (defined as no tumor progression in 6 months) serve as bridging therapies to liver transplantation. In tumors that respond to ablation, LRT further augments the success of liver transplantation and reduces the risk of HCC recurrence post-transplant.

Liver transplantation provides the ultimate curative option for patients with HCC with improved overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) of 85% and 92% at 4 years, respectively, compared to 18.4% without transplantation. To limit disease progression and promote tumor stability while on the transplant waitlist, patients with unresectable HCC typically undergo neoadjuvant treatment. Although the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines recommend the use of neoadjuvant therapy for the management of HCC, no clear-cut guidelines are given regarding the type of LRT or other therapeutic agents. LRT effectively improves 2-yr OS between 20-60% and TACE can achieve complete response in 65.2% of patients. LRT is utilized for preventing tumor growth while on the waitlist and to downstage large tumors to standard Milan Criteria (reduce tumor size to ≤ 5cm). Based on the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) criteria, down-staging of tumors to Milan allows the addition of artificial Model for End-stage Liver Disease (MELD) points to patients while waiting for transplantation to decrease their waiting time. Such additional points afford patients with HCC a timely transplantation since they do not exhibit manifestations of liver failure that drives the MELD score toward transplantation.

Large tumors (\>5 cm) commonly require multiple TACE procedures and response failure results in dropout/removal from the transplant waiting list. Despite the partial success of TACE, incomplete tumor necrosis following TACE increases the risk of disease progression and drop-out while waiting for transplantation. Thus, robust neoadjuvant therapies that yield superior tumor necrosis are needed to thwart disease progression and reduce dropout from the transplant waitlist. Additionally, achieving superior tumor necrosis may be accompanied by improved OS and RFS post-transplantation.

Lenvatinib is an inhibitor of the kinase activities of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors VEGFR1 (FLT1), VEGFR2 (KDR), and VEGFR3 (FLT4). Lenvatinib inhibits other kinases that have been implicated in pathogenic angiogenesis, tumor growth, and cancer progression in addition to their normal cellular functions, including fibroblast growth factor (FGF) receptors FGFR1, 2, 3, and 4; platelet derived growth factor receptor alpha (PDGFRα), KIT, and RET. Lenvatinib also exhibited antiproliferative activity in hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines dependent on activated FGFR signaling with a concurrent inhibition of FGF receptor substrate 2α (FRS2α) phosphorylation.

Multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) restrict tumor angiogenesis and have been successfully utilized as rescue therapy in patients with HCC following failed TACE. TACE blocks blood supply to the tumor and induces tumor necrosis, but this causes hypoxia and subsequent angiogenesis. The antiangiogenesis mechanisms of TKI/VEGF inhibitors may therefore complement the mechanisms of TACE to provide superior tumor necrosis. Investigations of lenvatinib (Lenvima) demonstrate its mechanism of action as an inhibitor of not only VEGF-driven but also fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-driven proliferation and angiogenesis, resulting in anti-tumor activity across diverse HCC models. In clinical trials of patients with unresectable HCC, the REFLECT study demonstrated non-inferiority in OS and significant improvement in time to progress, overall response rate, and progression-free survival with lenvatinib compared to sorafenib. Altogether, these findings suggest that lenvatinib is potentially a potent and successful therapeutic agent that may synergize with TACE to: i) enhance tumor necrosis while on the wait list, ii) reduce the possibility of patient drop-out while awaiting transplantation, and iii) improve OS and RFS of patients after liver transplant.