Lonsurf® (Trifluridine/Tipiracil) Plus Chemotherapy in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Prospective Study in Taiwan
Primary Endpoint : To evaluate the Disease control rate (DCR)

Secondary Endpoints:

To evaluate the Progression-free survival (PFS), Overall survival(OS) and Safety profile
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Trifluridine/tipiracil
Disease control rate (DCR), The endpoints Disease Control Rate (DCR) is defined as the proportion of patients in whom the best overall response is determined as complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD)., Tumor response will be judged according to RECIST v 1.1 criteria within every 8 weeks(± 2 week) in treatment period. The evaluation period is up to 24 months from the date of ICF is signed to first recorded progress or death whichever occurs first.
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) refers to the first treatment of trifluridine/tipiracil to disease progression or death., The evaluation period is up to 24 months from the date of ICF is signed to the date of first recorded progress.|Overall survival(OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined from the first treatment of Lonsurf® to death., The evaluation period is up to 48 months from the date of ICF is signed to the date of death.|Safety profile, All adverse events (AEs) will be summarized and listed. All adverse events occurring between the first drug intake and 30 days (inclusive) after the last administration of trial medication will be collected, and graded according to the common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE) version 5.00., The evaluation period is up to 24 months from all adverse events occurring between the first drug intake and 30 days (inclusive) after the last administration of trial medication will be collected.
70 Per-protocol patients Plan to recruit 70 evaluable patients (With expected dropout rate of 22%, the sample size would be 90 subjects.) Simon's two-stage design (Simon, 1989) will be used. The null hypothesis that the true response rate is 0.45 will be tested against a one-sided alternative. In the first stage, 42 patients will be accrued. If there are 19 or fewer responses in these 42 patients, the study will be stopped. Otherwise, 28 additional patients will be accrued for a total of 70. The null hypothesis will be rejected if 39 or more responses are observed in 70 patients. This design yields a type I error rate of 0.05 and power of 0.8 when the true response rate is 0.6.