Abiraterone With Discontinuation of Gonadotropin-Releasing Hormone Analogues in Metastatic Prostate Cancer
The goal of this study is to find out if patients with prostate cancer being treated with the medications abiraterone and prednisone can discontinue hormone injections (examples include leuprolide, goserelin, triptorelin and degarelix). Abiraterone and prednisone are pills used to treat patients with prostate cancer. When abiraterone and prednisone are used, hormone injections are usually continued to maintain a low testosterone level in the blood. This study is being done to find out if testosterone in the blood will stay low while abiraterone and prednisone are used without continued hormone injections.
Prostatic Neoplasms
DRUG: Abiraterone Acetate|DRUG: Prednisone
Proportion of patients with a non-castrate (>50 ng/dl) serum testosterone, To assess the proportion of patients with a non-castrate testosterone level (\>50 ng/dl) when abiraterone acetate plus prednisone is used without GnRH analogues in metastatic prostate cancer., 24 weeks
Luteinizing hormone (LH) level after discontinuation of GnRH analogue, To measure serum LH level in patients with metastatic prostate cancer treated with abiraterone acetate plus prednisone without a GnRH analogue., 24 weeks|PSA (Prostate-specific antigen) response rate, To measure PSA response rate and in patient with metastatic prostate cancer treated with abiraterone acetate plus prednisone without a GnRH analogue., 24 weeks|Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.03, To measure the incidence of adverse events, 24 weeks|Radiographic progression-free survival (rPFS), To measure the time for trial entry until radiographic progression, 24 weeks|Median overall survival, To measure the median time from trial entry until death, 24 weeks
Abiraterone inhibits the CYP17A enzyme, which is a critical enzyme in androgen biosynthesis. Abiraterone has regulatory approval in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) in both chemotherapy-naïve and in the post-docetaxel setting based upon results from two randomized phase III studies. Abiraterone is also proven to extend survival in the metastatic, hormone-naïve population based on two phase III studies. Abiraterone is a castrating agent, but, other than a small first in human study, all clinical studies have been done in conjunction with gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues. Maintaining castrate level of serum testosterone is critical in the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. It is unknown if GnRH analogues must be continued to maintain castrate levels of serum testosterone in patients treated with abiraterone.