Self-monitoring Activity: a Randomized Trial of Game-oriented Applications
The purpose of this study is to compare an enhanced intervention that includes narrative and game components to a standard intervention that only targets self-monitoring. These approaches will be tested among postmenopausal breast cancer survivors who are sedentary and overweight.
Breast Cancer|Obesity
BEHAVIORAL: Game intervention|BEHAVIORAL: Standard intervention
Change in Minutes Per Day of Physical Activity, Minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity per day (averaged over a 7 day period) at baseline and 6 months., baseline and 6 months
Change in Physical Fitness From Baseline to 6 Months, as Measured by 6 Minute Walk Test, We will use a 6 minute walk test to measure fitness, measured in feet walked in six minutes on a pre-marked indoor course, baseline to 6 months|Change in Physical Function From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by the Senior Fitness Test's Chair Stand Measure, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, specifically in regards to the number of chair stands that can be completed within 30 seconds. A higher number indicates better function in this area., baseline to 6 months|Change in Weight From Baseline to 6 Months, We will measure weight using a calibrated scale, baseline to 6 months|Change in Physical Quality of Life From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Measure, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure's physical subscale. This scale has a range of 0-28 and 7 items measured on a 5 point scale (not at all to very much). A higher score indicates greater physical quality of life., baseline to 6 months|Change in Intrinsic Motivation From Baseline to 6 Months, Measured by Intrinsic Motivation Specific to Physical Activity, The Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 intrinsic regulation subscale will be used. This subscale includes 4 items measured using a 5 point scale (not true for me to very true for me), with a range of scores from 0-12. A higher number indicates higher intrinsic motivation., baseline to 6 months|Change in Social/Family Quality of Life From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Measure's Social/Family Well-Being Subscale, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure's social/family subscale. This scale has a range of 0-28 and 7 items measured on a 5-point scale (not at all to very much). A higher score indicates greater social/family quality of life., baseline to 6 months|Change in Emotional Quality of Life From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Measure's Emotional Well-Being Subscale, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure's emotional subscale. This scale has a range of 0-24 and 6 items measured on a 5-point scale (not at all to very much). A higher score indicates greater emotional quality of life, baseline to 6 Months|Change in Functional Quality of Life From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Measure's Functional Well-Being Subscale, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure's functional subscale. This scale has a range of 0-28 and 7 items measured on a 5-point scale (not at all to very much). A higher score indicates greater functional quality of life, baseline to 6 Months|Change in Breast Cancer-Specific Quality of Life From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast Measure's Breast Cancer Subscale, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure's breast cancer subscale. This scale has a range of 0-40 and 10 items measured on a 5-point scale (not at all to very much). A higher score indicates greater breast cancer-related quality of life, baseline to 6 Months|Change in Identified Regulation From Baseline to 6 Months, Measured by Identified Regulation Specific to Physical Activity, The Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 identified regulation subscale will be used. This subscale includes 4 items measured using a 5 point scale (not true for me to very true for me), with a range of scores from 0-12. A higher number indicates a greater amount of identified regulation., baseline to 6 Months|Change in Integrated Regulation From Baseline to 6 Months, Measured by Integrated Regulation Specific to Physical Activity, We will use items from P.M. Wilson and colleague's expansion of the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 to include integrated regulation. This subscale includes 4 items measured using a 5 point scale (not true for me to very true for me), with a range of scores from 0-12. A higher number indicates a greater amount of identified regulation., baseline to 6 Months|Change in Physical Function From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by the Senior Fitness Test's Arm Curl Measure, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, specifically in regards to the number of arm curls that can be completed within 30 seconds. A higher number indicates better function in this area., baseline to 6 Months|Change in Physical Function From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by the Senior Fitness Test's Sit and Reach Measure, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, specifically in regards to the distance an individual can reach from their toes when bending forward. A higher number indicates better function in this area., baseline to 6 Months|Change in Physical Function From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by the Senior Fitness Test's Back Scratch Measure, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, specifically in regards to the distance between an individual's arms when they reach them behind their back (one higher above the shoulder and one lower). A higher number indicates better function in this area., baseline to 6 Months|Change in Physical Function From Baseline to 6 Months as Measured by the Senior Fitness Test's 8 Foot Up and Go Test, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, specifically in regards to the time in which an individual can sit up, walk 8 feet around a cone, and sit back down. A lower number indicates better function in this area., baseline to 6 Months
Maintenance of Physical Fitness From 6 Months to 1 Year, Measured by a 6 Minute Walk Test, We will use a 6 minute walk test to measure fitness, measured in feet walked in six minutes on a pre-marked indoor course, baseline to 6 months|Maintenance of Physical Function From 6 Months to 1 Year, Measured by the Senior Fitness Test, We will use the Senior Fitness Test to measure physical function, with a higher number indicating greater function, baseline to 6 months|Change in Sleep From 6 Months to 1 Year, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure specific to cancer survivors, baseline to 6 months|Change in Weight From 6 Months to 1 Year, Weight will be measured using a calibrated scale, baseline to 6 months|Adherence, Measured by Objective Measures to Investigate Adherence to Study Protocols, We will use objective measures to investigate adherence to study protocols (game usage, monitor usage, phone calls completed, assessments attended, etc.), 1 year|Number of Participants Who Report Adverse Events, We will inquire about potential adverse events during counseling calls and assessment visits. Discrete events will be summed, and the number of participants with events will be summed., 1 year|Change in Anxiety From Baseline to 6 Months, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure to investigate anxiety (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System PROMIS-Ca Bank 1.0 - Anxiety). The result shown is a t-score, where a score of 50 would be equivalent to the mean in the population of cancer survivors. Because the standard deviation is 10, a score of 10 higher or lower would indicate that the score is 1 standard deviation higher or lower (more/less anxiety) than the population., baseline to 6 months|Change in Depression From 6 Months to 1 Year, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure specific to cancer patients/survivors (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System PROMIS-Ca Bank 1.0 - Depression), baseline to 6 months|Change in Fatigue From Baseline to 6 Months, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure specific to cancer patients/survivors (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System PROMIS-Ca Bank 1.0 Fatigue). The result shown is a t-score, where a score of 50 would be equivalent to the mean in the population of cancer survivors. Because the standard deviation is 10, a score of 10 higher or lower would indicate that the score is 1 standard deviation higher or lower (more/less fatigued) than the population., baseline to 6 months|Change in Quality of Life From 6 Months to 1 Year, We will use the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Breast measure, baseline to 6 months|Change in Motivation From 6 Months to 1 Year, Measured by Autonomous Motivation Specific to Physical Activity, Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 will be used, specifically subscales for autonomous motivation (intrinsic, integrated, identified regulation). We will use items from P.M. Wilson and colleague's expansion of the Behavioral Regulation in Exercise Questionnaire-2 to include integrated regulation., baseline to 6 months|Acceptability, Measured Using Self-report Measures of Usability and Liking of the Apps, Participants will report their perceptions of app usability and acceptability in the 6 month questionnaire, baseline to 6 months|Play Experience, Measured Using the Play Experience Questionnaire, Participants will self-report their perceptions of the playfulness of the intervention apps, Measured at 3 months|Change in Exercise Identity From Baseline to 6 Months, We will use the Exercise Identity Scale to investigate exercise beliefs and exercise role identity, baseline to 6 months|Narrative Engagement (Measured in Narrative Group Only), Measured Using the Narrative Engagement Scale, We will measure the extent to which participants in the narrative group felt narratively engaged in the game's storyline, Measured at 3 months|Character Identification (Measured in Narrative Group Only), Measured Using the Player Identification Scale, We will measure the extent to which participants in the narrative group felt like they identified with their game character, Measured at 3 months|Change in Depression From Baseline to 6 Months, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure specific to cancer patients/survivors (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System PROMIS-Ca Bank 1.0 - Depression). The result shown is a t-score, where a score of 50 would be equivalent to the mean in the population of cancer survivors. Because the standard deviation is 10, a score of 10 higher or lower would indicate that the score is 1 standard deviation higher or lower (more/less depressed) than the population., baseline to 6 months|Change in Fatigue From 6 Months to 1 Year, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure specific to cancer patients/survivors, baseline to 6 months|Change in Sleep From Baseline to 6 Months, We will use a computerized PROMIS measure (Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System PROMIS Bank v1.0 - Sleep-Related Impairment). The result shown is a t-score, where a score of 50 would be equivalent to the mean in the population. Because the standard deviation is 10, a score of 10 higher or lower would indicate that the score is 1 standard deviation higher or lower than the population (more/less impairment)., baseline to 6 months|Maintenance of Physical Activity From 6 Months to 1 Year, Minutes of moderate-vigorous physical activity measured over a 7 day period, baseline to 6 months
Habitual physical activity decreases risk of multiple negative health outcomes, including breast cancer recurrence and mortality. It is also associated with better quality of life and reducing negative effects of cancer and cancer treatment. However, most breast cancer survivors do not engage in sufficient physical activity. Behavior change interventions produce short-term increases in activity but have difficulty motivating sustained active lifestyles over longer periods and are not equally effective in women of different races/ethnicities. The purpose of this study is to test a novel intervention that uses video games and storytelling to increase motivation. Video game mechanics increase enjoyment and feelings of autonomy (control), competence, and relatedness to others. All of these feelings are associated with motivation for activity and, in turn, sustained activity over time. Additionally, narrative storytelling is an effective method of persuading individuals to change their behavior. We propose that play of active video games that include compelling storylines will increase physical activity among a diverse sample of postmenopausal breast cancer survivors.

To test this hypothesis, we will conduct a clinical trial that compares the enhanced intervention (story-based video games) to a standard intervention in 90 sedentary, overweight postmenopausal breast cancer survivors. Participants in the enhanced group will receive a mobile device and accessories with two story-based video game applications installed. The games incorporate behavior change strategies such as self-monitoring and feedback while also using game mechanics and a lengthy storyline to motivate physical activity. Participants in the standard group will receive the same mobile device with an electronic activity monitor and its companion feedback application. Both groups will receive brief weekly telephone counseling. By comparing two groups that both receive typical behavior change intervention components (counseling) and a novel electronic intervention, we will be able to investigate the specific effects of game mechanics and storytelling on motivation and physical activity. We will measure changes in physical activity, fitness, function, and quality of life from the beginning of the study to 6 months. We will also investigate further changes during an additional 6 month follow-up period in which participants keep their intervention tools but do not receive any counseling, to measure maintenance of activity. This project will develop and test a promising, innovative intervention that has the potential to be used on a widespread basis in clinical and community settings.