A Phase II Study Investigating Upfront Pazopanib In Metastatic Renal Cancer Renal Cancer (Panther)
The purpose of this study is to investigate if 14 weeks of pazopanib therapy prior to surgery (nephrectomy) is of benefit to patients with metastatic renal cancer. Ninety-five patients will be recruited into his study.
Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cancer
Clinical benefit of 14 weeks of pre-operative pazopanib therapy, prior to nephrectomy using RECIST 1.1 criteria, 12 week CT scan will be compared to the baseline CT scan using RESIST criteria 1.1 to assess whether the patients have benefited from the upfront pazopanib treatment., Interim analysis after 34 patients have 12 weeks of treatment
Surgical complications (blood loss, post operative complications, hospital stay), Following surgery information regarding the quantity of blood loss, time the surgery took, length of hospital stay and whether there were any surgical complications will be recorded., After the first 20 patients have had a nephrectomy|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be measured from start of treatment to time of death., After three years of study|Progression free survival, Progression free survival will be measured from start of study treatment to time of disease progression., After all patients have progresssed|Local response of primary tumour to pazopanib, After 12 weeks of study drug
This is a Phase II, open label study evaluating pre-operative pazopanib treatment in previously untreated patients with metastatic clear cell renal cancer. This study follows a Simon 2 stage design

Patients will take pazopanib for 14 weeks followed by a nephrectomy. The drug will continue after nephrectomy until disease progression is documented. Patients will come off study once disease progression occurs, where they will then be followed for survival. Subsequent treatment at the discretion of the treating physician will be documented.

After surgery, all patients will be radiologically evaluated 8 weekly until progression. Standard radical nephrectomy with lymph node dissection will be performed on those patients who are deemed operable. The surgery can be laparoscopic or open. Those not deemed suitable for nephrectomy after 14 weeks of treatment will be offered a repeat biopsy.