68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT Screening Prior to 177Lu-PSMA-617 Therapy for Patients With Metastatic Castrate Resistant Prostate Cancer
This phase III study provides access to 68Ga-PSMA-11 positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) imaging for patients with castrate-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other places in the body (metastatic) being considered for177Lu-PSMA-617 therapy. T PET is an established imaging technique that utilizes small amounts of radioactivity attached to very minimal amounts of this tracer. CT utilizes x-rays that traverse body from the outside. CT images provide an exact outline of organs and potential inflammatory tissue where it occurs in patient's body. Combining a PET scan with a CT scan can help make the images easier to interpret. The 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT scan is done with a very small amount of radioactive tracer call 68- gallium PSMA-11. In patients that have been diagnosed with prostate cancer, a protein called prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) appears in large amounts on the surface of the cancerous cells. The radioactive imaging agent (68Ga-PSMA-11) has been designed to circulate through the body and attach itself to the PSMA protein on prostate cancer cells. A PET/CT scan is then used to detect the location of prostate cancer lesions. By gaining access to 68Ga-PSMA-11 PET/CT scans, patients may be safely screened for 177Lu-PSMA-617 therapy in the treatment of metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer.
Castration-Resistant Prostate Carcinoma|Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer AJCC v8
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Gallium Ga 68 Gozetotide|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Safety of gallium Ga 68 gozetotide (68Ga-prostate-specific membrane antigen [PSMA)]-11), Monitoring of patients for self-reported unexpected adverse reactions from the time of injection until the time they leave the care of the division of nuclear medicine. If any adverse reactions are reported, the patient will be evaluated by a nurse and/or physician and will receive appropriate care. The principal investigator (PI) or those designated by the PI will ascertain the severity of the adverse event and how likely the adverse reaction was associated with the injected 68Ga-PSMA-11., After imaging scan is complete - up to 1 day
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To overcome a clinical access issue that would otherwise block patients from reimbursement of a new cancer therapy, and therefore block or significantly delay their care.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive gallium Ga 68 gozetotide intravenously (IV) and then undergo a positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan throughout the trial.