Trial Of Irinotecan In Combination With Three Methods Of Administration Of Fluoropyrimidine.
This study compares in the first study period combination of Irinotecan with three different methods of administration by Fluoropyrimidine. (ie. infusion, bolus and oral). In the second period of study it compares FOLFIRI \[a chemotherapy regime that combines bolus irinotecan and leucovorin \[LV\] with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)\] + bevacizumab and mlFL + bevacizumab. Measures of efficacy and safety will be reported.
Colorectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Modified Bolus 5-FU/LV with Irinotecan|DRUG: FOLFIRI + bevacizumab|DRUG: miFL + bevacizumab|DRUG: Infusional 5-FU/LV with Irinotecan|DRUG: Oral Capecitabine with Irinotecan
Time to Progression (TTP) at Primary Completion: FOLFIRI and mIFL, Time to disease progression is defined as the number of months from date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD)., every 6 weeks until disease progression
Time to Progression: FOLFIRI, mIFL and CapeIRI, Time to disease progression is defined as the number of months from date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD)., every 6 weeks until disease progression|Overall Response: FOLFIRI, mIFL and CapeIRI, A subject will be considered achieving an overall response if the subject has a sustained Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) for at least 4 weeks, confirmed by tumor assessments. (CR: Disappearance of all target lesions. PR: greater than or equal to 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the Pre-treatment sum LD. ), every 6 weeks during chemotherapy until disease progression|Survival Time: FOLFIRI, mIFL and CapeIRI, Survival time defined as time from date of randomization to date of death. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored to last date the subject known to be alive., assessed at least every week during treatment and at least every 3 months during follow-up|1 Year Survival: FOLFIRI, mIFL and CapeIRI, Number of patients alive or dead at 1 year. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored to last date the subject known to be alive., 1 year from date of randomization|Time to Progression : Celecoxib and Placebo, Time to disease progression is defined as the number of months from date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD)., every 6 weeks until disease progression|Overall Response: Celecoxib and Placebo, A subject will be considered achieving an overall response if the subject has a sustained CR or PR for at least 4 weeks, confirmed by tumor assessments. (Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the Pre-treatment sum LD. ), every 6 weeks during chemotherapy until disease progression|Survival Time: Celecoxib and Placebo, Survival time defined as time from date of randomization to date of death. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored to last date the subject known to be alive., assessed at least every week during treatment and at least every 3 months during follow-up|Time to Progression: Bevacizumab With FOLFIRI, mIFL, Time to disease progression is defined as the number of months from date of randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD)., every 6 weeks until disease progression|Overall Response: Bevacizumab With FOLFIRI, mIFL, A subject will be considered achieving an overall response if the subject has a sustained CR or PR for at least 4 weeks, confirmed by tumor assessments. (Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Partial Response (PR): ≥ 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the Pre-treatment sum LD. ), every 6 weeks during chemotherapy until disease progression|1 Year Survival: Bevacizumab With FOLFIRI, mIFL, Number of patients alive or dead at 1 year. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored to last date the subject known to be alive., 1 year from date of randomization|Survival Time at Last Follow-Up Visit: Bevacizumab With FOLFIRI, mIFL, Survival time defined as time from date of randomization to date of death. In the absence of confirmation of death, survival time was censored to last date the subject known to be alive. Zero subjects analyzed indicates median could not be analyzed based on number of subjects who died., Last Follow-Up Visit|Dose Reduction Due to Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, Number of subjects that had at least one Treatment-Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE) that led to a dose reduction. TEAE includes all reported Adverse Events that occurred within 30 days of last study medication., Day 1; Day 8; and at end of every 3 treatment cycles for FOLFIRI; end of every 2 cycles for mIRI|Overall Relative Dose Intensity of Irinotecan, Relative dose intensity for a cycle was calculated as the percentage of the actual dose intensity of the cycle divided by the planned dose intensity of the cycle. Overall relative dose intensity was calculated as the average relative dose intensities over all cycles. (Dose intensity for each cycle was calculated as the actual dose level of the study medication received in that cycle divided by the number of weeks in the cycle.), End of treatment cycle
This study compares in the first study period combination of Irinotecan with three different methods of administration by Fluoropyrimidine. (ie. infusion, bolus and oral). In the second period of study it compares FOLFIRI \[a chemotherapy regime that combines bolus irinotecan and leucovorin \[LV\] with infusional 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)\] + bevacizumab and mlFL + bevacizumab. Measures of efficacy and safety will be reported.