Apatinib Mesylate Combined With IT Regimen for the Treatment of Recurrent or Refractory Pediatric Neuroblastoma: A Single-arm, Phase I/II，Multi-center, Clinical Study.
The survival rate of recurrent and refractory pediatric neuroblastoma is low and the prognosis is poor. Apatinib mesylate is a highly selective small-molecule vasoendothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Apatinib mesylate has been shown to be safe and effective in recurrent or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma in Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center. Apatinib mesylate combined with IT regimen is expected to further improve the efficacy and survival rate of recurrent or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma.
Neuroblastoma
DRUG: Apatinib, Irinotecan, Temozolomide
Objective response rate, In the phase I stage, the primary endpoint is RPIID. In the phase II stage, the primary outcome was the objective response rate of apatinib combined with IT in the treatment of recurrent or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma, including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR)., up to 6 courses of therapy, or about 6 months
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival of apatinib combined with IT regimen in the treatment of relapsed or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma;, up to 60 months|Overall survival, Overall survival of apatinib combined with IT regimen in the treatment of relapsed or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma, up to 60 months|Duration of remission, Duration of remission of apatinib combined with IT regimen in the treatment of relapsed or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma, up to 60 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR) of apatinib combined with IT regimen in the treatment of relapsed or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma, up to 6 courses of therapy, or about 36 months
The enrolled patients diagnosed with recurrent or refractory pediatric neuroblastoma received apatinib combined with IT regimen chemotherapy, including phase I and phase II stage. During the Phase I stage, apatinib was administered using a 3+3 dose escalation design with three dose cohorts. The IT regimen was maintained at fixed doses, with patients receiving up to 6 cycles of chemotherapy. The recommended Phase II dose (RP2D) was determined from the Phase I dose-escalation phase.

In the Phase II stage, the study included an apatinib combination therapy phase and an apatinib maintenance therapy phase. During the combination therapy phase, apatinib was administered at the RP2D in combination with the IT regimen (at fixed doses) for up to 6 cycles. In the maintenance therapy phase, apatinib was administered orally as a single agent at the RP2D until disease progression or intolerable toxicity occurred.