Maintaining Suppression of Testosterone With Transdermal Estradiol Gel
The objective of this clinical study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of three different doses of BHR-200 (0.36% transdermal estradiol gel) compared to placebo for the maintenance of testosterone (T) suppression in men with advanced androgen-sensitive prostate cancer.
Cancer of the Prostate
DRUG: BHR-200 (0.36% transdermal 17β-estradiol gel)|DRUG: Placebo
Maintenance of Testosterone Suppression at Week 12, Primary Efficacy Endpoint was the percentage of patients failing to maintain castrate levels of T (T \< 50 ng/dL).

Testosterone suppression, defined as the absence of any T level measurement over 50 ng/dL during Weeks 4 to 12., Week 12
Maintenance of Testosterone Suppression at Week 24, Pproportion of patients failing to maintaincastrate levels of T (T \< 50 ng/dL). Testosterone suppression, defined as the absence of any T level measurement over 50 ng/dL during Weeks 4 to 24., Week 24|Number of Patients Reporting Thromboembolic Adverse Events, Number of patients and severity of thromboembolic adverse events, To Week 52/End of Study: Both 24-Week Main Study and Optional 28-Week Extension Study
Luteinizing Hormone (LH), Serum concentrations of luteinizing hormone (LH), Reported for Baseline, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36 and Week 48|Sex Hormone Binding Globulin (SHBG), Serum concentrations of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), Reported for Baseline, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36 and Week 48|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), Serum concentrations of prostate specific antigen (PSA), To Week 52/End of Study: Both 24-Week Main Study and Optional 28-Week Extension Study|Follicle-stimulating Hormone (FSH), Serum concentrations of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), Reported for Baseline, Week 12, Week 24, Week 36 and Week 48|Maintenance of Testosterone Suppression at Week 52/ End of Study, Proportion of patients failing to maintain castrate levels of T (T \< 50 ng/dL). Testosterone suppression, defined as the absence of any T level measurement over 50 ng/dL during Weeks 24 to 52/End of Study, Double-blind 28-Week Optional Extension Study from Week 24 to Week 52/End of Study
This is a multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose finding study in men with advanced androgen-sensitive prostate cancer. Patients who give informed consent will have screening evaluations, and if fulfilling the entry criteria, will be randomized to one of 4 treatment groups: 1mL, 2mL or 3mL of 0.36% BHR-200 (transdermal estradiol gel) or Placebo. Study drug will be initiated on the day they were scheduled to receive next depot GnRH agonist injection. Patients will be offered low-dose radiation to aid in the prevention of gynecomastia. Patients will apply the study drug once per day. The first dose of study gel will be applied under the supervision of the PI/designee. Subsequent doses will be self-administered daily by the patient until he is no longer chemically castrated (testosterone levels increase above 50 ng/dL), a rise over baseline PSA of \> 0.5 ng/mL is observed, or he has completed 52 weeks of study drug administration. At the conclusion of study participation, patients will be advised to resume standard of care treatment under the supervision of their healthcare provider. While on treatment, patients will be evaluated at Day 1 and every 2 weeks, for the first 24 weeks and every 4 weeks thereafter with a final post-treatment follow-up visit 2 weeks (+/- 1 week) post last dose administration.