A Study of LY2157299 in Participants With Hepatocellular Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to estimate the median time to progression in participants with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) when treated with LY2157299 as monotherapy and in combination with sorafenib or ramucirumab.
Carcinoma, Hepatocellular
DRUG: LY2157299|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Ramucirumab
Change From Baseline in Relationship of Biomarker Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) to Overall Survival (OS), Biomarker response was defined as a \> 20% decrease in the biomarker AFP from baseline during 8 weeks of treatment. Data presented is median overall survival of those participants who achieved the defined biomarker response. Participants enrolled in Part A had a baseline AFP level of \>1.5 upper limit normal (ULN). Participants enrolled in Part B had baseline AFP level \<1.5 ULN., Baseline, discontinuation from any cause (Up to 83 months)|Change From Baseline in Relationship of Biomarker Transforming Growth Factor - Beta (TGF-β) to Overall Survival (OS), Biomarker response was defined as a \> 20% decrease in the biomarker TGF-B from baseline. Data presented is median overall survival of those participants who achieved biomarker response., Baseline,discontinuation from any cause (Up to 83 months)|Time to Progression (TTP), TTP is measured from the date of first dose to the first date of progression of disease based on the investigator review of tumor response using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression., Randomization to date of first measured progressive disease (Up to 36 Weeks)
Population Pharmacokinetics (PK) Mean Population Clearance of Galunisertib, Population mean (between-subject coefficient variance \[CV %\]) apparent clearance., Cycle (C) 1: Day (D)1: Predose, 0.5-2 hours(h) Postdose; D14: Predose, 0.5-2, 3-5 h, Postdose; D15 Morning; D22 Morning; Predose C2 and C3 Predose D1|Recommended Dose for Phase 3 Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) Trials, Cycle 1 (28 Days)|Overall Survival (OS), OS duration is measured from the date of first dose to the date of death from any cause., Randomization to date of death from any cause (Up to 83 months)|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS duration is measure from the date of first dose to the first date of objective progression of disease or death from any cause. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression., Randomization to measured progressive disease or death from any cause (Up to 45 Weeks)|Percentage of Participants Achieving an Objective Response (Response Rate), The percentage of participants who achieved best overall response of either Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR). The overall response rate for each dose with be estimated by dividing the number of confirmed responders by the number of participants who received at least one dose of study drug. Per RECIST v.1.0 criteria CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 millimeter (mm). Tumor-marker results must have normalized. PR is defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., Randomization to measured progressive disease (Up to 36 Weeks)|Duration of Tumor Response (DoR), DoR is measured from the date of the first objective status assessment of a Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), as determined by RECIST v1.1, to the first date of objective progression of disease or death from any cause. CR is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or nontarget) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 millimeter (mm). Tumor-marker results must have normalized. PR is defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (including the baseline sum if that is the smallest). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of 1 or more new lesions is also considered progression., Time of response to measured progressive disease or death from any cause (Up to 84 Weeks)|Time to Treatment Failure (TTF), TTF is measured from the date of first dose until the date of discontinuation of study treatment due to adverse event, progression of disease, or death from any cause., Randomization to the date of discontinuation of study treatment due to adverse event, progression of disease, or death from any cause (Up to 75 Weeks)|Change From Baseline in Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy, Hepatobiliary (FACT-Hep) Sub-scores and Total Score, FACT-Hep consists of 45 items in five subscales (1) physical well-being (PWB) score rage 0 -28; (2) social well-being (SWB) score range 0-28; (3) emotional well-being (EWB) score range 0-24; (4) functional well-being (FWB) score range 0-28; and (5) the hepatobiliary cancer subscale (HCS) Score range 0-72; FACT-Hep score range 1-180, and Trial-Outcome Index (TOI) score range 1-128, to assess health related quality of life in participants with cancer. Higher scores reflect a better health state., Baseline, Day 1 Cycle 4|Time to Worsening (TTW) of Symptoms (FACT-Hep), Time to worsening of symptoms used minimally important differences to evaluate Physical Well Being (PWB), Functional Well Being (FWB), Hepatocellular Cancer Symptoms (HCS), National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)/FACT Hepatocellular Symptoms (FHS), Trial-Outcome Index (TOI). PWB time to worsening was defined as participants who had change in a subscale of ≥ 2 point decrease from baseline; FWB time to worsening was defined as participants who had change in a subscale of ≥ 2 point decrease from baseline; HCS time to worsening was defined as participants who had change in a subscale of ≥ 5 point decrease from baseline; FHS time to worsening was defined as participants who had change in a subscale of ≥ 2 point decrease from baseline; TOI time to Worsening was defined as participants who had change in the subscale of ≥ 7 point decrease from baseline., Baseline to the worsening of symptoms (up to 567 days)
The study consists of four Parts: Part A where HCC participants with an increased alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level will be treated with either 160 milligrams (mg) LY2157299 or 300 mg LY2157299. Part B where HCC participants with a normal AFP level will be treated with 300 mg LY2157299, Part C where treatment-naïve HCC participants will be treated with 160 mg LY2157299 + sorafenib or 300 mg LY2157299 + sorafenib, and Part D where HCC participants will be treated with either 160 mg or 300 mg LY2157299 + ramucirumab.

Participants who continue to receive benefit from treatment at the time that the study is considered completed, may enter the treatment extension period and continue to receive the study treatment. The end of the study is the date of last visit or last scheduled procedure for the last active subject in the study.