Multicenter Randomized Parallel Group Phase III Study Comparing the Bowel Cleansing Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of NER1006 Versus Trisulfate Solution Using 2-Day Split-Dosing Regimen in Adults
This study evaluates the efficacy, safety and tolerability of NER1006 versus Trisulfate Solution (TS) in adult patients requiring bowel cleansing prior to any procedure that requires a clean bowel, using a 2-Day evening/morning Split-Dosing regimen. Approximately 540 patients will be randomised with the aim of achieving a minimum of 245 patients in each of the 2 groups.
Colon Cancer|Colorectal Carcinoma|Colon Cleansing
DRUG: NER1006|DRUG: Trisulfate solution
Number of Patients With Successful Bowel Cleansing (Overall Colon), The overall quality of bowel cleansing was assessed by a blinded central reader (an experienced and trained colonoscopist) using the segmental scores of the Harefield Cleansing Scale (HCS). A final HCS grading of A, B, C or D was derived. Grades A and B are classified as successful (i.e., all mucosa could be visualised) and C and D are classified as unsuccessful. Comparison of overall success of cleansing with NER1006 versus Trisulfate solution was evaluated using a non-inferiority study design., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)|Number of Patients With 'Excellent Plus Good' (Highly Effective) Bowel Cleansing (Colon Ascendens), The overall quality of bowel cleansing was assessed by a blinded central reader (an experienced and trained colonoscopist) using the segmental scores of the Harefield Cleansing Scale (HCS). Highly effective cleansing in the colon ascendens corresponded to scores 3 (Good) or 4 (Excellent) of the HCS. Adequate plus failure of cleansing corresponded to score 0-2. Comparison of 'Excellent plus good' cleansing of the colon ascendens using NER1006 versus Trisulfate Solution was evaluated using a non-inferiority study design., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)
Adenoma Detection Rate (Colon Ascendens), Comparison of the number of patients with at least one adenoma detected in the colon ascendens when NER1006 is used for bowel cleansing versus Trisulfate Solution. Adenoma detection rate (ADR) defined as the number of patients with at least one adenoma in the colon ascendens., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)|Adenoma Detection Rate (Overall Colon), Comparison of the number of patients with at least one adenoma detected in the overall colon when NER1006 is used for bowel cleansing versus Trisulfate Solution. ADR defined as the number of patients with at least one adenoma in the overall colon., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)|Polyp Detection Rate (Colon Ascendens), Comparison of the number of patients with at least one polyp detected in the colon ascendens when NER1006 is used for bowel cleansing versus Trisulfate Solution. Polyp detection rate (PDR) defined as the number of patients with at least one polyp in the colon ascendens., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)|Polyp Detection Rate (Overall Colon), Comparison of the number of patients with at least one polyp detected in the overall colon when NER1006 is used for bowel cleansing versus Trisulfate Solution. PDR defined as the number of patients with at least one polyp in the overall colon., Two days (from day of first dosing to day of colonoscopy)
This study evaluates the efficacy, safety and tolerability of NER1006 versus Trisulfate Solution (TS) in adult patients requiring bowel cleansing prior to any procedure that requires a clean bowel, using a 2-Day evening/morning Split-Dosing regimen. Approximately 540 patients will be randomised with the aim of achieving a minimum of 245 patients in each of the 2 groups.