Effect of Weight and Insulin Sensitivity on Reproductive Function in PCOS
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common reproductive disorder in women of reproductive age and despite decades of research the etiology the disorder is not known. The characteristic hyperandrogenism and anovulation is associated with abnormal neuroendocrine function and insulin resistance. Obesity is a common correlated phenotype of Polycystic ovary syndrome and weight gain worsens the reproductive and metabolic complications. Currently there is no evidence-based treatment plan for infertility in Polycystic ovary syndrome; yet weight loss by dietary restriction and regular exercise are strongly advocated. Weight loss and increased insulin sensitivity appear to drive improvements in reproductive outcomes in women with Polycystic ovary syndrome; however, the mechanism connecting these changes with the reproductive axis is not fully understood.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Metformin|BEHAVIORAL: Dietary Restriction|BEHAVIORAL: Exercise Training
Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Pulse Frequency, Change in Luteinizing Hormone (LH) Pulse Frequency measured over a 12-hour period (7:00 PM - 7:00 AM).

The Mean and Standard Deviation (SD) are the number of pulses recorded on the 12-hour period (7:00 PM - 7:00 AM) and presented as the change from baseline to week 24.

Only participants who completed the PULSE trial are included in present outcome measure as the primary outcome was established as change from pre-to-post-intervention LF pulse frequency., Baseline and Week 24
Insulin Sensitivity Expressed as Glucose Disposal Rate (GDR), Change in insulin sensitivity measured by the euglycemic hyperinsulinemic clamp.

Unit of measure established as glucose disposal rate (GDR) adjusted to account for kilograms of fat-free mass (FFM)+17.7 per minute to reflect the amount of exogenous glucose necessary to fully compensate for hyperinsulinemia and expressed as a function of metabolic body size.

Only participants who completed the PULSE trial are included in present outcome measure as the primary outcome was established as change from pre-to-post-intervention Insulin Sensitivity expressed as Glucose Disposal Rate., Baseline and Week 24
The goal of this study is to determine (using dietary restriction, exercise training, metformin or no treatment), the effects of weight loss and/or improved insulin sensitivity on reproductive function (neuroendocrine and ovarian) in obese women with Polycystic ovary syndrome.