Phase II Study of Efficacy and Safety of Lenalidomide, Subcutaneous Bortezomib and Dexamethasone Therapy for Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This research study is evaluating a combination of three drugs called lenalidomide, subcutaneous (injection under the skin) bortezomib, and dexamethasone (RVD) as a possible treatment for multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Lenalidomide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|PROCEDURE: Stem Cell Mobilization|PROCEDURE: Autologous Stem Cell Transplant
4-Cycle Induction Overall Response Rate (ORR), 4-cycle ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved partial response or better based on the International Myeloma Working Group Response (IMWG) criteria during the first 4 cycles of induction therapy., Participants were followed up to 12 weeks.|Induction Overall Response Rate (ORR), Induction ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved partial response or better based on the International Myeloma Working Group Response (IMWG) criteria during induction therapy either 4 cycles or 8 cycles of combination therapy. Response on ASCT is not included., Participants were followed up to 24 weeks.|Four-cycle Induction Peripheral Neuropathy (PN) Rate, Four-cycle induction PN rate was defined as the proportion of participants who experienced peripheral neuropathy includes any attribution and any grades based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAEv4) during the first 4 cycles of induction therapy., Participants were followed up to 12 weeks.|Grade 3-4 Induction Peripheral Neuropathy Rate, Grade 3-4 induction peripheral neuropathy rate was defined as the proportion of participants who experienced grade 3 or 4 peripheral neuropathy based on the Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAEv4) as reported on case report forms during induction therapy (4 cycles RsqVd for ASCT patients and 8 cycles for non-ASCT patients)., Participants were followed up to 24 weeks.
Median Time to Progression (TTP), Median TTP based on KM method is defined as the time from first dose of treatment to the first progression event or censored at date last disease assessment. PD, based on IMWG criteria, requires 1+ of the following: \>25% increase in the level of serum monoclonal paraprotein, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 5 g/L and confirmed on a repeat investigation. \>25% increase in 24h urinary light chain excretion, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 200 mg/24 h and confirmed on a repeat investigation. \>25% increase in plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate or on trephine biopsy, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 10%. Definite increase in the size of existing lytic bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas. Development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas. Development of hypercalcemia., Disease was assessed up to 41.2 months.|1-Year Progression Free Survival (PFS) Probability, 1-year PFS is the probability estimate at 1 year based on the Kaplan-Meier method. PFS is defined as the duration of time from study entry to documented disease progression or death from any cause, censored at the date last known progression-free for those who have not progressed or died. PD, based on IMWG criteria, requires 1+ of the following: \>25% increase in the level of serum monoclonal paraprotein, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 5 g/L and confirmed on a repeat investigation. \>25% increase in 24h urinary light chain excretion, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 200 mg/24 h and confirmed on a repeat investigation. \>25% increase in plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate or on trephine biopsy, which must also be an absolute increase of at least 10%. Definite increase in the size of existing lytic bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas. Development of new bone lesions or soft tissue plasmacytomas. Development of hypercalcemia., Median follow up for PFS is 13.4 months with the relevant observation timepoint equal to 1 year.|Median Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was defined at the time from the first assessment indicating PR or better response to the first progression (PD) event based on IMWG criteria., Disease was assessed up to 41.2 months.|1-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, 1-year OS rate was defined as the percentage of participants alive at 1 year., Survival was assessed up to 1 year.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial, which tests the safety and effectiveness of an investigational combination of drugs to learn whether the combination of drugs works in treating a specific cancer. "Investigational" means that the combination of drugs is being studied. It also means that the FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not yet approved the combination of drugs for your type of cancer.

Each of the individual drugs, lenalidomide , subcutaneous bortezomib, and dexamethasone, are approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The combination has not been approved yet for multiple myeloma or any other type of cancer. Subcutaneous bortezomib is currently approved by the U.S. FDA for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Lenalidomide is currently approved for use with dexamethasone for patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least one prior therapy and for the treatment of certain types of myelodysplastic syndrome (another form of cancer affecting the blood). Both Bortezomib and Lenalidomide kill tumor cells and help the body cells to fight cancer. Dexamethasone is commonly used, either alone, or in combination with other drugs, to treat multiple myeloma. Dexamethasone heps to reduce irritation and cell injury (inflammation).

In this research study, the investigators are looking to explore the drug combination of lenalidomide, subcutaneous bortezomib and dexamethasone to see what side effects it may have and how well it works for treatment of newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. This 3 drug regimen showed promising results in previous studies, however administration of intravenous bortezomib caused high levels of nerve injury (a condition involving the nerves of the upper and lower extremities associated with numbness, tingling and burning). In this study, the investigators are testing the hypothesis that subcutaneous administration of bortezomib will result in less nerve toxicity. Therefore, the combination of lenalidomide, dexamethasone and subcutaneous bortezomib may be better tolerated and may allow for a longer duration of therapy.