Olaparib and Alpelisib for Treatment of Metastatic Breast Cancer, A ComboMATCH Treatment Trial
This phase II ComboMATCH treatment trial studies the effect of adding a drug called BYL719 (alpelisib) to the usual treatment of olaparib in patients with breast cancer that has spread from where it first started (breast) to other places in the body (metastatic). Olaparib is an inhibitor of PARP, an enzyme that helps repair DNA when it becomes damaged. Blocking PARP may help keep tumor cells from repairing their damaged DNA, causing them to die. PARP inhibitors are a type of targeted therapy. Alpelisib blocks certain proteins, which may help keep tumor cells from growing and may kill them. It is a type of kinase inhibitor. Giving alpelisib in combination with olaparib may be able to improve treatment results for patients with metastatic breast cancer.
Anatomic Stage III Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Anatomic Stage IV Breast Cancer AJCC v8|Metastatic HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma|Unresectable HER2-Negative Breast Carcinoma
DRUG: Alpelisib|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Olaparib|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Progression-free survival (PFS) (Cohort 2), Will compare the PFS distributions between those treated with BYL719 (alpelisib) and olaparib versus (vs) olaparib. Despite this being a randomized phase II trial, we will utilize an intent to treat approach such that patients will be analyzed based on the treatment arm to which they were randomized. Will be compared between the two treatment arms using Kaplan-Meier methods. The hazard ratio, median PFS, and estimated PFS rates at 6, 12, 18, 24, and 30 months will be estimated along with corresponding 95% confidence intervals., From randomization date until the time of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate (ORR) (Cohort 3), Defined as the proportion of patients who documented a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 divided by the total number of evaluable patients in a cohort., Up to 5 years
ORR (Cohort 2), RECIST v1.1 criteria will be used to estimate ORR where ORR is defined as the number of evaluable patients achieving a response (PR or CR per RECIST v1.1) during treatment with study therapy divided by the total number of evaluable patients. Rates of response will be compared between treatment arms using a chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test as needed). Point estimates will be generated for objective response rates within each arm along with 95% confidence intervals using the Clopper-Pearson method., Up to 5 years|PFS (Cohort 3), Disease progression will be determined based on RECIST 1.1 criteria. PFS will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. The median PFS and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be reported. Patients will be censored at the last disease assessment date if they were alive and progression-free at the time of their last assessment. If a patient begins a non-protocol therapy, the patient will be censored at the last assessment date prior to start of non-protocol therapy., From study entry to the first of either disease progression or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Overall survival (OS) (Cohorts 2 and 3), Patients who are alive at last follow-up will be censored at that time point. The distribution of OS will be estimated using method of Kaplan-Meier. The median OS and 95% confidence interval will be reported., From registration until death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Clinical benefit rate (CBR) (Cohorts 2 and 3), Defined as achieving CR, PR or stable disease (SD) while on treatment. Disease status will be assessed using RECIST v1.1 criteria. CBR will be calculated as the proportion of evaluable patients who achieve clinical benefit. The final CBR point estimate and corresponding 95% confidence interval will be calculated using Clopper-Pearson method., From registration until death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (Cohorts 2 and 3), All eligible patients that have initiated treatment will be considered evaluable for assessing AE rate(s). Patients will be evaluated for adverse events using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The maximum grade for each type of AE will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the AE(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 5 years|Concordance of diagnostic tumor mutation profile (Cohorts 2 and 3), Concordance of diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the Designated Laboratory, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment ctDNA mutation profile will be assessed., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether BYL719 (alpelisib) and olaparib combination therapy improves progression-free survival (PFS) compared to olaparib alone in patients with PARP-inhibitor naive metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer. (Cohort 2) II. To determine the ORR of BYL719 (alpelisib) and olaparib in patients with PARP-inhibitor-resistant HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer. (Cohort 3)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether BYL719 (alpelisib) and olaparib combination therapy improves objective response rate (ORR), overall survival (OS), clinical benefit rate (CBR), and tolerability compared to olaparib alone in patients with PARP-inhibitor naive metastatic HER2-negative breast cancer. (Cohort 2) II. Collect tissue and provide it to the ComboMATCH Registration Protocol to assess concordance between the diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the Designated Laboratories, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) mutation profile from plasma, as described in ComboMATCH Registration Protocol. (Cohort 2) III. To assess the clinical activity of BYL719 (alpelisib) and olaparib combination therapy as measured by progression free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), clinical benefit rate (CBR), and tolerability in patients with PARP-inhibitor-resistant HER2 negative metastatic breast cancer. (Cohort 3) IV. Collect tissue and provide it to the ComboMATCH Registration Protocol to assess concordance between the diagnostic tumor mutation profile generated by the Designated Laboratories, the pre-treatment biopsy mutation profile, and the pre-treatment ctDNA mutation profile from plasma, as described in ComboMATCH Registration Protocol. (Cohort 3)

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effect of PIK3CA mutations on ORR and PFS in the study population.

II. To assess correlates of response to olaparib and BYL719 (alpelisib) therapy in the study population including:

IIa. Germline and somatic mutations in DNA repair genes in blood and tumor samples from patients; IIb. DNA and ribonucleic acid (RNA) signatures, loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and other measures of tumor genomic loss and instability from unbiased sequencing of DNA and RNA from patients; IIc. Biomarkers of DNA repair defects or homologous recombination repair deficiency in tumor tissue (e.g. RAD51 nuclear foci); IId. Clinical factors (e.g. prior chemotherapy; estrogen receptor status of tumor).

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 cohorts.

COHORT 1: PARP-inhibitor naive patients are assigned to Arm A.

ARM A: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and alpelisib PO daily on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow findings consistent with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Patients also undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT), and/or positron emission tomography (PET) scans throughout the trial and a biopsy prior to treatment start. Patients may also undergo bone scans on study as clinically indicated. Patients have the option to also undergo blood collection throughout the trial and a second biopsy at time of disease progression.

COHORT 2: PARP-inhibitor naive patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM B: Patients receive olaparib PO BID and alpelisib PO daily on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow findings consistent with MDS or AML. Patients also undergo MRI, CT, and/or PET scans throughout the trial and a biopsy prior to treatment start. Patients may also undergo bone scans on study as clinically indicated. Patients have the option to also undergo blood collection throughout the trial and a second biopsy at time of disease progression.

ARM C: Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow findings consistent with MDS or AML. Patients experiencing disease progression have the option to migrate to Cohort 3, Arm D. Patients also undergo MRI, CT, and/or PET scans throughout the trial and a biopsy prior to treatment start. Patients may also undergo bone scans on study as clinically indicated. Patients have the option to also undergo blood collection throughout the trial and a second biopsy at time of disease progression.

COHORT 3: PARP-inhibitor resistant patients are assigned to Arm D.

ARM D: Patients receive olaparib PO BID and alpelisib PO daily on days 1-28 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 5 years in the absence of disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or bone marrow findings consistent with MDS or AML. Patients also undergo MRI, CT, and/or PET scans throughout the trial and a biopsy prior to treatment start. Patients may also undergo bone scans on study as clinically indicated. Patients have the option to also undergo blood collection throughout the trial and a second biopsy at time of disease progression.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 5 years from registration.