Lung Cancer Mutation Consortium Protocol
The primary objective of this protocol is to determine the frequency of oncogenic mutations in 1000 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung. The linked clinical and mutational analyses will be used to determine the frequency of each mutation, its association with clinical features and outcome, and its association with other mutations. As future therapeutic protocols specific for these mutations are developed, patients may be notified of their eligibility for these studies. Future translational studies may be used to: a) unravel the complex biology of lung cancer; b) identify prognostic markers; c) define predictive markers of response/resistance to new therapies; d) identify new targets. A secondary goal is to establish a consortium of sites that have the capability of conducting multiple mutation testing in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certified lab.
Adenocarcinoma of Lung, Stage IV
Frequency of oncogenic mutations in patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung., The primary objective of this protocol is to determine the frequency of oncogenic mutations in patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung., Five years|Rate of oncogenic mutations in patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung., The primary endpoint of this protocol is the mutation rate., Five years
Associations between each mutation and clinical outcomes., The secondary objectives of this protocol are to study the associations between each mutation and clinical outcomes, e.g., survival, clinical features, e.g. smoking status, age, and other mutation., Two years
The primary objective of this protocol is to determine the frequency of oncogenic mutations in 1000 patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung. The linked clinical and mutational analyses will be used to determine the frequency of each mutation, its association with clinical features and outcome, and its association with other mutations. As future therapeutic protocols specific for these mutations are developed, patients may be notified of their eligibility for these studies. Future translational studies may be used to: a) unravel the complex biology of lung cancer; b) identify prognostic markers; c) define predictive markers of response/resistance to new therapies; d) identify new targets. A secondary goal is to establish a consortium of sites that have the capability of conducting multiple mutation testing in a Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) certified lab.