Paracetamol Absorption Technique as a Method for Measuring Gastric Tube Outlet
Retention of the gastric tube after esophagectomy is a clinically important problem, and there is a need of a simple method to evaluate emptying rate from the gastric tube after esophagectomy. Scintigraphy is the golden standard of measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube. In non-operated patients, paracetamol clearance technique have been widely used for measuring gastric emptying rate. There is no validation however if paracetamol clearance technique can be used for measuring emptying rate of the gastric tube. The investigators aim of this pilot- study is to validate paracetamol clearance technique to scintigraphy for measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube and to evaluate if there is a correlation between symptoms of retention and quality of life with the emptying rate.
Esophageal and/or Cardia Cancer|Esophagectomy|Gastric Pull-up Reconstruction
OTHER: Measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube
Validate paracetamol clearance technique to scintigraphy for measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube, During one diagnostic measurement perform, simultaneously, scintigraphy and paracetamol clearance technique to measure emptying rate from the gastric tube. After the test the patient answer both a QOL questionnaire and symptom questionnaire., Up to 12 months
Evaluate if patient with symptoms of slow emptying rate from the gastric tube also have slow emptying rate measured with scintigraphy., Patients will answer the questionaire EORTC QLQ OG25 for validation of upper gastrointestinal symptoms and the questionnaire EORTC QLQ C30 for validation of quality of life. Emptying rate from the gastric tube is measured with scintigraphy., Up to 12 months
Retention of the gastric tube after esophagectomy is a clinically important problem, and there is a need of a simple method to evaluate emptying rate from the gastric tube after esophagectomy. Scintigraphy is the golden standard of measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube. In non-operated patients, paracetamol clearance technique have been widely used for measuring gastric emptying rate. There is no validation however if paracetamol clearance technique can be used for measuring emptying rate of the gastric tube. The investigators aim of this pilot- study is to validate paracetamol clearance technique to scintigraphy for measuring emptying rate from the gastric tube and to evaluate if there is a correlation between symptoms of retention and quality of life with the emptying rate.