A Study of Single Agent Pemetrexed Disodium in Treating Patients With Recurrent or Persistent Ovarian or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
The primary purpose of this trial is to estimate the drug effect on tumors in patients with ovarian or primary peritoneal cancers. Patients will receive Pemetrexed every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. This medication will be given over 10 minutes and may be administered intravenously (IV), through a vein in your arm. Vitamin supplementation is a required part of this study.
Ovarian Cancer|Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: pemetrexed
Tumor Response, Best response recorded from the start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria that defines when participants improve ("respond"), stay the same ("stable"), or worsen ("progression") during treatment. Complete response (CR) = disappearance of all target lesions; Partial response (PR) = 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Progressive disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Stable disease (SD) = small changes that do not meet above criteria., baseline to measured progressive disease (up to 44 months)
Number of Participants With Adverse Events by Grade, Adverse events were graded using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 (CTCAE v3.0) for defining and grading specific adverse events. A grading (severity) scale is provided for each adverse event term. Grades range from 0 (none) to 5 (death). The worst grade event per cycle is reported., every 21-day cycle up to 5 year follow-up|Duration of Response, The duration of a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) was defined as the time from first objective status assessment of CR or PR to the first time of progression or death as a result of any cause., time of initial response until documented tumor progression (up to 44 months)|Progression-Free Survival, Defined as the time from date of first dose to the first observation of disease progression, or death due to any cause., baseline until documented tumor progression (up to 44 months)|Overall Survival, Overall survival is the duration from enrollment to death. For patients who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact., baseline until death from any cause up to 5-year follow-up
The primary purpose of this trial is to estimate the drug effect on tumors in patients with ovarian or primary peritoneal cancers. Patients will receive Pemetrexed every 21 days until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. This medication will be given over 10 minutes and may be administered intravenously (IV), through a vein in your arm. Vitamin supplementation is a required part of this study.