Clinical Model in Evaluating Clinical, Psychosocial, and Health Economic Factors in Adolescent and Young Adult Patients With Cancer
This research trial studies the Adolescent and Young Adult (AYA) Cancers Clinical Model in evaluating clinical, psychosocial, and health economic factors in adolescent and young adult patients with cancer. Studying the Adolescent and Young Adult Cancers Clinical Model may help doctors learn more about the effect of the AYA services on patient care, including clinical (nurse navigation), psychosocial (social work), and economic (financial) areas.
Malignant Neoplasm
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Clinical care model impact on patient access to AYA specific supportive care as assessed by questionnaires (Norris), Questionnaire scores will be expressed as median values with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Clinical care model impact on patient's/health care professional's satisfaction with the AYA at USC program as assessed by questionnaires (LAC+USC), Questionnaire scores will be expressed as median values with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Cost of care (Norris), Direct health care costs analyses will be performed from the Total Costs of Care payer perspective. Direct cost will be estimated from paid claims in the extracted electronic medical records, which will include costs for all health care utilization such as outpatient, procedures, laboratory, emergency room visits, hospitalization, and pharmacy. As the healthcare utilization and costs will likely be extremely skewed, healthcare utilization and cost measures will be estimated by using an econometric model (e.g., a negative binomial regression model for utilization count data \[number of services, Up to 2 years|Incremental cost (Norris), The incremental cost between AYA enrolled and non-enrolled will be calculated. In addition to estimation the magnitude of the variability attributed to the different sources of variation, we will also generate an influence diagram (also known as tornado diagram) to display which variables exert the most influence on cost driver., Up to 2 years|Processes that can be improved (Norris), Will utilize the prospective data to estimate key aspects of the AYA at USC service. Any variances in the services over time will be utilized to improve quality and reliability care delivery., Up to 2 years
Care coordination as assessed by the mean number of supportive care referrals, telephone or email encounters for additional information, educational materials, and or additional interventions provided by the nurse navigator and/or social worker (LAC+USC), Will be measured using an implementation guide., Up to 2 years|Patient continuity of care as assessed by the mean number of visits per patient with the assigned clinic lead physician (LAC+USC), Will be measured using an implementation guide., Up to 2 years|Resource allocation as assessed by the mean number of supportive care referrals and per patient follow-up conducted by the nurse navigator and/or social worker (LAC+USC), Will be measured using an implementation guide., Up to 2 years|Satisfaction of health care staff as assessed by questionnaires (LAC+USC), Questionnaire scores will be expressed as median values with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years|Satisfaction of services as assessed by questionnaires (LAC+USC), Questionnaire scores will be expressed as median values with 95% confidence intervals., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To provide economic understanding of the AYA at University of Southern California (USC) model of care. (Norris)

II. To evaluate the existing AYA at USC program to determine the direct and indirect impact on cost of care. (Norris)

III. To utilize the results of objective (i) to identify cost effectiveness and efficiencies to patient and institution. (Norris)

IV. To identify specific processes within our model of care that can be improved. (Norris)

V. To improve healthcare access to AYA-specific cancer care for patients ages 15-39 served by the Los Angeles County (LAC)+USC oncology pilot clinics. (LAC+USC)

VI. To improve the psychosocial outcome of AYA-specific cancer care patients. (LAC+USC)

VII. To provide AYA specific elements of care routinely and proactively to AYA cancer patients. (LAC+USC)

VIII. To improve care quality through patient satisfaction. (LAC+USC)

IX. To improve resource utilization and care coordination through improved patient navigation through efficiency and patient navigation. (LAC+USC)

OUTLINE:

Patients complete questionnaires at referral, week 4-8, week 10-12, and at the completion of systemic therapy.