RFA Combined With Chemotherapy for Unresectable Cholangiocarcinoma
Extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is a malignant tumor that is highly malignant and difficult to diagnose and treat early. Endobiliary radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been reported to be a beneficial treatment option for palliation of malignant biliary strictures. Within the bile duct, RFA appears to be safe and may result in decreased tumor ingrowth. To date, little is known about the role of the addition of systemic chemotherapy to RFA for cholangiocarcinoma. The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of RAF combined with Gemcitabine and S-1 in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DEVICE: radiofrequency ablation|DRUG: Chemotherapy drug
survival time, The period from endoscopic treatment to patient death or the last day of study, two years
Adverse events, Number of participants with adverse events; type, frequency and intensity of adverse events, one month|Stent patency time, Take the stent placement as the starting point and the stent occlusion confirmed by ERCP as the end point. Record the time interval between the two point, two years|Progression free survival, evaluate the survival time without disease progression, two years
Over 60 % of common bile duct (CBD) obstructions are due to malignancy, and the majority of neoplasms are unresectable at the time of diagnosis. Biliary drainage with placement of metal or plastic stents for palliation is the therapy of choice in this set of patients.

Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) is well established method for treatment of some solid tumors, like liver cancer, lung cancer, etc. Recently, an endoscopically applicable radiofrequency probe, HabibTM EndoHBP catheter, was approved for clinical use. RFA uses a high-frequency alternating current to generate heat and achieve coagulative necrosis when in contact with tissue. Many studies showed RFA with biliary stent was a beneficial treatment option for palliation of malignant biliary strictures. However, most of therapeutic effects were expected to delay bile duct obstruction rather than to decrease the tumor. Recently orally available chemotherapeutic agent, S-1, an oral fluoropyrimidine, was reported as effective in patients with bile duct adenocarcinoma. To date, little is known about the role of the addition of systemic chemotherapy to RFA for cholangiocarcinoma.

The aim of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of RAF combined with Gemcitabine and S-1 in patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma