Combination of CAR-DC Vaccine and ICIs in Malignant Tumors
This is a pilot clinical trial for subjects with local advanced/metastatic solid tumors or relapsed/refractory (R/R) lymphomas to determine the safety, efficacy and immune response of autologous EphA2-targeting CAR-DC vaccine loaded with TP53 mutant peptide (TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC) in combination with ICIs. It aims to: assess the safety and antitumor effects of TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC vaccine; detect T cell response against TP53 mutant peptide and tumor neoepitopes after the treatment with TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC vaccine and ICIs.
Solid Tumor, Adult|Lymphoma|EphA2 Overexpression|TP53 R273H|TP53 R175H|TP53 R248Q|TP53 R249S
BIOLOGICAL: TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC|DRUG: Abraxane|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: anti-PD-1 antibody|DRUG: Anti-CTLA4 Monoclonal Antibody
Incidence of treatment related adverse events (AEs), Determining the safety profile following the initiation of treatment and grading these toxicities by CTCAE v5.0. AEs such as cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and immune cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) were graded according to American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) criteria., 2 years|Clinical Response, Clinical Response will be determined by iRECIST criteria. Response rate is the proportion of patients that achieve CR or PR., 2 years|Immune Response, Immune response will be evaluated by phenotype and functional analysis of vaccine-reactive T cells and Neoantigen-reactive T cells as well as other immune cells in peripheral blood and tumor samples. Response is defined by ≥3 folds increase relative to pre-vaccination., Peripheral blood: baseline, weekly before Week 9, prior to each vaccination after Week 9 until last vaccine and 1 year after last vaccine. Tumor tissue: baseline, Week 3, and following timing will be performed according to subject's condition.
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DCs infusion to documented disease progression or death., 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DCs infusion to the date of death., 2 years|Time to response (TTR), TTR is defined as the time from TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DCs infusion to first assessed CR or PR by investigators and based on the iRECIST criteria., 2 years|Duration of response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from objective response (OR) until documented tumor progression date among responders., 2 years|Number and copy number of TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DCs, Number and copy number of TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DCs were assessed by the number in peripheral blood and tumor tissue., Peripheral blood samples are collected on days 0, 3, 7, 10, 22, the day before each vaccination until last vaccination and 1 year after last vaccine. Tumor tissues are collected at baseline, the day before Week 5, and after combination.|The level of cytokines in serum, The cytokines mainly include IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12 (p70), TNF-α, Peripheral blood samples are collected on days 0, 3, 7, 10, 22, the days before each vaccination until last vaccination and 1 year after last vaccine. Tumor tissues are collected at baseline, the day before Week 5, and after combination.
Therapeutic cancer vaccines, especially DC-based vaccines, are extensively pursued immune approaches in addition to immune checkpoint blockade antibodies and chimeric antigen receptor T cells. DCs can engulf, process and present tumor antigens to T cells, thereby initiating a potent and tumor-specific immune response. However, clinical outcomes of therapeutic cancer vaccines still remain poor, with objective response rates that rarely exceed \~15%. The maturation and activation of DCs are necessary steps to trigger the antitumor responses. However, it is increasingly clear that tumor-infiltrating dendritic cells (TIDCs) usually have an immature or tolerated phenotype that plays central roles in developing tumor microenvironment (TME). As a consequence, malfunction of TIDCs could suppress the infiltration and function of tumor infiltrating T cells and convert them into immune suppressive regulatory T cells.

In our previous research, we constructed novel CAR-DCs (Chimeric antigen receptor engineered dendritic cells) containing a scFv domain targeting EphA2 antigen, CD8a transmembrane, tandem DC-specific activation domains. The engineered CAR-DCs were activated when contacting with tumor targets in TME, and consequently, augmented the cytotoxicity of antigen specific T cells in immune system humanized solid tumor mouse models. Our design of CAR-DCs provides an effective vaccine strategy for malignant tumors. Therefore, we designed an autologous CAR-DC vaccine engineered with anti-EphA2 CAR and TP53 mutant peptide (TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC), which can suppress the growth of tumors expressing the correlated TP53 mutant in animal models. In addition, the combination of the immune checkpoint inhibitors could further reverse immunosuppressive TME and globally activate T cell responses. In this pilot study, we aim to assess the safety, efficacy and immune response of TP53-EphA-2-CAR-DC combined with anti-PD-1 antibody/anti-CTLA4 antibody in patients with local advanced/metastatic solid tumors or R/R lymphomas.