IO Combined With AI as First-line Treatment for Patients With Soft Tissue Sarcoma(TAIS)
This study will enroll patients with specific subtypes of unresectable or metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, and will combine tislelizumab with the standard chemotherapy of liposomal doxorubicin and ifosfamide to initially explore the efficacy and safety.
Soft Tissue Sarcomas|Angiosarcoma|Fibrosarcoma|Leiomyosarcoma|Pleomorphic Liposarcoma|Malignant Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumor (MPNST)|Desmoplastic Small Round Cell Tumor
DRUG: Tislelizumab+liposomal doxorubicin+ifosfamide
ORR, Defined as the percentage of participants in the analysis population who experienced a Complete Response or a Partial Response and was assessed using RECIST 1.1 based on investigator evaluation., Time from the date of recruiting to the first recorded complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR), assessed up to 36 months.
PFS, Defined as the time from experiment drug administration to documented disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first and was based on investigato evaluation., From the date of recruiting to the date of first recorded progression or death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 36 months.|OS, Defined as the time from experiment drug administration to death due to any cause, From recruiting to the time of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|Health Questionnaire Form, Health Questionnaire Form, During the screening period, the second cycle and other even numbered cycles, each cycle is 21 days, assessed up to 36 months.
Soft tissue sarcoma is a type of malignant tumor originating from the mesenchymal tissue of soft tissues and visceral organs, and can occur in various parts of the human body. The incidence of soft tissue sarcoma accounts for about 1% of all adult malignant tumors and 15% of pediatric malignant tumors. Surgical resection is the cornerstone of soft tissue sarcoma treatment, but since soft tissue sarcomas often metastasize systemically, even early-stage cases can see lung metastasis. Except for solitary lung metastases, which still advocate surgical resection, the rest all require drug treatment, especially for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, systemic chemotherapy is the main means of clinical application.

Once soft tissue sarcoma metastasizes to a distant site, the prognosis is extremely poor, with a median survival time of less than 1 year. Clinical research results show that doxorubicin (ADM) is the basic and standard drug for the treatment of soft tissue sarcoma, and the combination of ADM and ifosfamide (IFO) (AI regimen) can increase the effective rate to 35%. The AI regimen is a commonly used first-line combination treatment for advanced soft tissue sarcoma.

Immune checkpoints have been approved by the FDA for the clinical treatment of various types of tumors. This study will enroll patients with specific subtypes of unresectable or metastatic soft tissue sarcoma, and will combine tislelizumab with the standard chemotherapy of liposomal doxorubicin and ifosfamide to initially explore the efficacy and safety.