Ipilimumab and Nivolumab as Adjuvant Treatment of Mucosal Melanoma
This is a single arm phase II clinical trial of Ipilimumab and Nivolumab in patients with resected mucosal melanoma. Ipilimumab (1 mg/kg) and Nivolumab (3 mg/kg) will be administered Day 1 of a 21-day cycle in Cycles 1-4 and then nivolumab 480 mg will be administered Day 1 of a 28-day cycle for Cycles 5-15 (maximum of 15) or until disease recurrence or intolerance before completion of 15 cycles.
Mucosal Melanoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Nivolumab
Assess Recurrence-free survival time (RFS), Date the patient receives the first dose of study medication to the date of documentation of first disease recurrence or death due to any cause., 1.5 years
Assess the Adverse Events, Adverse events will be graded and attribution assigned using CTCAE version 4, 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), The time from registration to death due to any cause, 2 years
Ipilimumab and Nivolumab Combination Administration

* Ipilimumab 1mg/kg given IV Day 1 for 3 weeks (21 days), for 4 cycles
* Nivolumab 3mg/kg given IV Day 1 for 3 weeks (21 days), for 4 cycles

Nivolumab Alone Administration

* Nivolumab 480mg given IV Day 1 for 4 weeks (28 days), for 5-15 cycles

Nivolumab is to be administered as an approximately 30-minute IV infusion (± 10 minutes). At the end of the infusion, flush the line with a sufficient quantity of normal saline.

Ipilimumab is to be administered as an approximately 30-minute IV infusion (± 10 minutes). At the end of the infusion, flush the line with a sufficient quantity of normal saline or 5% dextrose solution.

When both study drugs are to be administered on the same day, separate infusion bags and filters must be used for each infusion. Nivolumab is to be administered first. The nivolumab infusion must be promptly followed by a saline flush to clear the line of nivolumab before starting the ipilimumab infusion. The second infusion will always be ipilimumab, and will start at least 30 minutes after completion of the nivolumab infusion.

The dosing calculations should be based on the body weight from Cycle 1 Day 1. If the subject's weight on the day of dosing differs by \> 5% from the weight used to calculate the dose, the dose should be recalculated based on the current day of treatment weight. All doses should be rounded to the nearest milligram. There will be no dose modifications allowed.