Evaluation of Carboplatin/Paclitaxel/Bevacizumab in the Treatment of Advanced Stage Endometrial Carcinoma
Purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of the drug combination carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab(Avastin) in patients with advanced stage endometrial carcinoma.
Endometrial Cancer
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: bevacizumab
Evaluate Patients With Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progressive Disease (PD) is defined at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest dimension of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest dimension recorded since the treatment start or the appearance of one or more new lesions., up to 57 months
To Estimate Overall Survival, up to 24 months|Number of Patients With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability., Toxicities will be assessed by using the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events 3.0, up to 24 months|Objective Tumor Response Using Modified RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) Criteria, Tumor response will be evaluated using modified RECIST criteria with the following definitions. Complete Response (CR) is disappearance of gross evidence of disease with confirmation at least 4 weeks later. Partial Response (PR) is a 30% or greater reduction in measurement of longest dimension of each lesion with confirmation at least 4 weeks later. Progressive Disease (PD) is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest dimension of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum of the longest dimension recorded since the treatment start or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Stable Disease (SD) is any condition not meeting the other criteria for CR, PR or PD., Up to 24 months
The purpose of this study is to test the effectiveness, safety, and tolerability of the drug combination carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab(Avastin) in patients with advanced stage endometrial carcinoma. This is a phase II,open label,single center study. Patients will receive carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab in an outpatient center by intravenous administration. The primary objectives is to study the progression free survival at 24 months after initiation of treatment and to determine the toxicity profile of the drug combinations. The secondary objectives are to estimate the overall survival and tumor response for this group of patients.