Investigation of Two Swallowing Therapy Models During Radiation Therapy for Head and Neck Cancer
Vibrent Health is partnering with Stanford Cancer Center to conduct a randomized control trial (RCT) using mobile health technology to enhance adherence and improve swallowing outcomes in patients undergoing radiation therapy for head and neck cancer.
Head Neck Cancer
OTHER: Virtual Coach
Number of Participants Achieving at Least 50% Adherence to Swallowing Exercises, Measure of overall adherence to prescribed exercise protocol, by treatment group and radiation week., 7 weeks
Patient Perceived Swallowing Impairment as Measured by the MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), The MD Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI) was selected to capture and quantify the patient perception of swallowing dysfunction. It is a 20-item patient reported survey that measures the impact of dysphagia on patients with HNC. Each item is scored on a 5 point scale with 1=lower function and 5=higher function. Possible scores range from 20-100 with higher scores indicating more normal swallowing function., 19 weeks|Diet Level as Defined by the Functional Oral Intake Scale (FOIS), Functional Oral Intake Scale (measure of diet restriction). Scores range from 1-7 where lower scores reflect more limited oral intake and higher scores reflect more normal diet levels., 19 weeks|Diet Restrictions as Measured by the Performance Status Scale Head and Neck, Performance Status Scale Head and Neck measures eating in public (range 0-100; higher number is indicative of better function), and normalcy of diet (range 0-100, higher number is indicative of more normal function), 7 weeks|Physiological Oropharyngeal Swallowing Impairment as Measured by the Modified Barium Swallow Impairment Profile (MBS-ImP), The Modified Barium Swallow Impairment Profile is a tool designed to quantify degree of impairment on 13 individual physiologic components visualized during a modified barium swallow where higher numbers reflect greater dysfunction. Score range: 0-4 for each physiologic component. The maximum possible Oral score is 22 and the maximum possible pharyngeal score is 29., 19 weeks|Depth of Bolus Entry Into the Laryngeal Vestibule as Measured Using the Penetration-Aspiration Scale (PAS), The Penetration Aspiration Scale measures the presence and depth of food/liquid material entering the airway and patient response to that material. This scale ranges from 1-8 with higher numbers indicating more abnormal function., 19 weeks|Severity of Impairment of Swallowing Safety and Efficiency as Measured Using the Dynamic Imaging Grade of Swallowing Toxicity (DIGEST) Scale, Dynamic Imaging Grade of Swallowing Toxicity (DIGEST) rates the safety and efficiency of the swallow. Safety and efficiency are rated on a scale of 0-4 with higher numbers indicating more abnormality. This scale also includes an overall impairment score which takes into consideration the safety and efficiency grade., 7 weeks
Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the 6th most common type of cancer in the world and has recently seen a dramatic rise in the United States due to a rise in the incidence of oropharyngeal cancers related to the human papillomavirus (HPV) . The majority of patients diagnosed with HNC receive radiation therapy at some point in their treatment, either in the definitive or post-operative setting. Dysphagia is a common consequence of treatment for HNC, experienced by approximately 50% of patients treated with radiation therapy. Post-treatment dysphagia has been associated with increased risk of morbidity/mortality as well as well-recognized deterioration of quality of life. Performance of swallowing exercises during radiation significantly reduces dysphagia risk; however, patient adherence to swallowing exercises during radiation treatment is limited. Thus, poor adherence stands as a major obstacle to achieving the best swallowing outcomes. In response to this, a mobile health application was developed to directly address barriers cited by patients as reasons for non-adherence. The objective is to conduct a randomized controlled trial to test the impact of the mobile application on adherence to prophylactic swallowing therapy during radiation for HNC.