Dose-Escalated Photon IMRT or Proton Beam Radiation Therapy Versus Standard-Dose Radiation Therapy and Temozolomide in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This randomized phase II trial studies how well dose-escalated photon intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) or proton beam radiation therapy works compared with standard-dose radiation therapy when given with temozolomide in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays and other types of radiation to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Specialized radiation therapy that delivers a high dose of radiation directly to the tumor may kill more tumor cells and cause less damage to normal tissue. Drugs, such as temozolomide, may make tumor cells more sensitive to radiation therapy. It is not yet known whether dose-escalated photon IMRT or proton beam radiation therapy is more effective than standard-dose radiation therapy with temozolomide in treating glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|RADIATION: Photon Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Proton Beam Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Temozolomide
Overall survival, Will be compared between dose-escalated and -intensified photon intensity-modulated radiation therapy or proton beam therapy with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide and the standard-dose photon irradiation with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide. OS rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between treatment arms will be tested in a stratified log-rank test, consistent with the stratified randomization. The overall survival rates by MGMT, recursive partitioning analysis class and other prognostic factors will be estimated by Kaplan-Meier methods and compared using the log-rank test. Multivariate analyses with the Cox proportional hazard model for overall survival will be performed to assess the treatment effect adjusting for patient-specific risk factors., Date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival, Will be compared between dose-escalated and -intensified photon intensity-modulated radiation therapy to dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy. If the instrumental variable assumptions hold, overall survival rate will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method, and differences between treatment arms will be tested in the log-rank test., Date of randomization to the date of death, assessed up to 5 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival rates will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and comparisons between treatment arms will be made in the same manner as for overall survival., Date of randomization to the date of progression or death, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of treatment-related toxicity, as measured by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4, Differences in observed severities of toxicities (grade 3+) between groups will be estimated using an exact binomial distribution together with 95% confidence interval. The difference between the 2 groups will be tested using a chi square test. If the instrumental variable assumptions hold the experimental arms will also be compared., Up to 5 years|Change in perceived cognitive function, as measured by M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory Brain Tumor, The change from baseline to each follow-up time point for the perceived cognitive symptom severity score will each be compared using a t-test with alpha=0.05, or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed, between treatment arms within each group. If the instrumental variable assumptions hold and the perceived cognitive function is significantly different within both groups, a test will be performed to compare between the 2 experimental arms., Baseline to up to 60 weeks|Change in neurocognitive function, as measured by Hopkins' Verbal Learning Test-Revised, Trail Making Test Parts A and B, and Controlled Oral Word Association Test, The change from baseline to each follow-up time point for the perceived Clinical Trial Battery composite score will each be compared using a t-test with alpha=0.05, or Wilcoxon test if the data is not normally distributed, between treatment arms within each group. If the instrumental variable assumptions hold and the Clinical Trial Battery composite score is significantly different within both groups, a test will be performed to compare between the 2 experimental arms., Baseline to up to 60 weeks|Change in CD4 lymphopenia count, The change from baseline to the completion of radiation will be compared between the control and experimental arms in each group using a t-test. If the instrumental variable assumptions hold, then it will be compared between the experimental arms. A repeated measures analysis, using a mixed effects model, will be used to assess the change of CD4 lymphopenia across time. CD4 count at 2 months after beginning therapy (dichotomized at 200) was shown to be prognostic of overall survival. This will be assessed here based on the CD4 count at the completion of chemoradiation which matches best to 2-months., Baseline to up to 5 years|Use of magnetic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging to differentiate between tumor progression and pseudo-progression, Will be determined retrospectively following central review by an experienced neuro-radiologist blinded to the patient's outcome., Baseline up to prior to cycle 4|Use of magnetic resonance diffusion and perfusion imaging as early predictors of overall survival, Cox proportional hazard model will be used to analyze the effect of imaging markers on overall survival. Known prognostic factors and patient baseline characteristics will be included in the multivariate analyses as covariates. Response rate at 3 months post-radiation treatment (prior to cycle 4) as well as overall survival at 12 months will be analyzed in separate logistic regression models, and predictors will be changes in the magnetic resonance imaging parameters between baseline and specific early time points in the study. Known prognostic factors and patient baseline characteristics will be included in the regression models. Leave-one-out cross validation will be employed for predictive assessment of the imaging parameters., Baseline up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine if dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT or proton beam therapy (using a dose-per-fraction escalation with simultaneous integrated boost) with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves overall survival, as compared to standard-dose photon irradiation with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To indirectly compare dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT to dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy in terms of overall survival.

II. To indirectly compare and record toxicities of dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT versus dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy and directly compare the toxicities of these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

III. To determine if dose-escalated and -intensified IMRT or proton beam therapy (using a dose-per-fraction escalation with simultaneous integrated boost) with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves perceived cognitive symptom severity, as compared to standard-dose photon irradiation with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

IV. To determine if dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT or proton beam therapy (using a dose-per-fraction escalation with simultaneous integrated boost) with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves neurocognitive function, as compared to standard-dose photon irradiation with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

V. To indirectly determine if dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves perceived cognitive symptom severity, as compared to dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT, and to directly compare symptom burden with these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

VI. To indirectly determine if dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam therapy with concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide improves neurocognitive function, as compared to dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT, and to directly compare neurocognitive function with these approaches versus standard-dose photon irradiation on the backbone of concomitant and adjuvant temozolomide.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Tissue banking for future translational science projects that will be determined based on the state of the science at the time the primary endpoint is reported and will be submitted to National Cancer Institute (NCI) for review and approval.

II. To prospectively compare CD4 lymphopenia between dose-escalated and intensified proton beam therapy, dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT, and standard-dose photon irradiation and determine whether CD4 lymphopenia impacts overall survival.

III. To explore the most appropriate and clinically relevant technological parameters to ensure quality and effectiveness throughout radiation therapy processes, including imaging, simulation, patient immobilization, target and critical structure definition, treatment planning, image guidance and delivery.

IIIa. To establish feasibility and clinical relevancy of quality assurance guidelines.

IIIb. To evaluate efficacy of quality assurance tools. IV. To explore the most appropriate and clinically relevant advanced and standard magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging parameters.

IVa. To evaluate the feasibility of differentiating pseudo-progression and true progression in a multi institutional setting using magnetic resonance (MR) diffusion and perfusion imaging.

IVb. To evaluate for early, imaging biomarkers of response and overall survival.

OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups depending on enrolling institution. Within each group, patients will be randomized 1:2 in favor of the experimental arms.

GROUP I (PHOTON IMRT CENTERS): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A1: Patients undergo standard-dose photon irradiation using 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) or IMRT once daily (QD), 5 days a week for 23 fractions plus a boost of 7 additional fractions.

ARM B: Patients undergo dose-escalated and -intensified photon IMRT QD, 5 days a week for a total of 30 fractions.

GROUP II (PROTON CENTERS): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM A2: Patients undergo standard-dose photon irradiation using 3D-CRT or IMRT as in Arm A1.

ARM C: Patients undergo dose-escalated and -intensified proton beam radiation therapy QD, 5 days a week for a total of 30 fractions.

In all treatment arms, patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) QD on days 1-49 of radiation therapy. Beginning 4 weeks later, patients receive temozolomide PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months thereafter.