Efficacy of Nasogastric Tube Application in Postoperative Care of Esophagectomy
Nasogastric decompression is standard practice after esophageal resection in most centers because it is expected to reduce the incidence of esophagogastric anastomotic leakage by preventing overdistension of the gastric conduit. Most esophageal surgeons have been reluctant to move away from this tradition because of the considerable morbidity of anastomotic leaks after esophagectomy. However, a contrarian view is that the use of prolonged NGD may increase the incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications by promoting aspiration. Considering the numerous complications caused by using the tube and the uncertainty about its usefulness and the scarcity of studies conducted on the subject, particularly in patients with esophageal cancer, the necessity of using the tube in these types of cases is investigated in the present study.
Esophageal Cancer
PROCEDURE: Discharge the NG tube during the surgery
postoperative complication, the occurrence of major pulmonary complications and anastomotic leaks., an expected average of 4 weeks
the need for placing/ replacing the NG tube, the need for placing/ replacing the NG tube, an expected average of 2 weeks|Length of postoperative stay, Length of postoperative stay, an expected average of 2 weeks
Methods In this clinical trial, patients with esophageal cancer were randomized into groups with NG tube and without NG tube after surgery. Sequence generation was performed using a computer-generated sequence of random numbers with permuted blocks. Standard postoperative management protocols were followed in both groups to avoid potential bias, which including preoperation nasogastric decompression. Thoracic esophageal mobilization and mediastinal lymphadenectomy were performed by open thoracotomy surgery. The abdominal part of the surgery was performed by laparotomy, gastric tube reconstruction was performed using linear staplers, and the conduit was brought up to the neck through the posterior mediastinal route. A cervical esophagogastric anastomosis was performed by stapled (linear) techniques. All patients were mobilized early, began early enteral feeding through jejunostomy tubes. Randomization was performed during the surgery. The group without NG tube after surgery will discharge the NG tube during the surgery. While the control group(group with NG tube after surgery) will discharge the NG tube 6-7days after surgery. The variables recorded for each patient included pulmonary complications, wound complications, anastomosis leak as well as the duration of postoperative hospitalization and the need for placing replacing the NG tube.