A Phase Ib Study of ISF35 in Combination With Chemotherapy (FCR) in Subjects With Relapsed, Refractory, and/or 17p- CLL
The study is a Phase 1b open label, non-randomized, single institution clinical trial that is designed to evaluate the safety and tolerability of three repeat infusions of ISF35 followed by a standard regimen of three cycles of fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab (FCR) in subjects with refractory, resistant, and/or 17p- CLL.
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
BIOLOGICAL: ISF35
Assess toxicity, tolerability, and safety of repeat administration of three infusions of 3x10^8 ISF35 given intravenously in combination with a standard course of three treatments of fludarabine, rituximab and cyclophosphamide (FCR)., Duration of the Trial
Explore the anti-leukemia activity of the repeat administration of ISF35 and FCR by evaluating reduction in leukemia count, reduction in lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly, improvement in bone marrow function, and response duration., Duration of the Trial|Assess induction of B and T cell anti-leukemia immune responses, antibody production against autologous CLL B cells, changes in bystander leukemia cell phenotype, and expression of genes and proteins related to apoptosis, Duration of the Trial
ISF35 has already been used in two Phase I clinical trials. The trials demonstrated that ISF35 treatment is well tolerated and patients did not experience any significant or unexpected adverse events. Patients reported flu-like symptoms from ISF35, which disappeared within one to three days.

The trials also showed that ISF35 stimulates the immune system to act against CLL cells and sensitize leukemic cells to subsequent treatment. Repeat infusions of ISF35 administered as a single agent to subjects with CLL resulted in durable reductions in circulating and lymph-node bound leukemic cells. Furthermore, CLL patients with 17p deletion responded to standard courses of FCR after receiving ISF35 and achieved durable remissions.

ISF35 is an abbreviation for Immune Stimulatory Factor 35, an offspring of technology discovered by Dr. Thomas J. Kipps, MD, PhD, Professor, Department of Medicine and Deputy Director for Research,UCSD Moores Cancer Center.