Study of (1) Everolimus, (2) Estrogen Deprivation Therapy (EDT) With Leuprolide + Letrozole and (3) Everolimus + EDT in Patients With Unresectable Fibrolamellar Hepatocellular Carcinoma (FLL-HCC)
There is no effective standard treatment for fibrolamellar liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, 3 drugs called letrozole, leuprolide and everolimus will have on cancer. All of these drugs are FDA approved for the treatment of different cancers. Letrozole and leuprolide stop the body from producing estrogen, a normal hormone produced by the body. Too much estrogen may help fibrolamellar liver cancer grow. Everolimus is a drug that may block other chemicals in the body that can help cancer grow. The combination of letrozole and leuprolide plus everolimus may work well together.
Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Fibrolamellar Liver Cancer
DRUG: everolimus|DRUG: letrozole plus leuprolide|DRUG: combination of everolimus, letrozole and leuprolide
Efficacy Endpoints for Part 1 of the Study is Progression-free Survival at 6 Months (PFS6), for Part 1 of the study is progression-free survival at 6 months (PFS6). A progression event refers to the first evidence of radiographic disease progression, clinical progression as determined by study investigators, or death. Imaging performed in 6 months will be used to determine PFS6., 6 months
Median PFS, Kaplan-Meier PFS will be measured from the date that study therapy is initiated until the date of first evidence of radiographic disease progression, global clinical deterioration as determined by study investigators, or death., 2 years|Median Overall Survival (OS), Kaplan-Meier OS will be measured from the date that study therapy was commenced until the date of death., From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 100 months|Percentage of Participants With Stable Disease, Objective responses will be reported using RECIST guidelines (version 1.1). Objective response will be estimated using binomial proportions and exact 95% CIs will be provided. Stable Disease is defined as neither sufficient shrinkage (compared to baseline) to qualify for Partial Reponse nor sufficient increase (taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study) to qualify for Progressive Disease., 2 years|Number of Participants With One or More Adverse Events/Toxicity, Adverse events/toxicity will be monitored and recorded using the CTCAE version 4.0 and summarized descriptively., 2 years|Number of Participants With Tissue Biomarkers Collected, Associations between baseline tissue biomarkers and PFS6 will be assessed using Fisher's exact test for categorical biomarkers, trend tests for ordinal biomarkers and Wilcoxon rank-sum test for continuous biomarkers. For patients undergoing surgery, changes in tissue biomarkers from baseline to surgery will be summarized descriptively in an exploratory fashion., 2 years
There is no effective standard treatment for fibrolamellar liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, 3 drugs called letrozole, leuprolide and everolimus will have on cancer. All of these drugs are FDA approved for the treatment of different cancers. Letrozole and leuprolide stop the body from producing estrogen, a normal hormone produced by the body. Too much estrogen may help fibrolamellar liver cancer grow. Everolimus is a drug that may block other chemicals in the body that can help cancer grow. The combination of letrozole and leuprolide plus everolimus may work well together.