Dynamic Changes of CtDNA to Evaluate the Efficacy of Immunoconsolidation Therapy After Radiotherapy and Chemotherapy for Esophageal Cancer
The incidence and mortality of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma are among the highest in China, and most patients are diagnosed in the middle and late stages. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for unresectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The 5-year formation rate of advanced esophageal cancer is less than 20%. Immunotherapy for advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma has definite efficacy and low toxicity, and the results of combined radiotherapy have also been preliminarily reported. Combined immunotherapy after chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer is a feasible combination program. But immunotherapy still lacks ideal biomarkers to screen people for advantage. ctDAN status can accurately guide treatment implementation and predict tumor progression. Studies have shown that ctDNA changes are earlier than imaging findings of recurrence or metastasis, and ctNDA detection can sensitively predict tumor progression and prognosis. Therefore, it is necessary to dynamically monitor the changes of ctDNA in immunoconsolidation therapy after radical radiotherapy and chemotherapy for esophageal cancer, and explore its correlation with the curative effect and prognosis of radical radiotherapy and chemotherapy for esophageal cancer.
Esophageal Cancer|CtDNA
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: ctDNA detection
Progression-free survival (PFS), We aim to evaluate the progression-free survival (PFS) of patients with unresectable esophageal squamous cell carcinoma who accept concurrent chemoradiotherapy and received sequential treatment with Triptolide injection after radiotherapy., two years
locoregional progression-free survival (LRPFS), locoregional progression-free survival (LRPFS) is defined as the time from treatment to the primary tumor or regional lymph node histopathological progressconfirmed on CT. In the absence of pathology, tumor progression is evident under gastroscopy and/or confirmed by imaging such as PET-CT., 2 years|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from treatment to death, regardless of disease recurrence, 2 years
The incidence and mortality of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma are among the highest in China, and most patients are diagnosed in the middle and late stages. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for unresectable locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. The 5-year formation rate of advanced esophageal cancer is less than 20%. Immunotherapy for advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma has definite efficacy and low toxicity, and the results of combined radiotherapy have also been preliminarily reported. Combined immunotherapy after chemoradiotherapy for esophageal cancer is a feasible combination program. But immunotherapy still lacks ideal biomarkers to screen people for advantage. ctDAN status can accurately guide treatment implementation and predict tumor progression. Studies have shown that ctDNA changes are earlier than imaging findings of recurrence or metastasis, and ctNDA detection can sensitively predict tumor progression and prognosis. Therefore, it is necessary to dynamically monitor the changes of ctDNA in immunoconsolidation therapy after radical radiotherapy and chemotherapy for esophageal cancer, and explore its correlation with the curative effect and prognosis of radical radiotherapy and chemotherapy for esophageal cancer.