Liver Transplantation for Unresectable Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma
This is multicentric, single-arm, observational, investigator-drive study investigating the efficacy of liver transplantation after successful downstaging/disease control of unresectable perihilar cholangiocarcinoma using chemotherapy +/- immunotherapy and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT).
Perihilar Cholangiocarcinoma|Klatskin Tumor
3-year overall survival, To evaluate overall survival at 36 months in patients with unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and SBRT followed by liver transplantation according to the modified Mayo Clinic protocol, 3 years
3-year recurrence-free survival, To evaluate recurrence-free survival at 36 months in patients with unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and SBRT followed by liver transplantation according to the modified Mayo Clinic protocol, 3 years|Safety and feasibility, To evaluate the safety and feasibility of neoadjuvant SBRT and chemotherapy in patients with unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma candidate to liver transplantation, in particular we will describe in detail the therapeutic path of all patients with unresectable pCCA that enter within the downstaging pathway and are evaluated for LT, how many are able to be transplanted within this protocol, and what are the reasons for dropout from the protocol, 3 years|Quality of life, To evaluate the impact of this treatment strategy and of LT on quality of life in patients with unresectable pCCA. Quality of life will be assessed with validated questionnaires. Questionnaires will be performed at baseline and at 6 months intervals; they will be matched and compared with that of eligible patients recruited within the same study period and receiving non-transplant treatments, 3 years
Patients with unresectable pCCA who fit within inclusion criteria will be enrolled in the study. They will undergo staging laparoscopy with nodal sampling at the hepatic hilum. In case of negative staging (no peritoneal carcinomatosis, no positive hilar lymph nodes, negative peritoneal washing), they will receive downstaging with gemcitabine-cisplatin +/- durvalumab for 2 cycles, followed by SBRT, followed by at least 4 other cycles of gemcitabine-cisplatin +/- durvalumab. After downstaging, they will undergo disease restaging and, if at least disease stability is confirmed, they will undergo transplant screening and listing. Treatment with gemcitabine-cisplatin + durvalumab will continue until liver transplant, progression or unacceptable toxicity.

During listing, restaging will be performed every two months with CT scan and/or MRI, molecular markers and FDG-PET. The target interval between listing and transplant should be less than 90 days.