APG-115 in Salivary Gland Cancer Trial
This is a phase I/II trial to evaluate the efficacy of APG-115 +/- Carboplatin for the treatment p53 wild-type malignant salivary gland cancer.

Part 1 consisted of 2 arms, arm A (APG-115 monotherapy) and arm B (APG-115 + Carboplatin) and was terminated early.

Part 2 is a single arm study (APG-115 monotherapy).
Malignant Salivary Gland Cancer|Salivary Gland Cancer
DRUG: APG-115|DRUG: Carboplatin
Primary Toxicity Endpoint: dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), DLT will be defined based on the rate of drug-related grade 3-5 adverse events experienced within the first 6 weeks (2 cycles) of study treatment. These will be assessed via CTCAE version 5.0, 42 days|Maximally tolerated dose (MTD), MTD will be determined based on DLTs observed during the first 6 weeks (2 cycles) of study treatment., 42 days|Overall response rate, Overall response rate will be defined as the proportion of patients achieving either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR). Response will be assessed via RECIST v1.1., up to 12 months
Overall response rate by tumor histology, Overall response rate will be defined as the proportion of patients achieving either complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), assessed via RECIST v1.1 and reported separately for those with histologically confirmed adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) versus other malignant salivary gland tumors (non-ACC), Until death or end of study; up to approximately 5 years|Duration of response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). Stable disease is measured from the start of the treatment until the criteria for progression are met, taking as reference the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started., Until death or end of study; up to approximately 5 years|Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever is earlier., Until death or end of study; up to approximately 5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of death or end of study., Until death or end of study; up to approximately 5 years|Disease control rate, Defined as the proportion of patients achieving complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). Response will be assessed via RECIST v1.1, Until death or end of study; up to approximately 5 years
The current single arm study design was originally part of a study with a parallel arm given combination APG-115 + Carboplatin. In the initial phase of that previous iteration, the combination arm was closed early for issues related to tolerability of the combination therapy. This study will continue as a single arm, monotherapy alone, Phase I/II study as approved by the UM Institutional Review Board as of June 2021.