Trastuzumab + Alpelisib +/- Fulvestrant vs Trastuzumab + CT in Patients With PIK3CA Mutated Previously Treated HER2+ Advanced BrEasT Cancer (ALPHABET)
Randomized phase III trial of trastuzumab + Alpelisib +/- fulvestrant versus trastuzumab + chemotherapy in patients with PIK3CA mutated previously treated HER2+ Advanced Breast cancer.
Advanced Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Alpelisib|DRUG: Fulvestrant|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Eribulin
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time from randomization to objective disease progression based on the investigator's assessment according to the response evaluation criteria for solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., or death from any cause., The accumulation of targeted PFS events is estimated at 44 and 38 months since first patients randomized, in the HR- and HR+ cohorts, respectively.
Overall Survival (OS), Time from randomization to death from any cause., Approximately 59 months from the inclusion of the first patient.|Objective Response (OR), Complete or partial response as best overall response based on the investigator's assessment according to RECIST version 1.1., Through study completion, an average of 59 months from the inclusion of the first patient.|Safety and tolerability, Adverse events (AEs) grades will be defined by the National Cancer Institute common terminology criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0. AE terms will be coded according to the MedDRA dictionary., During the study treatment period or within 30 days of the last dose of study treatment.
Time to first subsequent therapy (TFST), Time from randomization to the initiation of the first subsequent line of systemic therapy after the study therapy or death from any cause., After disease progression or unacceptable toxicity up approximately 59 months from the inclusion of the first patient.|Time to first subsequent therapy cessation (TFSTC), Time from randomization to the cessation of the first subsequent line of systemic therapy for any reason (i.e., progression, toxicity, death from any cause, etc.)., At the finalization of the first subsequent line of systemic therapy after study treatment estimated to be approximately 59 months from the inclusion of the first patient.|Change in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network - Functional- Breast Cancer Symptom Index-16 (NFBSI) summary score from baseline to 9 weeks after randomization, NFBSI-16 is a 16-item assessment of disease-related symptoms, treatment side effects, and general function and well-being. The instrument has 3 subscales: disease-related symptoms (DRS) - 9 items; treatment side-effects (TSE) - 4 items; and general function and well-being (F/WB) - 3 items. All items have a 7-day recall period and a 5-point verbal descriptive response scale ranging from 0 ("not at all") to 4 ("very much"). NFBSI-16 summary scores range from 0-64, with higher scores indicating less symptomatology and better QoL. Scoring of summary and subscale scores will be based on the FACIT.org scoring guidelines.

Patients must complete each paper-based QoL questionnaire during their visits in the clinic and prior to having any tests and to any discussion of their health status with healthcare personnel at the site.

A longitudinal assessment will be used to assess differential effects of the randomized treatments on patients' QoL, Baseline and 9 weeks after randomization.|Time to deterioration (TTD) in QoL., Time from randomization to the first time the patient's NFBSI-16 summary score shows a ≥ 4 points decrease from baseline for at least two consecutive assessments, or an initial score decrease of ≥ 4 points followed by death before the next assessment timepoint., QoL will be assessed at baseline;every 3 weeks until week 9 and then every 6 weeks until progression and at the post-treatment visit.|PIK3CA mutations determined in tumor and blood samples, and their correlation with efficacy variables., At baseline, at week 9, at the end of treatment [EOT] and at Progression Disease estimated up to 9 months.
This is an international, multicenter, open-label, controlled phase III randomized clinical trial in HER2+ advanced breast cancer (ABC) patients harboring PIK3CA mutation.

Approximately 300 patients (144 in the Hormone Receptor (HR)- cohort and 156 in the HR+ cohort) will be enrolled.

Central screening of PIK3CA mutations on the most recent available formalin-fixed paraffinembedded (FFPE) tumor sample is required for the purpose of eligibility. Investigators will be encouraged to send the most recent tumor tissue, preferably from a metastatic lesion. However, if this is not possible, archived tissue samples either from primary tumor or metastatic lesion will be acceptable. Local screening of HR and HER2 status is required (although there will be a central confirmation done retrospectively).

Once the screening process (locally at each site and at the central laboratory) is completed, fully eligible patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to the control arm with trastuzumab plus chemotherapy (CT) or to the experimental arm with trastuzumab + alpelisib +/- fulvestrant (depending on HR status). The two patient cohorts defined according to HR status will be randomized separately, with randomization in each cohort stratified by prior treatment with pertuzumab (yes vs no) and number of prior anti-HER2 based therapy lines for MBC (≤2 vs \>2).

In both cohorts patients will continue to receive their assigned treatment until objective disease progression, symptomatic deterioration, unacceptable toxicity, death, or withdrawal of consent, whichever occurs first.

After objective disease progression, patients in both treatment arms will be followed until death or withdrawal of consent.

In order to perform exploratory biomarker analysis, pre-treatment tumor and sequential blood samples (at baseline, at week 9, at the end of treatment (EOT), and at progressive disease (PD)) will be obtained. Additionally, blood samples from approximately 100 patients (50 HR+ and 50 HR-) screened and without PIK3CA mutation will be collected.