Pattern and Management of Intracranial Cavernoma
Intracranial cavernous vascular malformations are variously known as cavernous angiomas, cavernous hemangiomas, or, more simply, cavernomas. Cavernomas are congenital low flow vascular lesions. It composed of irregular sinusoidal vascular channels, lacking smooth muscle, and elastic fibers. They lack feeding arteries or draining veins and contain no neural tissue. The first description of an intracranial cavernoma was given by Virchow, in 1863. For over a century, it was considered to be an extremely rare malformation, usually found at autopsy, and exceptionally diagnosed during life. The prevalence of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) is estimated to be 0.4-0.9%.
Management of Intracranial Cavernous Hemangioma
PROCEDURE: surgical excision of intracranial cavernoma
clinical outcome, Measured by Modified Rankin Scale Measures the degree of disability or dependence in the daily activities of people who have suffered any cause of neurological disability.

The scale runs from 0-6, running from perfect health without symptoms to death.

0 - No symptoms.

1. - No significant disability. Able to carry out all usual activities, despite some symptoms.
2. - Slight disability. Able to look after own affairs without assistance, but unable to carry out all previous activities.
3. - Moderate disability. Requires some help, but able to walk unassisted.
4. - Moderately severe disability. Unable to attend to own bodily needs without assistance, and unable to walk unassisted.
5. - Severe disability. Requires constant nursing care and attention, bedridden, incontinent.
6. - Dead., one month post operative
Intracranial cavernous vascular malformations are variously known as cavernous angiomas, cavernous hemangiomas, or, more simply, cavernomas. Cavernomas are congenital low flow vascular lesions. It composed of irregular sinusoidal vascular channels, lacking smooth muscle, and elastic fibers. They lack feeding arteries or draining veins and contain no neural tissue. The first description of an intracranial cavernoma was given by Virchow, in 1863. For over a century, it was considered to be an extremely rare malformation, usually found at autopsy, and exceptionally diagnosed during life. The prevalence of cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) is estimated to be 0.4-0.9%.