Pilot Remote Therapeutic Monitoring in Cancer Patients
The goal of this clinical trial is to learn about exercise and physical activity in individuals who are undergoing cancer treatment. The clinical trial is embedded in a pilot implementation feasibility study. The main implementation questions it aims to answer are to understand the implementation feasibility, acceptability and appropriateness of remote monitoring from providers and participants. The main clinical trial outcomes are to explore the effectiveness of remote therapeutic monitoring to achieve individual goal attainment related to exercise defined as number of daily steps, weekly exercise minutes, strength sessions or decreased physical activity variability.

During the course of the study: Participants will use activity trackers and a mobile phone application to monitor their exercise participation over 3 months.
Cancer
OTHER: Datos Health App
Physical Activity Metric 1, steps per day, Daily, through study completion, average 3 months|PROMIS 29+2, A self report survey used to assess health report quality of life. It contains 31 total questions., completed at baseline and at study completion, average of 3 months
Physical Activity Metric 2, minutes of exercise in target heart rate zone, Daily, through study completion, average 3 months|Physical Activity Metric 3, Number of strength training bouts, weekly, through study completion, average 3 months
The study aims to evaluate the implementation and clinical effectiveness of Remote Therapeutic Monitoring (RTM) in cancer rehabilitation. RTM is a reimbursable tool that enables clinicians (physical therapists, occupational therapists, and physicians) to remotely monitor adherence to exercise and physical activity (PA), addressing barriers such as limited time and energy for in-person appointments during cancer treatment. We will implement three months of RTM in 20 individuals undergoing or within six months of chemotherapy, immunotherapy, or cell therapy. We will evaluate the following aims:

1. Implementation Outcomes: Assess RTM's feasibility, acceptability, appropriateness, sustainability, and satisfaction from the perspectives of therapists, physicians, and patients using validated questionnaires and interviews.

2: Clinical Trial Outcomes: Measure RTM's effectiveness in achieving patient-centered goals, such as increasing or maintaining exercise, PA, strength training, or energy conservation, and its impact on quality of life using PROMIS-29+2.

The findings will inform future large-scale research and enhance cancer rehabilitation outcomes by improving accessibility and personalized care through RTM integration.