A Phase I Dose Escalation Study of Eribulin Plus Weekly Carboplatin for Metastatic Breast Patients
This study is being done to see how safe the combination of eribulin and carboplatin is and if it will work to help people with advanced breast cancer. Eribulin and carboplatin are both chemotherapy drugs. They work by killing cancer cells. A person is made up of cells which control every function in the body. Some cells stop working like they should and become cancer cells. These cancer cells grow and multiply rapidly and can cause destruction to normal body organs. Eribulin and carboplatin have both been approved by United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of breast cancer. The combination of these two drugs and the safest dose of eribulin to use is experimental.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), The primary objective of the trial is to determine the safety and tolerability of eribulin mesylate and carboplatin in combination. The primary safety endpoint is dose limiting toxicity (DLT). The MTD is defined as the dose at which the percentage of patients experiencing a DLT is the closest to 30%. Planned doses for evaluation of eribulin mesylate include 0.9, 1.1, and 1.4 mg/m\^2., 30 months
Response Rate (RR), Response rate will be provided for the subjects in the study overall. Response rates and 95% confidence intervals will be provided. Eribulin mesylate pharmacokinetic variables: peak concentration (CPeak) and trough plasma concentrations (Ctrough) will be calculated as appropriate and summary statistics will be provided., 30 months
This study is being done to see how safe the combination of eribulin and carboplatin is and if it will work to help people with advanced breast cancer. Eribulin and carboplatin are both chemotherapy drugs. They work by killing cancer cells. A person is made up of cells which control every function in the body. Some cells stop working like they should and become cancer cells. These cancer cells grow and multiply rapidly and can cause destruction to normal body organs. Eribulin and carboplatin have both been approved by United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in the treatment of breast cancer. The combination of these two drugs and the safest dose of eribulin to use is experimental.