Clinical Evaluation of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI in Patients With Various Solid Tumors
Increased fibroblast activation protein expression is positively correlated with the aggressiveness of cancer. Radiolabeled fibroblast activation protein inhibitor therapy, also known as radioligand therapy has become a novel treatment for patients with refractory cancer and disease progression after multiple-lines treatment. However, a major problem in the therapeutic use of 177Lu-DOTA-FAPI has been its short half-life and fast rate of clearance. This study was designed to investigate the efficacy and safety of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI in patients with various solid tumors who had failed standard therapies.
Refractory Solid Tumor
DRUG: 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI radionuclide therapy
Radiological response (according to RECIST criteria), RECIST objective response after completion of radioligand therapy, which was defined by response category between baseline and restaging after RLT. Disease control after RLT was defined as either complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD). Disease control rate (DCR) was reported as the proportion of patients with disease control after RLT., 6 weeks, 12 weeks, 18 weeks, or up to 6 months
Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), PFS was recorded from start of RLT until RECIST progression, death, or last follow-up. OS was recorded from start of RLT until death or last follow-up conducted for all patients at the end of August 2024., disease progression, death or last follow-up conducted for all patients at the end of August 2024.|Dosimetry, Dosimetry, measured as the absorbed dose in tumors (Gy/GBq), was estimated in the first treatment cycle for each patient., 6 weeks
This investigator-initiated phase II study will include a maximum of 30 subjects with progressive cancer after multiple-line treatment, with an increased radiotracer uptake in tumors on 68Ga-FAPI-46 PET/CT. The fixed dose of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI is 3.3GBq (90 mCi) per cycle. Treatment is planned for up to 4 cycles, and the time interval between cycles is 6 weeks. The primary endpoint assessed the radiological response (according to RECIST criteria) after completion of radioligand therapy. The secondary endpoints included progression-free survival (PFS), overall survival (OS), dosimetry, and safety of 177Lu-DOTA-EB-FAPI.