Improving Quality of Life of Prostate Cancer Survivors With Androgen Deficiency
The purpose of this phase II trial is to determine the efficacy and safety of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) in improving the symptoms of androgen deficiency and health-related quality of life in men with prostate cancer who have undergone radical prostatectomy.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Testosterone Cypionate 100 MG/ML|DRUG: Placebo
PSA Recurrence, The proportion of enrolled participations with PSA recurrence., 5-8 months|Change in sexual activity, Change in sexual activity is assessed by the Psychosexual Daily Questionnaire (PDQ), question 4. Subjects complete the questionnaire daily for 7 consecutive days before each visit. The PDQ covers 3 domains:1) sexual desire, enjoyment, and performance; 2) sexual activity score; and 3) mood. Sexual desire, sexual enjoyment, and mood are rated on a 7-point Likert-type scale from 0 to 7, with 0 indicating none and 7 indicating high. Activity is assessed using a checklist. Subjects record whether they had sexual daydreams; anticipation of sex; flirting; sexual interactions; and erection, masturbation, intercourse, orgasm, and ejaculation on each of the 7 days. The value is recorded as 0 (none) or 1 (any) for analysis. Weekly value is the sum of "any" responses for the week. The sexual activity score is the average of the weekly values. The score is 0 if no activity has taken place. Higher values indicate more activity and lower values indicate lower activity., 5-8 months
Change in PSA, Change in PSA from baseline to final assessment, Baseline to 5-8 months|Clinical Disease Recurrence, Proportion of enrolled participants with clinical disease recurrence, 5-8 months|Change in sexual desire, Sexual desire will be assessed by DeRogatis Inventory of Sexual Function. HRQOL using the hormonal and sexual domains of the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC). Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite Instrument (EPIC-26) for Measuring Health-Related Quality of Life Among Prostate Cancer Survivors EPIC QOL is a 26 item questionnaire that assesses quality of life in 5 domains: urinary incontinence, urinary irritation/obstruction, bowel, sexual and vitality/hormonal domain scores.

All domains for EPIC-26 are reported on a 0 to 100 score, with higher scores representing favorable HRQOL, 5-8 months|Change in erectile function, Erectile function will be assessed by IIEF. The International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) is a 15-item questionnaire that covers 4 domains of sexual function: erectile function, sexual desire, orgasmic function, and intercourse satisfaction. Each question has a potential score of 0 to 5 for a maximal score of 75 for the entire scale. Our focus in this study is on erectile function domain score, which can range from 0 to 30, lower scores indicating poor erectile function, and higher score indicating better erectile function., 5-8 months|Change in energy level, Energy level will be assessed using the Hypogonadism Energy Diary (HED). The total HED scale score is the sum of each of the six item weekly scores, with higher scores corresponding to greater energy level. The HED total score is linearly transformed to a scale of 0-100. Lower score indicate lower energy (or more tiredness0 and higher scores indicate more energy (less tiredness)., 5-8 months|Change in mood, Mood and well-being will be assessed by PANAS., 5-8 months|Change in physical function, Physical function will be assessed by measuring stair climbing power with and without a standardized load, walking speed., 5-8 months|Change in self-reported physical function, Self-reported physical function will be assessed using physical function domain of MOS SF-36 (PF10), 5-8 months|Change in maximal voluntary strength, Maximal voluntary strength in the leg press exercise by the 1-RM method., 5-8 months|Change in lean body mass, Lean body mass using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA)., 5-8 months|Change in hormone Levels, Total testosterone, DHT and estradiol will be measured using LC-MS/MS in a CDC-certified laboratory, free testosterone by equilibrium dialysis., 5-8 months|Change in aerobic capacity, Aerobic capacity will be assessed by measuring VO2 peak., 5-8 months
The overall objective is to conduct a proof-of-concept double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group, randomized trial to determine the efficacy and safety of testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) in improving the symptoms of androgen deficiency (sexual symptoms, low energy, and physical dysfunction) and overall health-related quality of life in men with prostate cancer who have undergone radical prostatectomy for organ-localized disease (pT2,N0,M0), Gleason score \< 7 (3+4), who have undetectable PSA (\<0.1 ng/mL using a sensitive PSA assay) for \> 2 years after radical prostatectomy, and who have androgen deficiency.