Conditioned Open-label Placebos to Facilitate Opioid Reduction in Patients With Chronic Non-cancer Pain
This study aims to evaluate whether the reduction of the daily morphine equivalent dose (MED) in patients with chronic non-cancer pain (CNCP) can be decreased with an open-label placebo (OLP) intervention in comparison to an electronic monitoring (EM) control group. The participants will receive the intervention (OPL or EM) over the duration of six weeks. Diverse psychological and health measures will be assessed with questionnaires over the course of the intervention. Furthermore, evaluation outcomes, qualitative outcomes and safety outcomes will be assessed. It is hypothesized that the OLP-intervention group in comparison to the EM-control group will have a significantly lower consumption of MED over the course of the study. Furthermore, this study aims to evaluate whether the OLP intervention can reduce opioid withdrawal symptoms in comparison to the control group.
Chronic Non-cancer Pain
OTHER: P-Dragees blue Lichtenstein, Placebo dragees|OTHER: Control group (EM)
Daily opioid consumption (MED):, Cumulative dose (i.e. total amount) of opioid pain medication consumption based on daily morphine equivalent doses (MED). Data is collected in SEMA3 app., Daily measure: starts on day 1 after the first intervention visit (baseline, day 0) after randomization and ends on day 42 at the end of the study.
Subjective opioid withdrawal symptoms, Subjective opioid withdrawal will be assessed with the Subjective Opiate Withdrawal Scale (SOWS). The intensity of the withdrawal symptoms is rated by the patient on a scale between 0 (= not at all) and 4 (= extremely), the scores for individual symptoms are added to a total sum score, which can range from 0 to 64. The secondary endpoint will be the subjective opioid withdrawal score at study end (t3)., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and on day 42 at the end of the study.|Pain severity, Pain severity is assessed using the ICD-11 specifiers or 'extension codes'. The index combines patient-assessed ratings of pain intensity, pain-related distress and pain-related interference. Each of these ratings is assessed on an 11-point NRS rating scale, and these are mapped into the following categories depending on the NRS score: none = NRS 0, mild = NRS 1 - 3, moderate = NRS 4 - 6 and severe = NRS 7 - 10., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and at the end of the study on day 42.|Pain disability, Pain disability is assessed using the pain disability index (PDI) to determine the subjective degree of self-reported impairment caused by the pain problem in everyday life. Seven domains of life are assessed: (1) family and domestic responsibilities, (2) recreation, (3) social activities, (4) occupation, (5) sexual life, (6) self-care and (7) essential activities. The scale ranges from 0 "no impairment" (minimum) - 10 "full impairment" (maximum)., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and at the end of the study on day 42.|Anxiety, Anxiety is assessed using the German version of the GAD-7. It is a brief instrument for assessing self-reported generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) symptoms with seven items asking about the main diagnostic criteria of GAD according to the DSM-IV and the ICD-10 criteria. The questions refer to the past two weeks. The scale ranges from "not at all" (minimum); "On some days"; "On more than half of the days"; "almost every day" (maximum)., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and at the end of the study on day 42.|Depression, Depression is assessed using Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-D) consisting of nine items referring to the past two weeks. The German version of the PHQ was derived from the 'Prime MD Patient Health Questionnaire' and is based on the criteria of the DSM-IV. The scale ranges from "not at all" (minimum); "On some days"; "On more than half of the days"; "almost every day" (maximum)., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and at the end of the study on day 42.|Pain Opioid Analgesics Beliefs Scale - Cancer, The POABS-CA in the German version measures pain opioid beliefs based on two components with 10 items and a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 0 ("strongly disagree") to 4 ("strongly agree"). The higher the score, the more negative was the opinion about the use of opioid analgesics for cancer pain, and the stronger was the belief that pain should be endured., Measured three times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline), on day 7, and at the end of the study on day 42.|Treatment Expectancy 1, Expectation measures will be measured in analogy to the most relevant outcomes. First, subjectively expected amount (dose) of opioid medication taken will be examined. For this, the following item will be used at the end of the study "How much opioid medication do you think you will be taking at the end of the study?" The item is answered by naming the type of medication, frequency and amount (dose) of medication., One-time assessment: measured on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline).|Treatment Expectancy 2, Expectation measures will be measured in analogy to the most relevant outcomes. Second, to measure the expected withdrawal symptoms at the end of the study, items from the SOWS questionnaire will be used, which are expanded with instructions regarding the expectation., One-time assessment: measured on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline).|Placebo pill count, The intake of placebo pills by the OLP-group will be electronically monitored using survey provided by the app SEMA3. For statistical analysis a ratio will be calculated. A value of the ration close to 1 indicated a more accurate data entry of the placebo pill intake., Daily measure: starts 1 day after the first intervention visit (baseline, day 0) after randomization and ends on day 42 at the end of the study.|Opioid adherence, Opioid adherence trajectories will be measured with the app SEMA3 in both groups. In the EM control group, a print of the actual data report from the app (i.e. graph reflecting the pattern of opioid medication intake) will be the basis for the EM-Feedback., Daily measure: starts 1 day after the first intervention visit (baseline, day 0) after randomization and ends on day 42 at the end of the study.
Rationale credibility, The rationale credibility of the OLP intervention will be assessed in the OLP group at study end. The following questions will be assessed: "How credible did you find the explanation of why placebo treatment can work?", "During the study, did you believe that these were placebo tablets that did not contain a pharmacologic agent?", "Did you find the explanation of why the placebo intervention may work helpful?", "How helpful did you find the explanation of why placebo treatment can work?". Answers will be rated on a Likert scale ranging from 0 = Not at all to 4 = Extremely., One-time assessment: measured on day 42 at the end of the study.|Placebo understanding, The understanding of placebo will be assessed in both study groups (OLP and control group) at study end using a questionnaire which assesses responders' attitudes regarding non-specific therapies. The first three items of this questionnaire specifically assess the placebo understanding and will be used for this study. The scales differ for the different items.

Scale question 1: "I have never heard of the term"; "I have heard the term before, but I do not know"; "A placebo is ... (open question)" Scale question 2: "For me the term is rather positive" "For me the term is neutral, neither positive nor negative"; "For me the term is rather negative"; "I do not know" Scale question 3. "Yes, very often"; "Yes, but rarely"; "No"; "I do not know"

Additionally participants are asked, if their understanding of placebos might have changed across the study. Scale: "Yes, to the positive because ... (open question)"; Yes, to the negative because ... (open question)"; "No"; "I do not know", One-time assessment: measured on day 42 at the end of the study.|Patient Provider Connection, The Patient Provider Connection is a subscale of the German version of the Healing Encounters and Attitudes List (HEAL) which can be used independently from the six subscales. The seven items are rated on a five-point Likert scale ranging from "not at all" to "very strong" assessing participants' attitudes towards patient-provider connection as a non-specific treatment effect. The scale ranges from 0 "not at all" (minimum) to "very much" 4 (maximum), One-time assessment: measured on day 42 at the end of the study.|Medication history, Participants' non-opioid medication intake will be assessed by asking the participants about the medication's name, dosage, and reason for intake. Participants will also be asked about the date of prescription., Measured two times: on day 0 at the first intervention visit (baseline) and on day 42 at the end of the study.|Primary treating physicians' acceptability of the OLP approach:, Before the start of the study the primary treating physicians will be asked about their acceptability of the OLP approach from patient and physicians point of view. All items will be rated on a five- or seven-point Likert scale., One-time assessment, measured before study start: on day -14, prior to the first intervention visit (baseline, day 0).|Primary treating physicians' treatment expectancies, The primary treating physicians will be given the same questionnaire on treatment expectations as the participants. They will be asked about their subjective expectation of their patients' use of opioid medication and their subjective expectation of their patients' withdrawal symptoms at the end of the study. In addition, the primary treating physicians will be asked to assess their patients' motivation to reduce opioid pain medication. Motivation will be assessed with the following questions on a satisfaction ruler ranging from 0 % to 100 %: 1. "How satisfied is your patient currently with his opioid medication?", 2. "How confident are you that your patient can change her/his use of opioid medication?"., One-time assessment, measured before study start: on day -14, prior to the first intervention visit (baseline, day 0).|Qualitative Outcomes, The qualitive outcomes will be assessed with an audio recorded semi-structured interviews and will consist of general questions about placebos and core question about the experience of the OLP intervention, acceptability of the OLP approach and prerequisites, ideas and concerns regarding practical OLP implementation., One-time assessment: measured at the end of the study on day 42.|Additional Symptoms, Participants answer three questions regarding additional symptoms that might have occurred since the last visit at the study site.

The questions are the following:

* "How have you been since the last visit?" (open answer format)
* "Did you have certain symptoms?" (yes/no)
* If the participant answered yes in question 2, a follow up question will be displayed: "Please describe the symptoms you had in detail." (open answer format), Measured two times: on day 7 after the first intervention visit (baseline) and on day 42.
CNCP is a major global health problem and is often treated with opiod medication, although risks outweigh the benefits. Therefore, recent studies suggest that an open-label placebo (OLP) treatment, the placebo treatment with full disclosure of being a placebo, has proven to be an effective, clinically relevant, and evidence-based treatment in CNCP syndromes. Furthermore, a new line of research indicated that OLPs have been shown to be feasible for the reduction of active medication in opioid use disorder. In line with the conditioning paradigm, the drug as the unconditioned stimulus is paired with the neutral stimulus of an OLP in a learning phase. Then, the OLP alone becomes a conditioned stimulus.