Induction Chemotherapy Followed by Chemoradiotherapy for Head and Neck Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine whether human papillomavirus (HPV)-positive head and neck cancer can be treated with a less aggressive regimen of radiation therapy and chemotherapy (paclitaxel) after initially receiving two cycles of chemotherapy (carboplatin/paclitaxel).
Head and Neck Cancer
RADIATION: Induction Chemotherapy followed by Response Adapted Chemoradiation
Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival, Defined from date of registration to date of first documentation of progression and/or distant metastasis, or death due to any cause. The true 2-year progression-free survival rate will be estimated by the proportion of efficacy-evaluable patients on study without documentation of disease progression or death 2 years from registration. A 95% confidence interval (CI) for the true progression-free survival rate will be constructed using the Duffy-Santner approach. However, Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate the final 2-year progression-free survival rate and its 95% CI in case there are censored patients., Up to 2 years
Number of Participants With Overall Survival, Defined as the time from registration to death using the Kaplan-Meier method.., Up to 5 years|Number of Patients With Toxicity of Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy, Assessed by NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Effects, Version 4.0. Reported participants who experienced an AE during concurrent chemoradiotherapy., Up to 5 years
Given the toxicity of high dose cisplatin, attention has focused on identifying patients at lower risk for failure who may potentially benefit from less aggressive chemoradiotherapy approaches. HPV-positive Head and Neck Cancer responds favorably to radiation therapy. This has prompted investigators to suggest that patients with these cancers might be "over-treated" and unnecessarily subjected to the toxicity of intensive chemoradiotherapy with excessively high radiation doses.

This study will select patients with HPV-positive Head and Neck cancer for attenuated therapy and may have important implications for individualization of care in the future. The regimen of carboplatin and paclitaxel was selected for the induction chemotherapy phase because of its ease of administration, improved toxicity profile, high rates of dose delivery, and excellent published results showing high response rates and overall survival. This study will use induction chemotherapy primarily as a means to select HPV-positive Head and Neck Cancer patients, who may benefit from significant radiation dose de-intensification in the concurrent chemoradiotherapy phase of treatment. The rationale for this risk-adapted approach to local therapy based on HPV status is to administer effective comprehensive treatment individualized at diagnosis and after assessment of response to induction chemotherapy (for patients with HPV-positive tumors), thus avoiding unnecessary and potentially toxic treatment, and hence optimizing the therapeutic ratio.