Efficacy of Paxman Scalp Cooling to Prevent Chemo Induced Alopecia in Black Patients With Breast or GYN Cancers
This study will measure the efficacy of scalp cooling with the Paxman Scalp Cooling (PSC) device in a diverse patient population with success measured as prevention of more than 50% hair loss during chemotherapy. We propose that scalp cooling has distinct efficacy in participants with black or ethnic-minority hair types due to differences in textures, hair thickness. This study will examine the success rate of scalp cooling in black patients receiving chemotherapy for breast or gynecological cancer.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Gynecologic Neoplasm|Endometrial Cancer
DEVICE: Paxman Scalp Cooling Device
Patient reported rate of alopecia rate of alopecia, Patient-reported rate of alopecia as measured by the modified Dean Scale and VAS. Hair preservation is defined in this scale as \<50% hair loss (\< grade 2) or score of \<50 on VAS, During active chemotherapy and completion of study, an average of 6 months
Psychosocial assessments of chemotherapy-induced alopecia, Psychosocial assessments of chemotherapy-induced alopecia will be measured by validated CADS (Chemotherapy-induced Alopecia Distress Scale) at designated time intervals. The questionnaire is composed of a 4-point likert Scale and 4 multi-items distress domain that include Physical (2 questions), Emotional (6 questions), Activity (6 questions) and Relationship (1 question). A score of 4 for each domain indicates greater distress. A score of 1 represents no distress., During active chemotherapy and completion of study, an average of 6 months|Quality of life assessments of chemotherapy-induced alopecia, Quality of life assessments of chemotherapy-induced alopecia will be measured by EORTC QLQ BR45 questionnaire at designated time intervals. Higher score (4 for each question) is worse., During active chemotherapy and completion of study, an average of 6 months
The primary objective is to measure the efficacy of the PSC device in preventing CIA in this diverse patient population with success measured as prevention of \>grade 2 alopecia by self-report using the modified Dean scale or the VAS scale in \>50% of participants using the intervention. We propose that scalp cooling has distinct efficacy in participants with black or ethnic-minority hair types due to differences in textures, hair thickness.

The study aims include delivery of scalp cooling at each chemotherapy cycle with measurements of CIA at assigned intervals using patient self-report measured by the modified Dean scale and the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) outlined below.

The secondary aims are provider assessments of alopecia as measured by the NCI grading scale of alopecia, adverse effects of scalp cooling procedures such as headaches, dizziness, and pain, reasons for refusal or drop-out of study intervention.

Psychosocial and quality-of- life (QOL) effects of CIA in study participants will be measured using patient reported outcomes. The EORTC QLQ-B45 and Chemotherapy-Induced-Alopecia-Distress Scale (CADS) will be administered at designated time intervals.