Effectiveness of Focal Therapy in Men With Prostate Cancer
In the Netherlands, most men with prostate cancer (PCa) are treated with radical whole-gland treatment, i.e. prostatectomy or radiotherapy. The burden of complications such as incontinence and erectile dysfunction associated with radical treatment is considerable. A recent systematic review by our group has shown that focal therapy of PCa seems to reduce the burden of treatment side-effects in men with intermediate-risk disease, maintaining their quality of life without compromising oncological effectiveness. The costs of side effects that can be prevented are estimated at €5456 per patient, resulting in total expected cost savings of about €22 million per year in The Netherlands. Furthermore, exploration of the benefit-risk balance under patients showed that they are willing to sacrifice some survival for an improvement in quality of life (QoL).

Focal therapy comprises a modern alternative to selectively treat a specific part of the prostate while preserving the rest of the gland. There is, however, a lack of high-quality evidence, and numerous papers therefore recommend to perform a multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT). The RCT should have long-term follow-up, predefined assessment of cancer-specific and health-related QoL outcome measures, and economic evaluations to inform policymakers regarding cost-effectiveness. This RCT on focal therapy versus usual care is urgently needed to enable focal therapy to overgrow the experimental status, provide the evidence needed for guidelines, and make this available for selected patients who benefit from this strategy. Because of its promising results in other countries, focal therapy is increasingly requested by patients, but due to the lack of high-quality evidence, it is not reimbursed yet. This has been designated by both the PCa patient support group and physicians as a failure of both the market and the funding agencies. The investigators, therefore, aim to perform a high-quality multi-center RCT to provide the evidence needed to decide on reimbursement and implementation of focal therapy in patients with intermediate-risk, unilateral clinically localized PCa in the Netherlands.
Prostate Cancer|Prostate Neoplasm
PROCEDURE: Focal therapy|PROCEDURE: Usual care
Oncological effectiveness (non-inferiority) defined as treatment failure, i.e. pathologically proven recurrent disease and/or the indication for retreatment with salvage treatment (RP, RT or systemic treatment or RT) in the focal therapy group and as biochemical recurrence and/or salvage treatment in the usual care group, 36 months|Quality of life (superiority) measured with Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Prostate questionnaire, Compare quality of life between the two arms measured with the FACT-P questionnaire. FACT-P scores of the subscales vary between 0-24 and 0-28, the total score is between 0-156. The higher the score, the better., 12 months
Metastasis-free survival, Metastasis-free survival as a validated surrogate endpoint of overall survival, comparing the proportion of patients between the arms who are free from metastatic disease., at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Health-related quality of life using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire for prostate cancer, Compare quality of life measurements between the two arms using the EORTC QLQ-PR25 for sexual symptoms a higher score on the functional scales means a higher level of functioning, but on the symptomatic scales, a higher score means a greater severity of symptoms, at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Health-related quality of life using the International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire, Quality of life measurements using the ICIQ-SF. Score ranges between1 and 21, a higher score means a greater severity of symptoms., at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Health-related quality of life regarding urinary symptoms using the International Prostate Symptom Score questionnaire, Compare quality of life measurements between the two arms using the IPSS The score ranges between 0 and 35, a higher score means a greater severity of symptoms, at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Health-related quality of life using the Sexual Health Inventory for Men International Index of Erectile Function-5 questionnaire, Compare quality of life measurements between the two arms regarding sexual function using the SHIM IIEF-5 questionnaire, the score ranges between 8 and 25, a higher score means lesser severity of symptoms., at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Health-related quality of life using the 5-dimension health-related quality of life from the uroQol group, Quality of life measurements regarding mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression using the EuroQol 5D 5level questionnaire, at baseline, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months|Disease progression, 60 months|Disease specific mortality, Compare the mortality between the two arms regarding prostate cancer, 60 months|All-cause mortality, Compare the overall mortality between the two arms., 60 months|Operating time, Compare the total time of the procedure between the two arms., Immediately after the procedure|Hospital care stay, Compare the length of the hospital stay between the two arms., Immediately after procedure|Pathology results after biopsy and/or radical prostatectomy, • Pathology results after biopsy and/or radical prostatectomy will be summarized using descriptive statistics, primarily the frequency and proportion of events., 60 months|Adverse events, • Treatment-related complications will be recorded according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. We will calculate both an overall mean risk difference and 95% confidence interval as well as a mean risk difference per item, and their corresponding 95% CI, 60 months|Cost-effectiveness will be measured using the iMTA Medical Consumption Questionnaire, Costs will be calculated according to the Dutch guideline for costing research, by multiplying resource use with the corresponding unit costs. Average costs will be calculated in both groups, and differences will be calculated inclusive of 95% confidence intervals. Effectiveness will be measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)., 60 months|Cost-effectiveness will be measured using the IMTA Productivity Cost Questionnaire, Costs will be calculated according to the Dutch guideline for costing research, by multiplying resource use with the corresponding unit costs. Average costs will be calculated in both groups, and differences will be calculated inclusive of 95% confidence intervals. Effectiveness will be measured in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)., 60 months
In the Netherlands, most men with PCa are treated with radical whole-gland treatment, i.e. prostatectomy or a form of radiotherapy. The burden of complications such as incontinence and erectile dysfunction associated with radical treatment is considerable.

A recent systematic review by our group has shown that focal therapy of PCa seems to reduce the burden of treatment side-effects in men with intermediate-risk disease, maintaining their quality of life without compromising oncological effectiveness. The costs of side-effects that can be prevented are estimated at €5456 per patient, resulting in total expected cost savings of about €22 million per year in The Netherlands. Furthermore, exploration of the benefit-risk balance under patients showed that they are willing to sacrifice some survival for an improvement in quality of life (QoL).

Focal therapy comprises a modern alternative to selectively treat a specific part of the prostate while preserving the rest of the gland. There is, however, a lack of high-quality evidence, and numerous papers therefore recommend to perform a multicenter randomized controlled trial (RCT). The RCT should have long-term follow-up, predefined assessment of cancer-specific and health-related QoL outcome measures, and economic evaluations to inform policymakers regarding cost-effectiveness. This RCT on focal therapy versus usual care is urgently needed to enable focal therapy to overgrow the experimental status, provide the evidence needed for guidelines, and make this available for selected patients who benefit from this strategy. Because of its promising results in other countries, focal therapy is increasingly requested by patients, but due to the lack of high-quality evidence, it is not reimbursed yet. This has been designated by both the PCa patient support group and physicians as a failure of both the market and the funding agencies.

At present, all devices that are used in the proposed study are CE approved and no safety issues were reported in IDEAL stage 1 and 2a studies. For high-risk PCa, local radical therapy has been found to significantly improve oncological endpoints. However, for low- and intermediate-risk localized PCa, the different recommended options by guidelines (radical prostatectomy (RP), radiotherapy (RT), or active surveillance (AS)) have similar short- to medium-term oncological outcomes in randomized studies. A PROZIB database search and a KWF report showed that about 65% of the intermediate-risk patients that are eligible for focal therapy currently undergo either RP or RT. Furthermore, brachytherapy is only used to a limited extent (7%) in intermediate-risk patients in the Netherlands, and since it is not offered as a treatment option in the participating hospitals in this proposal, the investigators do not include this option in our study.

Active surveillance is mainly used for low-risk patients rather than for the intermediate-risk patients the investigators are aiming for in this study. Our systematic review concluded that more high-quality evidence is required before focal therapy can become available as a standard treatment. The majority of focal therapy studies were prospective development IDEAL stage 2a studies (feasibility studies), showing the limited adverse impact on functional outcomes and favorable oncological outcomes. Overall, focal therapy studies reported a median of 95% pad-free at 1-year and 85% of the patients had no clinically significant cancer in the treated area, respectively. High-quality multi-center comparative clinical trials, however, appear to be lacking. The appropriate management of patients with recurrent PCa following focal therapy has been an ongoing point of discussion. Marra et al. showed that evidence from assessments of salvage treatments after focal therapy failure is low and is derived from four retrospective salvage series. Available salvage options after focal therapy include RP and RT. Overall oncological outcomes are acceptable, although biochemical recurrence is slightly higher compared to primary PCa treatment, probably because of the higher aggressiveness of recurrent/persistent PCa. Functional outcomes and complications are not markedly worse compared to primary treatment. Salvage RP and salvage RT, therefore, seem feasible treatment options with acceptable oncological control and functional outcomes. Thus, re-treatment with salvage radiotherapy or salvage surgery remains a clinical option after focal therapy failure. Experience from other countries and our qualitative research on this topic taught us that many patients will consciously opt for an initial focal therapy to maintain their quality of life and because they can be treated later when deemed necessary with the other options.

All patients included in our trial will undergo intensive follow-up. Patients undergoing focal therapy will undergo quarterly PSA measurement and yearly prostate MRI, followed by a prostate biopsy after 12 months and thereafter if indicated based on the MRI. Since focal therapy is a one-time intervention, there will be no patients left in treatment or that require alternative fallback treatments. Ablation devices can be returned after the completion of the trial. The disposables are single-use and are depreciated. There are no specific costs associated with the discontinuation of focal treatment after the trial.

The investigators, therefore, aim to perform a high-quality multi-center RCT to provide the evidence needed to decide on reimbursement and implementation of focal therapy in patients with intermediate-risk, unilateral clinically localized PCa in the Netherlands. This study is funded by a national grant (Veelbelovende Zorg) from the Dutch Health Institute (Zorginstituut Nederland).