Everolimus Roll-over Protocol for Patients Who Have Completed a Previous Novartis-sponsored Everolimus Study.
Study to allow access to everolimus for patients who are on everolimus treatment in a Novartis-sponsored study and are benefiting from the treatment as judged by the investigator
Neoplasms
DRUG: Everolimus|DRUG: Sandostatin LAR Depot
Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Any sign or symptom that occurs during the study treatment plus the 30 days post treatment. All SAEs were captured in safety database from enrollment. Safety data collection was changed in the protocol amendment released in March 2016: AEs and SAEs were captured in the clinical database from protocol amendment release (18 March 2016). Hence, SAEs from both safety database and clinical database are summarized separately., SAEs collected in safety database from enrollment to end of treatment (EOT) plus 30 days, up to approximately 7.2 years. AEs/SAEs collected in clinical database from protocol amendment date 18 March 2016 to EOT plus 30 days, up to approximately 4.5 years
Percentage of Patients With Clinical Benefit, Percentage of patients with clinical benefit as judged by the investigator. Investigator attestation of continued clinical benefit was collected in clinical database after protocol amendment (release date 18 March 2016). Clinical benefit assessment before protocol amendment was done retrospectively., After 3 months from enrollment, every 3 months, until end of treatment, assessed up to 7.2 years
This multi-center, open-label roll-over study aimed to better characterize the long-term safety of everolimus in subjects currently being treated in a Novartis-sponsored studies and who were receiving clinical benefit on the current study treatment as judged by the Investigator.

The study was designed to provide continued treatment with everolimus monotherapy to the subjects. Subjects were allowed to continue combination therapy with Sandostatin LAR® Depot if they were receiving this combination therapy on the parent protocol. Subjects were allowed to continue in this roll-over study until they no longer benefitted from the everolimus treatment as judged by the Investigator, discontinued due to toxicities, subject withdrew consent or lost to follow-up, disease progression, protocol non-compliance, or subject death, whichever occurred first. A subject was considered to have reached end of study when everolimus treatment was permanently discontinued.

As per the original protocol, it was designed to collect only serious adverse events (SAEs) and protocol defined adverse events of special interest (AESIs). However, due to the feedback received from health authorities, the protocol was amended in 2016 (3 years after study was initiated) to collect all AEs (non-serious and serious AEs, and AESIs). The protocol was also amended to include an Investigator assessment of clinical benefit at every visit for remaining subjects.