Digital Application Usage for Adherence of Patients Undergoing Robotic Assisted Radical Prostatectomy Following Oncological and Postoperative Functional Outcomes
Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common non-skin tumor in men and the second leading cause of death from cancer in Brazil. It accounts for 13.8% of deaths from cancer in males, similar to what happens with breast cancer in females, corresponding to 15.8% of cancer deaths in women. Mobile applications, software developed for smartphones and tablets used for many different purposes (games, communication, entertainment etc) have become important tools of mHealth (Mobile Health in Portuguese - mobile health) as they allow remote support to patients or self-promotion of health care. It has been used globally to assist in the treatment and control of various diseases such as diabetes, physical inactivity, and many others. In oncology there are several applications developed to assist in the monitoring and treatment of various cancers such as gastric and breast cancer. So far it has not developed an application for follow-up of patients with PC, to capture data on satisfaction of post-treatment patient regarding the comorbidity of surgery, and also loyalty and adherence of patients to follow-up in offices allowing a possible intervention it is done at the right time. Nor was made compared to assess whether there is benefit in using this application. Thus, the objective of this work is to develop an application for smartphones facing the postoperative follow-up of patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy and compare adherence to treatment compared to accompanied by traditional way patient. In addition, we will evaluate the progress of the IPSS, ICIQ and IIEF-5 compared to preoperatively in patients undergoing prostatectomy robotic radical.
the Focus of This Study is to Develop an Application for Postoperative Follow-up of Patients With Prostate Cancer
OTHER: use of app in smartphone
Evaluate if the adherence of patients who use the application is greater after treatment, 24 months
Prostate cancer (PC) is the most common non-skin tumor in men and the second leading cause of death from cancer in Brazil. It accounts for 13.8% of deaths from cancer in males, similar to what happens with breast cancer in females, corresponding to 15.8% of cancer deaths in women. Mobile applications, software developed for smartphones and tablets used for many different purposes (games, communication, entertainment etc) have become important tools of mHealth (Mobile Health in Portuguese - mobile health) as they allow remote support to patients or self-promotion of health care. It has been used globally to assist in the treatment and control of various diseases such as diabetes, physical inactivity, and many others. In oncology there are several applications developed to assist in the monitoring and treatment of various cancers such as gastric and breast cancer. So far it has not developed an application for follow-up of patients with PC, to capture data on satisfaction of post-treatment patient regarding the comorbidity of surgery, and also loyalty and adherence of patients to follow-up in offices allowing a possible intervention it is done at the right time. Nor was made compared to assess whether there is benefit in using this application. Thus, the objective of this work is to develop an application for smartphones facing the postoperative follow-up of patients undergoing robotic radical prostatectomy and compare adherence to treatment compared to accompanied by traditional way patient. In addition, we will evaluate the progress of the IPSS, ICIQ and IIEF-5 compared to preoperatively in patients undergoing prostatectomy robotic radical.