Comparison of Efficacy Between a Newly Designed Covered Stent and Uncovered Stent for Malignant Colorectal Obstruction
Acute colorectal obstruction has been reported to occur in 7 - 29% of all colorectal malignancies, but emergent surgical decompression is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. Recently, self-expandable metal stents(SEMS) have been suggested as an alternative to surgery and effectively decompress the colonic obstruction and allow for bowel preparation and elective surgery. Theoretically, SEMSs are classified into uncovered stents and covered stents. Covered stents have the advantage of less frequent stent occlusion by tumor in-growth and the disadvantage of a high risk of stent migration, whereas uncovered stents are associated with less stent migration, although they appear to be more prone to tumor ingrowth. To overcome the drawbacks of conventional stents, a double-layered combination covered stent was developed. In the present study, the investigators evaluated the efficacy and safety of the newly designed covered stent by comparing it with the uncovered stent in patients with malignant colorectal obstruction.
Colorectal Cancer
PROCEDURE: self-expandable metal stent insertion(covered stent)|PROCEDURE: self-expandable metal stent insertion(uncovered stent)
Duration of stent patency between stent insertion and recurrence of obstructive symptoms, Time between stent insertion and recurrence of obstructive symptoms caused by tumor ingrowth, tumor overgrowth, or stent migration after stent placement, 2 years after the procedure
Number of patients with technical success, Technical success: Adequate deployment across the entire length of the malignant strictures and proper stent expansion, 2 years after the procedure|Number of patients with clinical success, Clinical success: Relief from obstructive symptoms as a result of sufficient improvement in stool passage without additional need for endoscopic or surgical re-intervention within 48 hours, 2 years after the procedure|Number of patients with complications, Complications: stent obstruction, migration, perforation, bleeding, tenesmus, anal pain, 2 years after the procedure
Acute colorectal obstruction has been reported to occur in 7 - 29% of all colorectal malignancies, but emergent surgical decompression is associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. Recently, self-expandable metal stents(SEMS) have been suggested as an alternative to surgery and effectively decompress the colonic obstruction and allow for bowel preparation and elective surgery. Theoretically, SEMSs are classified into uncovered stents and covered stents. Covered stents have the advantage of less frequent stent occlusion by tumor in-growth and the disadvantage of a high risk of stent migration, whereas uncovered stents are associated with less stent migration, although they appear to be more prone to tumor ingrowth. To overcome the drawbacks of conventional stents, a double-layered combination covered stent was developed. In the present study, the investigators evaluated the efficacy and safety of the newly designed covered stent by comparing it with the uncovered stent in patients with malignant colorectal obstruction.