High Dose IL 2 and Entinostat in RCC
This is a multicenter, randomized, open label study of high dose interleukin 2 vs high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat in clear cell RCC patients who are candidate for high dose interleukin 2. Patients will be randomized to ARM 1 (high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat) or ARM 2 (high dose interleukin 2). Subjects will receive up to 3 courses of high dose interleukin 600,000 units/kg administered IV every 8 hrs on Days 1-5 and Days 15-19 (maximum 28 doses) +/- entinostat 5 mg orally given every 2 weeks starting on Day-14, continuously. Tumor response assessment will be performed between HD IL-2 courses.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Entinostat|DRUG: Interleukin-2
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Compare PFS between arms. PFS is defined as the time from date of randomization until the criteria for disease progression is met as defined by RECIST 1.1 or death as a result of any cause., 24 months
Objective Response Rate, Estimate and compare the objective response rate in patients receiving high dose interleukin 2 or high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat. ORR will include confirmed complete response (CR) + confirmed partial response (PR) and will be determined as per RECIST 1.1., 24 months|Assess Adverse Events, Assess the safety and tolerability of high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat using CTCAE v4, 24 months|Duration of response, Assess duration of response in patients receiving high dose interleukin 2 or high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat. Duration of overall response-the period measured from the time that measurement criteria are met for complete or partial response (whichever status is recorded first) until the date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since treatment started)., 24 months|Overall Survival, Assess overall survival in patients receiving high dose interleukin 2 or high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat. Overall survival is defined by the date of randomization to date of death from any cause., 24 Months
This is a multicenter, randomized, open label study of high dose interleukin 2 vs high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat in clear cell RCC patients who are candidate for high dose interleukin 2. Patients will be randomized to ARM 1 (high dose interleukin 2 plus entinostat) or ARM 2 (high dose interleukin 2). Subjects will receive up to 3 courses of high dose interleukin 600,000 units/kg administered IV every 8 hrs on Days 1-5 and Days 15-19 (maximum 28 doses) +/- entinostat 5 mg orally given every 2 weeks starting on Day-14, continuously. Tumor response assessment will be performed between HD IL-2 courses.