Safe and Explainable AI
While current AI technology is suitable for automating some repetitive clinical tasks, technical challenges remain in solving critical and gainful problems in the domains of patient and disease management. The proposed research seeks to address issues in medical AI, such as integrating medical knowledge effectively, making AI recommendations explainable to clinicians, and establishing safety guarantees.
Artifical Inteligence|Cardiology|Breast Cancer|Sepsis
OTHER: AI-PERSONALIZED CLINICAL DECISION SUPPORT
Neurosymbolic Learning Algorithms, Develop and evaluate novel algorithms for training neurosymbolic models. We will develop data- and compute-efficient algorithms for end-to-end training of neurosymbolic models. This task will reduce the burden on clinician experts to provide fine-grained labels on voluminous EHR data., Prototype and develop new learning algorithms; 18 months. Benchmark and evaluate the learning algorithms; 24 months. Publish research results; 24 months|Explanation Methods, We will develop new explainable AI techniques that come with verifiable guarantees. These guarantees will enable trust and transparency in AI at a fundamental level., Prototype and develop new explanation algorithms; 18 months. Derive certified guarantees for explanations; 18 months. Benchmark and evaluate the explanation algorithms; 24 months. Extend certificates to new properties and tasks; 30 months. Publ|Methods for Safety Guarantees, We will develop new algorithms that can scalably extract complex logical rules governing safety within the data that have statistical guarantees. These techniques will be rooted in statistical analysis and assist users in identifying out of distribution data and detecting anomalies., Prototype and develop new rule learning algorithms; 30 months. Scale rule learning algorithms to larger data settings; 36 months. Incorporate new primitives to express complex rules; 36 months. Implement rule learning algorithms on baseline tasks
While current AI technology is suitable for automating some repetitive clinical tasks, technical challenges remain in solving critical and gainful problems in the domains of patient and disease management. The proposed research seeks to address issues in medical AI, such as integrating medical knowledge effectively, making AI recommendations explainable to clinicians, and establishing safety guarantees.