An Efficacy and Safety Study of Siltuximab in Participants With Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of siltuximab in participants with relapsed (the return of a disease or the signs and symptoms of a disease after a period of improvement.) or refractory (cancer that does not respond to treatment) multiple myeloma (a type of cancer that begins in plasma cells \[white blood cells that produce antibodies\]).
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: Siltuximab|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Percentage of Participants With Overall Response, The overall response is defined as percentage of participants having confirmed Complete Response (CR) and Partial Response (PR) by using the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (EBMT) criteria. CR is absence of the original monoclonal protein (M-protein) in serum and urine maintained for a minimum of 6 weeks, and disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. PR is greater than or equal to (\>=) 50 percent reduction in the level of the serum M-protein maintained for a minimum of 6 weeks and \>= 50 percent reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas., Baseline up to end of study (Day 807)
Time to Progression (TTP), The TTP is defined as the time interval in days between the date of first administration of study treatment (as monotherapy or as combination therapy) to the date of first documented evidence of confirmed progressive disease (including relapse from CR). CR is absence of the original M-protein in serum and urine maintained for a minimum of 6 weeks, and disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas., Baseline up to end of study (Day 807)|Duration of Response, The duration of response is defined as the time from initial documented response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]), to the first documented sign of progression. CR is absence of the original M-protein in serum and urine maintained for a minimum of 6 weeks, and disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. PR is \>= 50% reduction in the level of the serum M-protein maintained for a minimum of 6 weeks and \>= 50% reduction in the size of soft tissue plasmacytomas., Baseline up to end of study (Day 807)|Number of Participants With Immune Response, Immune response is defined as antibody (type of protein that helps to protect the body against foreign matter, such as bacteria and viruses) response to siltuximab., Day 1 (Cycle 1 [pre-dose]), treatment discontinuation, and every 3 months after the last dose (up to 3 times)|Percent Change From Baseline in C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Level, Percentage change in CRP is equal to CRP at time of measurement minus CRP at baseline divided by CRP at baseline multiplied by 100., Before siltuximab administration in Cycles 1, 2, and 3 on Days 1 and 15; thereafter, on Day 1 of each cycle up to12 cycles|Percent Change From Baseline in C-telopeptide (CTx) Level, Percentage change in CTx is equal to CTx at time of measurement minus CTx at baseline divided by CTx at baseline multiplied by 100., Before siltuximab administration on Day 1 of cycles 1, 2, and 3|Percent Change From Baseline in N-telopeptide (NTx) Level, Percentage change in NTx is equal to NTx at time of measurement minus NTx at baseline divided by NTx at baseline multiplied by 100., Before siltuximab administration on Day 1 of cycles 1, 2, and 3
This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), multicenter (when more than one hospital or medical school team work on a medical research study), non-randomized (a clinical trial in which the participants are not assigned by chance to different treatment groups), prospective (study following participants forward in time) safety and efficacy study of siltuximab in participants with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma. The study consists of 3 Phases: Screening Phase (from first visit until the first dose of study drug), Treatment Phase (from the first dose to the end-of-treatment), and Follow-up Phase (after end-of-treatment until the end of study). The duration of participation in the study for an individual participant will be up to 4 weeks for Screening Phase, approximately 52 weeks for Treatment Phase and until death, lost to follow-up, withdraw of consent or end of study, whichever, comes first for Follow-up Phase. Treatment will be administered on a 28-day cycle. The study is designed with 2 alternative treatment plans. Treatment Plan A: during first 2 cycles siltuximab will be administered alone, dexamethasone may be added to the treatment regimen based on the participant's response to treatment. Treatment Plan B: siltuximab and dexamethasone combination for the duration of the study. The first 14 eligible participants will follow Treatment Plan A and data evaluation will be conducted for participants after 2 cycles of treatment and 2 post baseline disease assessments. If at least one complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) is observed in 14 participants, all subsequent participants will follow Treatment Plan A. However, if no responses (CR or PR) are observed, all subsequent participants will follow Treatment Plan B. The primary efficacy endpoint will be percentage of participants with overall response. Participants' safety will be monitored throughout the study.