Acalabrutinib, Obinutuzumab and Chlorambucil in Treatment naïve CLL
This Primary objective is evaluating the efficacy of obinutuzumab in combination with chlorambucil (Arm A) compared with acalabrutinib in combination with obinutuzumab (Arm B) for the treatment of previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Secondary objectives: 1) To evaluate the efficacy of obinutuzumab in combination with chlorambucil (Arm A) versus acalabrutinib monotherapy (Arm C) based on IRC assessment of PFS per IWCLL 2008 criteria.

2)To compare obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil (Arm A) versus acalabrutinib plus obinutuzumab (Arm B) and obinutuzumab plus chlorambucil (Arm A) versus acalabrutinib monotherapy (Arm C) in terms of: IRC-assessed objective response rate (ORR); Tine to next treatment (TTNT); Overall Survival (OS)
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Acalabrutinib|DRUG: Obinutuzumab|DRUG: Chlorambucil
Progression-free Survival by IRC (Independent Review Committee) Assessment in Arm A Compared to Arm B, To evaluate the efficacy of obinutuzumab in combination with chlorambucil (Arm A) compared with acalabrutinib in combination with obinutuzumab (Arm B) based on IRC assessment of progression-free survival (PFS) per International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia criteria (IWCLL; Hallek et al. 2008) with incorporation of the clarification for treatment-related lymphocytosis (Cheson et al. 2012), hereafter referred to as IWCLL 2008 criteria, in subjects with previously untreated CLL. PFS, defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of first IRC-assessed disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first., IRC assessments were done from randomization date until disease progression or death or IRC discontinuation date on 08Feb2019 (as the IA based on this data cutoff date showed the study crossing superiority boundary) whichever comes first up to 40 months.
Progression-free Survival by IRC Assessment Arm A Versus Arm C, To evaluate the efficacy of obinutuzumab in combination with chlorambucil (Arm A) compared with acalabrutinib monotherapy (Arm C) based on IRC assessment of progression-free survival (PFS) per International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia criteria (IWCLL; Hallek et al. 2008) with incorporation of the clarification for treatment-related lymphocytosis (Cheson et al. 2012), hereafter referred to as IWCLL 2008 criteria, in subjects with previously untreated CLL. PFS, defined as the time from date of randomization to the date of first IRC-assessed disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever comes first., IRC assessments were done from randomization date until disease progression or death or IRC discontinuation date on 08Feb2019 (as the IA based on this data cutoff date showed the study crossing superiority boundary) whichever comes first up to 40 months.|IRC-assessed Objective Response Rate (ORR) in Arm A Versus Arm B and Arm A Versus Arm C, ORR was defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a best response of CR, CRi, nPR, or PR at or before initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy. ORR including PRL was defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved a best response of CR, CRi, nPR, PR or PRL at or before initiation of subsequent anticancer therapy, IRC assessments were done from randomization date until disease progression or death or IRC discontinuation date on 08Feb2019 (as the IA based on this data cutoff date showed the study crossing superiority boundary) whichever comes first up to 40 months.|Time to Next Treatment (TTNT) in Arm A Versus Arm B and Arm A Versus Arm C, TTNT was defined as the time from randomization to start date of non-protocol specified subsequent anticancer therapy for CLL or death due to any cause, whichever came first. TTNT was analyzed in the same fashion as that for the primary efficacy analysis, From randomization date to start of non-protocol specified subsequent anticancer therapy for CLL or death due to any cause, whichever came first assessed up to 40 months of follow-up.|Overall Survival (OS) in Arm A Versus Arm B and Arm A Versus Arm C, OS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to death due to any cause., From randomization date until death, withdrawal by subject, lost to follow-up, or by analysis data cut off date on 08Feb2019 whichever comes first up to 40 months of follow-up.
ELEVATE-TN is a global, phase 3, multicenter, open-label study in patients with treatment-naive chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Study enrollment is completed. The study randomized a total of 535 subjects in 142 study sites in 18 countries between 14 September 2015 through 08 February 2017. Patients were randomly assigned to receive Acalabrutinib and Obinutuzumab, Acalabrutinib monotherapy, or Obinutuzumab and oral Chlorambucil. The primary endpoint was progression-free survival between the two combination-therapy groups, defined as the time from randomization until disease progression by use of iwCLL 2008 criteria, or death, assessed by independent review committee (IRC). Crossover to Acalabrutinib was allowed in patients who progressed on Obinutuzumab-Chlorambucil.

The results of this study provide new evidence for therapy in patients with treatment-naive chronic lymphocytic leukemia by showing the efficacy of Acalabrutinib used with or without Obinutuzumab compared with chemoimmunotherapy.

Currently the study is in maintenance phase, with more than 430 subjects on study, to generate more evidence. We are not expecting any significant change in the near future.