UCSF Biobank for Hereditary Cancers and Tumor-Associated Mutations
This is a non-therapeutic clinical research biorepository protocol designed to obtain, store, and clinically annotate biospecimens from participants with hereditary cancers. Those biospecimens will be used to generate participant-derived tumor models that will serve as a resource to better understand hereditary cancers and develop new efficient therapies.
Solid Tumor|Solid Tumor, Adult|Somatic Mutation|Solid Tumor, Unspecified, Adult|Hereditary Cancer
PROCEDURE: Blood Sample|PROCEDURE: Tissue Sample|PROCEDURE: Excess fluid Sample|OTHER: Medical Chart Review
Develop participant-derived tumor models of hereditary cancers, Participant-derived models may include (but are not limited to) xenografts (PDX), organoids (PDO), and cell lines (PDCLs). These models recapitulate the biology and tissue context of the original tumors from which they are derived and can be used to study effective therapeutic strategies., Up to 10 years
Primary Objective:

1. To generate a repository of participant-derived tumor models\* and specimens\*\* - annotated with demographic, clinical, and pathologic data - from adults with solid tumor malignancies with germline or somatic tumor-associated mutations and/or a personal or family history of cancer.

   * Participant-derived models may include (but are not limited to) xenografts (PDX), organoids (PDO), and cell lines (PDCLs).

     * Specimens may include tissue, ascites and pleural fluid, and blood.

Exploratory Objectives

1. To correlate in vivo drug sensitivity of participant-derived models with patient clinical response.
2. To conduct blood-based assessment of tumor-associated biomarkers (DNA/RNA/protein, etc.).
3. To describe tumor and blood-based biomarkers that are predictive of clinical response.
4. To correlate changes in tumor and blood-based biomarker expression with clinical outcomes over time.
5. To perform genomic and transcriptomic profiling of banked specimens and correlate findings with clinical outcomes, prognostic markers, and biomarkers.
6. Unspecified cancer-centric research in the Munster Lab and other future unspecified research.

OUTLINE:

Participants will have biospecimens collected at non-study, routine procedures or visits to be stored at UCSF. Specimens will be processed and banked as per standard operating procedure. Participants will be followed through medical record chart review for a period of 10 years after signing informed consent, and be contacted every 3 months (± 2 months) for the first year and every 6 months (± 3 months) thereafter to allow updates to health status.