Study Using Spray Skin Protector Versus Conventional Treatment to Prevent Acute Radiodermatitis.
This is a randomized, open-label, single-institution trial designed to evaluate the effectiveness of a spray skin protector in preventing moist desquamation caused by radiotherapy treatment.

This technology, spray skin protection, depending on the manufacturer, is primarily intended to prevent or reduce contact dermatitis. However, this study will be evaluated for use in preventing moist desquamation caused by ionizing radiation. The comparing agent will be a moisturizer, agreed upon at the local Institution of the study for use in the prevention of radiodermatitis. As secondary objectives: describe adverse events, diarrhea, pain and pruritus.

The study will be conducted at the radiotherapy outpatient clinic of the Cancer Hospital I (HCI) of National Cancer Institute (INCA) in Brazil.
Radiodermatitis|Injury, Radiation
OTHER: Spray skin protector|OTHER: moisturizer Dnativ Revita derm
Number of Participants Categorized by RTOG Grading Scale, RTOG ACUTE Radiation Morbidity - Tissue: Skin

* Grade 1: Follicular, faint or dull erythema / epilation / dry desquamation / decreased sweating;
* Grade 2: Tender or bright erythema, patchy moist desquamation / moderate edema;
* Grade 3: Confluent, moist desquamation other than skin folds, pitting edema;
* Grade 4: Ulceration, hemorrhage, necrosis., From the first day of radiotherapy up to eight weeks
Adverse Events, Occurrence of adverse events after the beginning of radiotherapy, From the first day of radiotherapy up to eight weeks
The hypotheses are:

Null (Ho): The incidence of moist desquamation with the spray skin protector is greater than or equal to the incidence of moist desquamation in the control group.

Alternative (H1): The incidence of moist desquamation with the spray skin protector is lower than the incidence of moist desquamation in the control group.

The evaluation of the skin of the participants will be weekly, with blinding of this professional. For the evaluation of secondary objectives, adverse events will be applied in the assessment scales of diarrhea, pruritus and pain by the CTCAE version 5.0; and the burning or burning sensation will be recorded only.