Reduced Intensity AlloSCT in(CML) With Persistent Disease
CML, a malignant disorder of stem cells, is characterized by increases in both immature and mature myeloid, erythroid, and lymphoid cells, as well as platelets in the peripheral blood. The cytogenetic hallmark of CML is the Philadelphia(Ph)chromosome found in the malignant cells of 95% of patients. CML comprises 7-20% of all leukemias with an overall incidence in the general population estimated at 1 to 2 per 100,000. The peak incidence occurs in the fifth decade, however, all age groups, including children, are affected. The only reported environmental risk factor is exposure to excessive ionizing radiation that is documented in only a very small percentage of patients. Clinically, CML is characterized by an initial chronic phase in which patients may report mild constitutional symptoms; however, 40-50% are asymptomatic and are diagnosed based upon abnormal blood counts discovered during a routine examination. The chronic phase typically lasts three to five years, and is followed by an accelerated phase distinguished by progressive systemic symptoms, an increasing resistance to conventional chemotherapy, and a rise in the peripheral blood and bone marrow blast count. This evolves rapidly into a blastic crisis characterized by immature cells resembling the blasts characteristic of acute leukemia. The presence of 30% or more blastic cells in the blood or marrow is diagnostic of this final blastic phase which is typically fatal within 3 to 6 months.

The primary treatment options for CML have traditionally been monotherapy with either busulfan or hydroxyurea. Both agents are able to control the clinical symptoms associated with CML, as well as induce hematological remissions in 80% of chronic phase patients. However, complete cytogenetic remissions with either agent are rare, and neither is able to prevent eventual progression to the terminal blastic phase; therefore, these therapies can only be considered palliative.

The primary purpose of this clinical research trial is to study the feasibility of a reduced intensity allogenic transplant for CML. This study will also determine the side effects as well as the response rate.
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Reduced Intensity Conditioning, Busulfan and Fludarabine
To determine the toxicity associated with reduced intensity therapy and allogeneic SCT in selected patients with CML., Until Study End
Further study details will be provided by Columbia University, Division of Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplantation.

STUDY DESIGN:

Patients less than 30 years of age with CML in 1st or 2nd chronic phase or 1st accelerated phase and a matched related donor, an unrelated cord blood donor, or an unrelated adult donor, will receive 6 days of IV Fludarabine, 4 doses of IV Busulfex, and 5 doses of Alemtuzumab. Patients with persistant RT-PCR positive BCR-Abl and/or Philadelphia chromosome positivity by cytogentics after Day + 100 and a matched related donor would receive DLIx1. If still BCR-Abl or Philadelphia chromosome positive at Day +180 and a matched related donor, patients would receive a second dose of DLI. All patients will receive STI-571 (Gleevec) after hematological reconstitution. Studies for immune reconstitution, chimersim, and MRD will be performed postt AlloSCT.