Deferasirox, Cholecalciferol, and Azacitidine in the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed AML Patients Over 65
The purpose of this study is to find out if by giving a combination of 3 drugs the leukemia will go into complete remission (meaning the leukemia is completely gone), and to find out how long it stays away. The drugs used in this project are FDA approved and commercially available.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Deferasirox|DRUG: Cholecalciferol|DRUG: Azacitidine
Complete Remission Rate, The Complete Remission Rate for all evaluable patients will be reported for the following treatment: azacitadine, vitamin D, and deferasirox (Exjade). The proportion of patients experiencing per-protocol CR will be calculated with a 90% exact confidence interval., up to 5 years
Number of Patients With Adverse Events, Characterization of the safety of an induction regimen of azacitidine in combination with vitamin D and deferasirox (Exjade). The proportion of patients experiencing severe adverse events, and the number of patients experiencing severe adverse events probably or definitely related to treatment will be determined. Adverse events will be tabulated by category and graded by NCI CTCAE version 4.0, up to 5 years|Survival, The overall survival and relapse-free survival functions. Product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) estimate of the survival functions will be estimated, with 90% confidence intervals., up to 5 years|Duration of Remission, The length of time for remission after achieving complete remission, up to 5 years
The majority of new cases of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) are diagnosed in patients older than 65 years of age. The median age of patients at time of diagnosis is 67 years. Standard therapies for AML often have significant toxicity and are poorly tolerated by this patient population. Treatment strategies for elderly patients with AML are limited. In those patients who do achieve complete remission, duration of remission tends to be short. Treatment at time of relapse is exceedingly difficult and outcomes are dismal. Thus, there is need for safer and more effective therapies for elderly patients with AML. This trial is a novel therapeutic combination of deferasirox (Exjade), cholecalciferol, and azacitidine in patients 65 years or older with newly diagnosed AML who are not fit for standard induction chemotherapy or hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation.