Camrelizumab Plus Apatinib in Patients With High-risk Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of camrelizumab and apatinib as combination therapy in patients with ultra high-risk (Cohort A) and high-risk chemo-refractory or relapsed (Cohort B) gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN). Eligible patients will receive camrelizumab plus apatinib plus chemotherapy. Treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.
Gestational Trophoblastic Neoplasia
DRUG: Camrelizumab plus apatinib CohortA|DRUG: Camrelizumab plus apatinib Cohort B
Cohort A: Complete remission rate, The proportion of patients achieving complete remission. Complete remission is defined as normal serum β-hCG level measured for 3 consecutive weeks., up to one year|Cohort B: Objective response rate, The proportion of patients with complete or partial response according to serum β-hCG level. Partial response is defined as a ≥50% decrease in β-hCG level from baseline after 2 cycles., up to one year
Cohort A: Objective response rate, The proportion of patients with complete or partial response according to serum β-hCG level., up to one year|Cohort A: Progression-free survival, The time from the treatment initiation to disease progression or death, whichever comes first. Disease progression is defined as any increase in serum β-hCG level from baseline after 2 cycles of treatment or the presence of new metastatic lesions., up to one year|Cohort A: Overall survival, The time from the treatment initiation to the date of death or last follow-up., up to one year|Cohort A: Duration of response, The time from the first evidence of response to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., up to one year|Cohort A: Frequency and severity of adverse events, Determine frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE (Version 5.0) which is used to evaluate the grade of adverse events, to observe any adverse event and serious adverse event that occurred in all patients during the clinical study period, including abnormal laboratory examination results, clinical manifestations and vital signs, to record their clinical manifestation characteristics, severity, occurrence time, duration, corresponding treatment and prognosis, and to determine their relationship with the study drug., up to one year|Cohort B: Progression-free survival, The time from the treatment initiation to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., up to one year|Cohort B: Duration of response, The time from the first evidence of response to disease progression or death, whichever comes first., up to one year|Cohort B: Overall survival, The time from the treatment initiation to the date of death or last follow-up., up to one year|Cohort B: Frequency and severity of adverse events, Determine frequency and severity of adverse events as assessed by NCI CTCAE (Version 5.0) ., up to one year
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of camrelizumab and apatinib as combination therapy in patients with ultra high-risk (Cohort A) and high-risk chemo-refractory or relapsed (Cohort B) gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN).

Cohort A: Eligible patients will receive camrelizumab (200mg q2w iv) plus apatinib (250 mg qd po) plus chemotherapy. After normalization of serum β-human chorionic gonadotropin (β-hCG) levels, patients will receive 4 cycles of consolidation chemotherapy combined with camrelizumab plus apatinib and then 6 months of camrelizumab plus apatinib as maintenance treatment. Treatment will be continued until completion of treatment, disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent.The primary endpoint is complete remission rate (the proportion of patients achieving complete remission). Secondary endpoints include objective response rate (the proportion of patients achieving complete remission and partial remission), progression-free survival (time from the treatment initiation to disease progression or death, whichever comes first), overall survival (time from the treatment initiation to the date of death or last follow-up), duration of response (time from the first evidence of response to disease progression or death, whichever comes first) and safety.

Cohort B: Eligible patients will receive camrelizumab (200mg q3w iv) plus apatinib (250 mg qd po) plus chemotherapy. Treatment will be continued until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, or withdrawal of consent. Patients will receive 6 cycles of consolidation therapy if achieving a complete response. The primary endpoint is objective response rate. Secondary endpoints include progression-free survival, duration of response, overall survival and safety.