First-line Antibiotic Therapy for Early-stage HP(+) Gastric Pure DLBCL
Aims: A nationwide study to prospectively validate

1. The complete histological and molecular remission rate for antibiotics as 1st-line therapy for early-stage Hp-positive gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL
2. The durability of complete histological remission after antibiotics
3. The usefulness of pattern of NF-kB, BCL10, BAFF, and CagA by IHC staining in prospectively predicting the Hp-dependence of gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL
4. The frequency of t(11;18)(q21;q21) translocation in gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL in Taiwan.
5. The association between the CYP2C18/CYP2C19 genetic polymorphisms and eradication of Hp infection after antibiotics.
Gastric Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Lansoprazole, Amoxicillin, Clarithromycin, Metronidazole
The pathologic complete remission rate (%) for antibiotics as 1st-line therapy for early-stage Hp-positive gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL, 10 years|The median time to pathologic complete remission (months) after completion of antibiotics for Hp-dependent gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL (patients have pCR after Hp eradication therapy [antibiotics]), 10 years|The relapse-free survival of early-stage Hp-positive gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL who received antibiotics as 1st-line therapy, A nationwide study to prospectively validate, 10 years
The overall survival of early-stage Hp-positive gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL who received antibiotics as 1st-line therapy, 10 years|The Hp eradication rate (%), 10 years
The study will validate the use of antibiotics as first-line therapy for stage IE (and perhaps IIE-1) Hp-positive gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL. The status of NF-kB, BCL10, BAFF, and CagA IHC nuclear staining will help to tailoring the treatment for early-stage gastric pure (de novo) DLBCL. And 50-60% of stage IE / IIE-1 pure (de novo) DLBCL patients can be cured by 2-weeks of antibiotics rather than the 6-months of relatively toxic front-line systemic chemotherapy. The investigators shall also elucidate the distribution of CYP2C18/19 in patients with pure (de novo) DLBCL and their association with the efficacy of sequential antibiotics for eradication of Hp infection.