Diagnostic Performance Evaluation Study of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor Test.
Non-muscle invasive bladder tumor is a condition that can recur with a risk of progression to an infiltrating tumor of the muscle. Regular follow-up is therefore essential to detect any recurrence or progression of the disease as early as possible.

Currently, the monitoring of this type of tumor is done by cystoscopy (examination that allows visualization of the bladder wall) associated with urinary cytology (analysis of urine to detect an abnormality). These examinations have their limits, they may not detect certain types of tumors or may be painful.

To reduce the number of cystoscopies and replace urinary cytology, several urinary markers have been developed in recent years. This is the case of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor test, which is a non-invasive, in vitro diagnostic urine test dedicated to the monitoring of patients with bladder cancer.

The purpose of this study is to evaluate the diagnostic performance of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor test for the detection of bladder tumor recurrence, compared to reference tests.
Non-Invasive Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma|Non-Invasive Bladder Papillary Urothelial Carcinoma, Low Grade|Non-Invasive Bladder Papillary Urothelial Carcinoma, High Grade
OTHER: Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor Test
Compare sensitivities of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor Test and the urinary cytology test., The two tests, the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor and the urinary cytology, made during the follow-up of patients with non-invasive-muscle bladder tumor are compared to the gold standard, which is the reference examination: the couple cystoscopy/histology., 12 months
Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor test., Evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor test for the detection of bladder tumor recurrence (stage, grade)., 12 months
This study consists of a urine sample. During the participant's medical consultation with his/her urologist, for the monitoring of his/her non-invasive bladder tumor(s), a cystoscopy is performed. Before the examination, the participant gives a urine sample, which will be analyzed by the Xpert®Bladder Cancer Monitor test.

The main objective of this non-interventional monocentric study is to compare the sensitivity of the Xpert® Bladder Cancer Monitor test performed on the GeneXpert® system to the sensitivity of cytology.

The reference test is a combination of cystoscopy and histology. The algorithm is as follows: if the cystoscopy is negative, it will be considered that there is no recurrence; if the cystoscopy is positive, a biopsy of the "abnormal" area will be performed and histology will be requested. If the histology is positive, it will be considered that there is a recurrence; otherwise, it will be considered that there is no recurrence.

The gold standard is, therefore, the couple: cystoscopy +/- histology

* A cystoscopy will be considered positive if to the naked eye the urologist sees a macroscopically suspicious lesion (e.g. a budding lesion).
* If the cystoscopy is positive, the urologist will take a sample of the suspect lesion and have it analyzed by the pathologist. If the lesion analyzed has the same histology as the original lesion, it will be considered a recurrence.