Biomarker-driven Intermittent Docetaxel in Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to see if a prostate cancer marker in the blood (mGSTP1) can be used to guide chemotherapy treatment. Based on the level of this blood marker, some people may be able to have breaks in treatment rather than having chemotherapy continuously which is the current standard of care. This study will tell us if having these treatment breaks guided by mGSTP1 can improve how people feel during treatment while still treating the prostate cancer effectively.

Docetaxel is a chemotherapy drug that is approved to treat prostate cancer and has been used for many years to treat prostate cancer like yours. Your doctor has already discussed this with you and you have both agreed that docetaxel is the best treatment for you to have at this time. You will have already started this chemotherapeutic treatment with docetaxel.
Castration Resistant Prostatic Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel intermittent
Radiographic progression free survival (rPFS), Radiographic progression free survival (rPFS) is defined as the time from enrollment (i.e. prior to cycle 4), the date of first documented progression on imaging by site investigator (PCWG3 criteria for bone lesions and RECIST 1.1 for soft tissue lesions) or death due to any cause., From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years
Time on treatment holidays, Time on treatment holidays is defined as the total length of time patients on the intermittent docetaxel spend off docetaxel within the treatment period i.e. prior to permanent treatment discontinuation, From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Overall treatment safety, Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 5., From the date of signing consent on the Main study until 90 days after the last day of protocol treatment, on average 3.5 years|Overall survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from enrollment to the date of death due to any cause, From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Overall quality of life, Quality of Life using the EORTC QLQ-C30 (European Organisation for Research on Treatment of Cancer - Quality of Life Questionnaire for cancer patients) instrument.

The instrument uses 28 questions about overall quality of life with each question answerable using a scale from 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Overall scores can be from a minimum of 28 indicating a better quality of life and higher scores with a maximum of 112 indicating lower overall quality of life.

The questionnaire also has two summary questions which asks participants to rank 1) overall health and 2) overall quality of life on scale of from 1, very poor, to 7, excellent., From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Fatigue, Fatigue, using the EORTC FA-12 (European Organisation for Research on Treatment of Cancer - Fatigue) instrument.

This instrument uses 12 questions for participants about fatigue with each question answerable on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (Very Much) to a maximum score of 48 indicating worse overall self-rated fatigue., From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Fear of progression, Fear of progression using the short FOP12 (Fear of Progression) instrument.

This instrument uses 12 questions about participant's own Fear of Progression with each question answerable using a scale from "Never" to "very often" with lower scores indicating a better outcome., From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Patient reported adverse events, Patient reported adverse events using the patient reported modified PRO-CTCAE instrument, From enrollment until last patient has completed 2 years in follow up, on average 3.5 years|Frequency of health resource utilisation, To compare resource use associated with mGSTP1 directed therapy. Will be measured from trial based eCRFs and will include frequency of mGSTP1 testing, use of docetaxel and corticosteroids, pathology tests and imaging.

People participating in the GUIDE study will be consented for access to their Medicare claims data providing information on outpatient use of PBS listed therapies (such as those for metastatic bone disease) and Medicare services (such as outpatient clinician services), From time of consent until End of Study, on average 3.5 years|Overall cost associated with treatment, To compare costs associated with treatment. Will be reported by type of health care used and the total cost of health care used over the period of the trial and follow-up.

Market prices will be applied to items of resource use to estimate costs., From time of consent until End of Study, on average 3.5 years
The purpose of this study is to see if a prostate cancer marker in the blood (mGSTP1) can be used to guide chemotherapy treatment. Based on the level of this blood marker, some people may be able to have breaks in treatment rather than having chemotherapy continuously which is the current standard of care. This study will tell us if having these treatment breaks guided by mGSTP1 can improve how people feel during treatment while still treating the prostate cancer effectively.

Docetaxel is a chemotherapy drug that is approved to treat prostate cancer and has been used for many years to treat prostate cancer like yours. Your doctor has already discussed this with you and you have both agreed that docetaxel is the best treatment for you to have at this time. You will have already started this chemotherapeutic treatment with docetaxel.