Combination Chemotherapy, Rituximab, and Ixazomib Citrate in Treating Patients With Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects, good and bad of a new drug called ixazomib (also called MLN9708), when it is given along with a common treatment combination, called Dose-Adjusted EPOCH-R (DA-EPOCH-R, for short). This is a type of study called a phase I/II trial. In the phase I part, the dose of the study drug (ixazomib) will be adjusted (either up or down) to find the maximum (highest) dose that does not cause excessive (too many) harmful side effects. In the phase II part, this dose of ixazomib will be given at the maximum safe dose found in phase I. In both phase I and II, DA-EPOCH-R will be adjusted between cycles depending on how blood cell levels are affected between cycles. Ixazomib is considered investigational because it is not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). DA-EPOCH-R is a combination chemotherapy treatment developed over the last 14-15 years, and each of the drugs in this regimen is FDA-approved and considered part of the standard of care.
Adult Burkitt Lymphoma|B-Cell Lymphoma, Unclassifiable, With Features Intermediate Between Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma and Burkitt Lymphoma|Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|MYC Gene Mutation|Plasmablastic Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Doxorubicin Hydrochloride|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Ixazomib Citrate|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Prednisone|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Therapeutic Hydrocortisone|DRUG: Vincristine Sulfate
To Determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of Ixazomib in Combination With DA-EPOCH-R., The RP2D will be determined by the evaluation of dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) to find the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) which will constitute the RP2D. DLTs will be defined as the occurrence of ≥ Grade 3 toxicity experienced during the first cycle (3 weeks or 21 days) of study treatment, will be determined, except for cytopenias.

The dose of ixazomib will start at 2.3 mg weekly (for phase I patients) when given concurrently with DA-EPOCH-R. Single-subject cohorts (escalating in ixazomib dose) will be enrolled until the MTD is encountered, after which expansion to 3-subject cohorts will be undertaken. The MTD from phase I will equate the RP2D for ixazomib given in conjunction with DA-EPOCH-R., The first 21 days of treatment|12-month PFS (Progression Free Survival) of Treatment With Ixazomib in Combination With DA-EPOCH-R (Phase II), 12-month PFS will be defined as the percentage of patients alive and progression free 12 months from start of therapy. Patients lost to follow up will be censored from last point of contact. PFS was calculated using a Kplan-meier estimation with the probability of patients being progression free at 12 months, presented as the percentage based on this probability., Up to 12 months from initiation of treatment
Toxicity of Treatment With Ixazomib in Combination With DA-EPOCH-R, Adverse events will be assessed using CTCAE v 4.03.

In general grading will be as follows:

Mild (grade 1): the event causes discomfort without disruption of normal daily activities.

Moderate (grade 2): the event causes discomfort that affects normal daily activities.

Severe (grade 3): the event makes the patient unable to perform normal daily activities or significantly affects his/her clinical status.

Life-threatening (grade 4): the patient was at risk of death at the time of the event.

Fatal (grade 5): the event caused death., Assessed at the beginning each cycle with up to 6 cycles of induction treatment and up to 13 cycles of maintenance treatment (1 cycle =21 days) and at approximately 21 days after the last treatment.|Overall Survival (OS), OS will be defined as freedom from death by any cause and measured from time of treatment initiation and completion of follow up or death from any cause., Up to approximately 30 months|Response Rate, Anti-tumor activity will be defined as the detection of SD (Stable Disease), Partial Response (PR), or CR (Complete Remission) by CT or PET/CT scan, and/or resolution of marrow-only involvement. CR and PR will each be assessed according to the Revised Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma. Assessments will be performed after cycles 2 and 6, then at the discretion of the investigator.

In general:

CR-Complete disappearance of all detectable clinical evidence of disease and disease-related symptoms PR-At least a 50% decrease in sum of the product of the diameters (SPD) of up to six of the largest dominant nodes or nodal masses. No increase should be observed in the size of other nodes, liver, or spleen. Splenic and hepatic nodules must regress by ≥50% in their SPD or, for single nodules, in the greatest transverse diameter. No new sites of disease should be observed.

SD-fails to attain the criteria needed for a CR or PR, but does not fulfill those for progressive disease, After 2 cycles, then after 6 cycles and then at the discretion of the investigator for up to 13 maintenance cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)|Assess the Predictive Value of FDG-PET/CT Scans on PFS, Patients will be categorized as either FDG-PET (+) or (-) at interim and end-of treatment imaging., Up to 1 year after treatment stopped
Determine the Impact of Cell of Origin (COO) Upon Response Rate, PFS, and OS, Impact of COO defined as germinal center B-cell (GCB) and non-GCB via the Hans algorithm upon response rate, PFS, and OS (applicable only to patients with DLBCL)., Up to 1 year|Consolidation SCT (Stem Cell Transplant), Feasibility and outcomes of consolidation SCT will be assessed. Patients will be grouped by whether consolidative SCT was performed in first remission, with PFS compared across groups (SCT vs. non-SCT)., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety of ixazomib (ixazomib citrate) given with dose-adjusted etoposide, prednisone, vincristine (vincristine sulfate), cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin (doxorubicin hydrochloride), and rituximab (DA-EPOCH-R) in patients with aggressive, v-myc avian myelocytomatosis viral oncogene homolog (MYC)-aberrant lymphoid malignancies, and to determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of the combination. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy, as measured by 12-month progression free survival (PFS), of ixazomib given with DA-EPOCH-R in patients with aggressive, MYC-aberrant lymphoid malignancies. (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Further evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity. II. Further evaluate the clinical efficacy, as measured by response rate and overall survival (OS).

III. Assess the predictive value of fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scans on PFS.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the impact of cell of origin (COO) upon response rate, PFS, and OS.

II. Assess the feasibility and outcomes of consolidation stem cell transplant (SCT).

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ixazomib citrate followed by a phase II study.

INDUCTION:

Patients receive ixazomib citrate orally (PO) on day 1 and day 8 or 15; etoposide intravenously (IV), vincristine sulfate IV, and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV continuously over 96 hours on days 1-4; prednisone PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-5; rituximab IV should be started at 50 mg/hr, and increased in 50-mg/hr increments every 30 minutes to a maximum rate of 400 mg/hr on day 1; and cyclophosphamide IV over 90 minutes on day 5.

CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM (CNS) PROPHYLAXIS:

Patients with a negative lumbar puncture (LP) receive methotrexate intrathecally (IT) once per course. Patients with a positive LP receive methotrexate IT or intraventricularly OR cytarabine IT or intraventricularly OR methotrexate IT or intraventricularly, cytarabine IT or intraventricularly, and therapeutic hydrocortisone IT or intraventricularly.

MAINTENANCE:

Patients not treated with consolidative SCT, receive ixazomib citrate PO BID on days 1, 8, and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to one year (or as long as deriving benefit) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year.