PIPAC Nab-pac for Stomach, Pancreas, Breast and Ovarian Cancer
The PIPAC nab-pac study is designed to examine the maximal tolerated dose of albumin bound nanoparticle paclitaxel (nab-pac, Abraxane) administered with repeated pressurized intraperitoneal aerosol chemotherapy (PIPAC), in a multicentre, multinational phase I trial.
Peritoneal Carcinomatosis|Ovarian Cancer Stage IIIB|Ovarian Cancer Stage IIIC|Ovarian Cancer Stage IV|Breast Cancer Stage IIIB|Breast Cancer Stage IIIc|Breast Cancer Stage IV|Stomach Cancer Stage III|Stomach Cancer Stage IV With Metastases|Pancreas Cancer, Stage III|Pancreas Cancer, Stage IV
DRUG: PIPAC with Abraxane
Maximally Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Abraxane, The MTD was defined as the highest dose of aerosolized Abraxane, administered 3 times using PIPAC, that does not cause unacceptable side effects. Dose limiting toxicity was recorded in a 14 week-window starting from the first PIPAC and defined a priori as any of the following: 1. any Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity excluding fatigue and controllable nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhoea; 2. grade 4 thrombocytopenia; 3. grade 4 neutropenia lasting more than 7 days or associated with fever; 4. failure to perform more than one PIPAC due to toxicity; 5. surgical complication Dindo-Clavien grade IIIB or higher.

In order to optimize the balance between safety and efficacy, we used a time-to-event continual reassessment model (TITE-CRM), where an initial design was followed until the first DLT occurred. Conservative a priori estimates of DLT were used to calculate the original dose escalation scheme., Within 14 weeks of the start of the treatment
Surgical Morbidity, Surgical complications were scored using the Clavien Dindo classification. Grade I: Any deviation from the normal post-operative course not requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention. This includes the need for certain drugs (e.g. antiemetics, antipyretics, analgesics, diuretics and electrolytes), treatment with physiotherapy and wound infections that are opened at the bedside Grade II: Complications requiring drug treatments other than those allowed for Grade I complications; this includes blood transfusion and total parenteral nutrition (TPN) Grade III: Complications requiring surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention Grade IV: Life-threatening complications; this includes CNS complications (e.g. brain haemorrhage, ischaemic stroke, subarachnoid haemorrhage) which require intensive care, but excludes transient ischaemic attacks (TIAs) Grade V: Death of the patient, 6 months after third PIPAC|Maximum Plasma Concentration of Abraxane, Abraxane will be measured in plasma, using UPLC-MS/MS., T = 0 minutes, T = 15 minutes, T = 30 minutes, T = 60 minutes, T = 1.5 hour, T = 2 hours, T = 4 hours, T = 8 hours, T = 12 hours, T = 24 hours|Area Under The Curve (AUC) of Abraxane, Abraxane will be measured in plasma, using LC-MS/MS., T = 0 minutes, T = 15 minutes, T = 30 minutes, T = 60 minutes, T = 1.5 hour, T = 2 hours, T = 4 hours, T = 8 hours, T = 12 hours, T = 24 hours|Histological Response Via Peritoneal Regression Grading Scoring (PRGS), Punch biopsies are taken at the same location, which are marked with a stainless-steel surgical clip during each PIPAC procedure. Samples are fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde in PBS for 72 hours and embedded in paraffin. Tissues are serially sectioned and stained with haematoxylin \& eosin; immunohistochemical staining is performed for epithelial cellular adhesion molecule (EpCAM). The peritoneal regression grading score (PRGS) is determined by a GI pathologist.

The mean score of all samples is calculated per treatment, and percentage changes in mean PRGS between successive PIPAC treatments is calculated. The unit of measure represented is the amount of participants in which tumor regression was observed., T = 0 minutes, before nebulization|Neutropenia - Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Blood samples will be collected to analyse the absolute neutrophil count, Pre-operatively, and 12 hours, 24 hours and 1 week after each PIPAC|Decreased Platelets - Number of Participants With Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0, Blood samples will be collected to analyse the amount of platelets., Pre-operatively, and 12 hours, 24 hours and 1 week after each PIPAC
Over 85% of women with ovarian cancer (OC) will develop a peritoneal recurrence after initial therapy. The prognosis of patients with recurrent disease is poor, with a median survival ranging from 12 to 24 months. Most of these patients ultimately develop platinum resistant disease (PROC). Current systemic therapy results in a very modest improvement of progression free and overall survival. The addition of locoregional, intraperitoneal (IP) therapy may improve disease control in recurrent OC. Recently, pressurized intraperitoneal aerosol therapy (PIPAC) was added to the therapeutic arsenal. This novel technique allows repeated laparoscopy aided aerosol delivery of anticancer drugs to the peritoneal cavity. Abraxane (nab-pac, Celgene) is a novel 130 nm, albumin-bound (nab) nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel which has noteworthy single-agent activity and a favourable toxicity profile when used systemically in PROC. A recent phase I study showed a significant pharmacokinetic advantage after IP instillation of nab-pac in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from ovarian or gastro-intestinal (GI) origin.

In phase I of this study, dose escalation will be combined with pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic modelling which incorporates, in addition to plasma, tumour tissue, and peritoneal drug concentrations, biomarkers of toxicity and efficacy.