Zanubrutinib With Pemetrexed to Treat Relapsed/Refractory Primary and Secondary Central Nervous System (CNS) Lymphomas
This study is being conducted to evaluate the safety and efficacy of the combination of pemetrexed and zanubrutinib (called induction therapy) followed by zanubrutinib treatment alone (also called maintenance therapy) in people who have relapsed or refractory (RR) primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) or isolated central nervous system relapse of B cell lymphoma (SCNSL). Assessments include how well people respond to this treatment, whether their disease gets better or worse, and their survival. Safety of this treatment and its side effects also will be assessed.
Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Relapsed Cancer|Refractory Cancer
DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Zanubrutinib|PROCEDURE: Autologous Stem Cell Transplant (ASCT)|RADIATION: Whole Brain Radiation Therapy (WBRT)
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) to Induction Therapy, Best ORR to induction therapy is defined as the best response between the start of induction therapy until the end of induction therapy based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005)., 6 months
Best Overall Response Rate (ORR) after transplant, WBRT + zanubrutinib maintenance, or zanubrutinib maintenance alone, Best ORR is defined as the best response between the transplant and end of study, WBRT and end of study, or start of maintenance therapy and end of study. Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005)., 5 years|Complete Response (CR) Rate to induction therapy, Rate of CR to induction therapy is defined as the number of participants out of the total who demonstrate CR between the start of induction therapy until the end of induction therapy based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005). CR includes confirmed and unconfirmed CR (CRu). CRu is defined as any participant who fulfills all criteria for CR but continues to require corticosteroid therapy or have a small but persistent enhancing abnormality on MRI related to biopsy or focal hemorrhage, 6 months|Complete Response (CR) Rate after transplant, WBRT + zanubrutinib maintenance, or zanubrutinib maintenance alone, Rate of CR to is defined as the number of participants out of the total who demonstrate CR between the transplant and end of study, WBRT and end of study, or start of maintenance therapy and end of study. Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005). CR includes confirmed and unconfirmed CR (CRu). CRu is defined as any participant who fulfills all criteria for CR but continues to require corticosteroid therapy or have a small but persistent enhancing abnormality on MRI related to biopsy or focal hemorrhage., 5 years|Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the duration of time from when complete or partial response is first identified to the time when progression is identified. Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005)., 5 years|Duration of Complete Response (DOCR), DOCR is defined as the duration of time from when complete response is first identified to the time when partial response or progression is identified. Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005)., 5 years|Change in Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from start of induction therapy to the time when progression is identified or the participant expires, whichever comes first., 1 year and 5 years|Change in Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from start of induction therapy to the time when a participant expires., 2 years and 5 years|Frequency of Dose-Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), A DLT will be defined as the occurrence of any of the following adverse events at least possibly related to the study medication during the DLT review period. The DLT review period will be defined during the first three 21-day cycles of zanubrutinib-pemetrexed combination treatment. Adverse events unrelated to study drugs will not be considered DLTs., 9 weeks|Clinical benefit rate to induction therapy (pre-transplant, WBRT or zanubrutinib maintenance), To assess the clinical benefit (CR, CRu, PR, SD) rate to induction therapy (pre-transplant, WBRT or zanubrutinib maintenance). Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005). CR includes confirmed and unconfirmed CR (CRu). CRu is defined as any participant who fulfills all criteria for CR but continues to require corticosteroid therapy or have a small but persistent enhancing abnormality on MRI related to biopsy or focal hemorrhage., 6 months|Clinical benefit rate post-transplant, WBRT followed by zanubrutinib maintenance or zanubrutinib maintenance), To assess the clinical benefit (CR, CRu, PR, SD) rate post-transplant, WBRT followed by zanubrutinib maintenance or zanubrutinib maintenance; subgroup analysis will be performed on the participants who have not received WBRT. Response is based on the criteria set forth in "Report of an international workshop to standardize baseline evaluation and response criteria for primary CNS lymphoma" (2005). CR includes confirmed and unconfirmed CR (CRu). CRu is defined as any participant who fulfills all criteria for CR but continues to require corticosteroid therapy or have a small but persistent enhancing abnormality on MRI related to biopsy or focal hemorrhage., 5 years
Pemetrexed, when used by itself, is beneficial and is a standard of care therapy for RR PCNSL and can be used to treat SCNSL. Zanubrutinib is an oral drug that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as safe and effective to treat certain lymphoma types.