Human Lysozyme Goat Milk in Treating Patients With Blood Cancer Undergoing Donor Stem Cell Transplant
This randomized pilot phase I trial studies the side effects of human lysozyme goat milk in treating patients with blood cancer undergoing a donor stem cell transplant. Sometimes the transplanted cells from a donor can make an immune response against the body's normal cells (called graft-versus-host disease). Giving human lysozyme goat milk to patients undergoing a donor stem cell transplant may stop this from happening.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation Recipient
PROCEDURE: Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Goat Milk|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|BIOLOGICAL: Palifermin|DRUG: Sirolimus|DRUG: Tacrolimus|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation
Feasibility of drinking human lysozyme goat milk (hLZ), Feasibility of drinking hLZ will be evaluated by assessment of patients' ability to drink the specified volume (250 ml 3 x per day) of hLZ during the safety lead-in phase., Up to +28 days post-transplant or date of discharge|Unacceptable toxicity, The modified Bearman Scale will be used to define unacceptable toxicity events. Unacceptable toxicity in a given patient is defined as either of the following that are considered at least possibly related to drinking hLZ milk: GI toxicity grade III or IV per Bearman scale or inability to consume hLZ milk for \>7 days., Up to 28 days post-transplant or date of discharge|Adverse events, Incidence and severity of adverse events will be reported according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)4.03. Observed toxicities will be summarized in terms of type (organ affected or laboratory determination), severity, time of onset, duration, probable association with the study treatment and reversibility or outcome., Up to 100 days post-transplant|Volume of hLZ consumed, Tolerability is defined as the ability to consume \>= 150 ml/day over the treatment period., Up to 28 days post-transplant or date of discharge
Cumulative incidence (CI) of chronic GVHD, Chronic graft versus host disease is scored according to NIH Consensus Staging. The first day of chronic GvHD onset will be used to calculate CI incidence curves, with relapse/death prior to onset considered competing events. CI of chronic GVHD will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 6 months|Cumulative incidence (CI) of chronic GVHD, Chronic graft versus host disease is scored according to NIH Consensus Staging. The first day of chronic GvHD onset will be used to calculate CI incidence curves, with relapse/death prior to onset considered competing events. CI of chronic GVHD will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 1 year|Cumulative incidence (CI) of chronic GVHD, Chronic graft versus host disease is scored according to NIH Consensus Staging. The first day of chronic GvHD onset will be used to calculate CI incidence curves, with relapse/death prior to onset considered competing events. CI of chronic GVHD will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 2 years|CI of non-relapse mortality (NRM), Non-relapse mortality (NRM) is defined as death occurring in a patient from causes other than relapse. NRM is measured from start of treatment until non-disease related death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. The cumulative incidence of NRM will be calculated reflecting relapse as a competing risk. CI of NRM will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 100 days|CI of NRM, Non-relapse mortality (NRM) is defined as death occurring in a patient from causes other than relapse. NRM is measured from start of treatment until non-disease related death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. The cumulative incidence of NRM will be calculated reflecting relapse as a competing risk. CI of NRM will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 1 year|CI of NRM, Non-relapse mortality (NRM) is defined as death occurring in a patient from causes other than relapse. NRM is measured from start of treatment until non-disease related death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. The cumulative incidence of NRM will be calculated reflecting relapse as a competing risk. CI of NRM will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 2 years|CI of relapse/progression, The event is relapse/progression. Time to this event is measured from start of treatment. Death without relapse/progression is considered a competing risk. Surviving patients with no history of relapse are censored at time of last follow-up. CI of relapse/progression will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 100 days|CI of relapse/progression, The event is relapse/progression. Time to this event is measured from start of treatment. Death without relapse/progression is considered a competing risk. Surviving patients with no history of relapse are censored at time of last follow-up. CI of relapse/progression will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 1 year|CI of relapse/progression, The event is relapse/progression. Time to this event is measured from start of treatment. Death without relapse/progression is considered a competing risk. Surviving patients with no history of relapse are censored at time of last follow-up. CI of relapse/progression will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999)., At 2 years|Gut microbiome diversity, Gut microbiome diversity will be assessed by the Simpson Index and compared between hLZ-treated/untreated patients. Association between treatment and gut microbial diversity will be assessed by Fisher's Exact test., Day - 8 +/- 3, Day 0, Day +7, Day +14, Day +21, Day +28|CI of acute graft versus host disease (aGVHD), Acute graft versus host disease will be graded according to the Consensus Grading. The first day of acute GvHD onset at a certain grade will be used to calculate cumulative incidence curves for that GvHD grade; relapse/death prior to onset will be considered competing events. CI of aGVHD will be estimated using the method described by Gooley et al (1999). Association between gut microbial diversity (inverse Simpson index: high \[\>4\], intermediate \[2-4\], and low \[\<2\]) or treatment and CI of aGVHD will be assessed by Gray's test., At 100 days|Incidence of bloodstream infections, Incidence of bloodstream infections and infectious enterocolitis will be evaluated and a preliminary estimate of the association between gut microbiome diversity and bloodstream infections will be obtained. Association between gut microbial diversity (inverse Simpson index: high \[\>4\], intermediate \[2-4\], and low \[\<2\]) or treatment and CI of bloodstream infections will be assessed by Gray's test., Up to 100 days|Overall survival (OS), Patients are considered a failure for this endpoint if they die, regardless of cause. The time to this event is the time from start of treatment until death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. OS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., At 100 days|Overall survival (OS), Patients are considered a failure for this endpoint if they die, regardless of cause. The time to this event is the time from start of treatment until death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. OS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., At 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Patients are considered a failure for this endpoint if they die, regardless of cause. The time to this event is the time from start of treatment until death, or last follow-up, whichever comes first. OS will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., At 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of human lysozyme goat milk (hLZ) treatment by assessing type, frequency, severity, attribution, time course and duration of adverse events, including diarrhea, bloodstream/intestinal infections.

II. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of hLZ treatment by assessing patient compliance, the patients' ability to drink the specified volume (250 ml 3 x/day) of hLZ during the treatment period.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the incidence and severity of adverse events (AE) among hLZ-treated and untreated patients, including diarrhea, bloodstream infections and intestinal infections.

II. To obtain preliminary estimates of gut microbiome diversity, as assessed by the Simpson Index, in hLZ-treated/untreated patients.

III. To compare gut microbiome diversity among hLZ-treated/untreated patients. IV. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome diversity and bloodstream infections.

V. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the possible association between gut microbiome diversity and acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) cumulative incidence, including time to onset.

VI. To characterize and compare GVHD inflammatory biomarkers (presence, level) among hLZ-treated and untreated patients.

VII. To characterize and compare urinary uindoxyl sulfate, tryptophan and kynurenine levels between hLZ-treated and untreated patients.

IX. To estimate overall survival (OS) cumulative incidence (CI) chronic GVHD of relapse/progression, and non-relapse mortality (NRM) at 100 days (excluding chronic GVHD), 6 months, 1 year and 2 years.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I:

CONDITIONING: Patients receive palifermin on days -10 to -8 and days 0 to 2, undergo fractionated total body irradiation (FTBI) on days -7 to -4, and receive cyclophosphamide on days -3 to -2 or etoposide on day -3 per City of Hope (COH) standard operating procedure (SOP) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

HLZ: Patients receive human lysozyme goat milk orally (PO) three times daily (TID) on days -8 to 28 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo stem cell infusion on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Beginning on day -2, patients receive tacrolimus and sirolimus daily per COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II:

CONDITIONING: Patients receive palifermin on days -10 to -8 and days 0 to 2 per COH SOP, undergo FTBI on days -7 to -4, and receive cyclophosphamide on days -3 to -2 or etoposide on day -3 per COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo stem cell infusion on day 0.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Beginning on day -2, patients receive tacrolimus and sirolimus daily per COH SOP in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.