Phase I Vorinostat in Combination With Niacinamide and Etoposide for Lymphoid Malignancies
The purpose of this study is to test the safety of a combination of two anticancer medicines, called vorinostat and etoposide, with a high dose of a vitamin called niacinamide. These medications will be tested at different dose levels. The investigators want to find out what effects, good and/or bad, it has on patients and their recurrent lymphoma. The first two drugs, vorinostat and niacinamide, suppress survival signals that lymphoma cells depend on. The third drug, etoposide can kill sensitive lymphoma cells alone or in combination with other chemotherapy drugs. Vorinostat is an anticancer agent that been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. It is being evaluated in this study in combination with other anticancer medicines for use in other types of lymphoma. Vorinostat's use in combination with anticancer regimens is experimental. Niacinamide is a vitamin that is investigational or experimental when given at high doses as an anticancer agent. Niacinamide has not yet been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in lymphoma. Etoposide has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use in aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. However, the way it will be given in this clinical study is experimental.
Hodgkin's Disease|Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
DRUG: Vorinostat|DRUG: Niacinamide|DRUG: Etoposide
The Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Niacinamide in the Combination of Vorinostat and Niacinamide, 3 years
The Greatest Number of Cycles Received in Each Treatment Group, The highest number of cycles received by an individual participant in the treatment groups. Each cycle was 21 days long., up to 45 weeks|The Number of Dose Delays and Reductions at the MTD, continuous|The Prevalence of Anti-tumor Activity, continuous|Pharmacodynamic Markers of Target Effect in Paired Tissue Biopsies, continuous
Subjects will be treated with vorinostat administered orally with daily dosing for 14 days of a 21-day treatment cycle in combination with niacinamide administered orally for 14 days in 21-day treatment cycle and etoposide administered intravenously on days 8,9 and 10 of a 21-day treatment cycle. Etoposide dose will be escalated until maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.