SBRT With Combination Ipilimumab/Nivolumab for Metastatic Kidney Cancer
This trial will evaluate the addition of cytoreductive stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to standard of care combination ipilimumab and nivolumab (I/N) versus I/N alone for the treatment of metastatic kidney cancer.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Ipilimumab/ Nivolumab|RADIATION: SBRT + Ipilimumab/Nivolumab
Progression free survival (PFS), The primary outcome of this study is the hazard ratio for progression-free survival (PFS), defined from the date of randomization until the date of progression (PFS truncated at subsequent systemic therapy) as determined by RECIST 1.1, or death due to any cause, whichever comes first. All attempts will be made to follow-up patients for the primary outcome measure for at least one year, even if a patient stops treatment. Patients who do not have a primary outcome event at the time of analysis will be censored on the last date the patient can be confirmed as alive and progression-free., 2 years
Subject safety, Incidence and attribution of deaths, Date of randomization until 1year post treatment|Overall Survival, • Overall survival, defined from the date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause. Patients with no known death date at the time of analysis will be censored on the last date they are confirmed alive., 2 years|Objective response rate, • Objective response rate, which is defined as the proportion of randomized subjects who achieve a best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) using the RECIST 1.1 criteria., 1 year|Quality of Life: EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire, • Quality of life, which will be evaluated using the EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire., 1 year|Subject safety, Number of Adverse Events and Serious Adverse Events using NCI CTCAE v5.0, 1 Year|Ipilimumab/ Nivolumab drug tolerability, Ipilimumab/Nivolumab treatment discontinuation rates, From the date of randomization until date of first documented disease progression up to 1 year.|Ipilimumab/ Nivolumab drug tolerability, Number of doses of Ipilimumab/Nivolumab combination treatment, From the date of randomization until date of first documented disease progression, up to 1 year.|Ipilimumab/ Nivolumab drug tolerability, Number of Nivolumab maintenance doses, From the date of randomization until date of first documented disease progression, up to 1 year.|Ipilimumab/ Nivolumab drug tolerability, Time to treatment discontinuation from the date of randomization, From the date of randomization until date of first documented disease progression, up to 1 year.
Exploratory Outcomes: Evaluation of baseline and changes during treatment in blood immune signatures, Changes in blood immune signatures through interrogation of circulating blood biomarkers., 1 year|Exploratory Outcomes: Evaluation of baseline and changes during treatment in stool microbiome, Changes in stool microbiome using 16S RNA., 1 year|Correlation with blood or stool immune signatures, Tumor tissue analysis using immunohistochemistry, 1 year
This is a multi-centre, open label, phase II randomized clinical trial evaluating SBRT as upfront cytoreductive therapy to the primary renal mass along with combination I/N therapy in patients with intermediate/poor risk mRCC who are not candidates for cytoreductive nephrectomy. Eligible and consenting, newly diagnosed and histologically confirmed intermediate/poor risk mRCC patients based on IMDC criteria with primary disease in-situ will be randomized in a 2:1 fashion to either induction I/N followed by SBRT prior to the second cycle (experimental arm) versus I/N alone (standard arm). Patients will be stratified based on IMDC criteria (intermediate 1-2 versus poor 3-6).

* Standard Arm: induction ipilimumab 1 mg/kg combined with nivolumab 3 mg/kg (I/N) every 3 weeks for cycles 1-4 followed by maintenance treatment with nivolumab 240mg every 2 weeks or 480mg every 4 weeks until disease progression (as determined by RECIST 1.1), intolerance, or patient/physician decision to stop treatment.
* Experimental Arm: induction ipilimumab 1 mg/kg combined with nivolumab 3 mg/kg (I/N) every 3 weeks for one cycle, followed by SBRT to the primary disease in-situ, prior to cycle 2-4 of I/N. Patients randomized to SBRT will undergo radiation planning during the first cycle of I/N to their primary kidney mass, and then the radiation will be delivered between cycles 1 and 2 to a dose of 30-40 Gy in 5 fractions every other day over 1.5 weeks. Approximately one week following completion of SBRT, patients will start cycle 2 of I/N as per standard of care. The total time elapsed between the start of cycle 1 and 2 of I/N should be no more than 6 weeks. After completion of up to four cycles of I/N, patients will proceed to standard of care maintenance treatment with nivolumab 240mg every 2 weeks or 480mg every 4 weeks until disease progression (as determined by RECIST 1.1), intolerance, or patient/physician decision to stop treatment.

During treatment (standard and experimental arm) participants will be assessed for radiation toxicity and the occurrence of adverse events. Following treatment, participants will be assessed at a clinic visit every 3 months, for a period of 1 year. Progression free survival will be assessed by CT scan (chest; abdomen and pelvis), which is performed after the final I/N treatment and every 3 months as per standard of care. Participants will be followed for one additional year, seen at 18 and 24 months to assess survival. The planned sample size is 78 study participants.