Phase I Study of Gemcitabine, Sorafenib and Radiotherapy in Patients With Unresectable Pancreatic Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combined treatment of Sorafenib (BAY 43-9006) with Gemcitabine and radiotherapy in patients with localized unresectable pancreatic cancer.
Pancreatic Cancer|Adenocarcinoma of the Pancreas
DRUG: Gemcitabine, Sorafenib|PROCEDURE: Radiotherapy
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combined treatment with Gemcitabine with Sorafenib and radiotherapy in patients with localized unresectable pancreatic cancer., completion of study
To evaluate the response rate (CR + PR), clinical benefit (CR + PR + SD) and tumor shrinkage (CR + PR + SD that shrinks) of Gemcitabine with Sorafenib and radiotherapy, completion of study|To evaluate time to disease progression and overall survival., completion of study|To evaluate pharmacodynamic changes in tumor vascular parameters (e.g blood flow, blood volume, time to peak in ROC -receiver operator characteristics curve) by DCE-MRI and correlate with outcomes., completion of study|To evaluate biologic markers such as VEGF, eNOS and HIF1-alpha, VEGF-R2 genetic polymorphisms and serum proteomics, and correlate with outcomes., completion of study|To evaluate resectability rates of tumors after treatment., completion of treatment|To evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for Sorafenib during Chemo-radiation., completion of treatment
Pancreatic cancer treatment is hampered by its resistance to both chemo and radiotherapy. Gemcitabine-based chemoradiotherapy has become one of the standard therapies for localized unresectable pancreatic cancer, but with poor responses and survival rates of less than 12 months. Radiotherapy increases VEGF expression and activates the Ras/MEK/ERK pathway which may contribute to radioresistance, thus the addition of anti-angiogenic agents and/or Ras/ERK inhibitors could enhance radiation mediated cytotoxicity. Sorafenib is a novel dual-action Raf kinase and vascular endothelial growth factor receptors (VEGF-R2 and VEGF-R3) inhibitor targeting both angiogenic and Ras-Raf-1 signal transduction pathways. Based upon preliminary laboratory and clinical data Sorafenib holds promise for improving outcomes of therapy for patients with locally advanced unresectable pancreatic cancer.

Polymorphisms in genes involved in the angiogenesis pathway (VEGF, VEGF-R2, HIF-1 and eNOS) may contribute to the process of angiogenesis, tumor behavior, and may explain the heterogeneity in efficacy (and toxicity) of agents whose major mechanism of action is blocking angiogenesis33-37. Proteomic analysis may also contribute to identify patterns of response or resistance to therapies, and potentially predict outcomes.

Dynamic contrast enhanced (DCE)-MRI has been shown to be a useful pharmacodynamic marker of biological activity for anti-angiogenic agents38-40 and may also predict radiation therapy-induced vascular changes41. In vivo imaging of angiogenesis using DCE-MRI and the analysis of angiogenesis markers genetic polymorphisms may predict response and clinical benefit to therapy for unresectable pancreatic cancer patients. These biologic and pharmacodynamic endpoints will be analysed to correlate with the tumor activity seen.