Bicalutamide as A Treatment in AR-positive Metastatic Triple-Negative Breast Cancer (mTNBC) Patients
This prospective, single center, phase II study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bicalutamide as a treatment in androgen receptor (AR)-positive metastatic triple-negative breast cancer (mTNBC) patients.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Bicalutamide
Clinical benefit rate (CBR), Clinical benefit rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve complete response (CR), partial response (PR) and stable disease (SD) ≥24 weeks by RECIST version 1.1 criteria., every 8 weeks, up to 48 weeks
Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of patients who achieve complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) by RECIST version 1.1 criteria., every 8 weeks, up to 24 weeks|Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival is defined as the time from enrollment to the first documented disease progression or death from any cause., every 8 weeks, up to 48 months|Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Evaluate incidence of adverse events and severity grade of these events, every 4 weeks, up to 24 weeks|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival is defined as the time from enrollment to death from any cause., every 3 months, up to 100 months
Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is defined as the absence of estrogen and progesterone receptor expression as well as ERBB2 amplification. It has no response to endocrine or anti-ERBB2 therapies. Recent studies have found some potential therapeutic targets for TNBC. However, it still has a poor outcome. It was reported that TNBC has six subtypes, including 2 basal-like (BL1 and BL2), an immunomodulatory (IM), a mesenchymal (M), a mesenchymal stem-like (MSL), and a luminal androgen receptor (LAR) subtype. Different subtype may be sensitive to different treatment. Bicalutamide is an oral, non-steroidal, androgen receptor (AR) antagonist. It is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer. Recently, a study explored the efficacy of bicalutamide in AR positive, estrogen receptor negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC), which showed a high clinical benefit rate (CBR) and a good safety profile. Based on the above reasons, we initiate this phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of bicalutamide in AR positive metastatic triple-negative breast cancer patients.