Symptom Management, Education and Telephone Follow-up, Quality of Life,
This study was planned as an experimental design study with pretest-posttest control group in order to determine the effects of education and telephone follow-up given to patients receiving androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for prostate cancer on quality of life and symptom management.The main question\[s\] it aims to answer are:

* Is the quality of life higher in patients receiving androgen deprivation therapy who are trained and followed up over the phone compared to patients who are only given an education booklet?
* Is symptom management higher in patients receiving androgen deprivation therapy who received training and followed-up over the phone compared to patients who were only given an education booklet?
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Education and Telephone Follow-up
EORTC QLQ-C30 (Version 3.0) Quality of Life Scale, It is a questionnaire to measure quality of life which consists of three parts, namely "General Health Status Scale", "Functional Scale", "Symptom Scale" and a total of 30 questions. The last two questions (29,30); provides an assessment of the global quality of life. Each item in the scale is evaluated between 0 and 100 points. For each of the 28 questions in the functional scale and symptom scale, there are four options as none (1 point), a little (2 points), quite (3 points), a lot (4 points). On the general health scale, there are options ranging from very bad to excellent in the range of 1-7 points. Higher values represent a better situation, Through study completion, an average of 3 months|EORTC QLQ-PR25 Prostate Module, It is a questionnaire to measure quality of life and consisting of 25 items. Prostate Cancer-specific side effects related to surgery, radiotherapy or hormonal therapy that are not in QLQ-C30; voiding problems, bowel functions, sexual status. It consists of two functional (sexual activity and sexual function) and four symptom scales (urinary, intestinal, hormone therapy-related symptoms and incontinence). The score of each item in the scale is evaluated by converting it into a linear range of 0 to 100 points. For each of the 25 questions in the module, there are four options: none (1 point), a little (2 points), quite (3 points), a lot (4 points). A high score from the functional scale indicates a high functional level, and a high score from the symptom scale indicates that the symptoms are experienced intensely., Through study completion, an average of 3 months
The blood pressure measurements, Blood pressure monitoring will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Blood pressure measurement is performed by the researcher using the same manual sphygmomanometer instrument during pretest and posttest data collection. Blood pressure is expressed in "mmHg"., 3 months|The heart rate measurement, Heart rate monitoring will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, whichis side effect of ADT. The heart rate is measured by the researcher by counting over the radial artery for one minute during pretest and posttest data collection. Heart rate refers to the number of beats per minute., 3 months|Weight, Weight monitoring will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Weight measurement is performed by the researcher using the wall weight meter during pretest and posttest data collection. Weight is expressed in "kilograms"., 3 months|Height, Height monitoring will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Height measurement is performed by the researcher using wall height meter during pretest and posttest data collection. Height is expressed in "meters"., 3 months|BMI, BMI monitoring will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Weight and height will be combined to report BMI in kg/m\^2., 3 months|Waist/Hip circumference measurement, Waist/Hip circumference measurement will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Waist circumference/hip circumference is measured with a plastic flexible tape measure while the patient is standing in an upright position. Waist/Hip circumference measurement is expressed in "centemeter"., 3 months|Prostate Spesific Antigen (PSA), Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) parameter will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) will be obtained from the hospital automation system during pretest and posttest data collection. PSA is expressed in "(nanogram/milliliter) ng/ml"., 3 months|Glucose level, Glucose levels parameter will be used to evaluate metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors, which is side effect of ADT. Glucose level will be obtained from the hospital automation system during pretest and posttest data collection. Glucose level is expressed in "(milligram/deciliter) mg/dl"., 3 months
The number of samples to be taken in each group was determined as 24 (total 48) with the help of the G-power (version 3.1) package program. Considering the possible losses in the research and in order to increase the power of the study, it was planned to carry out the research with a total of 60 people, 30 people in the experimental and control groups.

While evaluating the findings obtained in the study, SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) version 25.0 (IBM Corp., Armonk, NY, USA) program will be used for statistical analysis.