Study of Apatinib and MASCT in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
The study is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Apatinib and MASCT in patients with advanced solid tumors.
Advanced Solid Tumors|Excluding T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Apatinib|BIOLOGICAL: MASCT
Incidence of treatment-related adverse events, The incidence of treatment-related adverse events were graded with the use of the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4.0., up to 2 years
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), The length of time from enrollment until the time of progression of disease (PFS, progression-free survival), From enrollment to progression of disease. Estimated about 6 months.|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from enrollment until the time of death (OS, overall survival), From enrollment to death of patients. Estimated about 1 year.|Objective Response Rate (ORR), clinical response of treatment according to RESIST v1.1 criteria (ORR, objective response rate), up to 2 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate is defined as the number of patients with a best overall response of complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) based on RESIST v1.1 criteria., up to 2 years
Angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer, together with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) as one of the most important angiogenic drivers. Inhibitors targeting the VEGF/VEGFR-pathway have shown beneficial effects in many cancer patients, but they are transient and followed by fast regrowth. Similarly, the effectiveness of tumor immunotherapies has been limited by tumor-mediated escape mechanisms and immune suppression. By combining the two strategies, antiangiogenic immunotherapy offers the possibility to more vigorously inhibit tumor angiogenesis and promote an enduring immune-stimulatory milieu that leads to prolonged survival benefits in cancer patients.

Apatinib is a small-molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) that highly selectively binds to and strongly inhibits vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR-2). Apatinib has been demonstrated as monotherapy prolongs OS in patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma after two or more lines of chemotherapy with moderate, reversible, and easily managed adverse events.

Multiple antigens specific cellular therapy (MASCT) is a new immunotherapy that dendritic cells(DC) was induced from autologous peripheral blood. The DC can then be loaded with 17 antigens and re-infused. In vitro, antigen-pulsed DC can stimulate autologous T-cell proliferation and induction of autologous specific cytotoxic T-cells(CTL)，similarly re-infused. The previous research data showed that MASCT had the modest overall response and less adverse effects for Hepatocellular Carcinoma patients.

The study is aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Apatinib and MASCT in patients with advanced solid tumors.