Screening for Colorectal Cancer in Older Patients (PLCO Screening Trial)
This clinical trial studies whether screening methods used to diagnose cancer of the prostate, lung, colon, rectum, or ovaries can reduce deaths from these cancers. Screening tests may help doctors find cancer cells early and plan better treatment for colorectal cancer.
Colon Carcinoma|Rectal Carcinoma
OTHER: Screening Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Sigmoidoscopy
Colorectal Cancer Deaths, Colorectal cancer deaths confirmed in participants by a death review committee if available, otherwise by death certificate., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.|Colorectal Cancer Death Rates, Colorectal cancer deaths confirmed in participants by a death review committee if available, otherwise by death certificate. Rate is the number of deaths divided by person years of follow-up in the study., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.
Deaths From All Causes, Deaths from all causes were compared between the colorectal cancer screening arm and the usual care arm., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.|Death Rates From All Causes, Deaths from all causes were compared between the colorectal cancer screening arm and the usual care arm. Rate is the number of deaths divided by person years of follow-up in the study., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.|Colorectal Cancer Incidence, Colorectal cancer diagnoses confirmed by medical record abstraction., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.|Colorectal Cancer Incidence Rates, Colorectal cancer diagnoses confirmed by medical record abstraction. Incidence rate (cumulative) defined as colorectal cancer diagnoses divided by person years at risk for colorectal cancer., Events through 13 years of follow-up or through December 31, 2009; median follow-up 12.1 years.|Complications of Diagnostic Evaluation Following a Positive Screening Test, Number of participants who experienced complications during diagnostic work-up of a positive colorectal examination., One year from screening examination|T0 (Baseline) FSG Screening Results, Flexible sigmoidoscopy (FSG) result, T0 (at study entry)|T3/T5 FSG Screening Result, Flexible sigmoidoscopy (FSG) result, T3 (three years after entry) or T5 (five years after entry)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether screening with flexible sigmoidoscopy (60-cm sigmoidoscope) can reduce mortality from colorectal cancer in women and men aged 55-74 at study entry.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess screening variables, other than mortality, for each of the interventions including sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive value.

II. To assess the incidence, stage, and survival of cancer cases. III. To investigate the mortality predictive value of biologic and/or prognostic characterizations of tumor tissue as intermediate endpoints.

IV. To conduct biomolecular and genetic research into factors associated with cancer carcinogenesis and promotion, as well as the early detection of these factors.

OUTLINE: Participants in the overall PLCO study are stratified by screening center, gender, and age (55-59 vs 60-64 vs 65-69 vs 70-74). Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms (control vs screening).

ARM I (Control): Participants receive standard medical care. Participants complete a Diet History Questionnaire (DHQ) at baseline.

ARM II (Colorectal Screening): Participants undergo a colorectal examination with a flexible sigmoidoscope at baseline and year 5. A scheduling and tracking procedure is implemented to ensure regular attendance at repeat screens for participants screened negative or for those who are designated suspicious or positive at screening but for whom subsequent diagnostic procedures do not reveal colorectal cancer (follow-up diagnostic procedures are through their own medical care environment). Participants diagnosed with colorectal cancer via a screening test are referred for treatment in accordance with current accepted practice for appropriate stage of disease, patient age, and medical condition; a procedure is provided for contact with qualified medical personnel to insure appropriate therapy.

Participants complete a Dietary Questionnaire (DQX) at baseline and DHQ at year 3. An Annual Study Update (ADU) (previously referred to as the Periodic Survey of Health \[PSH\] questionnaire) is mailed to each participant annually for 13 years to identify all prevalent and incident colorectal cancers as all deaths that occur among both screened and control subjects during the trial.

After completion of screening, participants are followed up for at least 13 years.