Bevacizumab, Oxaliplatin, and Docetaxel in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic Stomach or Gastroesophageal Junction Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as oxaliplatin and docetaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving bevacizumab together with oxaliplatin and docetaxel may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with oxaliplatin and docetaxel works in treating patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic stomach or gastroesophageal junction cancer.
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Time to Progression, Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, After every 2 cycles (1 cycle =21 days) From study registration until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 18 months
Response Rate by RECIST Criteria, Percentage of Participants with response by RECIST criteria until progression, After every 2 cycles (1 cycle =21 days)|Toxicity Profile, Toxicity profile of grade 3 and grade 4 events using the NCI-CTCAE Version 3.0 scale for toxicity grading., At 21 days following completion of study treatment|Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure using the Kaplan-Meier method, Every 21 days From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Overall Survival, Overall survival using the Kaplan-Meier method, Patients will be followed for survival every three months after they are off study or until their disease progresses, for up to two years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the time to progression in patients with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma treated with bevacizumab, oxaliplatin, and docetaxel.

Secondary

* Determine the response rate in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine time to treatment failure and overall survival of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the changes in general and disease-specific quality of life, in terms of response to treatment, in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes, oxaliplatin IV over 120 minutes, and docetaxel IV over 60 minutes on day 1. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) receive 2 additional courses beyond CR.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 38 patients will be accrued for this study within 18-23 months.