A Comparison of Reduced Dose Total Body Irradiation (TBI) and Cyclophosphamide With Fludarabine and Melphalan Reduced Intensity Conditioning in Adults With Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (ALL) in Complete Remission. (ALL-RIC)
The current national acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) trial in adults investigated whether a low (reduced) intensity chemotherapy regimen prior to transplant could improve the outcome of patients with ALL who are over 40 years of age. The results (60% 2 year survival) are very encouraging but patients who come to transplant with small amounts of 'residual' disease had less good outcomes. The goal of this trial is to see if a slightly stronger chemotherapy regimen (involving total body irradiation, (TBI)) can improve results by reducing the chance of the disease coming back (relapsing) without increasing the chance of not surviving the transplant. Up to 242 patients will be 'randomised' to the trial to receive either the established chemotherapy of fludarabine and melphalan or cyclophosphamide and TBI to compare the outcomes between the two treatment regimens. Other measures to reduce relapse will be the earlier use of donor white cell infusions and earlier stopping of immune suppressive drugs to enhance the immune effect of the transplanted cells (graft). Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 3 years. All patients on the next national ALL trial (UKALL XV) will be offered this trial but it will also be open to patients not on this study.
Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
DRUG: Fludarabine|DRUG: Melphalan|DRUG: Alemtuzumab|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Mesna|RADIATION: Total Body Irradiation (8Gy)
Disease Free Survival (DFS), Defined as time from randomisation to the first of relapse or death from any cause. Patients who are still alive and progression free at the end of the trial will be censored at their last date known to be alive., The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up.
Overall Survival (OS), Defined as time from randomisation to date of death from any cause. Patients who are alive at the end of the trial will be censored at their date last known to be alive, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Cumulative Incidence of Relapse (CIR), Defined as time from randomisation to the date of relapse. Patients who die without relapse will be treated as a competing risk and patients who are alive and relapse free at the end of the trial will be censored as their date last seen, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Non-relapse mortality (NRM), Defined as time from randomisation to death from any cause that occurred without relapse. Patients who relapse will be treated as a competing risk and patients who are still alive and relapse free at the end of the trial will be censored at their date last known to be aliveIncidence of Grade 2-4 acute GvHD within 100 days of transplant, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Incidence of chronic GvHD of any grade at 2 years, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Occurrence and severity of VOD (Veno-occlusive disease) in the first 100 days, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Duration of hospitalisation, Duration of hospitalisation recorded between start of conditioning regimen and 1 year post transplantation., The outcome will be conducted when all patients have completed 1 year of follow up.|Quality of Life (QoL) assessment (FACT-BMT Questionnaire), FACT-BMT Questionnaire uses Units on a scale 0-4. It measures quality of life, with 0 being the lowest quality of life and 4 being the highest quality of life., Collected at baseline, Day 100, Month 12, Month 24, Month 36, Month 48 and Month 60 for each patient. The outcome will be analysed when the last patient has completed 2 years of follow up.|Quality of Life (QoL) assessment (Short Form 36 Health Survey), Short Form 36 Health Survey uses Units on a scale 1-6. Question 1 \& 2 consider general health (1 = best health score, 5 = worst). Question 3 considers activity level (1= least active, 3 = most). Question 4/5 considers work (1= work affected, 2= work not affected). Question 6 considers quality of relationships (1=not affected, 5 = most affected). Question 7 considers pain (1= no pain, 6 = worst). Question 8 considers housework/ paid work (1= not affected, 5= most affected). Question 9 considers mental health (1= best mental health, 6= worst). Question 10 considers social activities (1=most affected, 5= least affected). Question 11 considers self perception (1= worst, 5= best), Collected at baseline, Day 100, Month 12, Month 24, Month 36, Month 48 and Month 60 for each patient. The outcome will be analysed when the last patient has completed 2 years of follow up.|Full donor chimerism, Number of patients with full donor chimerism at day 100 Follow Up (for each patient), The outcome will be analysed when all patients have completed 100 days follow up.|Occurrence and severity of TBI related symptomatic pulmonary toxicity, Collected using CTCAE 4.0 criteria, Collected in first 12 months from start of treatment
Correlation of multi-lineage chimerism and relapse, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up|Correlation of Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) with relapse, The main analysis will take place once all patients have completed 2 years of follow up. A subsequent analysis of long terms outcomes will be completed when all patients have completed 5 years of follow up
TRIAL SYNOPSIS

Trial Design This is a 2 arm, phase II, multicentre, randomised clinical trial in adult patients with ALL in complete remission (CR) undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) comparing the novel conditioning regimen of TBI and cyclophosphamide with the standard condition of Fludarabine/Melphalan/Alemtuzumab (FMA).

Patient will be stratified at randomisation by the donor type (sibling; suitable matched), CR status (CR1; CR2) and by age (above; below 55 years of age). Patients eligible for entry into the trial will be randomised on a 1:1 basis to receive either the experimental treatment arm or the control arm.

Objectives Primary Objectives To compare the disease free survival (DFS) at two years of patients with ALL after a TBI and cyclophosphamide allograft with that of patients transplanted using the FMA conditioning regimen.

Secondary Objectives To compare overall survival (OS), cumulative incidence of disease relapse (CIR), non-relapse mortality (NRM), incidence of grade 2-4 acute graft-versus-host-disease (GvHD), incidence of chronic GvHD of any grade, occurrence and severity of veno-occlusive disease (VOD), duration of hospitalisation in the first year, quality of life (QoL), full donor chimerism at day 100 and TBI related symptomatic pulmonary toxicity between the control and experimental arm following allogenic SCT.

Exploratory Objectives To measure multi-lineage chimerism and molecular minimal residual disease (MRD) at 3 monthly intervals and the ability of planned donor lymphocyte infusion (DLI) to 'correct' mixed chimerism and reverse molecular relapse/persistence and reduce the incidence of frank haematologic relapse.

To ascertain if either of the conditioning arms is more effective in controlling disease in patients who are MRD positive before transplant.

Patient Population This trial will recruit patients with ALL in CR as defined by the WHO classification (Appendix 1). Patients enrolled onto the UKALL XIV registration study and the planned national UKALL XV study who are eligible for transplant will also be able to enrol onto ALL-RIC provided they meet the entry criteria.

Sample Size A minimum of 247 patients will be randomised 1:1 between the control and experimental treatment arms.

Trial Duration Patients will be recruited over 48 months across IMPACT centres. Patients will be followed up for a minimum of 5 years.