A Phase II Study of Pemigatinib Plus Durvalumab in Previously Treated Advanced Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma Patients With FGFR-2 Fusion or Rearrangement
This is a single arm phase II study of pemigatinib and durvalumab combination in patients with FGFR-2 fusion or rearrangement positive intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Each cycle will be 3 weeks. Pemigatinib is administered at 13.5 mg orally daily 2 weeks on and 1 week off. Durvalumab is administered at 1500 mg intravenously once every 3 weeks. Subjects will require a visit with appropriate laboratory work prior to the start of each cycle. Disease assessment will occur every 9 weeks. Subjects will continue treatment until progression per RECIST 1.1, toxicity or subject/physician decision. A maximum of 24 months (about 35 cycles) of pemigatinib and durvalumab treatment from Cycle 1 Day 1 is allowed.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma|FGFR2 Gene Rearrangement|FGFR2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: Pemigatinib|DRUG: Durvalumab
Confirmed objective response rate (ORR), ORR will include confirmed complete response (CR) + confirmed partial response (PR) and will be determined as per RECIST version 1.1. A confirmed response is defined to be either a CR or PR noted as the objective status on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 4 weeks apart., 24 months
Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until the criteria for disease progression is met as defined by RECIST version 1.1 or death as a result of any cause., 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR (per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the Investigator) is defined as the rate of best objective response of CR, PR, or SD according to RECIST 1.1. DCR is defined as the percentage of subjects who have a best objective response of CR or PR or who have SD for at least 9 weeks (±7 days) following the start of study treatment., 24 months|Overall Survival, OS is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until death from any cause., 24 months|Duration of response, DOR (per RECIST 1.1 as assessed by the Investigator) will be defined as the time from the date of first documented response until the first date of documented progression or death in the absence of disease progression (ie, date of PFS event or censoring - date of first response). The end of response should coincide with the date of progression or death from any cause used for the RECIST 1.1 PFS endpoint., 24 months|Number of Participants with Adverse Events, Adverse events will be assessed according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v5, 24 months
This is a single arm phase II study of pemigatinib and durvalumab combination in patients with FGFR-2 fusion or rearrangement positive intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Each cycle will be 3 weeks. Pemigatinib is administered at 13.5 mg orally daily 2 weeks on and 1 week off. Durvalumab is administered at 1500 mg intravenously once every 3 weeks. Subjects will require a visit with appropriate laboratory work prior to the start of each cycle. Disease assessment will occur every 9 weeks. Subjects will continue treatment until progression per RECIST 1.1, toxicity or subject/physician decision. A maximum of 24 months (about 35 cycles) of pemigatinib and durvalumab treatment from Cycle 1 Day 1 is allowed.