Chemotherapy and Pembrolizumab, Followed by Pembrolizumab and Olaparib As Firstline Therapy in Her-2 Negative Gastric/GEJ Adenocarcinoma
This is a multicenter, single arm, prospective, open-label phase II trial investigating the clinical activity of a first-line therapy consisting of induction chemotherapy plus pembrolizumab (12 weeks of mod. FOLFOX-6 plus pembrolizumab or 12 weeks of CAPOX plus pembrolizumab) followed by pembrolizumab plus olaparib.
Esophagogastric Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: Pembrolizumab|DRUG: Olaparib|DRUG: mFOLFOX-6|DRUG: CapOX
Overall survival (OS) rate at 1 year, Overall survival (OS) rate at 1 year defined as the percentage of patients who remain alive one year after enrollment into the study, 1 year after enrolment
Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as time from enrollment to disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST or death due to any cause, up to 55 months|Objective response rate (ORR), ORR - percentage of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST., up to 55 months|Best Overall Response (BOR), BOR - best response recorded from enrollment to treatment discontinuation for any reason., up to 55 months|Time to tumor progression (TTP), TTP - time from enrollment to disease progression according to RECIST 1.1 and iRECIST., up to 55 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS - time from enrollment to the date of death of any cause., up to 55 months|Feasibility rate, Feasibility rate: severe toxicity/withdrawal rate before the fourth cycle of pembrolizumab/olaparib has been completed., 36 weeks|Incidence and severity of adverse events, (Serious) Adverse Events - Recorded and graded according to NCI-CTC V5.0. Occurrence of (Serious) Adverse Events at any time during the study. Description by nature (Primary System Organ Class and Preferred Term), severity and causal relationship to drug administration, up to 29 months (18 cycles a 6 weeks plus 110 days after last treatment)
Immune cell states (exploratory translational outcome), Identification of immune cell states changing in abundance in responders vs non-responders under Pembrolizumab/chemotherapy. The compositional changes within cellular neighborhoods will be identified using a generalized linear model with an FDR of 0.025 and the following covariates: patient ID, timepoint (1st and 2nd sampling timepoint as per study protocol)., up to 55 months|Predictive value of PD-L1 CPS (exploratory translational outcome), Centralized analysis of the predictive value of PD-L1 combined prognostic score (CPS)., up to 55 months|Other exploratory translational outcomes:, * Descriptively define the dynamics of immune cell states and their factor loadings over the entire course of therapy, including consolidation therapy with Olaparib in combination with Pembrolizumab stratified by best response status (PD/SD vs PR) and by PFS and OS under Olaparib + Pembrolizumab.
* Correlation of efficacy of consolidation therapy with molecular alterations in the HRD pathway
* Compare mean factor loadings per patient in responders (according to RECIST 1.1) and non-responders within each major immune subset (CD4 T cells, CD8 T cells, Natural Killer cells, dendritic cells, monocytes, naïve B cells, memory B cells) using Mann-Whitney-U tests and the Benjamini-Hochberg method. For comparison within the first immune cell subset alpha will be set to 0.0125 and will be divided by 2 for every additional subset tested to not exceed an overall false discovery rate of 0.05 for all analyses., up to 55 months
Her-2 negative patients suffering from metastatic or unresectable gastric/GEJ adenocarcinoma will be included in the study. Eligible subjects will receive 2 six-week (q42d) cycles of mod. FOLFOX-6 plus pembrolizumab. Alternatively, subjects may receive 2 six-week (q42d) cycles of CAPOX plus pembrolizumab. The decision for either mod. FOLFOX-6 or CAPOX is made at the sole discretion of the investigator taking into account the best interest of the patient. Following the chemotherapy induction phase, the subjects are scheduled to receive pembrolizumab plus olaparib until tumor progression or occurrence of limiting toxicity for a maximum of 16 cycles (q42d, total 18 cycles, approx. 2 years).

The primary objective of this phase II study is to assess the overall survival at 1 year. Secondary objectives are the assessment of the objective response rate, the best overall response, progression-free survival, overall survival and treatment feasibility rate along with safety and toxicity of the treatment.

The exploratory objective is to assess whether clinical efficacy correlates with molecularly-defined subgroups (PD-L1 expression, HR alterations, MSI subtypes, and others).

The study will be accompanied by an explorative translational research analysis of blood and tumor samples.

The compositional changes of leukocyte states and their gene expression changes under combination immunotherapy will be analyzed using single cell RNA sequencing. Using factor analysis methods, we will analyze the environmental cues shaping leukocyte states and compare these features in responders and non-responders to therapy and correlate these with overall and progression-free survival. In addition, centralized PD-L1 expression and molecular sequencing of tumor tissue will be performed with a focus on alterations of HRD pathway.