Harnessing the Effect of an Open-Label Placebo on Fatigue in Cancer Survivors
This research study is evaluating the usefulness of a placebo (a tablet with no active ingredients) on fatigue in cancer survivors.
Fatigue in Cancer Survivors
OTHER: Placebo
Change in Fatigue on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Fatigue (FACIT-F) scale, 13-item self-report measure of fatigue, Change from baseline to Day 8, and from baseline to Day 22
Change in Mood on the Profile of Mood Scale- Short Form (POMS-SF), 35-items self-report mood scale, Change from baseline to Day 22|Health Related Quality of Life on the Short Form-12 (SF-12) quality of life scale, 12-item HRQOL measure, Change from baseline to Day 22|Subjective Sense of Change on fatigue, readiness for exercise and quality of life, 3-item measure that asks participants to report changes to their level of fatigue, ability to engage in physical activity, and overall quality of life since the beginning of the research program., Change from baseline to Day 8, and change from Baseline to Day 22
Fatigue can be a problem for some people after cancer treatment. In clinical trials, placebos (tablets with no active ingredients) have been shown to improve symptoms of some medical conditions including fatigue. This study is being done to test the usefulness of taking placebos for improving cancer-related fatigue. In this study, the investigators are testing whether symptoms of fatigue will improve when people know they are taking a tablet with no active ingredients.

This is a randomized study, which means the participant will be put into one of two groups. Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the participant will be 'randomized' into one of the two study groups. Randomization means that the participant will be put into a group by chance. It is like flipping a coin. Neither the participant nor the research doctor will choose what group he or she will be in. The participant will have an equal chance of being placed in each of the groups.