Study of Sorafenib/Cetuximab in Head and Neck Cancer
In this Phase I B/II trial, we seek to determine the safety and efficacy of sorafenib with standard dose cetuximab in the treatment of patients with Recurrent and /or Metastatic Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck (SCCHN).
Squamous Cell Cancer
DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Cetuximab
Phase 1 - Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Sorafenib Administered With Cetuximab (400 mg/m2 Loading Dose Followed by 250 mg/m2 Weekly), The MTD is based upon dose-limiting (DLTs) experienced during Cycle 1 of treatment. The MTD is the maximum dose level at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experience DLT. Using Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse EVents (CTCAE) version 3.0, DLTs are defined as any Grade 4 hematologic toxicity, or Grade 3 or 4 non-hematologic toxicity. A DLT will not be considered to have occurred in the case of a grade 3 or 4 allergic reaction due to cetuximab., Cycle 1 (28 Days)|Tumor Control Rate, The proportion of patients for whom the best overall response is complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD). A CR occurs when all lesions disappear; whereas, a PR is indicated when there is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters (LD) of the target lesion. A PD (progressive disease) occurs when there is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD relative to the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment is initiated. Disease is considered stable if there is no response and no PD. If follow-up assessments are not available, the best overall response is unevaluable., 1 year
Median Survival, Time in months from the start of study treatment to date of death due to any cause. Median survival was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve and is the time point at which 50% of patients remain alive., 5 years|Median Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Time in months from the start of study treatment to the date of first progression (PD) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, or death due to any cause. Per RECIST, a PD is indicated when there is at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters from target lesions relative to the smallest sum recorded since treatment is initiated. Median PFS was estimated using a Kaplan-Meier curve, and is the time at which 50% of patients remain alive without disease progression., 5 years|Phase 2 - Mean Change From Baseline in Quality of Life - Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Head and Neck (FACT-H&N), The outcome measure is the mean change in the Trial Outcome Index (TOI) between baseline and each follow-up assessment measured by the FACT-H\&N. The instrument consists of 39 items to assess physical (PWB), social and family (SWB), emotional (EWB), functional well-bing (FWB) and additional head and neck specific concerns (HNCS). Using a 5-point Likert type scale, responses to individual items range from 0 (not at all) to 4 (Very Much) with higher scores indicating better quality of life. The TOI is the sum of PWB (7 items), FWB (7 items) and HNCS scores (12 items). TOI ranges from 0 to 140., 5 years
This is a non-randomized phase I B/II trial enrolling 43 patients with recurrent and/or metastatic SCCHN who are not candidates for surgical salvage or definitive radiation. Subjects will receive Cetuximab and sorafenib until disease progression. Cetuximab will be given at standard approved dose: 400 mg/m2 loading dose followed by 250 mg/m2 weekly. Sorafenib will be given 200 mg twice daily oral, continuous dosing to the 6 patients in cohort 1. If less than 3 patients experience dose limiting toxicities (DLT) at the 200mg BID dose, then 6 patients will be accrued at the 400mg BID dose level and toxicities will again be examined. Sorafenib will be given 400 mg twice daily oral, continuous dosing to the patients in cohort 2. One cycle equals 28 days. Tumor assessment will be performed every 8 weeks. Treatment continues until disease progression or unacceptable side effects.

Participating subjects will be asked to take part in an optional correlative study to provide previously archived diagnostic or therapeutic tumor samples obtained during the course of their routine medical care for their cancer of the head/neck. The optional tissue repository project is Duke University Health System (DUHS) Institutional Review Board (IRB) approved (eIRB # 11138 / "Tissue Acquisition Protocol for Analysis of Effects of Novel Chemotherapeutic Compounds). Subjects will be asked to sign a separate consent form to participate in the tissue collection study.