NPWT for Abdominal Incisions in DIEP Reconstructions: A RCT
The current study is a single center randomized control trial that will examine the effect of closed incision negative pressure wound therapy (ciNPT) versus conventional dressing on abdominal incision in a deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flap based reconstruction. Patients will be followed by 30 days post-operatively to compare outcomes including the rate of surgical site infection, seroma, and the scar quality.
Breast Cancer|Surgical Site Infection|Wound Dehiscence
DEVICE: Negative Pressure Wound Therapy
Postoperative Surgical Site Infection (SSI), The post-operative SSI at the abdomen will be determined following the Center for Disease Control (CDC) criteria. This includes one or more of the following:

1. Purulent drainage from the incision, 2. Organisms identified from an aseptically-obtained specimen 3. Superficial incision with one of the following signs or symptoms localized pain or tenderness; localized swelling; erythema; or heat.

d. Diagnosis of a superficial incisional SSI by a physician or designee, 30 days after operation
The rate of seroma diagnosis, The diagnosis of seroma will be completed by clinical exam and/or diagnostic imaging such as ultrasound or computed tomography., 30 days after operation|The rate of hematoma diagnosis, The diagnosis of hematoma will be completed by clinical exam and/or diagnostic imaging such as ultrasound or computed tomography., 30 days after operation|The rate of wound dehiscence, The diagnosis of wound dehiscence will be made by clinical exam., 30 days after operation
The current study will examine the effect of closed incision negative pressure wound therapy on DIEP flap donor site. A total of 520 patients who are candidates for DIEP flap-based breast reconstruction will be included in this study, and randomly divided into the two groups. Those with contraindications to ciNPT will be excluded. The surgical consultation and procedure will be conducted same for both groups. Patients will be followed by 30 days post-operatively. Outcome measures will include incidence of surgical site infection, wound dehiscence, seroma, hematoma, delayed wound healing, and surgical scar quality.