Randomised Trial in Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinaemia
The purpose of this trial is to assess tolerability and efficacy of the Bortezomib, Cyclophosphamide and Rituximab combination as initial therapy for previously untreated patients with symptomatic Waldenstrom's macroglobulinaemia.
Waldenstrom's Macroglobulinaemia
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|BIOLOGICAL: Rituximab|DRUG: Fludarabine
Disease response, Number and percentage of patients who achieve disease response, 6 months (end of treatment)
Toxicity of grade 3 or higher adverse event, The number and percentage of patients who experience grade 3 or higher adverse event, Up to 6 months after treatment start|Progression free survival, Time from date of randomisation to the date of first progression, relapse or death from any cause, up to 5 years after treatment start|Overall survival, Time form date of randomisation to the date of death from any cause, up to 5 years after treatment start|Quality of life (EQ-5D score), Quality of life will be measured using patient-completed EQ-5D questionnaire, at 3 and 6 months after treatment start
Waldenstrom macroglobulinaemia (WM) is a low grade nonHodgkin lymphoma characterised by bone marrow infiltration and the presence of an abnormal protein in the blood (IgM paraprotein. Most patients require treatment at presentation but there is no agreed standard of first line therapy. Current treatment is unsatisfactory with responses often incomplete and slow to attain, while recurrence is inevitable.

The aim of this study is to find out whether a new combination of Bortezomib (Velcade®), Cyclophosphamide and Rituximab (MabThera), is well tolerated and effective for patients with WM. R2W is a randomised, noncomparative, phase II trial of subcutaneous bortezomib, cyclophosphamide, rituximab (BCR, experimental arm) versus fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, rituximab (FCR, control arm) for initial therapy of WM. This is a two stage trial where six patients will be treated initially with BCR to assess tolerability. If BCR is considered tolerable, a further 50 patients will be randomised between BCR and FCR (2:1) in the second stage of the trial. Patients will receive 3 cycles of treatment and then be reassessed. Those with evidence of progression will stop trial treatment. All other patients will continue with a further 3 cycles (to a total of 6) unless there is a clear clinical contraindication to further treatment.