Impacts of Exercise on Prognostic Biomarkers in Lung Cancer Patients
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies exercise intervention in improving quality of life and exercise capacity and reducing inflammation and oxidative stress in patients with lung cancer and their support persons. Exercise therapy may help improve quality of life, may increase exercise capacity, and may reduce inflammation and oxidative stress in patients with lung cancer and their supporters.
Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Healthy, no Evidence of Disease|Limited Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Recurrent Small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIA Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IIIB Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|Stage IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention|PROCEDURE: standard follow-up care|PROCEDURE: quality-of-life assessment|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Change in biomarkers of inflammation, Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Change in oxidative damage as indicated by serum 8-hydroxydeoxyguanosine (8-oh-dG), Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Change in time to walk 400 m, Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Change in physical well-being scores on the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L), Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Change in functional well-being scores on the FACT-L, Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks
Change in stress scores on the SF-36, Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks|Change in quality-of-life scores on the SF-36, Descriptive statistics will be calculated and compared between the two treatment groups at baseline using unpaired t-tests and Chi-Square analyses. A two-way analysis of variance will be used to examine the effects of the treatment over time., Baseline up to 8 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effect of an eight-week exercise intervention on biomarkers of inflammation, oxidative stress, exercise capacity, and quality of life in lung cancer patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the effect of an eight-week exercise intervention on markers of stress and quality of life in the support person of lung cancer patients.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients and their support persons undergo a supervised combined aerobic exercise comprising walking, cycling, or video-based aerobics and strength training using resistance bands for 40 minutes 2 days a week at the University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinic (UWHC) and 3 days a week at home over 8 weeks.

ARM B: Patients and their support persons undergo the usual care over 8 weeks.