Efficacy and Safety of PI3K Inhibitors in Relapsed/Refractory Large Granular T Lymphocytic Leukemia
This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, pilot study. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of linperlisib, the PI3K delta inhibitor for patients with relapsed/refractory large granular T lymphocytic leukemia.
Relapsed/Refractory Large Granular T Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: Linperlisib
Overall response rate: HPR + HCR + CMR, Percentage of patients with hematological response. Hematological response is evaluated by hemoglobin (Hb), absolute neutrophil count (ANC), platelet count (PLT), absolute lymphocyte count (ALC), absolute large granular lymphocyte count, and blood transfusion., 8 weeks
Incidence of the adverse event, Use Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 5 to assess the adverse event, 8 weeks|Time to achieve partial hematologic response (HPR), Duration time was calculated from enrollment to achieve HPR. HPR is assessed by Hb, ANC, PLT, ALC, absolute large granular lymphocyte count and blood transfusion, 8 weeks|Time to achieve complete hematologic response (HCR), Duration time was calculated from enrollment to achieve HCR. HCR is assessed by Hb, ANC, PLT, ALC, and absolute large granular lymphocyte count., 8 weeks|Time to achieve complete molecular response (CMR), Duration time was calculated from enrollment to achieve CMR. CMR is assessed by Hb, ANC, PLT, ALC, and absolute large granular lymphocyte count, 8 weeks|Change of the health-related quality of life, Medical Outcomes Study Questionnaire Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36) is used to assess the health-related quality of life of patients. The SF-36 has eight scaled scores; the scores are weighted sums of the questions in each section. Scores range from 0 - 100. Lower scores = more disability, higher scores = less disability, Baseline and 2 cycles of therapy|Relapse free survival (RFS), Duration time was calculated from response to relapse., A minimum of 2 years of planned follow-up
This is a prospective, multicenter, single-arm, pilot study. The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of linperlisib, the PI3K delta inhibitor for patients with relapsed/refractory large granular T lymphocytic leukemia.