Intraoperative Ansa Cervicalis Nerve (ACN) Stimulation
Recently published data suggest that stimulation of the infrahyoid strap muscles increases pharyngeal patency in patients with obstructive sleep apnea, but the innervation of these muscles by the ansa cervicalis is variable. The investigators propose a study examining the anatomic variation of the ansa cervicalis and the effect of neurostimulation on muscle recruitment.
Head and Neck Cancer|Obstructive Sleep Apnea
DEVICE: Nerve stimulation using nerve stimulation device and sterile wire electrode.
Primary Objective, Anatomic measurements of the length, diameter, and comformation of the common trunk of the ansa cervicalis to the sternothyroid muscle and it's dependent branches, measured in mm with a flexible ruler., Collected during a single operative procedure, taking about 15 minutes
Secondary Objective, The amount of caudal movement of the thyroid cartilage and hyoid bone with stimulation of the common trunk of the ansa cervicalis to the sternothyroid muscle and it's dependent branches, measured in mm with a flexible ruler., Collected during a single operative procedure, taking about 15 minutes.|Secondary Objective, Anatomic confirmation of the common trunk of the ansa cervicalis to the sternothyroid muscle and it's dependent branches, documented with photography., Collected during a single operative procedure, taking about 15 minutes.
This is a single-arm physiology study. Consenting patients undergoing neck dissection (ND) for cervical lymphadenectomy of level IV will undergo dissection of the ansa cervicalis nerves to the infrahyoid strap muscles. Per routine care, a large incision is made across the neck to provide surgeons access to the cervical lymph nodes for extirpation. During this dissection, the branch(es) of the ansa cervicalis nerve plexus descending from the loop of the plexus and innervating the infrahyoid strap muscles (the "common trunk") are dissected uni- or bilaterally. For this study, measurements and photos/videos of the common trunks will be taken. An electrode will be placed on one or both common trunks to stimulate infrahyoid muscles.