A First-in-human Study of Multiple Doses of BB-1701 in Subjects With Locally Advanced/Metastatic HER2 Expressing Solid Tumors
This is an open-label, first-in-human (FIH), phase 1 dose-escalation and cohort expansion study of BB-1701 in subjects with locally advanced/metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. The study consists of 2 parts: dose-escalation (Part 1) and cohort expansion (Part 2). Part 1 consists of dose escalation cohorts for determining the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D). Part 2 consists of expansion cohorts, including but not limited to breast cancer, gastric/gastroesophageal junction cancer, bladder cancer and colon cancer, for exploring 1 or more RP2Ds or schedules for expanding/deepening the information/knowledge about clinical safety, clinical pharmacokinetics and anti-tumor activity.
Locally Advanced/Metastatic HER2 Positive Solid Tumors
DRUG: BB-1701
Number of subjects with adverse events and serious adverse events, To evaluate the safety and tolerability of BB-1701, up to 2 years|Number of subjects with dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Subjects are evaluated for all study drug related and treatment emergent toxicities based on the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for adverse events (NCI-CTCAE), Cycle 1. Duration of each cycle is 21 days.|MTD, MTD is defined as the highest dose level at which no more than 1 out of 6 subjects experiences a DLT during the first cycle., Cycle 1. Duration of each cycle is 21 days.
Area under the serum concentration time curve from time 0 extrapolated to infinity (AUC0-inf), To characterize the pharmacokinetics (PK) of BB-1701, Cycle 1 Day 1. Duration of each cycle is 21 days.|Maximum observed plasma concentration (Cmax), To characterize the PK of BB-1701, Pre-dose and post-dose during Cycle 1 through Cycle 8. Duration of each cycle is 21 days.|Incidence of anti-drug antibodies, To assess the immunogenicity of BB-1701, Cycle 1 Day 1, Cycle 1 Day 15, and Day 1 of Cycles 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8. Duration of each cycle is 21 days.|Objective response, To assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of BB-1701, Every 9 weeks within 6 months and approximately every 12 weeks thereafter (up to 2 years)|Progression Free Survival, To assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of BB-1701, Every 9 weeks within 6 months and approximately every 12 weeks thereafter (up to 2 years)|Duration of Response, To assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of BB-1701, Every 9 weeks within 6 months and approximately every 12 weeks thereafter (up to 2 years)
This is an open-label, FIH, phase 1 dose-escalation and cohort expansion study of BB-1701 in subjects with locally advanced /metastatic HER2 expressing solid tumors. The study consists of 2 parts: dose-escalation (Part 1) and cohort expansion (Part 2).

Part 1 of this study will follow accelerated titration and traditional "3 + 3" design. Part 2 is a cohort expansion study with HER2 expressing locally advanced/metastatic solid tumors.

Part 2 consists of 4 cohorts:

Cohort 1: Patients with HER2 overexpressing or positive (defined as IHC 3+ or IHC 2+/FISH positive) locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed on prior standard therapies including anti HER2 therapy

Cohort 2: Patients with HER2 low expressing (defined as IHC 2+ /FISH negative, or IHC 1+) locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer who have progressed on prior standard therapies.

Cohort 3: Patients with HER2 overexpressing or positive (defined as IHC 3+ or IHC 2+/FISH positive) locally advanced or metastatic gastric cancer or gastroesophageal junction cancer who have progressed on prior standard therapies.

Cohort 4: Patients with HER2 overexpressing or positive (defined as IHC 3+, or IHC 2+/FISH positive) locally advanced or metastatic solid tumors (other than breast cancer and gastric or gastroesophageal junction cancer) who have progressed on prior standard therapies. Patients with HER2 mutation or amplification by NGS can also be enrolled in this cohort.