Topical Keratin in Treating Radiation Dermatitis in Patients With Breast Cancer
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies how well topical keratin works in treating radiation dermatitis in patients with breast cancer. Radiation dermatitis is a skin condition that is a common side effect of radiation therapy. The affected skin becomes painful, red, itchy, and blistered. Topical keratin may help to improve skin appearance and hydration in patients with breast cancer.
Breast Carcinoma|Radiation-Induced Dermatitis
OTHER: Best Practice|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DEVICE: Topical Keratin
Incidence of Early Adverse Skin Reactions (EASRs), The Modified ONS Criteria for Radiation-Induced Acute Skin Toxicity will be used for classification of EASRs related to the skin. Participants will report in a total of 7 visits any experience with Grade I (faint or dull erythema; dry desquamation or Grade II (tender or bright erythema, patchy, moist desquamation) acute radiation dermatitis using the RTOG (Radiation Therapy Oncology Group) grading system with Grade II considered the worse outcome. Comparative effectiveness will include the number or study participants in each arm that experience RTOG Grade I or Grade II radiation dermatitis and moist desquamation., Up to 4 weeks post-RT|Change in Quality of Life, A 10-item assessment completed at each visit (7 total) to measure participant's Dermatology Life Quality Index. Score range is 0-3 (very much = 3; a lot = 2; a little = 1; and not at all or not relevant = 0) Maximum score of 30. The higher the score the more qualify of life is impaired. The average DQLI score at each study visit will be compared between the KeraStat® Cream arm and the SOC arm as a study effectiveness measure., Baseline to up to 7 weeks|Physician Observed Improvement in Skin Appearance, Skin appearance was assessed by the treating physician at each visit (total of 7) using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) Toxicity scale Grade 1 and Grade 2 assessed only. Score = (Grade 1 (follicular, faint or dull erythema, dry desquamation and Grade 2 (tender or bright erythema, patchy, ,moist desquamation) with Grade 2 being the worst for this study. Scores range from 0 to 2, with higher values being the worst. The average RTOG score at each study visit will be compared between the KeraStat® Cream arm and the SOC arm as a study effectiveness measure., Baseline to up to 7 weeks|Number of Participants Reported Change in Skin Appearance Using the Dermatology Quality of Life Index Scale, Change in skin appearance by the participants' self-report using the Dermatology Quality of Life Index (DLQI) was used to assess skin after completion of radiation. Score range is 0-3 (very much = 3; a lot = 2; a little = 1; and not at all or not relevant = 0) Maximum score of 30. A higher score shows better performance/improvement in skin appearance. The average Dermatology Qualify of Life Index score each study visit will be compared between the two arms with the number of participants reporting a score., Baseline to up to 7 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine a preliminary estimate of the improvement of skin's natural barrier, decrease of dehydration, and reduction in the appearance of inflammation associated with radiation therapy (RT) skin toxicity as well as patients' satisfaction with their skin after the application of the medical device topical keratin (KeraStat Cream) during RT in breast cancer patients.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

GROUP I: Patients receive topical keratin topically at least twice daily (BID) until the end of radiation therapy (approximately 3-6 weeks).

GROUP II: Patients receive standard of care as directed by radiation oncologist until the end of radiation therapy (approximately 3-6 weeks).

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks.