HDM201 and Pazopanib in Patients With P53 Wild-type Advanced/Metastatic Soft Tissue Sarcomas
This trial is a two-step Phase I/II study comprising:

Part 1: A dose escalation part with the aim to assess the safety of the proposed combination (N= up to 30 patients). In the dose escalation part, eligible patients will be treated with a fixed dose of pazopanib and escalating doses of HDM201.

Part 2: An extension part to collect preliminary data about the clinical activity of the proposed combination according to the 6M-PFR.
Advanced Soft-tissue Sarcoma|Metastatic Soft-tissue Sarcoma
DRUG: Pazopanib|DRUG: HDM201
for dose escalation part: the Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of HDM201 given in combination with a fixed dose of pazopanib., The starting dose of HDM201 is 60 mg once every 3 weeks. The dose escalation will be conducted according to a sequential and adaptive Bayesian scheme, using the method of TITE-CRM to determine the MTD of HDM201 in combination with pazopanib.

The MTD is defined as the dose associated with a probability of Dose Limiting toxicities (DLTs) the closest to 25%. Estimation of MTD will be based upon the estimation of the probability of a DLT.

DLTs are defined as any of the following adverse events (AE) graded using NCI-CTCAE occurring during the DLT period (2 first cycles) and assessed as related to at least one of the study drugs:

Grade (G) ≥ 4 neutropenia, G ≥ 3 febrile neutropenia, G ≥ 4 thrombocytopenia or G3 if associated with bleeding and requires platelet transfusion.

Non-laboratory AEs of G ≥3 for more than 7 days.

Any G3 or G4 laboratory value if: Medical intervention is required to treat the subjects, or the abnormality leads to hospitalization., At the end of cycle 2 (each cycle is 21 days)|Expansion part: preliminary data on efficacy of the combination in 2 parallel, independent cohorts of Soft-tissue sarcomas according to Murine double minute 2 (MDM2) status: amplified and non-amplified., progression-free rate at 24 weeks (24W-PFR), 24W
This trial is a two-step Phase I/II study comprising:

Part 1: A dose escalation part with the aim to assess the safety of the proposed combination (N= up to 30 patients). The dose escalation will be conducted according to a sequential and adaptive Bayesian scheme using the method of Time-to-event Continual Reassessment Method (CRM) to guide dose escalation and estimate the Maximum Tolerated Dose.

In the dose escalation part, eligible patients will be treated with a fixed dose of pazopanib (800 mg/d) and escalating doses of HDM201: 60 mg (starting dose); 80 mg; 100 mg; 120 mg. For a safety reason, a dose level of 40 mg is included in case that the first dose level is found to be toxic. In addition, decrease of pazopanib dosing to 600 mg/d could be appropriate following protocol amendment.

To ensure adequate patient safety during the dose escalation part, there will be a 3-day delay between the first and subsequent patients enrolled in each DL cohort to maximize the safety of enrolled patients.

No intra-patient dose escalation is allowed.

Part 2: An extension part to collect preliminary data about the clinical activity of the proposed combination according to the 6 months Progression Free Rate (6M-PFR).