TACE Plus Multikinase Inhibitor and I-125 Seeds Brachytherapy for HCC With Branch PVTT
This study is conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) combined with lenvatinib and iodion-125 seeds brachytherapy (TACE-Len-I) compared with TACE combined with lenvatinib (TACE-Len) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with portal vein branch tumor thrombus (branch PVTT).
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Non-resectable
PROCEDURE: TACE combined with lenvatinib and iodion-125 seeds brachytherapy|PROCEDURE: TACE combined with lenvatinib
Overall survival (OS), The time from date of randomization to death due to any cause., 2 years.
Adverse events (AEs), Number of patients with AE, treatment-related AE (TRAE), AE of special interest (AESI), serious adverse event (SAE), assessed by NCI CTCAE v5.0., 2 years.|Progression free survival (PFS) assessed by investigators according to Modified Response Evalutaion Criteria in Solid Tumors (mRECIST), The time from date of randomization until the first occurrence of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., 2 years.|Objective response rate (ORR) assessed by investigators according to mRECIST, The percentage of patients who had a best overall tumor response rating of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR) assessed by investigators according to mRECIST, The percentage of patients who had a tumor response rating of CR, PR, or stable disease (SD)., 2 years.|Duration of portal patency, The time from randomization until the date that complete portal vein occlusion was confirmed., 2 years.
This is an single center, randomized controlled trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of TACE-Len-I compared with TACE-Len for the treatment of HCC with branch PVTT.

171 HCC patients with branch PVTT will be enrolled in this study. The Patients will be treated with TACE-Len-I or TACE-Len using an 2:1 randomization scheme.

TACE will be performed for the patients after randomization. Lenvatinib (body weight ≥ 60 kg, 12mg P.O. QD; body weight \< 60 kg, 8mg P.O. QD) will be started at 3-7 days after the first TACE and last until disease progresses, intolerable toxicity, withdrawal of informed consent, loss of follow-up, death, or other circumstances that require termination of treatment, whichever occurs first. For patients in the TACE-Len-I arm, iodion-125 seeds will be implanted into the PVTT (according to the pre-operative planning) under CT guidance within 14 days after the first TACE. TACE and iodion-125 seeds implantation can be repeated on demand during follow-up based on the evaluation of laboratory and imaging examination.