To Compare Treatment With Doxorubicin or Capecitabine for Metastatic Breast Cancer in Women 60 Years and Older
The main purpose of this study is to compare treatment with either pegylated liposomal doxorubicin or capecitabine as first line chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer in women 60 years and older.
Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin|DRUG: Capecitabine
Time to disease progression, Time to disease progression is the duration in months from the date of randomization to the first documented evidence of disease progression or death caused by disease progression before the end of study. Time to disease progression will be compared between patients treated with doxorubicin and capecitabine., Up to disease progression or death
Overall Response rate, Overall response rate is measured as the number of patient with complete and partial responses. It will be compared between patients treated with doxorubicin and capecitabine., Up to disease progression or death|Overall survival, Overall survival is the duration from date of randomization to the date of death due to any cause during the study. It will be compared between patients treated with doxorubicin and capecitabine., Up to 2 years after last patient is enrolled or death|Number of patients with adverse events, Safety evaluated as "number of patients with adverse events" is compared between 2 treatment groups (doxorubicin and capecitabine)., Up to 1 month after intake of last dose of study medication|The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ (Quality of Life Questionnaire) - C30, The 30 item questionnaire to assess quality of life incorporates five functional scales: general physical symptoms, physical functioning, psychological distress, social functioning, and fatigue/malaise. Most items are rated on a 4 point Likert scale ranging from 0 = "not at all" to 4 = "very much". The effect of doxorubicin and capecitabine on the quality of life measured by the EORTC QLQ-C30 is assessed., Day 1 and end of treatment|Subjective Significance Questionnaire (SSQ), The SSQ consists of 4 items in which patients rate the degree to which they experienced an improvement or deterioration in their physical condition, emotional state, ability to enjoy their social life, and overall quality of life since there last QOL assessment.Each of the four items are rated on a 7 point Likert scale ranging from 0 = "very much worse" to 7 = "very much better". The effect of doxorubicin and capecitabine on the quality of life measured by the SSQ is assessed., Day 1 and end of treatment
This is an open-label (all people know the identity of the intervention), randomized (the study medication is assigned by chance), multicenter study comparing with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) with capecitabine as first line chemotherapy of metastatic breast cancer in women 60 years and older. The study consists of a screening Phase (up to 14 days prior to treatment), treatment phase (up to 1 year), and post-treatment follow-up phase. The planned duration of treatment was 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Approximately 300 patients will be enrolled and randomly assigned to receive 1 of 2 treatment groups (PLD or capecitabine). Safety evaluations will consist of vital sign examination, physical examination, incidence and severity of adverse events, and laboratory tests findings and will be followed throughout the study.