The Comparison Between HepaSphere Drug-eluting Bead Transarterial Chemoembolization Combined With Hepatic Arterial Infusion Chemotherapy in Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is widely applied and shows good efficacy in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Recently, hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has also gained popularity in the treatment of HCC. Several studies have described the comparison between HAIC and TACE or TACE combined with HAIC. However, the evaluation between TACE plus HAIC and HAIC is rarely reported. Here, we will evaluate the performance of HepaSphere DEB-TACE combined with HAIC (HEPA-HAIC) comparing to HAIC in patients with advanced HCC
Advanced Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC)
PROCEDURE: DEB-TACE plus HAIC or HAIC alone
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment DEB-TACE plus HAIC or HAIC until the first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, Up to 3 year|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is defined as the time from the start of treatment with DEB-TACE plus HAIC or HAIC until death due to any cause, Up to 3 year
Objective Response Rate (ORR), The ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with confirmed CR or confirmed PR, based on RECIST Version 1.1, Up to 3 year|Duration of Response (DoR), Duration of response is defined as the duration from the first documentation of objective response to the first documented disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, Up to 3 years
This is a double-arm, retrospective, observational study. The patients diagnosed as advanced HCC and treated with HepaSphere plus HAIC or single HAIC in the interventional therapy department of Peking University Cancer Hospital \& Institute from May 2018 to May 2022. These patients are grouped into two cohorts. One is HEPA-HAIC group, the other is HAIC group. To access the effect of HepaSphere plus HAIC and single HAIC on the treatment of advanced HCC, the treatment efficacy and safety will be analyzed between these two cohorts. To avoid the selection bias, Propensity score matching (PSM) will be also conducted. The primary endpoints are progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS); the secondary endpoint includes objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR) and safety