Selective Adjuvant Therapy for HPV-mediated Oropharynx SCCs Based on Residual Circulating Tumor DNA Levels (SAVAL)
Patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-related oropharyngeal cancer generally have favorable outcomes and how well they do depends on the specific details about the patient and their cancer. How well they do isn't as related to the kinds of treatment they get. However, there are significant side effects for the various types of treatments they may get. Because these patients generally have favorable outcomes no matter the kind of treatment, reducing side effects should be a priority when choosing their treatment.

The goal of this clinical research study is to evaluate whether a new blood test called a Circulating Tumor DNA test (ctDNA test) can decrease the number of people that require radiation after surgery. This blood test is often elevated in people when they are diagnosed with head and neck cancer. There are studies that show that cancer most often returns when this blood test is positive after treatment. This study will test patients' blood before and after surgery. In cases where the test is negative after surgery, people on the study will not receive radiation unless they are considered high risk based on surgery findings. The hope is that radiation and its potential side effects can be limited to only people that need the treatment.
Head and Neck Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Oropharynx Cancer|Oropharynx Squamous Cell Carcinoma|HPV Positive Oropharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma
OTHER: Experimental Observation|OTHER: Observation per Standard of Care|RADIATION: Adjuvant Treatment per Standard of Care|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Circulating Tumor DNA test (ctDNA test)
Progression-free Survival (PFS), Percent PFS at 2 year post last treatment inclusive of patients undergoing salvage treatment for LRR., 2 year post last treatment
Rate of Recurrence, Rate of recurrence at one year post TORS with negative ctDNA, 1 year post TORS|Rate of Salvage, Rate of salvage for locoregional recurrence (LRR) after TORS, 2 years post TORS|Locoregional recurrence (LRR), 2 year post last treatment|Overall Survival (OS), 2 year post last treatment|Number of participants free from distant metastases, Freedom from Distant Metastases (FFDM) at 2 years post last treatment, 2 year post last treatment|Number of participants with grade 2/3 xerostomia, defined by PRO-CTCAE (patient-reported outcome (PRO) measurement system - Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)), 1-year following completion of treatment|Patient scores from the questionnaire called The Monroe Dunaway Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), The M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory is a self-administered questionnaire designed specifically for evaluating the impact of dysphagia on the Quality of Life (QOL) of patients with head and neck cancer.

Two scores are obtained: a Global Score and a Composite Score. Global Score ranges from 1 (extremely low functioning) to 5 (high functioning) Composite Score ranges from 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning), 1-year following completion of treatment|PEG-tube rate, Percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG)-tube rate, 2-year following completion of treatment|Rate of recurrence in all patients (Groups 1, 2 and 3) stratified by group and post TORS ctDNA levels, Rate of recurrence stratified by group and post TORS ctDNA levels, 1 year post TORS
Patients with human papillomavirus (HPV) or its surrogate marker p16, positive oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (hereafter p16+OPSCC) exhibit favorable overall survival rates of 70-100% at 3 years. These outcomes are dependent on disease burden and patient characteristics and independent of treatment modality. Significant treatment related side effects exist despite advances in radiotherapy technology, surgical techniques, and supportive care. In addition to common acute toxicities, their favorable overall survival potentially places these patients at increased risk for developing long-term treatment-induced side-effects. Therefore, it is important to establish novel management approaches that maintain excellent current clinical outcomes while effectively reducing acute and long-term side effects.

The de-escalation trials for surgical management have explored various combinations of dose-reduction, while preserving favorable oncologic outcomes for patients. Prospective trials have demonstrated efficacy, safety, and functional benefit following treatment reduction to the primary tumor, regional lymph node metastasis, and the elective nodal volume. Therefore, newer approaches of combining the treatment modifications from each of these treatment fields offer the potential to have substantial harm reduction for future patients.

Cell free HPV tumor DNA (ctDNA) has emerged as a method to monitor the presence of disease and is a promising biomarker. Changes in expression of ctDNA post treatment with TransOral Robotic Surgery (TORS) or radiation therapy (RT) with or without chemotherapy are observed and clearance of ctDNA is associated with a favorable prognosis. These promising findings have led several groups to initiate clinical trials evaluating observation in patients after definitive oropharyngeal cancer removal and subsequent clearance of ctDNA levels. Data suggests that patients who initially undergo observation following TORS have similar rates of distant metastases and favorable rates of salvage. To date, an observation-based approach has not been adopted for intermediate risk patients due to challenges identifying optimal cohorts for observation and concern for increased treatment related toxicity for patients who do require salvage. In this trial, the investigators propose use of ctDNA clearance to identify patients who are optimal for observation. This protocol tests the hypothesis that patients currently recommended for adjuvant RT based on intermediate risk factors can be observed post-TORS when ctDNA is cleared.

Patients with p16+OPSCC who are candidates for surgery (TORS) and have positive ctDNA will be offered registration for the study prior to surgical resection. After TORS, all patients will have ctDNA drawn within 2-14 days post operatively. Combined with pathological criteria, all patients will be stratified into one three risk groups; low risk, intermediate risk, high risk. The low risk group will be observed (no radiation) per standard of care (SOC). The intermediate group (intermediate pathological features and negative ctDNA) will also be observed (no radiation) per the experimental arm. The high risk group will receive adjuvant treatment (RT +/- chemotherapy) per SOC.