Detection of Minimal Residual Disease Based on HPV ctDNA in Cervical Cancer
In this study, a large-scale cohort of cervical cancer patients was established in multiple centers. Minimal residual disease(MRD) was assessed by ddPCR detection of HPV E7 gene ctDNA to assess tumor burden and predict the risk of disease recurrence, so as to provide new biomarkers for precise treatment of cervical cancer patients. The study continued until 36 months after the end of treatment.
Uterine Cervical Neoplasms
OTHER: detect HPV E7 ctDNA
Disease-free survival, time from the treatment initiation to disease progression, up to three years
HPV ctDNA state before treatment, Peripheral blood was collected from the patients before treatment (surgery or chemotherapy), and the copy number of HPV E7 gene in ctDNA was accurately detected by ddPCR, up to three years|Dynamic change trend of HPV ctDNA after treatment, Peripheral blood was collected from the patients after treatment ((2 weeks after surgery), 1 month after radiotherapy and at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months of follow-up), and the copy number of HPV E7 gene in ctDNA was accurately detected by ddPCR, up to three years|Overall Survival, time from the treatment initiation to death, up to three years
The purpose of this study is to assess MRD by detecting HPV E7 gene ctDNA to assess tumor burden and predict the risk of disease recurrence. According to the treatment methods, the patients were divided into two groups :(1) initial surgical treatment group (2) initial concurrent chemoradiotherapy group.

After the patients were enrolled in the study according to the criteria, they were given standard treatment. The patients were followed up every 3\~6 months within 2 years after treatment and every 6\~12 months from 3 to 5 years after treatment, including general and gynecological physical examination, cervical or vaginal cytology test, HPV typing test, SCC, CA125, and imaging examination such as CT or MRI if necessary.

Peripheral blood samples were collected to detect HPV E7 ctDNA before treatment, after treatment, and at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, and 36 months of follow-up.

The primary endpoint is Disease-free survival (DFS, time from the treatment initiation to disease progression). Secondary endpoints include HPV ctDNA state before treatment, dynamic change trend of HPV ctDNA after treatment and overall survival (OS, time from the treatment initiation to death).