TIGER-3: Open Label, Multicenter Study of Rociletinib (CO-1686) Mono Therapy Versus Single-agent Cytotoxic Chemotherapy in Patients With Mutant EGFR NSCLC Who Have Failed at Least One Previous EGFR-Directed TKI and Platinum-doublet Chemotherapy
The purpose of this study is to compare the anti-tumor efficacy of oral single-agent rociletinib, as measured by investigator assessment of the PFS, with that of single-agent cytotoxic chemotherapy in patients with EGFR-mutated, advanced/metastatic NSCLC after failure of at least 1 previous EGFR-directed TKI and at least 1 line of platinum-containing doublet chemotherapy.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Rociletinib|DRUG: Pemetrexed or gemcitabine or paclitaxel or docetaxel
Progression Free Survival (PFS) According to RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by Investigator Review (invPFS), PFS was calculated as 1+ the number of days from the date of randomization to documented radiographic progression as determined by the investigator, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm.The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months. This Time Frame includes the cross-over period, however, participants who crossed over to rociletinib were not analyzed for PFS.
Percentage of Participants With Confirmed Response, Percentage of patients with a best overall confirmed response of partial response (PR) or complete response (CR) recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions, defined by and assessed as: Complete Response (CR), is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial Response (PR),at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameter. Overall Response (OR),is the best response recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The patient's best response assignment was dependent on the achievement of both measurement and confirmation criteria., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months. This Time Frame includes the cross-over period, however, participants who crossed over to rociletinib were not analyzed for best overall confirmed response.|Duration of Response (DOR) According to RECIST Version 1.1 as Determined by Investigator Assessment, DOR in patients with confirmed response per investigator. The DOR for complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) was measured from date that any of these best responses is first recorded until first date that progressive disease (PD) is objectively documented. For patients who continue treatment post-progression, the first date of progression was used for the analysis. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions, defined by and assessed as: CR is disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10mm. PR is at least a 30% decrease in sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest diameter. Overall Response is the best response from start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started)., Cycle 1 Day 1 to End of Treatment, up to approximately 35 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS was calculated as 1+ the number of days from randomization to death due to any cause. Patients without a documented date of death were censored on the date the patient was last known to be alive., Cycle 1 Day 1 to date of death, assessed up to 3 years|Plasma PK for Patients Treated With Rociletinib Based on Sparse Sampling, Blood samples were drawn for PK analysis at 21 ± 3 day intervals for the first 6 months (Day 1 of Cycles 2 to 7 inclusive). The sample could be taken predose or postdose. Plasma concentrations are presented for Rociletinib and 3 metabolites (M460, M502, M544)., Cycles 2 Day 1 to Cycle 7 Day 1, or approximately 6 months
This is a Phase 3, randomized, open-label, multicenter study evaluating the safety and efficacy of oral rociletinib at 500 mg BID and 625 mg BID compared with that of single-agent cytotoxic chemotherapy, in patients with previously treated mutant EGFR NSCLC. Eligible patients are those with mutant EGFR NSCLC previously treated with at least 1 EGFR inhibitor and at least 1 line of platinum-containing chemotherapy doublet for advanced/metastatic NSCLC.

After providing informed consent to participate and screening to confirm eligibility, patients will be randomized 1:1:1 to receive either oral rociletinib 500 mg BID, oral rociletinib 625 mg BID, or single-agent cytotoxic chemotherapy (investigator choice of pemetrexed, gemcitabine, docetaxel, or paclitaxel; choice of chemotherapy agent must be specified before randomization).