Azacitidine or Decitabine With Venetoclax for Acute Myeloid Leukemia With Prior Hypomethylating Agent Failure
This phase II trial evaluates the effect of azacitidine or decitabine and venetoclax in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has not been treated before (treatment naive) or has come back (relapsed). Chemotherapy drugs, such as azacitidine, decitabine, and venetoclax, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: Decitabine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Overall response rate, Will be defined as the rate of complete remission (CR) plus CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi)., Up to 1 year
Measurable/minimal residual disease (MRD) status, Will be measured by multiparameter flow cytometry and/or molecular methods (e.g. real-time quantitative reverse transcription \[qRT-PCR\]). Will be assessed in patients achieving a CR, CRi or CR with partial hematologic recovery (CRh). Rates of MRD negative CR+CRi and CR+CRh will be calculated., Up to 1 year|Rate of CR/CRh, Will be defined as the rate of complete remission (CR) plus CR with partial hematologic recovery (CRh)., Up to 1 year|Rate of transfusion-independence, Transfusion independence (TI) is defined as any period of \>/= 56 days during treatment with no RBC or platelet transfusion., Up to 1 year|Duration of CR/CRi (DoR), Time from the date of CR/CRi until the date of relapse or death, From the date of CR/CRi until the date of relapse or death, assessed up to 1 year|Relapse-free survival, Time from the date of entry into study to the date of relapse or death from any cause, From the date of CR/CRi until the date of relapse or death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Event-free survival, Time from the date of entry into study to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause, From the date of entry into study to the date of treatment failure, relapse, or death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival, Time from the date of entry into study to the date of death from any cause, From the date of entry into study to the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 1 year|Incidence of adverse events, Will be captured and characterized by type, frequency, severity (as defined and graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 toxicity criteria), timing, seriousness, and relationship to treatment., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: I. To evaluate the efficacy of venetoclax plus alternative hypomethylating agent (HMA), as defined by the primary endpoint of overall response rate, for patients with treatment naive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) eligible for venetoclax plus HMA with prior HMA failure.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further examine the efficacy of venetoclax plus alternative HMA for patients with treatment naive AML eligible for venetoclax plus HMA with prior HMA failure using additional efficacy endpoints.

II. To further evaluate the safety of venetoclax plus alternative HMA for patients with treatment naive AML eligible for venetoclax plus HMA with prior HMA failure.