PREACT Study: Locally Advanced Gastric Cancer, Chemoradiotherapy vs. Chemotherapy Followed by D2 Surgery and Adjuvant Chemotherapy
Although the incidence of gastric cancer has been substantially declining for several decades, it is still the sixth most common cancer and the fourth most frequent cause of cancer death worldwide. Surgery is still the only curative option for gastric cancer. However, most patients are unable to undergo surgery because of late stage, unresectable disease. The prognosis for these patients is very poor. Although the Magic trial showed that perioperative chemotherapy can increase the rate of curative surgery and significantly improve overall survival in patients with operable gastric or lower esophageal adenocarcinomas, no pCR events were reported in this trial. The intervention arm in PREACT consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, pre-operative radiochemotherapy, surgery and post-operative chemotherapy. The control arm consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, surgery, and post-operative chemotherapy. The primary purpose of PREACT is to investigate whether the addition of radiochemotherapy to chemotherapy is superior to chemotherapy alone in the pre-operative setting in improving disease free survival in patients with locally advanced gastric or esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma.
Stomach Neoplasm|GastroEsophageal Cancer|Adenocarcinoma|Locally Advanced Cancer|Chemoradiation
DRUG: Tegafur-Gimeracil-Oteracil Potassium|RADIATION: Chemoradiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Gastric resection|DRUG: Oxaliplatin
Disease free survival, up to 3 years
Overall survival, up to 3 years|Surgical complete resection rate (R0), at the time of surgery|Pathological response rate, at the time of surgery|Proportion of patients with toxicities, up to 3 years|Proportion of patients with surgery-related complication, at the time of surgery
Although the incidence of gastric cancer has been substantially declining for several decades, it is still the sixth most common cancer and the fourth most frequent cause of cancer death worldwide. Surgery is still the only curative option for gastric cancer. However, most patients are unable to undergo surgery because of late stage, unresectable disease. The prognosis for these patients is very poor. Although the Magic trial showed that perioperative chemotherapy can increase the rate of curative surgery and significantly improve overall survival in patients with operable gastric or lower esophageal adenocarcinomas, no pCR events were reported in this trial. The intervention arm in PREACT consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, pre-operative radiochemotherapy, surgery and post-operative chemotherapy. The control arm consists of pre-operative chemotherapy, surgery, and post-operative chemotherapy. The primary purpose of PREACT is to investigate whether the addition of radiochemotherapy to chemotherapy is superior to chemotherapy alone in the pre-operative setting in improving disease free survival in patients with locally advanced gastric or esophagogastric junction adenocarcinoma.