A Phase ll Study of Neoadjuvant Short-course Radiotherapy Followed by Ivonescimab and Chemotherapy in pMMR/MSS Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of short-course radiotherapy followed by ivonescimab and chemotherapy in participants with pMMR/MSS locally advanced rectal cancer. Patients were randomly assigned to experimental group A or control group B according to a 1:1 ratio. In group A, patients will receive neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy followed by ivonescimab and chemotherapy. In group B, patients will receive neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy. After neoadjuvant treatment, the patients and investigator could choose one of the following treatments:(1) Surgery. The patients will receive surgery within 4-8 weeks after the last dose of capecitabine, and the surgical method is selected by the investigator, (2) Watch and Wait (only for patients with clinical complete response after neoadjuvant therapy).
Rectal Adenocarcinoma
DRUG: lvonescimab|DRUG: CAPOX (oxaliplatin/capecitabine)|RADIATION: radiotherapy|PROCEDURE: Surgery or watch&wait
Adverse events, Adverse events and surgical safety, Through study completion, an average of 6 month|Complete response rate, The proportion of CR cases (pCR for those who underwent surgery and cCR for those who didn't receive surgery), 4 weeks after curative surgery for pCR; 2-4 weeks after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy (last dose of capecitabine) for cCR|Clinical complete response rate, The proportion of clinical complete response cases., 2-4 weeks after the completion of neoadjuvant therapy (last dose of capecitabine)
Pathologic complete response, The proportion of pathologic complete response cases for those who underwent surgery, 4 weeks after surgery|TRG, Tumor regression grade according to AJCC TRG grading system, 4 weeks after surgery|R0 resection rate, R0 resection rate, 4 weeks after surgery|Local recurrence, Local recurrence, 3 years after Randomization|Distant metastasis, Distant metastasis, 3 years after Randomization|OS, Overall survial, 3 years after Randomization|EFS, Event free of survival, 3 years after Randomization
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of short-course radiotherapy followed by ivonescimab and chemotherapy in participants with pMMR/MSS locally advanced rectal cancer. Patients were randomly assigned to experimental group A or control group B according to a 1:1 ratio. In group A, patients will receive neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy followed by ivonescimab and chemotherapy. In group B, patients will receive neoadjuvant short-course radiotherapy followed by chemotherapy. After neoadjuvant treatment, the patients and investigator could choose one of the following treatments:(1) Surgery. The patients will receive surgery within 4-8 weeks after the last dose of capecitabine, and the surgical method is selected by the investigator, (2) Watch and Wait (only for patients with clinical complete response after neoadjuvant therapy).