Lymphedema Severity on Shoulder Joint Function and Muscle Activation Patterns in Breast Cancer Survivors
Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is a common complication affecting the upper extremity following breast cancer treatment. This study aims to investigate the relationship between lymphedema severity and shoulder joint function and muscle activation patterns in breast cancer survivors.
Breast Cancer|Breast Cancer Female
OTHER: Lymphedema severity stratification
Shoulder joint mobility, shoulder flexion, abduction, external rotation and extension range of motion measured using a digital inclinometer., baseline|Muscle activation patterns (Amplitude), Surface EMG recording of muscle activation patterns (amplitude) of the biceps brachii, anterior/middle/posterior deltoid, pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi during shoulder elevation. Amplitude will be reported in units of microvolts (µV), baseline|Muscle activation patterns (Timing), Surface EMG recording of muscle activation patterns (timing) of the biceps brachii, anterior/middle/posterior deltoid, pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi during shoulder elevation. Timing will be reported in units of milliseconds (ms)., baseline
Shoulder flexors strength, Maximal shoulder flexor abductor strength measured as force production (N) using a handheld dynamometer. The average of 3 trials for each muscle group will be calculated., baseline|Shoulder abductor strength, Maximal shoulder abductor strength measured as force production (N) using a handheld dynamometer. The average of 3 trials for each muscle group will be calculated., baseline|Self-reported upper extremity function, The Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) questionnaire, developed by the Institute for Work and Health, is used to measure patient-reported functional outcomes. The DASH questionnaire consists of 30 questions regarding limitations to complete physical activities due to upper extremity pain/impairment. Participants will be asked to respond to each question based on their experiences over the preceding week according to a 5-point Likert scale ranging from 1 (no difficulty) to 5 (unable to do). Responses will be scored out of 5 and averaged to produce a score out of 100 with higher scores representing greater disability., baseline
Breast cancer-related lymphedema (BCRL) is a common complication affecting the upper extremity following breast cancer treatment. This study aims to investigate the relationship between lymphedema severity and shoulder joint function and muscle activation patterns in breast cancer survivors.