Fluorescence Imaging in Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy for Breast Cancer and Melanoma
The NIR light source of our device is based on light-emitting diodes (LEDs), which can deliver sufficient light to biological tissues and induce fluorescence emission to meet the needs of the planned clinical studies. It should be noted that the light source is still well under the US FDA recommended limit for NIR exposure and ANSI standard. In addition, the light source is not laser-based, which is significantly safer than other optical imaging systems utilizing laser technologies. The fluorescence signals will be received by the detector portion of our device. Gain-settings could be easily adjusted during operation to optimize the contrast between high fluorescence areas (tumors) and low fluorescence areas (normal tissues). Real-time fluorescence video will be displayed in the goggle eyepiece as well as on a secondary monitor to facilitate viewing by other surgeons in the room.
Breast Cancer|Cancer of Breast|Cancer of the Breast|Melanoma|Malignant Melanoma
PROCEDURE: Sentinel lymph node biopsy|DEVICE: Goggle-based device with light-emitting diodes (LED)|DRUG: Indocynanine Green
Ability for the imaging device to identify the sentinel lymph node (SLN) during the SLN biopsy procedure compared to standard of care gamma-probe identification of the SLN, After gamma-probe identification of the SLN, the physician will put on the goggle system to attempt to identify the SLN using fluorescence guidance. After this is performed, the goggle system will be removed and the SLN biopsy will be completed per standard techniques. Findings with the goggles will be recorded but will not change how the SLN biopsy is performed. The surgically-removed SLNs will be pathologically examined under standard protocols.

Identification of the SLN via fluorescence imaging will be compared to identification of the SLN via standard radiocolloid.

Fluorescence imaging results will be classified in relation to the "true" status based on the standard SLN biopsy. Descriptive statistics will be utilized to describe the feasibility of the imaging modality in identifying the SLN.

The main data point collected is "Do ICG-identified node (s) have extra-corporeal gamma activity?", At the time of the biopsy procedure (approximately 1.5 hours)
The NIR light source of our device is based on light-emitting diodes (LEDs), which can deliver sufficient light to biological tissues and induce fluorescence emission to meet the needs of the planned clinical studies. It should be noted that the light source is still well under the US FDA recommended limit for NIR exposure and ANSI standard. In addition, the light source is not laser-based, which is significantly safer than other optical imaging systems utilizing laser technologies. The fluorescence signals will be received by the detector portion of our device. Gain-settings could be easily adjusted during operation to optimize the contrast between high fluorescence areas (tumors) and low fluorescence areas (normal tissues). Real-time fluorescence video will be displayed in the goggle eyepiece as well as on a secondary monitor to facilitate viewing by other surgeons in the room.