Examining the Relationships Between Sleep, Fatigue, and Pain in Aromatase Inhibitor-treated Patients
Aromatase inhibitors are commonly prescribed for treatment of postmenopausal women with breast cancer. These medications can cause side effects in some women, and occasionally they can be quite bothersome. We are doing a study to better understand the side effects of aromatase inhibitors so that we can hopefully treat them better or possibly prevent them. In particular, we are interested in pain and difficulty sleeping. This study is designed to assess the effect of aromatase inhibitors on pain, sleep quality, and fatigue and the interplay of these side effects and their subsequent impact on daily activity. Each participant will fill out a series of questionnaires about pain, sleep quality, and fatigue and will also complete a sleep diary and wear an actigraphy watch for 10 days before starting an aromatase inhibitor and after taking it for 3 months. We hope to learn more about these symptoms so we can better manage medication toxicity in the future.
Breast Cancer
Feasibility of conducting an actigraphy study with breast cancer patients, Feasibility will be measured by the proportion of breast cancer patients who are starting aromatase inhibitor therapy who complete baseline and 3 month assessment questionnaires and also enter actigraphy data correctly at least 85% of the time., 3 months
Association between patient-reported sleep quality, fatigue, and pain and objective actigraphy measurements., We will evaluate patterns of symptoms reported by subjects and the apparent impact of these symptoms on both daytime function and sleep quality., 3 months|Change in pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance, and daytime activity with 3 months of aromatase inhibitor therapy, We will analyze the change in sleep, pain, fatigue, and symptom severity index between baseline and 12 weeks. We will correlate changes in symptoms from baseline to 12 weeks with actigraphy activity., 3 Months
Aromatase inhibitors are commonly prescribed for treatment of postmenopausal women with breast cancer. These medications can cause side effects in some women, and occasionally they can be quite bothersome. We are doing a study to better understand the side effects of aromatase inhibitors so that we can hopefully treat them better or possibly prevent them. In particular, we are interested in pain and difficulty sleeping. This study is designed to assess the effect of aromatase inhibitors on pain, sleep quality, and fatigue and the interplay of these side effects and their subsequent impact on daily activity. Each participant will fill out a series of questionnaires about pain, sleep quality, and fatigue and will also complete a sleep diary and wear an actigraphy watch for 10 days before starting an aromatase inhibitor and after taking it for 3 months. We hope to learn more about these symptoms so we can better manage medication toxicity in the future.