Optimization of MRI for Radiation Therapy
Currently, appropriate patients undergo MRI imaging with immobilization and sequences optimized for diagnostic radiology purposes. Using a mutual information algorithm, these images are then registered to a treatment planning CT obtained with custom immobilization to minimize intra-and inter-treatment motion and positional variation. This image registration process is time-consuming and introduces additional layers of geometric uncertainty into what should be a highly precise treatment planning process. However, it is necessary, since radiation dose calculations cannot be performed on MRI data due to the lack of crucial density information. The investigator envisions CT-less treatment planning, using only MRI, due to superior imaging characteristics, fully integrated into the radiation oncology clinic. This study will begin this process.
Cancer Liver|Cancer Brain|Cancer Head &Neck|Cancer Pelvis
PROCEDURE: MRI Group
Percentage of participants with MRI images suitable for analyses, Patients will be off protocol immediately after the single MRI scan. Comparative treatment planning will occur off-line and will not be used for patient care., Day One
Currently, appropriate patients undergo MRI imaging with immobilization and sequences optimized for diagnostic radiology purposes. Using a mutual information algorithm, these images are then registered to a treatment planning CT obtained with custom immobilization to minimize intra-and inter-treatment motion and positional variation. This image registration process is time-consuming and introduces additional layers of geometric uncertainty into what should be a highly precise treatment planning process. However, it is necessary, since radiation dose calculations cannot be performed on MRI data due to the lack of crucial density information. The investigator envisions CT-less treatment planning, using only MRI, due to superior imaging characteristics, fully integrated into the radiation oncology clinic. This study will begin this process.