Ultrasound-guided Cryobiopsy of Mediastinal/Hilar Lymph Nodes
EBUS-guided cryobiopsy of mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes has shown to be a useful diagnostic tool to obtain tissue for histological analysis and further targeted therapies in lung malignancies. Due to the large size and better quality of the tissue samples, a higher diagnostic yield than with transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) can be expected, especially in non-solid tumors. In previous studies different biopsy protocols were used. The freezing time of cryoprobe (which defines the sample sizes) ranged from 3 to 7 s and the number of biopsies was between 1 and 4 samples. It is therefore unclear what freezing times and biopsy frequency are required to obtain the best histological information.
Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
DEVICE: Cryobiopsy of lymph nodes group 6 sec|DEVICE: Cryobiopsy lymphnode group 3 sec
Diagnostic yield, Primary outcome measure is diagnostic yield according to the ATS consensus 2024 of EBUS-guided CB using two different freezing times (3sec./6.sec.)., from date of randomization to the time of the first documented results, assessed up to 100 weeks
overall rate of suitability for histopathological examination, from the date of randomization to the time of the first documented results, assessed up to 100 weeks|the size of the harvested tissue (mm2), from date of randomization to the time of the first documented results, assessed up to 100 months|), isolated and cumulative diagnostic yield of the first, second, third and fourth cryobiopsy, from date of randomization to the time of the first documented results, assessed up to100 weeks|time of the procedure, from the date of randomization to the time of the first documented results, assessed up to 100 weeks
EBUS-guided cryobiopsy of mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes has shown to be a useful diagnostic tool to obtain tissue for histological analysis and further targeted therapies in lung malignancies. Due to the large size and better quality of the tissue samples, a higher diagnostic yield than with transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) can be expected, especially in non-solid tumors. In previous studies different biopsy protocols were used. The freezing time of cryoprobe (which defines the sample sizes) ranged from 3 to 7 s and the number of biopsies was between 1 and 4 samples. It is therefore unclear what freezing times and biopsy frequency are required to obtain the best histological information. This study will analyze whether the freezing time influences the diagnostic yield in CB of mediastinal lymphadenopathies. Additionally we will evaluate the influence of the number of biopsies on the diagnostic yield.