Olanzapine With or Without Fosaprepitant Dimeglumine in Preventing Chemotherapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting in Cancer Patients Receiving Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy
This randomized phase III trial studies how well olanzapine with or without fosaprepitant work in preventing chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy that causes vomiting. Olanzapine and fosaprepitant dimeglumine may help control nausea and vomiting in patients during chemotherapy. Olanzapine is usually given in combination with other drugs, including fosaprepitant dimeglumine. It is not yet known if olanzapine when given with other drugs, is still effective without using fosaprepitant dimeglumine for controlling nausea and vomiting.
Malignant Neoplasm
DRUG: Palonosetron Hydrochloride|DRUG: Ondansetron Hydrochloride|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Fosaprepitant Dimeglumine|DRUG: Olanzapine|OTHER: Placebo
No Nausea Rate Defined as a Response of 0 in the Nausea Item of Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire in the Overall (0-120 Hours), Acute (0-24 Hours), and Delayed (24-120 Hours) Periods, The specific measure will be based on the proportion of patients with a value of 0, as measured by the single nausea item (scale 0-10, 0 is no symptoms, 10 is worst symptoms) of the Questionnaire. A modified intent-to-treat principle will be applied for statistical analysis of efficacy in evaluable patients. The proportions of patients with no nausea during the overall, the acute, and the delayed period will be summarized by treatment arm. They will be tested in a sequential manner, using a Simes gatekeeping procedure to maintain the overall significance level at the specified by the Lan-DeMets family of alpha spending function. The difference in no nausea proportions between arms will be estimated along with a one-sided 95% confidence interval. The tests and the confidence intervals will be constructed using normal approximation of the binomial distribution adjusted for the non-inferiority margin., Up to 120 hours
Complete Response (CR) (no Emetic Episodes and no Use of Rescue Medication) During the Acute, Delayed and the Overall Periods as Measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire, The specific measure will be based on the proportion of patients who answered "None" to both questions concerning Vomiting episode(None, Once, Twice, More than twice) and number of extra nausea/vomiting pills taken (None, One, Two, More than two) in the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire. The CR rate for the overall, the acute, and the delayed period will be summarized by treatment arm and will be compared using a Chi-squared test. The difference in CR rates between arms will be estimated along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 120 hours|Potential Toxicities as Ascribed to Olanzapine as Measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire, Potential toxicities includes nausea, undesired sedation, and undesired appetite, measured by three individual items ( nausea, undesired sedation, undesired appetite) of the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Dairy/Questionnaire(scale 0-10, 0 is no symptoms, 10 is worst symptoms). Incidences of toxicities will be summarized by type and by treatment arm. Incidences of toxicities will be compared between arms using a Chi-squared test or the Fisher's exact test as appropriate. In addition, undesired sedation and appetite increase as collected in the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire will be analyzed by repeated measures analyses including descriptive statistics, graphical approaches, and growth curve models to account for the factor of day and time trend., Up to 120 hours|Average Nausea Scores (0-10) Repeatedly Measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire, The specific measure will be based on the by the single nausea item (scale 0-10, 0 is no symptoms, 10 is worst symptoms) of the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire. Nausea scores (0-10) repeatedly measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire will be analyzed using the repeated measures analyses and growth curve models as described above for undesired sedation and increase in appetite., Up to 1 year|Total Frequency of Rescue Medication as Measured by the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire, The specific measure will be based on the single item : number of extra nausea/vomiting pills taken (None, One , Twice, More than twice) of the Nausea and Vomiting Daily Diary/Questionnaire., Over 5 Days per each of the 4 cycles
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare between the two study arms the proportion of patients with no nausea for the overall (0-120 hours post-chemotherapy), acute (0-24 hours post-chemotherapy), and delayed periods (24-120 hours post-chemotherapy) for patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare between the two study arms the complete response (CR) rates (no emetic episodes and no use of rescue medication) in the acute, delayed, and overall periods.

II. To compare between the two study arms, the incidences of potential toxicities that have been ascribed to olanzapine.

III. To perform an economic evaluation of olanzapine and fosaprepitant dimeglumine (fosaprepitant) versus (vs.) olanzapine in patients receiving HEC (noting that all patients will also receive dexamethasone and a 5HT3 receptor antagonist).

IV. To explore the efficacy of olanzapine in chemotherapy cycles two to four, for patients who elect to continue on the same antiemetic regimen received in cycle one, in chemotherapy cycles two to four (continuation phase), by documenting nausea and complete response.

V. To explore the safety of olanzapine in chemotherapy cycles two to four, for patients who elect to continue on the same antiemetic regimen received in cycle one, in chemotherapy cycles two to four (continuation phase), by recording any adverse events or drug related toxicities.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 seconds or ondansetron hydrochloride IV over 2-5 minutes or orally (PO) on day 1, dexamethasone PO on days 1-4, fosaprepitant dimeglumine IV over 20-30 minutes on day 1, and olanzapine PO on days 1-4. Treatment may repeat every 4 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive palonosetron hydrochloride IV over 30 seconds or ondansetron hydrochloride IV over 2-5 minutes or PO on day 1, dexamethasone PO on days 1-4, placebo IV over 20-30 minutes on day 1, and olanzapine PO on days 1-4. Treatment (with no placebo) may repeat every 4 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up periodically.