Multicenter Clinical Trial on the Effectiveness and Safety of Instillation of BCG and Alternative BCG Protocols for Intermediate and High-risk Non-muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer
Previous studies have reported the efficacy of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) combined with other drugs for the treatment of bladder cancer. However, research on the combination of tislelizumab and BCG for bladder cancer treatment has largely been retrospective. Currently, ongoing clinical trials have not discussed the effectiveness of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with BCG instillation in reducing postoperative recurrence in intermediate-risk NMIBC. Therefore, this study aims to explore the clinical efficacy and safety of tislelizumab combined with BCG in the treatment of intermediate and high-risk NMIBC. For this purpose, investigators have established strict screening criteria to include eligible patients in the study and have recruited suitable patients from multiple medical centers.Investigators have also developed a meticulous implementation process and follow-up considerations, hoping to better verify the clinical efficacy and safety of the combined use of these two drugs.
Urinary Bladder Neoplasms|BCG Vaccine|Immunotherapy, Active|Multicenter Study|Treatment Outcome|Neoplasm Recurrence, Local
DRUG: Tislelizumab in Combination with Bacillus Calmette-Guérin
Relapse-Free Survival(RFS), The time from postoperative cystoscopic examination to the first documented recurrence of bladder tumor., From date of postoperative cystoscopic examination to the first documented recurrence of bladder tumor,assessed up to 60 months.
Progression-Free Survival(PFS), The time recorded from postoperative cystoscopic and pathological examinations to the first progression of bladder tumor, defined in this trial as the occurrence of muscle-invasive growth in NMIBC (Non-Muscle Invasive Bladder Cancer) patients., From date of postoperative cystoscopic and pathological examinations to the first progression of bladder tumor, assessed up to 60 months.|Overall survival, The duration from post-surgery to the time of death due to any cause. For participants who are lost to follow-up prior to death, the time of their last follow-up is typically considered as the time of death for calculation purposes., From date of post-surgery to the time of death due to any cause,assessed up to 60 months|Adverse event（AS), An adverse event (AE) is defined according to the toxicity grading standards set by the National Cancer Institute of the United States. This includes a spectrum of adverse reactions associated with antineoplastic therapy. Specific grading of adverse reactions refers to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE Version 5.0) developed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI)., From date of post-surgery to the time of death due to any cause,assessed up to 60 months.
Previous studies have reported the efficacy of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) combined with other drugs for the treatment of bladder cancer. However, research on the combination of tislelizumab and BCG for bladder cancer treatment has largely been retrospective. Currently, ongoing clinical trials have not discussed the effectiveness of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors combined with BCG instillation in reducing postoperative recurrence in intermediate-risk NMIBC. Therefore, this study aims to explore the clinical efficacy and safety of tislelizumab combined with BCG in the treatment of intermediate and high-risk NMIBC. For this purpose, investigators have established strict screening criteria to include eligible patients in the study and have recruited suitable patients from multiple medical centers.Investigators have also developed a meticulous implementation process and follow-up considerations, hoping to better verify the clinical efficacy and safety of the combined use of these two drugs.