Sorafenib Tosylate and Gemcitabine Hydrochloride in Treating Patients With Recurrent Epithelial Ovarian Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well giving sorafenib together with gemcitabine works in treating patients with recurrent or refractory ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer. Sorafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth and by stopping blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Giving sorafenib with gemcitabine may kill more tumor cells.
Recurrent Ovarian Epithelial Cancer|Recurrent Primary Peritoneal Cavity Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective tumor response rate (complete plus partial response as defined by the RECIST criteria), Up to 7 years
Median survival time, Estimated using the Kaplan Meier method., Up to 7 years|Survival rate, Estimated using the Kaplan Meier method., 6 months|Objective tumor stable disease rate, graded according to RECIST criteria, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided., Up to 7 years|Response duration, Ninety-five percent confidence intervals will be provided., Up to 7 years|Toxicity, graded using the CTCAE, Up to 7 years|Time to disease, Up to 7 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES I. Objective tumour response rate (complete plus partial response as defined by the RECIST criteria) in women with recurrent or refractory advanced ovarian or primary peritoneal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Median survival time. II. 6-month survival rate. III. Objective tumour stable disease rate. IV. Response duration. V. Toxicity. VI. Time to disease progression.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Course 1 (56 days): Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-56 and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43.

Course 2 and all subsequent courses (28 days): Patients receive oral sorafenib twice daily on days 1-28 and gemcitabine IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients with a complete or partial response receive at least 2 additional courses beyond documented response. Patients with stable or responding disease who have received at least 6 courses may discontinue gemcitabine and continue sorafenib alone until disease progression.