Effects of Virtual Museum Visit on Pain, Fatigue, and Anxiety in Patients Receiving Chemotherapy
Symptom management is the most important aspect of clinical cancer care. Virtual reality-based interventions can be used to improve cancer patients' experiences with medical treatment, with their distraction-based effects. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of virtual museum visits with virtual reality glasses on pain, fatigue, and anxiety in patients receiving chemotherapy. The study included a museum visit with virtual reality glasses during the procedure in addition to routine treatments for patients in the intervention group. Patients in the control group were given only their routine treatments. Data will be collected using the Personal Information Form (PIF), Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale, Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Beck Anxiety Scale (BAÖ). In the first interview, the patient was also presented with virtual museum options and the museums he/she wanted to visit were listed. In addition, the patients in the Intervention Group were shown virtual museums with 53 different themes on the website prepared by the General Directorate of Information Technologies of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which is located on the website ''https://sanalmuze.gov.tr'' belonging to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and the museums they wanted to visit in each session according to their preferences were listed. In the meantime, the Intervention Group was explained how to use the virtual glasses and they will be tested. One week after the first test, the patients in the Intervention Group will visit a virtual museum on the theme preferred by the patients using virtual glasses for an average of 20 minutes for a total of five consecutive weeks. In the fifth virtual tour session, which is the third and last application session, measurements (Visual Analog Scale, Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale and Beck Anxiety Scale) will be administered. The control group will not receive any intervention other than routine treatment.The museum visit applied to the Intervention Group will also be applied to the control group after the study is completed, taking into account the ethical dimension.
Chemotherapy Effect|Pain Cancer|Fatigue|Anxiety
OTHER: Art Therapy (Virtual Museum Visit)
Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale, The scale, originally named "Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale", was developed by Kazue Hirai et al. in 2015 and consisted of 15 items . The scale is used to measure fatigue in cancer patients and has a 5-point Likert design. Each item on the scale is evaluated as 1 "not at all", 2 "very little", 3 "a little", 4 "a lot", and 5 "very much". It has 3 sub-dimensions (Physical-Mental, Activity-Related Sensitivity, and Cognitive Sensitivity). Items 1-6 on the scale constitute the Physical-Mental Sub-Dimension, items 7-12 constitute the Activity-Related Sensitivity Sub-Dimension, and items 12-15 constitute the Cognitive Sensitivity Sub-Dimension. The scale has no cut-off point. The minimum value of the scale is 15 and the maximum value is 75, with high scores indicating increased fatigue, while low scores indicating less fatigue. The validity and reliability study in our country was conducted by Mencel., It will take 5 weeks to collect data three times after randomization is done. The first measurement of fatigue scale will be done in the first week, the second measurement in the third week and the third measurement in the fifth week of virtual muse|Visual Analog Scale (VAS), VAS, which evaluates the intensity of pain, is widely used in adults. The scale was developed by Price et al. as a scale consisting of a single 10 mm line that evaluates the intensity of pain. The two end definitions of the parameter to be evaluated are written at both ends of the line and the patient is asked to indicate where his/her condition is appropriate on this line by drawing a line, putting a dot, or pointing. For example, for pain, no pain is written at one end and very severe pain is written at the other end and the patient marks his/her current condition on this line. The length of the distance from the point where there is no pain to the point marked by the patient indicates the patient's pain. It has been shown that the line on which the test is applied is not affected by whether it is horizontal or vertical or by its length. The average of the values obtained for the patients is taken., It will take 5 weeks to collect data three times after randomization is done. The first measurement of VAS will be done in the first week, the second measurement in the third week and the third measurement in the fifth week of virtual museum visit.|Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), The inventory was developed by Beck et al. to determine the level and frequency of anxiety symptoms experienced by individuals. The scale has a Likert design with self-assessment consisting of 21 items and is scored between 0-3. The high total score indicates the high level of anxiety experienced by the individual. The score range varies between 0-63. The scale is evaluated as 0-7 points, no anxiety symptoms, 8-15 points, mild anxiety, 16-25 points, moderate anxiety, 26-63 points, and severe anxiety symptoms. The validity and reliability study in our country was conducted by Ulusoy et al., It will take 5 weeks to collect data three times after randomization is done. The first measurement of BAI will be done in the first week, the second measurement in the third week and the third measurement in the fifth week of virtual museum visit.
Symptom management is the most important aspect of clinical cancer care. Virtual reality-based interventions can be used to improve cancer patients' experiences with medical treatment, with their distraction-based effects. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of virtual museum visits with virtual reality glasses on pain, fatigue, and anxiety in patients receiving chemotherapy. The study included a museum visit with virtual reality glasses during the procedure in addition to routine treatments for patients in the intervention group. Patients in the control group were given only their routine treatments. Data will be collected using the Personal Information Form (PIF), Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale, Visual Analog Scale (VAS) and Beck Anxiety Scale (BAÖ). In the first interview, the patient was also presented with virtual museum options and the museums he/she wanted to visit were listed. In addition, the patients in the Intervention Group were shown virtual museums with 53 different themes on the website prepared by the General Directorate of Information Technologies of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, which is located on the website ''https://sanalmuze.gov.tr'' belonging to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, and the museums they wanted to visit in each session according to their preferences were listed. In the meantime, the Intervention Group was explained how to use the virtual glasses and they will be tested. One week after the first test, the patients in the Intervention Group will visit a virtual museum on the theme preferred by the patients using virtual glasses for an average of 20 minutes for a total of five consecutive weeks. In the fifth virtual tour session, which is the third and last application session, measurements (Visual Analog Scale, Hirai Cancer Fatigue Scale and Beck Anxiety Scale) will be administered. The control group will not receive any intervention other than routine treatment.The museum visit applied to the Intervention Group will also be applied to the control group after the study is completed, taking into account the ethical dimension.