Role of Multi-modality Imaging in the Assessment of Chemotherapy Related Cardiac Dysfunction Among Cancer Patients
The field of oncology has advanced remarkably. Some of the old and new emerging cancer therapies are associated with development of cardiovascular toxicities , which may have the potential to offset the gains in survival obtained with this cancer treatment advances. Much of the focus on cardiovascular toxicities has been in the early detection of myocardial damage and prediction of cancer therapeutics-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD). The main strategy for these patients is timely diagnosis and treatment of high-risk individual Cardiac dysfunction associated with cancer treatment is the main cause of mortality in cancer survivors. The mortality rate is recorded to be up to 60% in the first two years after therapy. The most commonly associated drugs with cardiotoxicity are anthracycline (AC) and monoclonal antibodies (such as trastuzumab). Other new agents, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors, immunotherapies, and proteasome inhibitors, can also cause cardiac dysfunction .
2D Speckle Tracking Echocardiography|Breast Cancer|Cardiac Magnetic Resonance
DEVICE: Two dimensions speckle tracking and three dimension echocardiography and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging
Determine and compare the role of 2D speckle tracking vs. 3D echocardiography in assessment of early LV systolic dysfunction in patients receiving different chemotherapy combinations, All patient will be undergo both 2D and 3D echocardiography before and after treatment to detect early LV systolic dysfunction., up to 6 months after starting chemotherapy
The field of oncology has advanced remarkably. Some of the old and new emerging cancer therapies are associated with development of cardiovascular toxicities , which may have the potential to offset the gains in survival obtained with this cancer treatment advances. Much of the focus on cardiovascular toxicities has been in the early detection of myocardial damage and prediction of cancer therapeutics-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD). The main strategy for these patients is timely diagnosis and treatment of high-risk individual Cardiac dysfunction associated with cancer treatment is the main cause of mortality in cancer survivors. The mortality rate is recorded to be up to 60% in the first two years after therapy. The most commonly associated drugs with cardiotoxicity are anthracycline (AC) and monoclonal antibodies (such as trastuzumab). Other new agents, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitors, immunotherapies, and proteasome inhibitors, can also cause cardiac dysfunction .