Epidemiologic Study Of Diabetes And Cancer Risk
The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether treatment with pioglitazone is associated with risk of incident cancer at the 10 most common sites in a cohort of participants with recognized diabetes along with the assessment of association between diabetes severity and cancer risk.
Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2, Cancer
OTHER: No Intervention
Age and Sex-Standardized Incidence Rates for the 10 Most Common Cancers Stratified by Diabetes Status, Age and gender adjusted incidence rates, stratified by diabetes status, was calculated using the direct method (2000 US Census as standard), with further stratification on calendar year. Cancer incidence rates were calculated with attention to the proper allocation of at-risk person-time. The association between diabetes and risk of each of the 10 most common cancers was assessed using Cox proportional hazards regression models with control for available potential confounders: age, gender. Similarly, Cox regression technique was used to examine the association between diabetes status and cancer risk among survey responders with adjustment for additional potential confounding variable., 15 years|Hazard Ratio for Risk of 10 Common Cancers Associated With Diabetes, The association between diabetes and risk of each of the 10 most common cancers was assessed by calculating hazard ratio using Cox proportional hazards regression models with control for available potential confounders: age, gender and calendar years. Cox regression techniques was used to examine the association between DM status and cancer risk with adjustment for potential confounding variables in the survey respondent cohort., 15 years
The study enroll a large population of approximately 252467 participants. This epidemiology study of diabetes and cancer risk is an expansion study which would include estimation of cancer rate among KPNC members with or without diabetes and the relative risks of cancers associated with a diagnosis of diabetes. The study included diabetes participants who were KPNC members between 1997 and 2011. It also included a subset of participants who took the 1996/7 diabetes survey and Member Health Survey (MHS) in 1993, 1999, 2001 or 2003.

This multi-center trial was conducted in the United States of America. The overall time to participate in this study was approximately 15.5 years. The participants were followed-up from January 1, 1997 up to December 31, 2011.