Study of the Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor in Subjects With Relapsed or Relapsed and Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The primary objective of this study is to determine the efficacy of PCI-32765, both as a single agent and in combination with dexamethasone, in subjects with relapsed or relapsed and refractory Multiple Myeloma (MM)
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: PCI-32765|DRUG: Dexamethasone
The Clinical Benefit Response (CBR), The clinical benefit response (CBR) rate, defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), partial response (PR), or minimal response (MR) as assessed by the modified International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria, From the date of first study treatment until disease progression per IMWG, up to 60 months
To Evaluate the Efficacy of PCI-32765 by Assessing ORR, The objective response rate, defined as the proportion of subjects who achieved stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial response (VGPR), or partial response (PR), as assessed by the modified International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) response criteria., From the date of first study treatment until disease progression per IMWG, up to 60 months|Pharmacokinetics (PK). (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax), Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Maximum observed plasma concentration of ibrutinib during the dosing interval on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Time to Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Tmax)., Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Time to corresponding maximum observed plasma concentration of ibrutinib during the dosing interval on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Area Under the Plasma Concentration-Time Curve From Time 0 to 24 Hours (AUC0-24h)., Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Ibrutinib AUC0-24h calculated using linear trapezoidal summation after dosing from time 0 to 24 hours on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Terminal Elimination Half-life (t1/2,Term)., Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Ibrutinib terminal elimination half-life associated with the terminal slope (λz) of the semi-logarithmic plasma concentration-time curve, calculated as 0.693/λz on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Accumulation Ratio for AUC0-24h (Acc. Ratio AUC0-24h), Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Acc. Ratio calculated as Day 8 ibrutinib AUC0-24h/ Day 1 ibrutinib AUC0-24h., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Metabolite-to-Parent Ratio for Cmax (M/P Cmax), Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Calculated as (PCI-45227 Cmax/PCI-45227 molecular weight)/(ibrutinib Cmax/ibrutinib molecular weight) on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Pharmacokinetics (PK) (Assessed by Sampling and Testing for Drug and Metabolite Levels at Designated Time Points). Mean Metabolite-to-Parent Ratio for AUC0-24h (M/P AUC0-24h), Ibrutinib and PCI-45227 concentrations were measurable following once-daily dosing of ibrutinib in subjects with MM. The following time-points were included: 0hr, 1hr, 2hr, 7hr, 24hr post-dose. Calculated as (PCI-45227 AUC0-24h/PCI-45227 molecular weight)/(ibrutinib AUC0-24h/ibrutinib molecular weight) on Day 8., Procedure was performed up to 60 weeks.|Duration of Clinical Benefit Response (DCB), DCB is defined as the time from first observation of response to the time of disease progression., From the date of first study treatment until disease progression per IMWG, up to 60 months|Duration of Response (DOR), The time interval between the date of initial documentation of a response and the date of first documented evidence of progressive disease, death, or date of censoring for the subjects not progressed/died. The censoring date is the last adequate tumor assessment date., up to 3 Years
Bruton's tyrosine kinase (Btk) is an enzyme that is present in hematopoietic cells other than T cells and is necessary for downstream signal transduction from various hematopoietic receptors including the B cell receptor as well as some Fc, chemokine, and adhesion receptors, and is crucial for both B cell development and osteoclastogenesis. Although down-regulated in normal plasma cells, Btk is highly expressed in the malignant cells from many myeloma patients and some cell lines. PCI 32765 is a potent and specific inhibitor of Btk currently in Phase 2 clinical trials. The current study is designed and intended to determine the effects of PCI-32765 in subjects with MM.