Statistical Analysis Plan for the SANO-trial: Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy Followed by Surgery Versus Active Surveillance for Oesophageal Cancer
An active surveillance approach is proposed after completion of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) for carcinoma of the oesophagus. In this SANO (i.e. Surgery As Needed for Oesophageal cancer) approach, surgical resection is offered only to patients in whom a locoregional regrowth is highly suspected or proven, without distant dissemination. Such an organ-preserving strategy can have great advantages, but is only justified if long-term survival is non-inferior to that of the current standard trimodality approach comprising neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by standard surgery. The aim of this study is to assess the (cost-)effectiveness (including non-financial costs and survival) of active surveillance for patients with squamous cell- or adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus or oesophago-gastric junction.
Esophageal Cancer|Active Surveillance|Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy|Surgical Oncology
PROCEDURE: Active surveillance
Overall survival, the interval between the moment of achieving cCR (i.e. the moment the patient will start the intervention) and death or last follow-up, with a minimal follow-up of two years after reaching cCR.
An active surveillance approach is proposed after completion of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) for carcinoma of the oesophagus. In this SANO (i.e. Surgery As Needed for Oesophageal cancer) approach, surgical resection is offered only to patients in whom a locoregional regrowth is highly suspected or proven, without distant dissemination. Such an organ-preserving strategy can have great advantages, but is only justified if long-term survival is non-inferior to that of the current standard trimodality approach comprising neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by standard surgery. The aim of this study is to assess the (cost-)effectiveness (including non-financial costs and survival) of active surveillance for patients with squamous cell- or adenocarcinoma of the oesophagus or oesophago-gastric junction.