Application of "Heidelberg Triangle" Dissection in Pancreatoduodenectomy and Distal Pancreatectomy
Aim of the study :

To evaluate the effect and safety of "Heidelberg Triangle" dissection (TRIANGLE operation) combined with Pancreatoduodenectomy or Distal Pancreatectomy on the prognosis of pancreatic cancer and periampullary cancer .

Methods :

Patients who underwent pancreatoduodenectomy or Distal Pancreatectomy between 01 September 2016 and 30 December 2022 will be included in this retrospective analysis. 3D reconstruction is performed with preoperative enhanced CT, then the region of "Heidelberg Triangle" is categorized . The operation is completed by the same operation team. According to the operation mode, patients were divided into TRIANGLE group and non-TRIANGLE group and And followed up until recurrence, death or missed.
Pancreatoduodenectomy|Periampullary Carcinoma|Pancreatic Cancer
PROCEDURE: TRIANGLE operation
Recurrence free survival (RFS), from the date of surgery to the first radiographic or pathologic evidence of recurrence., up to 72 months
Overall survival (OS), from the date of diagnosis to death or last follow up, up to 72 months|Surgical Morbidity, including postoperative pancreatic fistula (B/C), bile leakage (B/C), delayed gastric emptying (B/C), postpancreatectomy haemorrhage (B/C), postoperative chyle leak (B/C), postoperative intra-abdominal infection., 90 postoperative days
The "Heidelberg Triangle" is an anatomical area composed of Common hepatic artery (CHA), superior mesenteric artery (SMA) and superior mesenteric vein (SMV).

This area is considered to be the common site of recurrence after pancreatic surgery.

Recent studies have shown that TRIANGLE operation can improve the state of the cutting edge and has potential value in improving the prognosis. However, the data on recurrence and survival rate of pancreatic cancer and periampullary cancer after TRIANGLE operation are insufficient.

The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effect and safety of "Heidelberg Triangle" dissection combined with Pancreatoduodenectomy or Distal Pancreatectomy on the prognosis of pancreatic cancer and periampullary cancer .