Phase 1 In-vivo Biliary Study of KSP/QRH Heptapeptide Dimer
The overall aim of this feasibility study is to develop new technologies for improved detection of cholangiocarcinoma using the SFE-based molecular-imaging mini-cholangioscope (MC) system. This study will combine the use of a fluorescent-labeled peptide dimer that binds specifically to know biomarkers of cholangiocarcinoma for use as a novel imaging agent to guide endoscopic biopsies. This Phase 1B study will be used to provide early evidence of efficacy for the topical application of a peptide dimer that binds to molecular targets that are specific for biliary intra-epithelial neoplasia. A dimer is needed because cancer in the biliary tract is genetically heterogeneous. QRH binds specifically to Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), and KSP binds specifically to Human Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor (HER2). The study will look at peptide binding in subjects having a medical condition requiring an ERCP to diagnose a potential biliary disorder. The Phase 1A first-in-human studies of safety with topical administration by ingestion of KSP/QRH dimer (HUM00141420) has been completed.
Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: KSP/QRH dimer
Contrast in Cell Fluorescence, The fluorescence intensity will be measured by the target/background (T/B) ratio from suspicious regions of bile duct where the fluorescent-labeled peptide is administered. The intensity of the fluorescence of the abnormal tissue compared to the background tissue intensity will be analyzed using statistical analysis for significance comparing the tissue groups' mean T/B ratios., During and immediately after procedure, generally no more than 2 hours
The overall aim of this feasibility study is to develop new technologies for improved detection of cholangiocarcinoma using the SFE-based molecular-imaging mini-cholangioscope (MC) system. This study will combine the use of a fluorescent-labeled peptide dimer that binds specifically to know biomarkers of cholangiocarcinoma for use as a novel imaging agent to guide endoscopic biopsies. This Phase 1B study will be used to provide early evidence of efficacy for the topical application of a peptide dimer that binds to molecular targets that are specific for biliary intra-epithelial neoplasia. A dimer is needed because cancer in the biliary tract is genetically heterogeneous. QRH binds specifically to Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), and KSP binds specifically to Human Epithelial Growth Factor Receptor (HER2). The study will look at peptide binding in subjects having a medical condition requiring an ERCP to diagnose a potential biliary disorder. The Phase 1A first-in-human studies of safety with topical administration by ingestion of KSP/QRH dimer (HUM00141420) has been completed.