Muscle Energy Technique Versus Maitland Mobilization on Shoulder Pain and Disability
The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of muscle energy technique versus Maitland's mobilization on shoulder pain and disability after neck dissection surgeries.
Neck Cancer|Mobility Limitation|Pain Syndrome|Shoulder Pain|Surgery
OTHER: Muscle energy technique|OTHER: Maitland mobilization|OTHER: Traditional shoulder exercise
Visual analogue scale, A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) is one of the pain rating scales used for the first time in 1921 by Hayes and Patterson. It is often used in epidemiology and clinical research to measure the intensity or frequency of various symptoms. It has a 100-mm-long horizontal line labeled ''no pain' (with or without related facial expressions) at one extreme and ''worst pain ever' at the other. Pain intensity is determined by the length of the line as measured from the left-hand side to the point marked., Change from baseline at four weeks after the intervention|Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, It is a self-reported questionnaire consisting of 13 items divided in two parts: pain and disability sub-scale. The pain subscale includes five questions about pain intensity. The disability subscale includes eight questions about difficulty in different orders. Each question of both pain and disability subscale was scaled in numeric ratings ranging from 0 to 10. Each score was summed up and transformed into percentages. Finally, the average score between pain and disability subscale comprised the total SPADI scores ranging from 0 (the best) to 100 (the worst)., Change from baseline at four weeks after the intervention|Shoulder active range of motion, Through using the universal goniometer to measure the shoulder flexion, abduction and, external rotation., Change from baseline at four weeks after the intervention
Thirty patients with shoulder pain and limited ROM post-neck dissection surgeries participated in this study. Patients were subdivided into two groups, fifteen patients in each group. Group A received the muscle energy technique and group B received Maitland's mobilization.

Data obtained from both groups regarding the Visual Analogue Scale, it has a 100-mm-long horizontal line labeled ''no pain' (with or without related facial expressions) at one extreme and ''worst pain ever' at the other. Pain intensity is determined by the length of the line as measured from the left-hand side to the point marked, The Shoulder Pain and Disability Index, it has two subscales; The pain subscale includes five questions about pain intensity. The disability subscale includes eight questions about difficulty in different orders. Each question of both pain and disability subscale was scaled in numeric ratings ranging from 0 to 10. Each score was summed up and transformed into percentages. Finally, the average score between pain and disability subscale comprised the total SPADI scores ranging from 0 (the best) to 100 (the worst), and shoulder flexion, abduction, and external ROM were statistically analyzed and compared.