Erlotinib Hydrochloride With or Without Carboplatin and Paclitaxel in Treating Patients With Stage III-IV Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
This randomized phase II trial studies how well erlotinib hydrochloride with or without carboplatin and paclitaxel works in treating patients with stage III-IV non-small cell lung cancer. Erlotinib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving erlotinib hydrochloride together with carboplatin and paclitaxel may kill more tumor cells than giving either drug alone.
Lung Adenocarcinoma|Lung Adenosquamous Carcinoma|Malignant Pericardial Effusion|Malignant Pleural Effusion|Minimally Invasive Lung Adenocarcinoma|Stage IIIB Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IV Lung Non-Small Cell Cancer AJCC v7
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Erlotinib Hydrochloride|DRUG: Paclitaxel
18 Weeks Progression Free Survival (PFS) Rate, The product limit estimator developed by Kaplan Meier will be used to graphically describe progression free survival for patients randomized to each study arm.

The 18 week progression-free survival rate was defined as the proportion of patients that were alive progression-free 18 weeks after registration into the study. Disease progression was assessed per modified RECIST criteria, and defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, in either primary or nodal lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the baseline measurements, or the appearance of new lesions. Kaplan-Meier estimate of 18-week progression-free survival was calculated., At 18 weeks
Overall Response Rate, The proportion of patients who respond (completely or partially) to each combination regimen will be estimated. An exact binomial confidence interval will be computed for these estimates.

Response was defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria:

Complete Response (CR): disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR) 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions, Duration of Study (up to 3 years)|Number of Participants With Grade 3, 4 or 5 Adverse Event at Least Possibly Related to Treatment., The National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 3.

Grade 1: Mild; Grade 2: Moderate; Grade 3: Severe; Grade 4: Life Threatening; Grade 5: Death., Duration of study (up to 3 years)
Overall Survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from patient randomization (arm assignment) to death from any cause. The median OS with 95% CI was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from randomization to death (up to 3 years)|Progression Free Survival (PFS) by Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutation Status, PFS was defined as the time from registration until disease progression or death, whichever occurs first. The median PFS with 95% CI was estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Progression is defined as in the primary outcome measure.

EGFR mutations were performed at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute using a sensitive heteroduplex method coupled with enzymatic digestion as previously reported (Janne PA, et al: A rapid and sensitive enzymatic method for epidermal growth factor receptor mutation screening. Clin Cancer Res 12:751-758, 2006). All positive findings were independently verified and subjected to sequencing. The mutation analyses were blinded to the participants' clinical outcome., Duration of treatment (up to 3 years)|Overall Response Rate by EGFR Mutation Status, Response and EGFR mutation status are defined in previous outcome measures., Duration of study (up to 3 years)|Progression Free Survival With KRAS Mutation Status, Progression free survival is defined in previous outcome measures. GIven the small number of KRAS mutant participants, the analysis combines data from both arms., Duration of study (up to 3 years)|Overall Response Rate With KRAS Mutational Status, Overall response is defined in previous outcome measures. GIven the small number of KRAS mutant participants in each treatment arm, the analysis combines data from both arms., Duration of study (up to 3 years)
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the distribution of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with previously untreated advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung who are never or light former smokers treated with either OSI-774 (erlotinib) (erlotinib hydrochloride) alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the radiographic response rate in patients with previously untreated advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung who are never or light former smokers treated with either OSI-774 (erlotinib) alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

II. To determine the frequency of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and V-Ki-ras2 Kirsten rat sarcoma viral oncogene homolog (K-ras) mutations and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocations in patients with previously untreated advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung who are never or light former smokers.

III. To determine the response rate and time to progression in patients with and without EGFR mutations treated with either OSI-774 (erlotinib) alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

IV. To determine the response rate and time to progression in patients with and without K-ras mutations treated with either OSI-774 (erlotinib) alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

V. To determine the median and overall survival of patients with previously untreated advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung who are never or light former smokers treated with either OSI-774 (erlotinib) alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

VI. To estimate the response rate, progression-free, and overall survival of patients with echinoderm microtubule associated protein like (EML)4-ALK translocation who received OSI-774 erlotinib alone (arm A) or in combination with carboplatin/paclitaxel (arm B).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride as in Arm I. Patients also receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1-3 hours and carboplatin IV over 15-30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. After completion of 6 cycles of treatment, patients may continue to receive erlotinib hydrochloride alone as above.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 3 months for 1 year and then every 6 months for up to 2 years.