A Clinical Study of SI-B001 Combined With Docetaxel in the Treatment of Non-small Cell Lung Adenocarcinoma and Lung Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Main objectives: To evaluate the benefit of SI-B001+ docetaxel on overall survival (OS) of bidotaxel. To evaluate the benefit of SI-B001+ Docetaxel over Docetaxel's progression-free survival (PFS) based assessment. Secondary objectives: To evaluate the investigator-evaluated progression-free survival (PFS) benefit of SI-B001+ Docetaxel against docetaxel; To evaluate the difference of objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR) and duration of response (DOR) between SI-B001+ docetaxel and bidocetaxel. To evaluate the type, frequency and severity of adverse events (TEAE) and drug-related adverse events (TRAE) during treatment with SI-B001+ docetaxel in comparison with docetaxel. The pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of SI-B001 will be evaluated. The immunogenicity of SI-B001 will be evaluated. Subject quality of life.
Non-small Cell Lung Adenocarcinoma|Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Lung
DRUG: SI-B001|DRUG: Docetaxel
Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time between the subject's randomization date and subject's death., Up to approximately 24 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Progression-free survival (PFS) as assessed by BIRC was defined as the time between the date subjects were randomized and the first observation of disease progression (based on BICR's image-based assessment) or death., Up to approximately 24 months
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR) is defined as the number of CR and PR in the treatment and control groups divided by the number of that group in the full analysis set (FAS)., Up to approximately 24 months|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR) : Percentage of all randomized subjects who rated the best overall response (BOR) as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), and disease stabilization (SD) according to RECIST 1.1 criteria., Up to approximately 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Duration of Response (DOR) : defined as the period from the date when tumor response is first recorded to the date when objective tumor progression is first recorded or the date of death., Up to approximately 24 months|Treatment Emergent Adverse Event (TEAE), TEAE is defined as any unfavorable and unintended change in the structure, function, or chemistry of the body temporally emerging, or any worsening (i.e., any clinically significant adverse change in frequency and/or intensity) of a pre-existing condition during the treatment of SI-B001. The type, frequency and severity of TEAE will be evaluated during the treatment of SI-B001., Up to approximately 24 months|Anti-drug antibody (ADA), Characteristics of ADA will be evaluated., Up to approximately 24 months
Main objectives: To evaluate the benefit of SI-B001+ docetaxel on overall survival (OS) of bidotaxel. To evaluate the benefit of SI-B001+ Docetaxel over Docetaxel's progression-free survival (PFS) based assessment. Secondary objectives: To evaluate the investigator-evaluated progression-free survival (PFS) benefit of SI-B001+ Docetaxel against docetaxel; To evaluate the difference of objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR) and duration of response (DOR) between SI-B001+ docetaxel and bidocetaxel. To evaluate the type, frequency and severity of adverse events (TEAE) and drug-related adverse events (TRAE) during treatment with SI-B001+ docetaxel in comparison with docetaxel. The pharmacokinetic (PK) characteristics of SI-B001 will be evaluated. The immunogenicity of SI-B001 will be evaluated. Subject quality of life.