CONVERT: Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Alone Versus Preoperative Chemoradiation for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer Patients
Although neoadjuvant radiotherapy greatly decreases local recurrence in locally advanced rectal cancer patients undergoing surgery, it inevitably results in short-term and long-term toxicities. More importantly, it has not been confirmed that neoadjuvant radiotherapy could improve overall survival. The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of chemotherapy alone using a combination regimen known as XELOX (capecitabine and oxaliplatin ) and selective use of the standard treatment to the standard treatment of chemotherapy and radiation.
Rectal Neoplasms
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: capecitabine|RADIATION: Radiation
Local-regional failure-free survival, the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of local or regional progression/relapse, or death, whichever occurred first.regional progression/relapse, or death, whichever occurred first., Up to 5 years
Disease free survival, the time interval between the date of randomization and the date of the first cancer-related event, second cancer, or death from any cause, whichever occurred first., Up to 5 years|Pathologic complete response and tumor regression grade, Pathological response will be made based on assessment of the surgical specimen at the primary treatment site. This assessment is made in addition to the AJCC 7th edition summary staging. A pCR must include no gross or microscopic tumor identified anywhere within the surgical specimen. This must include:

* No evidence of malignant cells in the primary tumor specimen
* No lymph nodes that contain tumor. The definition of a non-pCR will include any surgical specimen that has any evidence of residual tumor manifest in the primary or regional lymph nodes. For patients who do not meet criteria for a pCR, the extent of response to preoperative therapy will be graded using the Tumor Regression Grade (TRG) schema that is included in the AJCC 7th edition. This was also used by Rodel in the pre/postoperative rectal cancer study and was subsequently adopted by the AJCC \[Rodel (JCO 2005; 23:8688-8696)\]., Up to 18 weeks|Pelvic R0 resection rate, R0 resection: All gross disease has been removed, and microscopic examination reveals all surgical margins free of tumor., Up to 18 weeks|Overall survival, the time interval between the date of randomization to the date of death. If the patient has been alive, the time until the last follow-up is taken as the overall survival period., Up to 5 years|Adverse event (AE) profiles, The severity of AE and the laboratory findings were graded by the investigators according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 4. All appropriate treatment areas should have access to a copy of the CTCAE version 4.0. A copy of the CTCAE version 4.0 can be downloaded from the CTEP web site: http://ctep.cancer.gov/protocolDevelopment/electronic_applications/ctc.htm The maximum grade for each type of adverse events during neoadjuvant chemotherapy and chemoradiation therapy, and surgical complications will be recorded for each patient.

Follow-up for patient safety should be done during the treatment period and 30 days after the end of the last cycle. The reason for the delay or interruption should be recorded on the CRF form., Up to 5 years|Rate of receiving pre-operative or post-operative chemoradiation, Up to 30 weeks
This randomised, open-label, multicentre,phase 3 trial began in August, 2014, as an adjuvant trial comparing capecitabine-based neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy with chemotherapy alone,in patients aged 18 years to 75 with clinical stage II-III locally advanced rectal cancer from six Chinese institutions.

Patients with local advanced rectal cancer (T2N+ or T3-4aNany,M0, CRM≥2mm, 12cm from the anus verge) were scheduled to Group A: receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone (4 cycles of XELOX: oxaliplatin 130mg/m2 day 1，capecitabine 2000mg/m2 days 1-14, repeated every 21 days) followed by radical surgery and 4 cycles of XELOX ( oxaliplatin 130mg/m2 day 1，capecitabine 2000mg/m2 days 1-14, repeated every 21 days) and Group B :chemoradiotherapy (50.4 Gy plus capecitabine 1650 mg/m² administered orally and concurrently with radiation therapy for 5 days per week.) followed by radical surgery and 6 cycles of XELOX ( oxaliplatin 130mg/m2 day 1，capecitabine 2000mg/m2 days 1-14, repeated every 21 days) The primary endpoint was 3-year local recurrence free survival; analyses were done based on all patients with post-randomization data.