Health Related Quality of Life Following Hepatectomy for Colorectal Liver Metastasis: Global and Disease Specific Changes Over Time
This study is being done to learn more about health related quality of life factors in people having surgery for colorectal liver metastasis. The investigators will look at how these factors may change over time. The information gained from this study will help the investigators to understand the long-term effects that cancer treatments have on the health related quality of life of patients. This information is of high value and will help doctors talk to patients about the possible effects of their operations. While many patients live a long time after such operations, the studies that have been done do not tell the full story of what patients go through after surgery. This study will help us to understand cancer treatment from the patient's perspective. It will also help cancer patients make better decisions about their treatment options and will help them know what to expect after the operation.
Colorectal Liver Metastasis
BEHAVIORAL: HRQoL questionnaires.
changes in the quality of life (QoL), in patients at high risk of recurrence undergoing hepatectomy to assess health related quality of life (HRQoL) using the EORTC QLQ-C30, QLQ-LMC21 and the EuroQol EQ-5D-5L, in patients at high risk of recurrence undergoing hepatectomy for colorectal liver metastasis and to evaluate global and disease specific changes over time., 3 years
This study is being done to learn more about health related quality of life factors in people having surgery for colorectal liver metastasis. The investigators will look at how these factors may change over time. The information gained from this study will help the investigators to understand the long-term effects that cancer treatments have on the health related quality of life of patients. This information is of high value and will help doctors talk to patients about the possible effects of their operations. While many patients live a long time after such operations, the studies that have been done do not tell the full story of what patients go through after surgery. This study will help us to understand cancer treatment from the patient's perspective. It will also help cancer patients make better decisions about their treatment options and will help them know what to expect after the operation.