Patient Descriptors Of Cancer-Related Fatigue: A Mixed Methods Pilot Study Of Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this research study is to better understand how cancer-related fatigue affects patients and how it's discussed with providers. This information will be used to develop an educational resource (visual aid poster) that could help individuals and their providers talk about cancer-related fatigue and which may help individuals better manage this symptom.
Cancer|Fatigue
BEHAVIORAL: CRF Visual Aid
Domains reflecting cancer-related fatigue (CRF) experiences in cancer survivors, A domain is a topic that people talk about that has sub-items characterizing the distinct features and levels of importance within the domain. Using qualitative analysis, evaluation of how survivors think and talk about CRF to generate domain classifications of language. Domain is a categorical variable., Seven months from baseline
Qualitative themes derived from open-ended interviews of clinicians, Qualitative themes resulting from the inductive analysis of open-ended questions administered in clinician interviews. A qualitative theme is the outcome of coding, a label that reflects what a unit of data is about or what it means. Qualitative theme is categorical variable., Five months from screening|Domains reflecting CRF experiences in cancer survivors, Each domain is a binary variable to indicate whether the domain was used or not used., Seven months from baseline|Appropriateness of the visual aid to alleviate survivor-clinician communication barriers, Appropriateness is the degree to which the visual aid addresses patients' needs for communicating CRF and clinicians' needs for assessing CRF. Appropriateness is an ordinal variable., Eleven months from baseline
This is a mixed methods cross-sectional pilot study. The target population is adults ≥ 18 years of age who have been diagnosed with cancer, have completed anti-cancer treatment more than six months ago, have no current detectable evidence of cancer, and are experiencing cancer-related fatigue. Participation in this research will involve completion of a six-minute walk test, survey completion, two virtual video interviews, and potentially one additional virtual interview. The interviews will include two 45 minutes for survivors and one 30-minute interview for clinicians. An additional 30-minute interview will be conducted for each survivor and clinician group.