FLASH [Fluorescent Light Activated Synthetic Hypericin] Clinical Study: Topical SGX301 (Synthetic Hypericin) for the Treatment of Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma (Mycosis Fungoides)
To evaluate the use of SGX301, a topical photosensitizing agent, to treat patients with patch/plaque phase cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides).
Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: SGX301 (synthetic hypericin)|DRUG: Placebo
Number of Responders and Non-Responders With a Treatment Response in 3 Treated Lesions as Defined as a ≥50% Improvement in the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score When Compared to Patients Receiving Placebo, The percentage of patients achieving a treatment response in each of the 2 treatment groups. A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score at Week 8 when compared to the CAILS score at baseline.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score measures: Erythema (or redness) on a scale of 0 (no redness) to 8 (very red), Scaling on a scale of 0 (no scaling) to 8 (all of the lesion is covered by a very rough surface), Plaque Elevation on a scale of 0 (no evidence of plaque above normal skin level) to 3 (plaque shows marked elevation above normal skin level) and Surface Area on a scale of 0 (no lesion/surface area is 0 cm\^2) to 18 (the lesion is larger than 300 cm\^2). A lower score means a better outcome.

The overall CAILS score was calculated by adding the total score as described above for each of the 3 lesions. The overall CAILS score has a range of 0 to 111. A lower score means a better outcome., 8 weeks
Number of Responders and Non-Responders With a Treatment Response in 3 Treated Lesions as Measured by the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score (Cycle 1 and 2 SGX301 vs Cycle 1 Placebo), The percentage of patients achieving a treatment response at Week 16 that received SGX301 for both Cycle 1 and 2 compared to the response rate in patients that received Placebo in Cycle 1.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score was measured as previously described., 16 weeks|Number of Responders and Non-Responders With a Treatment Response of 3 Treated Lesions as Measured by the Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) Score in Patients Who Received 3 Cycles of SGX301, The percentage of patients achieving a treatment response at Week 24 compared at Week 16 in SGX301 treatment group. A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score when compared to the CAILS score at baseline.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score was measured as previously described., 24 weeks|Patch Lesion Response Rates With Extended Treatment (Cycle 1 & 2 SGX301 vs Cycle 1 Placebo), The proportion of patch lesions achieving a treatment response at Week 16 in the SGX301 treatment group compared to Week 8 in the Placebo treatment group. A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score when compared to the CAILS score at baseline for individual lesions.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score was measured as previously described., 16 weeks|Plaque Lesion Response Rates With Extended Treatment (Cycle 1 & 2 SGX301 vs Cycle 1 Placebo), The proportion of plaque lesions achieving a treatment response at Week 16 in the SGX301 treatment group compared to Week 8 in the Placebo treatment group. A treatment response was defined as a ≥50% improvement in CAILS score when compared to the CAILS score at baseline for individual lesions.

The Composite Assessment of Index Lesion Disease Severity (CAILS) score was measured as previously described., 16 weeks
To evaluate the use of SGX301, a topical photosensitizing agent, to treat patients with patch/plaque phase cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (mycosis fungoides).