Clinicoepidimiological Study and Clinical Outcome in Patients With Urinary Bladder Cancer
To pinpoint the clinical ,epidimiological factors and clinical outcomes in urinary bladder cancer patients attending to our department during 5 years period between 2015-2019.
Urinary Bladder Cancer
comparison of response in non muscle invasive,muscle invasive and metastatic bladder cancer., Analysis of patients data including risk factors and treatment and detection of response in each stage., baseline
Survival in bladder cancer in different stages, baseline
Bladder cancer is the ninth most common cancer throughout the world. The incidence of bladder cancer is three to four times greater in men than in women. However, women are diagnosed with more advanced disease at presentation and have less favorable outcomes after treatment. Statistical data show that between 2002 and 2012, worldwide, the number of bladder cancers increased from 375.000 to about 430.000 , while the mortality increased from 145.000 patients in 2002 up to 165.000 patients in 2012. In the United States, bladder cancer is the fourth most common cancer in males with an age-adjusted incidence rate of 37.3/100,000 person years (PY) using the US standard population.

In developed countries, over 90% of the bladder cancer cases diagnosed are transitional cell carcinoma (TCC), with squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), adenocarcinomas, and rare types of bladder cancer comprising the remaining 10% of bladder cancer cases.

Exposures to tobacco smoke, occupational toxins, and environmental sources of heavy metals such as arsenic are the major reported risk factors for TCC.

Unlike TCC, the main risk factors for SCC are not environmental exposures, but exposure to infectious agents. Age, smoking, tumor stage and the treatment modalities such as surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy were proved to affect the overall survival in patients with urinary bladder cancer. Our study may give an important evidence about clinical, epidemiological factors and clinical outcomes in urinary bladder cancer patients at Assuit University Hospital.