Safety and Tolerability Study Using WST11 In Patients With Localized Prostate Cancer
The aim of this study is to determine the optimal treatment conditions (WST11 dose and light energy dose) to achieve ablation in one lobe of the prostate and to evaluate the safety and quality of life of WST11 medicated Vascular-Targeted Photodynamic therapy (VTP) in men with localized prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: WST 11 -mediated -VTP
Prostate Biopsy, Arm/Group Title:

WST 11(TOOKAD® Soluble) Arm/Group Description To define the study drug and light dosage combination to achieve negative biopsy in the treated lobe, Month 6|Prostate Biopsies, Number of patients who had a negative biopsy at Month-6, Month-6
Pharmacokinetic Parameters-Cmax, For each dose group, several pharmacokinetics parameters have been calculated., T0, 5 min,10 min, 4 h, 8 h, post dose|Percentage of Prostatic Necrosis at Day 7 as Observed on the 7-Day MRI, The adjusted prostate necrosis percentage was defined as follows:

The Day 7 necrosis percentage is the proportion, expressed in %, of Day 7 prostate necrosis volume by planimetry in the treated lobe compared with half the prostate volume by planimetry, considering the average between the baseline volume and Day 7 volume;, Day 7|International Index of Erectile Functions (IIEF) Results, The International Index of Erectile Functions questionnaire is 15 questions patients auto questionnaire. The results presented are those of the erectile function domain which comprise 6 questions. Possible scores range is 1 to 30 . Best score is 30, worst score is 1., Month 1-Month 3- Month 6- Month 12|International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) Results, The International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) is a 7 questions patients auto-questionnaire about urinary symptoms. the possible scores range are 0 to 35 . Best score is 0 worst score is 35, Month 1, Month 3 , Month 6 , Month 12|Pharmacokinetic Parameters-Tmax, For each dose group, several pharmacokinetics parameters have been calculated., T0, 5 min,10 min, 4 h, 8 h, post dose|Pharmacokinetic Parameters -T1/2, For each dose group, several pharmacokinetics parameters have been calculated., T0, 5 min,10 min, 4 h, 8 h, post dose
This study is designed as a multicenter, phase I/II, prospective, open-labeled, single intravenous (IV) dose, clinical trial in patients with localized prostate cancer.

The study population will be men who have been offered curative therapy (radical prostatectomy; cryotherapy; brachytherapy; External Beam RadioTherapy (EBRT), and refused. Patients must have already had a previous biopsy showing a histologically proven carcinoma of the prostate. The identification and the location of the tumor will be done using both dynamic contrast Magnetic resonance Imaging (MRI) and biopsy.

Only unilateral treatment with WST11-medicated VTP will be performed during the study. Treatment will consist of a single, 10 minute, IV administration of WST11 at doses of 2mg/kg, 4 mg/kg or 6 mg/kg, followed by either light activation delivered through transperineal interstitial optical fibers for 20 minutes using 753 nm laser light at escalating fixed energy doses of 200 J/cm or 300 J/cm by escalating power at each energy to 167 mW/cm or 250 mW/cm respectively. A brachytherapy-like template is used for the placement of the transparent implant catheters which are positioned in the prostate under transrectal ultrasound image guidance. The illumination fiber(s) are then inserted into the implant catheters.

If the safety profile for a given WST11 and light dose is acceptable, additional patients may be treated with multiple fibers at that WST11 treatment dose.

For cases where the Month 6 biopsy is positive, the patient will be offered the opportunity to be retreated with WST11