A Study of BCMA/CD19 Dual-Target CAR-T Cell Immunotherapy for Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma
The study is an early, open, single-centered trial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and persistence of BCMA/CD19 dual-target CAR-T cell immunotherapy in relapsed or refractory MM. The study will include 18 subjects to receive BCMA/CD19 dual-target CAR-T therapy.
Multiple Myeloma
BIOLOGICAL: BCMA/CD19 Dual-Target CAR-T
Incidence and severity of treatment related AE, Adverse events(AEs) will be collected and graded according to ASTCT consensus(for Cytokine Release Syndrome, CRS and Immune Effector Cell-Associated Neurotoxicity Syndrome, ICANS) and CTCAE v5.0(for AE except CRS/ICANS )., 2 years|Incidence of DLT, Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be collected. DLT refers to toxicity that limit the process to continue increasing CAR-T dose., 12 weeks|CAR copies concentration in peripheral blood, CAR copies in peripheral blood will be measured by qPCR and FCM., 2 years
ORR, Objective response rate (ORR) will be calculated. ORR refers to the proportion between the number of subjects who are evaluated as PR or status better than PR and total number of subjects., 2 years|DOR, Duration of response (DOR) will be calculated. DOR refers to the time between the initial response (CR or PR) to therapy and evaluated as PD for the first time or death due to any reason., 2 years|PFS Rate, Progression free survival (PFS) rate will be calculated. PFS refers to the proportion between the number of subjects who are evaluated as PD or died and total number of subjects., 2 years|OS Rate, Overall survival (OS) rate will be calculated. OS refers to the proportion between the number of subjects who died and total number of subjects., 2 years
The study is an early, open, single-centered trial. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and persistence of BCMA/CD19 dual-target CAR-T cell immunotherapy in relapsed or refractory MM. The study will include 18 subjects to receive BCMA/CD19 dual-target CAR-T therapy.