The SUGAR Study; SBRT and Relugolix) for Prostate Cancer
The goal of this clinical trial is to measure the toxicity and effectiveness of the following treatments for cFIR/cgUIR prostate cancer patients.

Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) alone or Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) combined with Ultrashort GNRH Antagonist called Relugolix (an oral drug). Treatments will be randomly assigned to study patients.

The main questions it aims to answer are the following:

1. Whether the proportion of men who undergo SUGAR have a superior rate of attaining PSA nadir of \<= 0.2 compared to SBRT alone, and
2. Whether SUGAR is superior to historical rates of minimal clinically important decline (MCID) in sexual and hormonal function at 6 months for patients undergoing 6 months of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)

Men aged 18+ with cFIR/cgUIR will be enrolled. Specifically, patients must meet one of the following 2 criteria: 1) Gleason score must be Gleason 3+4 with a PSA \< 20 ng/mL, or 2) Gleason 6 (3+3) and PSA \> 10 ng/mL and \< 20 ng mL.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Relugolix 120 MG [Orgovyx]|RADIATION: SBRT standard of care radiotherapy treatment
Proportion of participants that attain PSA nadir, The proportion of men who undergo SUGAR that attain PSA nadir of \<= 0.2ng/mL compared to SBRT alone., up to 2 years post treatment
Change in Quality of life assessment using the EPIC-26 survey, The EPIC-26 is a validated instrument that measures health-related quality of life over 5 domains: Urinary incontinence, Urinary irritative/obstructive, Bowel, Sexual, Hormonal. Range of scores are 0-100. Higher scores indicate higher quality of life., up to 2 years post treatment
Unfavorable Intermediate Risk (UIR) Prostate Cancer is prostate cancer that is localized and curable but may require more treatment than external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) alone. In contrast, favorable intermediate risk (FIR) prostate cancer can be treated by EBRT alone. There is evidence that some prostate cancer that is classified through clinical factors as FIR can act more aggressively if also associated with a high risk gene expression score. This type of prostate cancer (traditionally favorable intermediate risk, but with a gene signature that predicts for aggressive disease) presents a treatment dilemma.

Recent evidence suggests that androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is generally beneficial for intermediate risk prostate cancer and so it is possible that these patients (with favorable intermediate risk based on non-genetic factors but with high genetic risk) may also benefit. However, ADT causes very bothersome side effects including hot flashes, fatigue, sexual disfunction, and in some cases, heart problems. In order to balance the benefit and harms of ADT in combination with radiation, we could reduce the length of ADT and make it precisely overlap with radiation treatment. The oral ADT medication Relugolix (Orgovyx) is ideal for this purpose. In addition to shortening ADT, it is important to measure any potential benefit when ADT is added to stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT). SBRT is a shorter and more intense version of standard fractionation EBRT.

Therefore, a multicenter randomized phase III study comparing prostate cancer control and quality of life with SBRT + Ultrashort GNRH Antagonist Relugolix (SUGAR) vs. SBRT alone for a category of clinicogenomic unfavorable intermediate risk patients with favorable clinical features and high risk genetic features.