Resiliency Among Older Adults Receiving Lung Cancer Treatment
This trial studies how well physical therapy and progressive muscle relaxation works in improving physical performance and mood in older patients with stage IIIA-B or IV lung cancer who are undergoing treatment. Improving physical performance and mood may help older patients maintain an independent lifestyle by helping to improve their resilience, the ability to bounce back to normal functioning after a stressor or intervening health event such as treatment or disease progression. Giving physical therapy and progressive muscle relaxation may work in improving symptoms and quality of life in patients with lung cancer.
Advanced Lung Carcinoma|Extensive Stage Lung Small Cell Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IV Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IVB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Unresectable Lung Carcinoma|Unresectable Lung Non-Small Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Physical Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|PROCEDURE: Relaxation Therapy
Recruitment Rates, Recruitment rates will be defined as the proportion of screened older adults accrued relative to those approached in the Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer Center (OSUCCC) Thoracic Oncology Clinic. Successful recruitment rates will be defined as \>= 50% of older adults (\>= 60 years) approached agree to participate., Up to 24 weeks|Adherence Rate, Study adherence will be defined as the completion of \>= 70% of the program sessions, repeated assessments, and collection of bio specimens either at the end of the study period or death, whichever occurs first., Up to 24 weeks|Retention Rates, Retention rates will be defined as the percentage of participants not lost to follow-up., Up to 24 weeks
Functional Trajectories, Evaluated using generalized linear mixed models (GLMMS). GLMMs can determine whether factors affect all patient trajectories in similar ways or whether they affect individual trajectories differently. To allow for possible changes in functional status over time (e.g., a change-point analysis) the 'segmented' package in R will be used. Participants' functional status scores will be modeled using a segmented mixed model with random change points. Estimating the change point identifies the point in time that patients' functional status scores change during the 12-months post-diagnosis., At 12 months|Factors Associated With Resiliency, Evaluated using GLMMS. Resiliency will be defined as the ability to maintain or regain at least 50% of baseline functional status at any point during the 12 months after diagnosis with specific emphasis at 3 and 6-months post- the start of treatment. The association between resiliency and clinical factors will be evaluated with appropriate statistical techniques for the specific measure (e.g. Chi-square tests will compare categorical variables between participants demonstrating resiliency vs. worsening functional status; a two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon Rank Sum test will compare continuous variables)., Up to 12 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the feasibility of a novel, weekly supervised virtual health-assisted physical therapy plus relaxation intervention delivered to older adults with advanced thoracic malignancy (N=20).

OUTLINE:

Patients participate physical therapy sessions consisting of cardiovascular and resistance training exercises in person or online and also undergo progressive muscle relaxation sessions once weekly for up to 12 weeks.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 24 weeks, and then periodically for up to 24 months.