Hepatocyte-specific Versus Extracellular Contrast Agents for Liver MRI: Prospective, Intra-individual Comparison of Diagnostic Performance for Hepatocellular Carcinoma
Adult patients with chronic hepatitis B and cirrhosis of any etiology who are found to have suspected liver cancer are potentially eligible for the study. All enrolled patients will undergo two MRI scans using two different contrast agents. The type of contrast agent for the 1st MRI will be performed using hepatocyte-specific contrast agent. The participant will undergo the 2nd MRI using extracellular contrast agent. The MRI examinations will be independently interpreted by two different radiologists. The radiologists will evaluate focal hepatic lesions and categorize them according to the LI-RADS v2018 and EASL 2018. Once the diagnosis is made, the participants will be provided with the standard of care. After the initial treatment, the participants will be followed up with multi-phasic dynamic contrast-enhanced CT every 3 or 6 months for at least 2 years. Based on the prospectively written radiology reports, the diagnostic performances will be calculated and compared between MRI with hepatocyte-specific contrast agent and MRI with extracellular contrast agent, using the pathology and clinical criteria as the reference standard.
Chronic Hepatitis|Liver Cirrhosis
OTHER: hepatocyte-specific contrast agent, extracellular contrast agent
Sensitivity, The comparison of sensitivity between MRI using hepatocyte-specific contrast agent and extracellular contrast agent in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma The per-lesion sensitivity will be compared using McNemar's test., an expected average of 2 weeks|Specificity, The comparison of specificity between MRI using hepatocyte-specific contrast agent and extracellular contrast agent in the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma.

The per-lesion sensitivity will be compared using McNemar's test., an expected average of 2 weeks
Inter-reader agreement between two radiologists, The inter-reader agreement between two radiologists for the LI-RADS v2018 categorization and diagnosis of HCC according to EASL 2018 in each MRI using hepatocyte-specific contrast agent and extracellular contrast agent.

The inter-reader agreement will be evaluated using Cohen κ coefficient., an expected average of 2 weeks
Adult patients with chronic hepatitis B and cirrhosis of any etiology who are found to have suspected liver cancer are potentially eligible for the study. All enrolled patients will undergo two MRI scans using two different contrast agents. The type of contrast agent for the 1st MRI will be performed using hepatocyte-specific contrast agent. The participant will undergo the 2nd MRI using extracellular contrast agent. The MRI examinations will be independently interpreted by two different radiologists. The radiologists will evaluate focal hepatic lesions and categorize them according to the LI-RADS v2018 and EASL 2018. Once the diagnosis is made, the participants will be provided with the standard of care. After the initial treatment, the participants will be followed up with multi-phasic dynamic contrast-enhanced CT every 3 or 6 months for at least 2 years. Based on the prospectively written radiology reports, the diagnostic performances will be calculated and compared between MRI with hepatocyte-specific contrast agent and MRI with extracellular contrast agent, using the pathology and clinical criteria as the reference standard.