Compare Fallopian Tube Cells Collected by Cytuity With Removed Ovarian/Tubal Tissue to Determine Presence of Malignancy
Prospective, multi-center, non-randomized study to assess the ability of the Cytuity device to collect cell samples from the fallopian tube that can be evaluated for the presence or absence of malignancy.
Fallopian Tube Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Ovarian Neoplasms|Ovary Cancer|Fallopian Tube Neoplasms|Fallopian Tube Adenocarcinoma|High Grade Serous Carcinoma|Peritoneal Carcinoma|Peritoneal Neoplasms|Adnexal Mass|Ovarian Diseases
DEVICE: Hysteroscopic cell sampling of the fallopian tube
Sensitivity and Specificity of Cytological Samples for Fallopian Tube Involvement, Evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the cytological samples collected from the fallopian tube in determining the presence or absence of malignancy for fallopian tube involvement as compared to the surgical histology results. Fallopian tube involvement was defined as: 1. Malignant cells that originated in the fallopian tube, detected by the surgical histology results from the fallopian tube. 2. Malignant cells that have migrated to the fallopian tube, detected by surgical histology results of the ovaries or fallopian tube., At the time of the scheduled salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy
PPV, NPV and Diagnostic Accuracy for Fallopian Tube Involvement, Positive Predictive Value, Negative Predictive Value and Diagnostic Accuracy will be calculated for Cytuity as compared to surgical histology of the ovaries and fallopian tube for fallopian tube involvement. Fallopian tube involvement was defined as: 1. Malignant cells that originated in the fallopian tube, detected by the surgical histology results from the fallopian tube. 2. Malignant cells that have migrated to the fallopian tube, detected by surgical histology results of the ovaries or fallopian tube., At the time of the scheduled salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy|Sensitivity, Specificity, PPV, NPV and Diagnostic Accuracy of the Fallopian Tube, Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive Predictive Value, Negative Predictive Value and Diagnostic Accuracy will be calculated for Cytuity as compared to surgical histology of the fallopian tube., At the time of the scheduled salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy|Sensitivity, Specificity, PPV, NPV and Diagnostic Accuracy of the Ovaries, Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive Predictive Value, Negative Predictive Value and Diagnostic Accuracy will be calculated for Cytuity as compared to surgical histology of the ovaries for epithelial malignancies., At the time of the scheduled salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy|Sensitivity, Specificity, PPV, NPV and Diagnostic Accuracy for Subject Level Analysis, Sensitivity, Specificity, Positive Predictive Value, Negative Predictive Value and Diagnostic Accuracy will be calculated for Cytuity as compared to surgical histology for fallopian tube involvement at the subject level. Fallopian tube involvement was defined as: 1. Malignant cells that originated in the fallopian tube, detected by the surgical histology results from the fallopian tube. 2. Malignant cells that have migrated to the fallopian tube, detected by surgical histology results of the ovaries or fallopian tube., At the time of the scheduled salpingectomy or salpingo-oophorectomy
Prospective, multi-center, non-randomized study to assess the ability of the Cytuity device to collect cell samples from the fallopian tube that can be evaluated for the presence or absence of malignancy.