Iododoxorubicin in Treating Patients With Primary Systemic Amyloidosis
Iododoxorubicin may dissolve protein deposits and be an effective treatment for primary systemic amyloidosis. Phase I trial to determine the effectiveness of iododoxorubicin in treating patients who have primary systemic amyloidosis
Primary Systemic Amyloidosis
DRUG: 4'-iodo-4'-deoxydoxorubicin|OTHER: pharmacological study
MTD of IDOX defined as the highest safely-tolerated dose where =< 1 patient experiences DLT with the next higher dose having at least 2 patients who experience DLT, The number and severity of toxicity incidents will indicate the level of tolerance of IDOX in the treatment of primary amyloidosis. Non-hematologic toxicities will be evaluated via the ordinal CTC standard toxicity grading. Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and leukopenia will be assessed using continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir and percent change from baseline values) as well as categorization via CTC standard toxicity grading., 12 weeks
Laboratory correlates, Descriptive statistics and simple scatterplots will form the basis of presentation of these data. Correlations between these laboratory values and other outcome measures will be carried out by standard parametric and non-parametric correlation procedures (Pearson's and Spearman's coefficients). Prerequisite normality testing of these data will be carried out via standard Shapiro and Wilk (25) testing., Up to 3 months post treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of iododoxorubicin in patients with primary systemic amyloidosis.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the safety, especially cardiac safety, of this drug in these patients.

II. Determine the survival rate of patients treated with this drug. III. Determine, preliminarily, the clinical efficacy of this drug in these patients.

IV. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive iododoxorubicin IV over 15 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for a total of 4 courses or a cumulative dose of 400 mg/m\^2 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of iododoxorubicin until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Patients are followed at 3 months.