Evaluating the Impact of Centralized Interventions on Lung Cancer Screening Adherence in Community Settings, ACCELL Trial
This clinical trial tests the impact of lung cancer screening care coordination interventions implemented at the system-level on lung cancer screening adherence in community settings. Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. Although lung cancer screening (LCS) with yearly low-dose chest computed tomography has the potential to decrease lung deaths, the use of this screening technique remains low. In addition, studies have shown that adherence to lung cancer screening in clinical settings is far lower that those found in clinical trials. Improved care coordination services that include comprehensive, system-wide tracking of screening outcomes for all LCS participants, results reporting with direct-to-patient information, direct patient and physician communication, and active reviews of non-adherent patients and stepped support interventions may increase patient adherence to LCS. Coordination services at the system-level may decrease barriers and improve adherence to lung cancer screening in community settings.
Lung Carcinoma
OTHER: Electronic Health Record Review|OTHER: Interview|BEHAVIORAL: Patient Navigation
Adherence to appropriate follow-up, The time and covariate adjusted difference in adherence to appropriate follow-up will be assessed between the pre- and post-intervention period, separately for negative and positive exams. Follow-up will be considered on-time if occurring by the recommended follow up window + 30 days. The impact of the interventions on follow-up will be measured a using generalized estimating equations (GEE)-based approach. The modeling will be done using logistic regression. The Bonferroni correction will be used to account for testing two intervention coefficients., Up to 48 months
Characteristics associated with adherence to follow up, The impact of site, patient race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status and patient rurality on adherence will be evaluated in both the pre-intervention and the post-intervention period. The impact of site and patient characteristics on the pre-intervention adherence rate will be evaluated with multivariable logistic regression models using GEE to account for multiple rounds of lung cancer screening within an individual patient. Associations of site and patient characteristics with extent of delay for non-adherent patients will be evaluated using multivariable accelerated failure time models. The overall follow-up rate will be analyzed using multivariable Cox regression models., Up to 48 months
OUTLINE:

Patients receive lung cancer screening follow-up care coordination services, delivered by a lung cancer screening care coordinator at their care site.