Prevalence of Anticipatory Nausea and Vomiting in Cancer Patients Exposed to Highly Emetogenic Chemotherapy
Chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting are common adverse events related to oncologic treatments. It can have deleterious effect on patients' quality of life and could lead to dose reductions and/or discontinuation of treatment. This study aims to quantify the prevalence of nausea and vomiting induced by highly emetogenic chemotherapy in patients who had adequate antiemetic prophylaxis, also to describe the epidemiologic profile and identify predisposing factors.
Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting
OTHER: Quality-of-life assessment
Prevalence of anticipatory nausea and vomiting in cancer patients undergoing highly emetogenic chemotherapy regimen, The prevalence of nausea and vomiting will be determined by the percentage of patients reporting the presence of a symptom at the assessment time point. Participants are asked to report any episodes of nausea and vomiting before (baseline) and up to 6 days after receiving chemotherapy. This result is measured during the first and second cycles of chemotherapy for each patient., Baseline to 6 days after chemotherapy
Patient's daily diary, Participants must record any episodes of nausea and vomiting in the diary. In addition, the patient must present a score for his symptom, from zero to ten (0 = no symptom / 10 = strong symptom) using the Visual Numerical Analog Scale., At the end of Cycle 1 up to the day of Cycle 2 (each cycle is 15 to 21 days)|Quality of life - Functional Living Index-Emesis (FLIE), The FLIE questionnaire will be completed on days 1 (before starting chemotherapy) and 6 (after chemotherapy). The FLIE questionnaire consists of a nausea domain and a vomiting domain of nine items each where the patient should rate how much nausea and vomiting have affected the quality of life. For each question the patient will rate how much nausea (or vomiting) has affected an aspect of his quality of life during the past five days. Each question uses a visual analogue scale (where 1= no emesis-7=a great deal)., Days 1 (before starting chemotherapy) and 6 (after chemotherapy)
The investigators will track patients in the first and second cycles of chemotherapy. Information regarding comorbidities, medical history and sociodemographic characteristics will be collected. The impact of nausea and vomiting induced by the treatment on patient's quality of life will be evaluated using the questionnaire Functional Living Index-Emesis - FLIE.