Ultrasonographic Evaluation of Ovarian Stromal Vascularity in Women With Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS)
The most common endocrine condition in reproductive women is polycystic ovary syndrome. It has a prevalence of 5-10%. According to the Rotterdam criteria, oligo/anovulation, clinic or biochemical hyperandrogenism, PCOS morphology in ultrasonography, and the presence of these two criteria are required for diagnosis.

The echogenicity of the ovarian stroma, vascularity, ovarian size, cystic pattern density, and subcortical organization of cysts are all significant considerations in ultrasonographic evaluation.
Ovarian Cysts
OTHER
The superiority of Superb microvascular imaging doppler technique over the conventional doppler techniques, The Toshiba Aplio 500 ultrasonography tool (Toshiba, Aplio 500, Tokyo, Japan) was used in the Radiology Policlinic Ultrasonography Unit to perform ultrasonography using a 1-6 MHz convex probe. After scanning the lesion with TAUSG, 5-12 second-long video pictures were recorded. The ovarian stromal vascularity was defined according to the International Ovarian Tumor Analysis (IOTA) group criteria. Four categories of endometrial blood flow were identified: No coloration in grade 1, one or more punctate colorations in grade 2, one linear coloring or several (\>5) punctate colorations in grade 3, and multiple linear colorations in grade 4 of the ovary. \[14\]. The vascularization rating was done independently using CDI, PDI, cSMI, and mSMI techniques. In all patients, the ovarian morphologic features were recorded for the both ovaries. Three radiologists analyzed the captured video pictures and assigned a consensus rating., 1 month
Retrospective archive study.

In the years 2018-2019, the ultrasonographic archives of PCOS women will be analyzed retrospectively in the Radiology department of Usak Education and Research Hospital. Ultrasonographic (Two-dimensional ultrasonography , conventional and other doppler) measurements of ovaries will be assessed in ultrasonographic data. Patient's data ( Menstrual cycle, androgenic findings, age, BMI etc..) will be obtained on the hospital records, PCOS patient's phenotype will be evaluated according to National Institutes Health (NIH) recommendations.

The ovarian ultrasonographic findings of PCOS women will be compared.

This study approved by Usak University Medical Faculty Ethical Committee April,06,2022.

The Ethical Committee decision number is 57-57-04.