Shared Decision Making in Low Risk Prostate Cancer
This study will evaluate the usefulness of an informational website designed to educate patients with prostate cancer about their options for treatment. The investigators hope that this website will assist patients with making informed decisions about their care and improving their satisfaction with the treatments they choose.
Prostate Cancer
OTHER: Survey
Patient knowledge regarding the available treatment options for low-risk prostate cancer and their potential side effects., Investigators will assess the impact of an informational website developed specifically to assist low-risk prostate cancer patients with knowledge of their disease and treatment options. This will be measured by patient responses to questionnaires compiled from validated sources., 2 years
Decisional conflict and informed decision making experienced by patients., Investigators will assess the impact of an informational website developed specifically to assist low-risk prostate cancer patients with knowledge of their disease and treatment options. This will be measured by patient responses to questionnaires compiled from validated sources., 2 years|Patient health related worry., Investigators will assess the impact of an informational website developed specifically to assist low-risk prostate cancer patients with knowledge of their disease and treatment options. This will be measured by patient responses to questionnaires compiled from validated sources., 2 years|Patient views on cancer control for their treatment choice., Investigators will assess the impact of an informational website developed specifically to assist low-risk prostate cancer patients with knowledge of their disease and treatment options. This will be measured by patient responses to questionnaires compiled from validated sources., 2 years|Patient satisfaction with their treatment choice., Investigators will assess the impact of an informational website developed specifically to assist low-risk prostate cancer patients with knowledge of their disease and treatment options. This will be measured by patient responses to questionnaires compiled from validated sources., 2 years
Investigators will first ask patients to answer a series of questions to assess their wishes regarding treatment, knowledge about their disease and discussion with the physicians at initial patient visit. This initial survey should take approximately 20 minutes. Once patients have selected a treatment path investigators will contact them again and ask them to fill out a short 10-minute survey online or by mail. Investigators will contact patients by phone 2 weeks after their initial visit to see if they have made a decision. If not, investigators will contact patients by phone every 2 weeks or at an interval that works for the patient's schedule. Finally, 3 months after the initial visit today investigators will contact patients for the last time and again ask you to fill out a short 10-minute survey online or by mail.

Once patients have completed the final survey there are no future surveys planned. Investigators may contact patients by phone in the future to ask them to participate in another study.