Zoledronate or Observation in Maintaining Bone Mineral Density in Patients Who Are Undergoing Surgery to Remove Both Ovaries
This randomized phase II trial is studying zoledronate to see how well it works compared to observation in maintaining bone mineral density in patients who are undergoing surgery to remove both ovaries. Zoledronate may prevent bone loss in patients who are undergoing surgery to remove the ovaries.
Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome|Osteoporosis|Ovarian Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Zoledronic Acid
Bone Mineral Density of the Lumbar Spine as Measured by Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) Scan at 9 Months, To compare the effect of zoledronic acid administered every 6 months on bone loss associated with surgery (at a minimum, any surgical procedure that results in removal of both ovaries), as compared with observation alone. This is to be evaluated by measuring the change from baseline to 9 months in bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine, specifically L1-L4 dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)., 9 Months|Bone Mineral Density of the Lumbar Spine as Measured by Dual-energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) Scan at 18 Months, To compare the effect of zoledronic acid administered every 6 months on bone loss associated with surgery (at a minimum, any surgical procedure that results in removal of both ovaries), as compared with observation alone. This is to be evaluated by measuring the change from baseline to 18 months in bone mineral density (BMD) of the lumbar spine, specifically L1-L4 dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA)., 18 months|Bone Mineral Density of the Total Hip as Measured by DEXA Scan on Right Hip, To compare the effect of zoledronic acid on the change in BMD of the right hip following treatment, evaluated by measuring the change from baseline to 18 months, 18 months|Bone Mineral Density of the Total Hip as Measured by DEXA Scan on Left Hip, To compare the effect of zoledronic acid on the change in BMD of the left hip following treatment, evaluated by measuring the change from baseline to 18 months, 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare the effect of zoledronate vs observation on bone loss associated with surgery (at a minimum, any surgical procedure that results in removal of both ovaries) in patients undergoing excision of both ovaries.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare the change in bone mineral density of the bilateral hip in patients treated with these regimens.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Compare the effect of zoledronate vs observation on biochemical markers of bone resorption and bone formation (N-telopeptide and bone specific alkaline phosphatase) during 1 year of treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

All patients undergo surgery, with removal of both ovaries, in month 1. All patients are requested to take calcium supplements twice daily and a multivitamin containing vitamin D once daily beginning in month 1 and continuing for up to 18 months.

ARM I: Beginning 60-90 days after surgery, patients receive zoledronate IV over 15 minutes once in months 3, 9, and 15.

ARM II: Patients are observed for 18 months after surgery.

In both arms, patients complete physical activity questionnaires at baseline and in months 3, 9, 15, and 18. Patients undergo bone mineral density test of lumbar spine and total hip at baseline and in months 9 and 18. Patients also undergo blood collection at baseline and periodically during the study for biomarker studies.