Sorafenib Tosylate in Treating Patients With Desmoid Tumors or Aggressive Fibromatosis
This randomized phase III trial compares the effects, good and/or bad, of sorafenib tosylate in treating patients with desmoid tumors or aggressive fibromatosis. Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the proteins needed for cell growth. \[Funding Source - FDA OOPD\]
Desmoid Fibromatosis
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Placebo Administration|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate
Progression-free Survival(PFS) Rate, PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression or death due to any cause. If no event exists, the PFS will be censored at the last disease assessment. Data following cross over will be analyzed and summarized separately from the data from the main course of treatment for these patients in an exploratory and hypothesis generating manner. Intention to treat principles will be used. Patient disease status was evaluated using RECSIT v1.1. Patients ending treatment for symptomatic deterioration without radiographic evidence of PD, were classified as having PD. Otherwise, patients not yet showing disease progression were classified as having no progression at the most recent disease assessment and in the following cases: crossing over to receive sorafenib, date of first non-protocol directed anti-cancer therapy, lost to follow-up, withdrawal of consent, and changing imaging methods from that which was used at study entry., Time from randomization to the first occurrence of progression or death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
Incidence of Adverse Events, Using the Patient Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria in Adverse Events Version 4.0, INCLUDED IN THE ADVERSE EVENTS PORTION OF THE RESULTS SECTION. Frequency tables, summary statistics, and categorical analysis will be used to compare the distributions of toxicity for patients treated with sorafenib tosylate vs placebo. Data for patients who have crossed over or having received surgical or radiotherapy intervention will be summarized independently from their primary course of study treatment in an exploratory and hypothesis generating manner., Up to 3 years|Time to Surgical Intervention During Treatment, A log rank test will be used to compare the distributions of time to surgical intervention between the two arms using a 2-sided test and alpha=0.05 level of significance. Kaplan-Meier methodology will be used to estimate various time points and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for these estimates. Surgery will be classified by outcome (eg, complete-macroscopic, complete-microscopic, or partial), type, location (eg, limb), thereafter analyzed by categorical analysis and descriptive statistics. Non-parametric methods will be used, as appropriate. Too few patients had surgery during treatment to perform analysis., Time between randomization to the patient undergoing therapeutic surgical resection for this disease, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival, Kaplan-Meier methodology and log rank tests will be used to compare overall survival between the groups at various time points (eg, 1 year rate, 2 year rate, etc) and 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for these estimates. Data following crossover will be analyzed and summarized separately from the main course of treatment for these patients in an exploratory and hypothesis generating manner., Time between the date of randomization to until death, assessed up to 3 years|Best Objective Status Between the Two Treatment Arms According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1, Compared between the two treatment arms and using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. Complete Response (CR): All of the following must be true: a. Disappearance of all target lesions. b. Each target lymph node must have reduction in short axis to \<1.0 cm. Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in PBSD (sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions plus the sum of the short axis of all the target lymph nodes at current evaluation) taking as reference the BSD. Patients on Arm II (placebo) who crossover are censored for Best Objective Status at the time of crossover., Up to 3 years|Duration of Response, Kaplan Meier methodology will be used to estimate the distribution of duration of response and the log-rank test will be used to test for a difference in duration of response between the two arms. Patients on Arm II (placebo) who crossover are censored for Duration of Response at the time of crossover., Time between first tumor response and progression, assessed up to 3 years
Percent Change in Tumor Size by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (Correlative Companion Study-Imaging Study), Best response (ordinal variable) and percent T2 signal change (continuous) will be correlated by Spearman?s rho., Baseline up to 3 years|Percent Changes in MRI T2 Signal (Correlative Companion Study-Imaging Study), Percent T2 signal change (continuous) will be correlated by Spearman?s rho. The percent changes in MRI T2 signal from Week 8 to subsequent imaging will be compared between groups with \> 30% pain palliation using t-test or a nonparametric alternative (e.g., Wilcoxon rank-sum test)., Baseline up to 3 years|Time to Pain Progression Measured by the ?Worst Pain? Item of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-H01 QOL Study), Defined as a \>= 30% increase compared with baseline in the worst pain intensity score (BPI-SF ?worst pain? item) or either a \>= 30% increase in the average daily use of any type of opioid narcotic or the addition of a new opioid narcotic compared with baseline. Estimated for each arm using Kaplan-Meier estimates and will be compared between arms using a log- rank test. Descriptive statistics will include means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item by group at each time point., Date of randomization to the earliest date that pain progression is observed, assessed up to 12 weeks|Time to Pain Palliation Measured by the ?Worst Pain? Item of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (Correlative Companion Study-A091105-H01 QOL Study), Defined at each time point as \>= 30% decrease from baseline in the worst pain intensity score (BPI-SF ?worst pain? item), with neither a concomitant \>= 30% increase in average daily use of any opioid narcotic, nor addition of any new opioid narcotic, relative to baseline. Estimated for each arm using Kaplan-Meier estimates and will be compared between arms using a log- rank test. Descriptive statistics will include means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item by group at each time point., Date of randomization to the earliest date that confirmed pain palliation is observed, assessed up to 12 weeks|Duration of Pain Palliation Measured by the ?Worst Pain? Item of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-H01 QOL Study), Defined for all patients who experience confirmed pain palliation. Descriptive statistics will include means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item by group at each time point. Descriptive graphical techniques will include mean plots by group for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item. Relative frequencies of responses for each ordinal item will also be generated at each time point by group., Time from the earliest date that confirmed pain palliation is observed to the earliest date that pain progression is observed, assessed up to 12 weeks|Rate of Pain Palliation Measured by the ?Worst Pain? Item of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (Correlative Companion Study-A091105-H01 QOL Study), Rate of pain palliation at week 8 confirmed as week 12 will be compared between arms using a two-sided alpha=0.05 chi-squared tests at the time of the final analysis. Descriptive statistics will include means, standard deviations, medians, and ranges for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item by group at each time point. Descriptive graphical techniques will include mean plots by group for each continuous or ordinal scale/subscale/item. Relative frequencies of responses for each ordinal item will also be generated at each time point by group., Baseline up to 12 weeks|Cadherin-associated Protein, Beta 1 (CTNNB1) Genotype (Correlative Companion Study-A091105-ST1 Study), Associations among the possible predictors of response to sorafenib and CTNNBI mutations will be examined using Fisher?s exact test, Kruskal-Wallis test, or Spearman?s correlation coefficient as appropriate. Strata will be compared by using the log-rank test. Multivariate models will be constructed by introducing all variables aforementioned simultaneously into the model and then eliminating variables using the backward selection method. P values will be two-tailed and considered significant at alpha 0.05., Up to 3 years|False Discovery Rate (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-ST1 Study), Permutation testing of the same selection will be performed 1000 times and the sample group labels switched around in each permutation. A two-sided t-test will be used to identify differentially expressed genes on log transformed data and those with a twofold change. False discovery rate will be assessed by permutation testing (n = 1000) of the sample group labels. Enrichment will be assessed by one-sided Fisher?s exact test with estimated false discovery rate., Up to day 8|Treatment-specific Gene Expression Signature (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-ST1 Study), The analysis will identify over- and under-expressed genes in pre-treatment and day 8 biopsies as compared to all control samples., Up to day 8|Changes in Immunohistochemistry Score of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-ST1 Study), Compared by paired t-test. Quantitative changes will be correlated with disease status at 1 year by Fishers exact test., Baseline up to day 8|Changes in Immunohistochemistry Score of Platelet-derived Growth Factor Receptor (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-ST1 Study), Compared by paired t-test. Quantitative changes will be correlated with disease status at 1 year by Fishers exact test., Baseline up to day 8|Changes in Immunohistochemistry Score of Beta-catenin Cytoplasm/Nuclear Ratio (Correlative Companion Study- A091105-ST1 Study), Compared by paired t-test. Quantitative changes will be correlated with disease status at 1 year by Fishers exact test., Baseline up to day 8
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) rates of patients with desmoid tumors (DT)/deep fibromatosis (DF) who receive either sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) or placebo using a double-blinded randomized phase III study.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess toxicity. II. To assess time to surgical intervention. III. To assess tumor response rates and survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate changes in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) Tesla (T)2 to predict (or correlate) with a biological effect such as tumor growth (by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] version \[v\]1.1), and pain palliation. (Correlative companion study) II. The mechanism of action of sorafenib in DT/DF remains unknown. In patients consenting to undergo the paired tumor biopsies (A091105-ST1), treatment induced changes will be quantified by histology, gene expression profiling, proteomic changes and selected interrogation of key pathways by western blot and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). (Correlative companion study) III. To collect archival tissue, baseline (tumor, blood) and day 8 (tumor, blood) specimens for basic science research (A091105-ST1). (Correlative companion study) IV. To assess patient-reported adverse events and quality of life (QOL) as measured by the Patient-Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) and the single-item overall Linear Analogue Self-Assessment (LASA) (A091105-HO1). (Correlative companion study) V. To assess pain palliation measured by the "worst pain" item of the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (A091105-HO1). (Correlative companion study)

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28.

ARM II: Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-28. Patients may crossover to Arm I upon disease progression.

In both arms, courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up annually for up to 3 years.