A Pivotal Study of HQP1351 in Patients With Chronic Myeloid Leukemia in Chronic Phase
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of HQP1351 in patients with chronic myeloid leukemia in chronic phase (CML-CP) who are resistant and/or intolerant to first- and second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors. The efficacy of HQP1351 is determined by evaluating the subjects' event free survival (EFS).
Chronic Myeloid Leukemia, Chronic Phase
DRUG: HQP1351|DRUG: Hydroxyurea or Interferon-based therapy|DRUG: Homoharringtonine|DRUG: Imatinib, Dasatinib or Nilotinib
Event free survival (EFS), EFS is defined as any "event" occurred since randomization, such as disease progression., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)
Complete hematologic response (CHR), CHR is the proportion of patients achieving CHR after being treated. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Major cytogenetic response (MCyR), MCyR is the proportion of patients achieving Complete cytogenetic response (CCyR: defined as 0% Philadelphia chromosome-positive \[Ph+\] metaphases by cytogenetic analysis of bone marrow) or Partial Cytogenetic Response (PCyR: defined as \>0% to 35% Ph+ metaphases by cytogenetic analysis of bone marrow). It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), CCyR is the proportion of patients achieving CCyR after being treated. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Major molecular response (MMR), MMR is the proportion of patients achieving a ratio of ≤0.1% breakpoint cluster region (BCR) abelson leukemia (ABL) to ABL transcripts on the international scale (≤0.1% BCR-ABL/ABL\[IS\]) after being treated with HQP1351. It is defined as the best response obtained by the subjects during the whole treatment process of the study., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the interval between the first dose date and the first date at which the criteria for progression are met, or death. The subject who isn't progression or death will be censored at the last response assessment., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Overall survive (OS), OS is defined as the interval between the first dose date and date of death, censored at the last contact date to be alive., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)|Incidence and severity of adverse events, Adverse events (AEs), and serious AEs (SAEs): Patients treatment related AE, SAE will be assessed according NCI CTCAE Version 5.0., By the end of Cycle 24 (each cycle is 28 days)
This is a phase 2, randomized, open label, pivotal study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of HQP1351 in CML CP patients who are resistant and/or intolerant to first- and second-generation TKIs in China. A total of 141 CML CP patients will be included in this study. After screening, eligible subjects will be randomized by 2:1 ratio to enter HQP1351 therapy cohort and best available therapy (BAT) cohort. When the subjects in the two cohorts reach EFS assessment, they can crossover to contralateral cohort if the investigator and Sponsor think they could be clinically benefited. During treatment, each subject will be assessed regularly for hematological, cytogenetic and molecular responses. At the same time, safety information also will be evaluated.