Assessing the Integration of Tobacco Cessation Treatment Into Lung Cancer Screening (LCS)
This randomized controlled trial seeks to evaluate the effectiveness of alternative strategies to integrate smoking cessation interventions into the delivery of low-dose CT (LDCT) lung cancer screening. Using a factorial design, current smokers who enroll will be randomly assigned to receive these interventions: (1) smoking cessation counseling support by telephone or videoconferencing (short duration vs. long duration); (2) nicotine patch treatment (NRT) (short vs.long duration); (3) counselor-facilitated referral (vs. no referral) to an online resource to connect smokers to a community-based social service resources.
Smoking, Tobacco
BEHAVIORAL: Counseling|DRUG: Nicotine patch|BEHAVIORAL: Community Resource
Number of Participants With Self-reported Past 7-day Smoking Abstinence, Number of participants that self-reported no cigarette smoking in the past 7 days, 6 Months after enrollment
Number of Participants With Self-Reported Past 7-day Smoking Abstinence, Number of participants that self-reported no cigarettes smoked in the past 7 days, 3 months after enrollment|Proportion of Participants Who Reduced the Number of Cigarettes Smoked Per Day in Half, Proportion of participants who reduced the number of cigarettes smoked per day in half, 3 Months|Proportion of Participants Who Reduced the Number of Cigarettes Smoked Per Day in Half, Proportion of participants who reduced the number of cigarettes smoked per day in half, 6 months|Proportion of Patients Who Make an Intentional Attempt to Quit Smoking, Intentional attempt to quit smoking cigarettes that lasts for \>=24 hours, 3 months
Evidence-based tobacco dependence treatment consists of behavioral counseling and pharmacotherapy. Nicotine patch is an FDA-approved cessation aid. The optimal duration of counseling and pharmacotherapy for patients undergoing low-dose CT (LDCT) lung screening is not clear. In addition, helping smokers to address other social and psychological barriers might help them succeed in quitting smoking. This randomized controlled trial will test, in a factorial design, two options for delivering each of 3 interventions to help current smokers stop smoking in the context of having routine CT lung cancer screening. Patients will receive 4 or 8 weeks of behavioral counseling (with their choice of video conferencing or regular telephone calls), 2 or 8 weeks of nicotine patch, and will receive referral (vs. no referral) to an online resource to connect smokers to community-based social service resources. Outcome measures for smoking cessation will be assessed by a survey administered by phone at 3,and 6 months.