Pilot Study to Evaluate the Effects of a Vaccine (HSPPC-96) Combined With Ipilimumab in Patients With Advanced Melanoma
The purpose of this research study is to see if the combination of HSPPC-96 and ipilimumab is safe and effective in the treatment of advanced melanoma. HSPPC-96 is an investigational vaccine created from tissue from the patient's tumor. The vaccine is designed to capture the cancer's "fingerprint." Injection of the vaccine may cause the patient's immune system to recognize and attack any cells with the specific cancer fingerprint. Ipilimumab is a drug approved by the FDA for the treatment of metastatic melanoma that boosts immune response.
Melanoma
DRUG: ipilimumab|DRUG: HSPPC-96
All enrolled patients who receive at least one dose of study drug (HSPPC-96) will be evaluated for safety. (adverse events), AEs will be coded by system organ class and preferred term using MedDRA. AEs will be summarized using descriptive statistics. Descriptive statistics will contain the number and percentage of patients who experience at least 1 AE, AEs related to study treatment, SAEs, SAEs related to study treatment, grade 3, 4 or 5 AEs, and grade 3, 4 or 5 AEs related to study treatment. In addition, the number and percentage of patients who discontinue treatment for any reason, including discontinuation due to an AE, will be provided together with the number and percentage of patients who die., 2 years|• To assess immunological response by surrogate markers of immune response and modulation of tumor cellular microenvironment, All enrolled patients who receive at least one full cycle of treatment and have a baseline and at least one post treatment biological specimen available (tissue and/or blood) will be evaluated for immune response., 2 years
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR defined by complete and partial responses., tumor evaluations every 12 weeks or until the date of first documented progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Time to recurrence is time from surgery until recurrence or last tumor evaluation without recurrence., tumor evaluations every 12 weeks or until the date of first documented progression or death, whichever came first, assessed up to 24 months
This is a randomized, open label, single-center, phase I-II trial to determine the safety, feasibility and immunogenicity of combination treatment of HSPPC-96 and ipilimumab in patients with therapeutically unresectable Stage III or Stage IV malignant melanoma.

The main purpose of this study is to assess whether the administration of the combination of ipilimumab and HSPPC-96 is safe. The rationale for combining the two treatments resides in their respective roles on the immune system as described below and based on the clinical experience collected so far. HSPPC-96 is able to initiate a tumor specific immune response that ipilimumab could theoretically amplify by blocking a checkpoint that naturally down-regulates T cells.