Canakinumab for the Prevention of Lung Cancer, the Can-Prevent-Lung Trial
This phase II trial studies the effects of canakinumab in preventing lung cancer in patients who have high-risk pulmonary nodules. Canakinumab is a monoclonal antibody that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving canakinumab may prevent the development of lung cancer.
Lung Carcinoma|Stage I Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA1 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA2 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IA3 Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage II Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage III Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIB Lung Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIC Lung Cancer AJCC v8
DRUG: Canakinumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment
Regression of indeterminate pulmonary nodules (IPNs), Will assess complete response or partial response by modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors criteria., At 7 months after treatment
Lung cancer-free survival, Will be computed using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 24 weeks|Incidence of lung cancers, Up to 24 weeks|Incidence of adverse events, Up to 24 weeks|Quality of life questionnaires, Assessed using The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) Score ranges (1-4) 1-Not at all, 2-A little, 3-Quite a bit, 4-Very Much, Baseline and 24 weeks|Quality of life questionnaires, Assessed using The European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - the Quality of Life Lung Cancer 29 Module (EORTC QLQ-LC29).

Score ranges (1-4) 1-Not at all, 2-A little, 3-Quite a bit, 4-Very Much, Baseline and 24 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine whether canakinumab increases regression rate of high-risk pulmonary nodules.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether canakinumab prolongs lung cancer-free survival. II. To determine whether canakinumab decreases the incidence of lung cancers. III. To assess the safety and tolerability of canakinumab in patients with high-risk indeterminate pulmonary nodules (IPNs).

IV. To assess quality of life by patient reported outcomes in patients treated with canakinumab.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the radiographic (including radiomic features) evolution of high-risk IPNs with treatment of canakinumab and to assess their association with risks of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated with canakinumab.

II. To explore the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire evolution of patients with high-risk IPNs and assess their association with risks of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated with canakinumab.

III. To explore the evolution of serum soluble factors, such as IFN-gamma and interferon inducible factors (such as CXCL9 and CXCL10), IL-12, TNFalpha, IL-10, TGF-beta, VEGF, IL-6, IL-8, IL-17, IL-18, C-reactive protein etc.) and assess their association with risks of lung cancer as well as their association with clinical benefit/toxicities in patients treated with canakinumab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive canakinumab subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 8 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed up for 30 days and at 6, 12, and 24 weeks.