Research of Circulating Tumor Cells Released During Cervical Cancer Surgery
Cervical cancer is a rare pathology. Recent studies showed that the risk of recurrence is higher for patients treated by coelioscopy in comparison with laparotomy. It could be explained by the spread of circulating tumor cells (CTC) due to tumor mobilization during different steps of the surgery.

The primary goal is to evaluate the spread of CTC during surgery on peripheral blood samples.

The secondary outcome is to evaluation the disease-free survival at 3 and 5 years postoperatively.

20 patients with early stage cervical (IA1 to IB2) eligible to coelioscopic stadification and laparoscopic surgery will be included.
Cervical Cancer Stage IA1|Cervical Cancer Stage IB1|Cervical Cancer Stage IA2|Cervical Cancer Stage IB2
OTHER: Blood samples
Number of circulating tumor cell detected after cervical cancer surgery., Detection of the presence of at least one circulating tumor cell from blood samples taken during surgery (one CTC per 7.5mL of blood or increase of at least one CTC if CTC is present pre-operatively), Within 48 hours after surgery.
Evaluation of disease-free survival, The disease-free survival will be evaluated at 3 and 5 years post-operatively, Two points at the 3rd and 5th years
CTC detection could be a pronostic factor for cancer evolution. Cervical cancer is a rare pathology with increased death rate.

Despite recommendations for coelioscopic treatment of \< 4cm cervical cancers, recent studies showed that the risk of recurrence is higher for patients treated by coelioscopy in comparison with laparotomy. It could be explained by the spread of circulating tumor cells (CTC) due to tumor mobilization during coelioscopic stadification and laparoscopic surgery.

Hypothesis : Mobilization of the tumor during coelioscopy leads to CTC spread. This spread could explain the recurrence of cervical cancer.

This pilot study will evaluate the possibility of CTC detection during surgery. The primary goal is to evaluate the spread of CTC during the different steps of surgery on peripheral blood samples.

The secondary outcome is to evaluation the disease-free survival at 3 and 5 years postoperatively.

20 patients with early stage cervical (IA1 to IB2) eligible to coelioscopic stadification and laparoscopic surgery will be included.