Different Doses of Sirolimus for the Treatment of Cystic Lymphatic Malformations
The purpose of this study is to compare the efficacy and safety of different concentration gradients of sirolimus in the treatment of cystic lymphatic malformation.
Lymphatic Malformation
DRUG: Sirolimus (RAPAMUNE)
The proportion of patients achieving an objective response at month 12, Objective response was defined as ≥20% reduction in LM volume compared to that at baseline., 12 months
The proportion of patients achieving an objective response at month 6, Objective response was defined as ≥20% reduction in LM volume compared to that at baseline., 6 months|lesion responses, The primary endpoint was classified as follow: -Complete involution: 100% resolution of the measured LM; -Nearly complete involution was defined as decrease of ≥75% and \<100%; -Partial involution was defined as decrease of ≥20% and \<75%; -No change was defined as \<20% increase and \<20% decrease in the volumes of LM lesions; -Further growth was defined as ≥20% increase in the volume of index LM compared with the baseline volume measured. Lesion responses were overall lesion response rate and good lesion response rate. Overall lesion response comprised complete, nearly complete and partial involutions. Good lesion response comprised complete and nearly complete involutions., 6 and 12 months|Quality of life (QOL) in patients, Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQLTM) 4.0 Genetic Core Infant Scales (\<2 years) or Pediatric Quality of Life Inventory (PedsQLTM) 4.0 Genetic Core Scales (2-18 years) were used., 12 months|Disease sequelae, Disease sequelae were assessed by site investigators at month 12. The site investigators assessed patients' extremity swelling (if any), general physical activity and exercise levels., 12 months|Frequency of adverse events, Frequency of adverse events (e.g. gastrointestinal disorders, blood and lymphatic system disorders, metabolic disorders or other abnormal laboratory results, skin disorders and general disorders, etc.) collected by investigator and reported by parents. All adverse events were collected and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events, version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0). The causality of the adverse event was determined by the multidisciplinary staff and was classified as definitively not related, probably not related, possibly related, probably related, or definitively related. Any dose reductions, interruptions, or cessations enacted at the discretion of the investigators were recorded., 12 months
Cystic lymphatic malformation is a disease caused by abnormal development of the lymphatic system, characterized by abnormal dilation and/or structural disorder of lymphatic vessels. These abnormalities may lead to accumulation of lymphatic fluid, causing local swelling, pain, and even affecting organ function. Cystic lymphatic malformation can occur anywhere in the body, including skin, soft tissue, internal organs, etc.

Sirolimus, also known as rapamycin, is an immunosuppressant mainly used to prevent rejection after organ transplantation. In recent years, studies have shown that sirolimus has certain potential in the treatment of lymphatic malformations.

However, long-term high-dose sirolimus treatment can cause some common complications, such as oral mucositis, which affects the quality of life of patients. More fine-grained control of rapamycin plasma concentrations may help improve the therapeutic effect and reduce the incidence of complications. Therefore, the investigators conducted this study to understand whether low-dose rapamycin is beneficial to the prognosis of patients.