Comparison of Two Different Flap Methods in the Treatment of Pilonidal Sinus Disease
Sacrococcygeal pilonidal sinus disease (PSD) has been defined as a disease characterized by chronic inflammation and recurrent infections caused by the movement of hair toward the gluteal sulcus. This condition is especially seen in young men and negatively affects the quality of life of patients and prevents them from performing their work and school activities. The treatment options for PSD range from the use of antibiotics alone to reconstructed excision with tissue flaps. Although the optimal surgical treatment option remains controversial, expectations from the ideal surgical treatment include low recurrence and postoperative complication rates, early wound healing, short hospital stay, early return to work, and good cosmetic outcomes. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of the different flap techniques in the surgical treatment of PSD and evaluate the long-term outcomes of patients.
Pilonidal Sinus
PROCEDURE: Surgical treatment of pilonidal sinus disease
Time taken to return to work/school, Time to return to work in daily life after surgery, The patients' return to work ranged from 11 to 49 days.|Postoperative pain, The pain scores of the patients were determined on the first postoperative day. The Visual Analog Scale (VAS), scored from 1 to 10, was administered to the patients to evaluate their postoperative pain levels., 1 day
Length of hospital stay, Time to discharge from hospital after surgery, The patients' length of hospital stay ranged from 1 to 4 days.|Recurrence of the disease, Recurrence of the disease, 43 months
Sacrococcygeal pilonidal sinus disease (PSD) has been defined as a disease characterized by chronic inflammation and recurrent infections caused by the movement of hair toward the gluteal sulcus. This condition is especially seen in young men and negatively affects the quality of life of patients and prevents them from performing their work and school activities. The treatment options for PSD range from the use of antibiotics alone to reconstructed excision with tissue flaps. Although the optimal surgical treatment option remains controversial, expectations from the ideal surgical treatment include low recurrence and postoperative complication rates, early wound healing, short hospital stay, early return to work, and good cosmetic outcomes. The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of the different flap techniques in the surgical treatment of PSD and evaluate the long-term outcomes of patients.