Bortezomib and Pembrolizumab With or Without Pelareorep for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Multiple Myeloma, AMBUSH Trial
This phase I/II trial studies the safety of the combination of bortezomib, dexamethasone, and pembrolizumab with or without pelareorep in treating patients with multiple myeloma that has come back (relapsed) or does not response to treatment (refractory). Chemotherapy drugs, such as bortezomib and dexamethasone, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. A virus modified in the laboratory, such as pelareorep, may be able to kill cancer cells without damaging normal cells. Giving the combination of bortezomib, dexamethasone, and pembrolizumab with pelareorep may work better in treating patient with multiple myeloma.
Recurrent Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|DRUG: Dexamethasone|BIOLOGICAL: Pelareorep|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab
Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) (Phase 1B), Incidence of dose-limiting toxicities resulting from pelareorep (PELA) in combination with bortezomib-dexamethasone (BOR-D) and pembrolizumab will be assessed. Severity of Adverse Events (AEs) will be graded according to National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0., During the 21 days of cycle 1|Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) (Phase 1B), Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) will be graded according to NCI CTCAE version 5.0, and changes in clinical laboratory parameters., Up to 30 days following cessation of study intervention|Overall response rate (ORR) (complete response [CR] + partial response [PR]) (Phase 2), Overall response rate, complete response partial response per the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) Uniform Response Criteria for multiple myeloma (MM)., Up to 3 years
ORR (CR + PR) (Phase 1B), ORR (CR + PR) per the IMWG Uniform Response Criteria for MM, Up to 3 years|Duration of response (DOR) (Phase 2), Time from first documentation of response (PR or greater) to first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death from any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS) (Phase 2), Time from the date of first study treatment to the date of first documented Progressive Disease (PD), as defined in the International Myeloma Working Group (IMWG) criteria, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first., Up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS) (Phase 2), Defined as the time from the first study treatment administration to death from any cause., Up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events (Phase 2), Type, frequency, and severity of AEs, using the NCI CTCAE version 5.0., From the time of intervention allocation through 90 days following cessation of study intervention or 30 days following cessation of study intervention|Severity of serious adverse events (Phase 2), Serious adverse events (SAEs), using the NCI CTCAE version 5.0., From the time of intervention allocation through 90 days following cessation of study intervention or 30 days following cessation of study intervention
Changes in gene expression (Phase 1B, Phase 2), Will identify biological changes between pre-treatment and on-treatment biopsies as defined by changes in gene expression within the tumor microenvironment (TME)., Up to 3 years|Changes in the T cell repertoire within peripheral blood and the TME (Phase 1B, Phase 2), Will compare changes in the T cell repertoire within peripheral blood and the TME between pre-treatment and on-treatment biopsies, examining the formation of novel clones and the expansion of existing clones., Up to 3 years|Changes in the expression of immune-related biomarkers (Phase 1B, Phase 2), To examine changes in the expression of immune-related biomarkers between pre-treatment and on-treatment blood samples and biopsies such as changes in programmed death protein-1 (PD-1) and programmed death ligand-1 (PDL-1) expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and imaging mass cytometry., Up to 3 years|PELA in combination with different therapies (Phase 1B, Phase 2), Will evaluate whether PELA in combination with different therapies induces changes in different immune blood markers between pre-treatment and on-treatment blood samples (e.g., peripheral blood mononuclear cells \[PBMCs\]-flow cytometry and flow mass cytometry)., Up to 3 years|CD4 and CD8 T-cell reactivity (Phase 1B, Phase 2), Will examine CD4 and CD8 T-cell reactivity toward antigens and other stimuli between pre-treatment and on-treatment bone marrow biopsies and peripheral blood., Up to 3 years|Number of effector T-cells and resting T-cells (Phase 1B, Phase 2), Will evaluate the number of effector (interferon-gamma \[IFN-gamma\] and Granzyme B) T-cells and resting T-cells in pre-treatment and on-treatment bone marrow biopsies and peripheral blood samples., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the safety of bortezomib-dexamethasone (BOR-D) and pembrolizumab (cohort 1) and its combination with pelareorep (PELA) (cohorts 2). (Phase 1B) II. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for PELA in combination with BOR-D and pembrolizumab in patients with relapsed or refractory multiple myeloma (RRMM; cohorts 2). (Phase 1B) III. To estimate the efficacy of the combination of PELA, BOR -D and pembrolizumab in patients with RRMM. (Phase 2)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the efficacy PELA in combination with BOR-D and pembrolizumab (cohorts 2) in patients with RRMM. (Phase 1B) II. To characterize the safety and tolerability of the combination, including acute and chronic toxicities. (Phase 2)

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare changes in the tumor microenvironment (TME) and immune responses in patients treated with BOR-D and pembrolizumab (cohort 1) to patients treated with PELA, BOR-D, and pembrolizumab (cohort 2). (Phase 1B) II. To evaluate changes in the TME and immune responses in patients treated with the combination of PELA, BOR-D and pembrolizumab. (Phase 2)

OUTLINE: This is a phase IB dose escalation study followed by a phase II study. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts.

COHORT I: Patients receive bortezomib subcutaneously (SC) or intravenously (IV) and dexamethasone orally (PO), IV, or intramuscularly (IM) on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Patients also receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 9 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

COHORT II: Patients receive bortezomib SC or IV and dexamethasone either PO, IV, or IM on days 1, 8, and 15 of each cycle. Patients also receive pelareorep IV over 60 minutes on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, and 16 and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 9 of each cycle. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 18 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study, patients are followed-up every 12 weeks or every 6 months depending on status of disease.