Adjuvant Radiotherapy for Patients With Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma After R0 Resection
This retrospective study is exploring the treatment effect and toxicity of adjuvant radiotherapy in patients diagnosed with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after R0 resection.
Esophageal Cancer
RADIATION: Adjuvant Radiotherapy
Overall survival (OS), From the date of surgery to the date of death or the most recent follow-up., up to 5 years
Disease-free survival (DFS), From the date of surgery to the date of any evidence of disease recurrence (recurrence in the tumor bed, anastomotic orifice, or in the regional lymph nodes, or metastasis in distant lymph nodes or distant organs), death or the most recent follow-up., up to 5 years|Local-regional recurrence-free survival (LRFS), From the date of surgery to the date of recurrence in the tumor bed, anastomotic orifice, regional lymph nodes or the most recent follow-up., up to 5 years|Distant metastasis (DM), From the date of surgery to the date of metastasis in distant lymph nodes, distant organs or the most recent follow-up., up to 5 years
Adverse events, From the date of surgery to the date of death or last follow-up, up to 5 years
Surgery is one of the most important curative approaches for esophageal cancer. In real-world clinical practice, over 50% of the patients receiving surgical resection as primary management. For patients treated with surgical resection without adjuvant therapy, the probability of local-regional recurrence ranged from 23.0% to 56.5%, accounting for 55.6%-84.5% of the disease recurrence. Once encountering disease recurrence, the subsequent prognosis could be dismal. The median survival time after postoperative disease recurrence ranged from 3 to 8 months. Postoperative radiotherapy (PORT) was one of the potential topical treatment approaches prolonging local-regional recurrence time or moreover, attaining superior disease-free survival (DFS) or overall survival (OS) in selected patients. It is essential to identify patients potentially benefit from PORT. Besides, there were few studies evaluating the impact of postoperative radiation dose to survival outcomes in patients receiving PORT. Whether the PORT-related local-regional recurrence free survival (LRFS) enhancement could convert to OS or DFS improvement is still vague. The current study aimed at evaluating the value of PORT in patients diagnosed with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma after R0 resection.