Pazopanib Plus Lapatinib Compared To Lapatinib Alone In Subjects With Inflammatory Breast Cancer
The double blind part of the study is being conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of pazopanib in combination with lapatinib with that of lapatinib alone in subjects with inflammatory breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the ErbB2 protein. There is also an Open-label pazopanib arm to this study designed to test whether pazopanib given alone and lapatinib given alone would be safe and effective to treat patients with inflammatory breast cancer.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: lapatinib|DRUG: Pazopanib
Number of Participants With Overall Response (OR), Defined as Those Participants Achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR), Assessed Per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version 1.0 and Cutaneous Lesions, RECIST-based response assessment was done at Weeks (Wks) 4 and 8 and every 8 weeks thereafter. Cutaneous disease assessment was done at Wk 4 and every 4 weeks thereafter. OR was evaluated when the skin and RECIST assessments coincided. Per RECIST, CR is the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR is at least a 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as a reference the baseline sum LD. Cutaneous disease contained non-measurable and measurable skin disease, which was assessed by skin assessment tools., Baseline until disease progression/recurrence was documented, assessed for up to 66 weeks
Median Duration of Response,Defined as the First Documented Evidence of CR or PR Until the First Documentation of Disease Progression, RECIST-based response assessment was done at Wks 4 and 8 and every 8 weeks thereafter. Cutaneous disease assessment was done at Wk 4 and every 4 weeks thereafter. OR was evaluated when the skin and RECIST assessments coincided. Per RECIST, PD is \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or the appearance of \>=1 new lesion and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Cutaneous disease contained non-measurable and measurable skin disease, which was assessed by skin assessment tools., From the date of the first documented evidence of CR or PR until the date of the first documented disease progression or death, assessed for up to 62 weeks|Progression-free Survival, Defined as the Interval Between the Date of Randomization and the Earliest Date of Disease Progression (PD) or Death Due to Any Cause (Defined by an Investigator Review of Lesions Based on RECIST and Cutaneous Disease), RECIST-based response assessment was done at Wks 4 and 8 and every 8 weeks thereafter. Cutaneous disease assessment was done at Wk 4 and every 4 weeks thereafter. OR was evaluated when the skin and RECIST assessments coincided. Per RECIST, PD is \>=20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since treatment started or the appearance of \>=1 new lesion and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. Cutaneous disease contained non-measurable and measurable skin disease, which was assessed by skin assessment tools., From the date of the randomization until the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause, assessed for up to 66 weeks|Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause. For participants who did not die, time to death was censored at the time of last contact., From the date of randomization until the date of death due to any cause, assessed for up to 163 weeks
The double blind part of the study is being conducted to compare the efficacy and safety of pazopanib in combination with lapatinib with that of lapatinib alone in subjects with inflammatory breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the ErbB2 protein. There is also an Open-label pazopanib arm to this study designed to test whether pazopanib given alone and lapatinib given alone would be safe and effective to treat patients with inflammatory breast cancer.