A Prospective Study of Monitoring Immune Response in Locally Advanced Cervix Cancer
Perspectives:

To analyse if the change of specific immune response will correlate with clinical effect of advanced cervix cancer after radio-chemotherapy.

To evaluate the specific immune response throughout monitor the change of the programmed death-1(PD-1) in CD8 T cell and CD4 T cell and Treg cell in blood at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.

To use immunohistochemistry (IHC) technique to monitor the change of programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1),CD68,CD8,CD4,PD1 and Treg expression in biopsy at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.

To detect the change of T cell receptor(TCR) repertoire and Tumor mutation burden (TMB) at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.
Cervical Cancer
DRUG: Cisplatin
The change of expression of PD-L1+ on cervix biopsies, The biopsy was collected at baseline,3 weeks,2 months, From baseline,3 weeks,2 months
The change of expression of PD1 on the non-regulatory CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes and Treg cells, The blood was collected at baseline,3 weeks,2 months, baseline,3 weeks,2 months|The diversity of T-cell Repertoire in cervix biopsies and blood, respectively, The blood and biopsies were collected at baseline,3 weeks,2 months, baseline,3 weeks,2 months|The change of expression of CD8+PD1+ lymphocytes infiltrate on cervix biopsies, The biopsy was collected at baseline,3 weeks,2 months, baseline,3 weeks,2 months
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer among women worldwide. At present, patients with cervical cancer are treated with radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy or chemoradiation. To improve the prognosis of cervical cancer patients, novel immunotherapeutic strategies need to be developed. Now there are some clinical phase I/II trials ongoing to assess the effects of ipilimumab, pembrolizumab and nivolumab in advanced cervical cancer,but information on the clinical significance of PD-L1 expression in cervical cancer is largely lacking.In this study, the investigator's primary objective:

To analyse if the change of specific immune response will correlate with clinical effect of advanced cervix cancer after radio-chemotherapy.

To evaluate the specific immune response throughout monitor the change of PD-1 in CD8 T cell and CD4 T cell and Treg cell in blood at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.

To use IHC technique to monitor the change of PD-L1, CD68,CD8,CD4,PD1 and Treg expression in biopsy at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.

To detect the change of TCR repertoire and TMB at baseline, before first brachytherapy and before the last brachytherapy in the advanced Cervix Cancer patients.