Substudy 01A: Zilovertamab Vedotin in Pediatric and Young Adult Participants With Hematologic Malignancies or Solid Tumors (MK-9999-01A/LIGHTBEAM-U01)
Substudy 01A is part of a platform study. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of zilovertamab vedotin in pediatric participants with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)/Burkitt lymphoma, or neuroblastoma and in pediatric and young adult participants with Ewing sarcoma.
B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma|Burkitt Lymphoma|Neuroblastoma|Ewing Sarcoma
BIOLOGICAL: Zilovertamab vedotin
Part 1: Number of Participants from 1 to <18 years of Age Who Experience a Dose-Limiting Toxicity (DLT), Number of participants experiencing toxicities that are possibly, probably, or definitely related to study therapy; that meet pre-defined severity criteria; and result in a change in the given dose., Up to 42 days|Part 1: Number of Participants from 1 to <18 years of Age Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 1 who experience at least 1 AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1: Number of Participants from 1 to <18 years of Age Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to AEs, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 1 who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1: Number of Participants from 1 to <18 years of Age Who Receive Dose Modification Due to AEs, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 1 who receive a dose modification due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Objective Response (OR) for Participants with B-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (B-ALL), OR for participants with B-ALL is defined as complete response (CR) or complete response with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi) based on investigator's assessment per Ponte-di-Legno Consortium criteria. For Part 1 and Part 2, the OR for participants with B-ALL as assessed by investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: OR for Participants with Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)/Burkitt Lymphoma, Neuroblastoma, and Ewing Sarcoma, OR for participants with DLBCL/Burkitt lymphoma, neuroblastoma, and Ewing sarcoma is defined as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on investigator's assessment per International Pediatric Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (IPNHL) Response Criteria for participants with DLBCL/Burkitt lymphoma, per International Neuroblastoma Response Criteria (INRC) for neuroblastoma, and per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 for Ewing sarcoma. For Part 1 and Part 2, the OR for participants with DLBCL/Burkitt lymphoma, neuroblastoma, and Ewing sarcoma as assessed by investigator will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months
Part 1 and Part 2: Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Total Antibody, Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the AUC of total antibody., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Maximum Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of Total Antibody, Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Cmax of total antibody., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Plasma Trough Concentration (Ctrough) of Total Antibody, Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Ctrough of total antibody., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Apparent Terminal Half-life (t1/2) of Total Antibody, Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the t1/2 of total antibody., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: AUC of Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the AUC of ADC., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Cmax of Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Cmax of ADC., ose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Ctrough of Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Ctrough of ADC., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: t1/2 of Antibody-Drug Conjugate (ADC), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the t1/2 of ADC., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: AUC of Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the AUC of MMAE., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Cmax of Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Cmax of MMAE., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Ctrough of Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the Ctrough of MMAE., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: t1/2 of Monomethyl Auristatin E (MMAE), Blood samples collected at designated time points will be used to determine the t1/2 of MMAE., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter, and at end of infusion on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 2: Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AEs), An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 2 who experience at least 1 AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 2: Number of Participants Who Discontinue Study Treatment Due to AEs, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 2 who discontinue study treatment due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 2: Number of Participants Who Receive Dose Modification Due to AEs, An AE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in a participant, whether or not considered drug related. An AE can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease (new or exacerbated) temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product and does not imply any judgment about causality. The number of participants in Part 2 who receive a dose modification due to an AE will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Incidence of Antidrug Antibodies (ADAs) to Zilovertamab Vedotin, Blood samples collected at designated timepoints will be used to determine the ADA response to zilovertamab vedotin. The incidence of ADAs over time will be presented., Predose on Day 1 of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and every 4 cycles thereafter. Each cycle is 21 days. (Up to approximately 60 months)|Part 1 and Part 2: Duration of Response (DOR), DOR is defined as the time from the first documented evidence of CR/CRi for B-ALL or CR/PR for DLBCL/Burkitt lymphoma, Ewing sarcoma, and neuroblastoma until disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first. For participants under 1-year of age, the time from the first dose will start from the first dose a participant receives during Part 2., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Percentage of Participants with DLBCL/Burkitt Lymphoma Who Receive Stem Cell Transplant (SCT), The percentage of participants with DLBCL/Burkitt Lymphoma who go on to receive SCT will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Percentage of Participants with B-ALL Who Receive SCT, The percentage of participants with B-ALL who go on to receive SCT will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months|Part 1 and Part 2: Percentage of Participants with B-ALL Who Receive Chimeric Antigen Receptor T (CAR-T), The percentage of participants with B-ALL who go on to receive CAR-T will be presented., Up to approximately 60 months
Substudy 01A is part of a platform study. The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy and safety of zilovertamab vedotin in pediatric participants with relapsed or refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL)/Burkitt lymphoma, or neuroblastoma and in pediatric and young adult participants with Ewing sarcoma.