The Study of The Treatment of Postoperative Adjuvant Apatinib vs. TACE in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Patients
This study uses to suppress the growth of tumors, extend the patient's survival time and improve the quality of life as much as possible. Through the treatment, the patient is given the chance to undergo surgical resection, thereby more effectively prolonging the OS. Apatinib is a small-molecule VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It mainly treats malignant tumors by inhibiting VEGFR and exerting anti-angiogenic effects. Preclinical studies have shown that its antitumor effect is better than that of the similar drug PTK787. Phase II studies of hepatocellular carcinoma have initially demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of apatinib in the treatment of advanced HCC. TACE embolized tumor artery blood supply to inhibit tumor growth and shrink tumors. Based on the therapeutic potential of apatinib, and TACE in their respective tumors, we designed a prospective exploratory clinical study of this patient with advanced liver cancer.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: Apatinib|DRUG: Chemotherapy drugs+Iodized oil
overall survival, 5 years
This study uses to suppress the growth of tumors, extend the patient's survival time and improve the quality of life as much as possible. Through the treatment, the patient is given the chance to undergo surgical resection, thereby more effectively prolonging the OS. Apatinib is a small-molecule VEGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor. It mainly treats malignant tumors by inhibiting VEGFR and exerting anti-angiogenic effects. Preclinical studies have shown that its antitumor effect is better than that of the similar drug PTK787. Phase II studies of hepatocellular carcinoma have initially demonstrated the effectiveness and safety of apatinib in the treatment of advanced HCC. TACE embolized tumor artery blood supply to inhibit tumor growth and shrink tumors. Based on the therapeutic potential of apatinib, and TACE in their respective tumors, we designed a prospective exploratory clinical study of this patient with advanced liver cancer.