AG Plus Nimotuzumab Sequential Irreversible Electroporation Ablation for Locally Advanced Pancreatic Cancer
This is a prospective, open-label, single arm clinical study. The main purpose of the study is to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine combined with nimotuzumab sequential irreversible electroporation ablation for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. The main endpoint is overall survival (OS).
Pancreatic Cancer, Adult
DRUG: AG regimen|DRUG: Nimotuzumab
overall survival (OS), OS, defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to death due to any cause., Up to 24 months
progression-free survival (PFS), PFS, defined as the time from the beginning of treatment to disease progression or all-cause death. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Up to 24 months|Objective response rate (ORR), Objective response rate (ORR), including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 24 months|Disease control rate (DCR), Disease control rate (DCR), including complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) and stable disease(SD). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: CR, disappearance of all target lesions; PR, at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions. SD, neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD (PD, defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions)., Up to 24 months
This clinical study is designed as a prospective, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and safety of nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine combined with nimotuzumab sequential irreversible electroporation ablation for locally advanced pancreatic cancer. This study is divided into two stages: in stage I, all patients will receive 4 cycles of nab-paclitaxel/gemcitabine (AG regimen, 3 weeks as a cycle) and nimotuzumab. Imaging reexamination will be conducted 12 weeks later. In stage II, patients who are without disease progression (PD) will receive irreversible electroporation ablation and at least 3 cycles of adjuvant treatment (AG and nimotuzumab). If the imaging evaluation shows disease progression (PD), then the subsequent treatment will be changed to the standard treatment in hospital. The main endpoint is overall survival (OS). Additional end points included progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), safety, etc.