PD-1 Antibody and Lenvatinib Plus TACE-HAIC for Potential Resectable HCC: a Single-arm, Phase 2 Clinical Trial
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most commonly malignant tumors around the world. Hepatic resection or liver transplantation is the radical method to cure the disease. However, less than 20% of newly diagnosed patients can undergo radical resection. Our latest study showed that 48% potentially resectable HCC received hepatectomy after transarterial chemoembolization plus FOLFOX-based chemotherapy infusion (TACE-HAIC) treatment. Recently, several clinical trials (LEAP-002) showed that PD-1 antibody and Lenvatinib had an ORR of 36% for advanced patients. The combination of TACE-HAIC with PD-1 antibody and lenvatinib, theoretically can significantly decrease the tumor burden and increase the hepatectomy rate. However, this hasn't been verified in clinical application. To identify a more effective and safety way for treating potentially resectable HCC patients, this study is designed to investigate TACE-HAIC plus PD-1 antibody and Lenvatinib will increase the resection rate for those patients.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
DRUG: PD-1 inhibitor
conversion rate to resection, The conversion rate to resection among all the enrolled patients, 12 month
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most commonly malignant tumors around the world. Hepatic resection or liver transplantation is the radical method to cure the disease. However, less than 20% of newly diagnosed patients can undergo radical resection. Our latest study showed that 48% potentially resectable HCC received hepatectomy after transarterial chemoembolization plus FOLFOX-based chemotherapy infusion (TACE-HAIC) treatment. Recently, several clinical trials (LEAP-002) showed that PD-1 antibody and Lenvatinib had an ORR of 36% for advanced patients. The combination of TACE-HAIC with PD-1 antibody and lenvatinib, theoretically can significantly decrease the tumor burden and increase the hepatectomy rate. However, this hasn't been verified in clinical application. To identify a more effective and safety way for treating potentially resectable HCC patients, this study is designed to investigate TACE-HAIC plus PD-1 antibody and Lenvatinib will increase the resection rate for those patients.