Combination Chemotherapy Plus Peripheral Stem Cell Transplantation in Treating Patients With Metastatic Cancer.
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell transplantation may allow the doctor to give higher doses of chemotherapy drugs and kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase II trial to study the effectiveness of combination chemotherapy plus peripheral stem cell transplantation in treating patients who have metastatic cancer.
Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: filgrastim|DRUG: carboplatin|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: paclitaxel|DRUG: topotecan hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
Determine the one year progression-free survival, one year
Overall survival; safety of regimen; CR rate; lab correlates; pharmacokinetics, five years
OBJECTIVES: I. Evaluate one year progression free survival, complete response rate, and overall survival in patients with metastatic small cell cancer treated with high dose paclitaxel, carboplatin, and topotecan with peripheral blood stem cell support. II. Assess the safety of this treatment regimen in this patient population.

OUTLINE: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour, followed by paclitaxel IV over 24 hours on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously beginning on day 3 and continuing through the day prior to the last collection day. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) are collected over 3-5 days. Beginning approximately 21 days following mobilization, patients receive paclitaxel IV over 24 hours on day 1, immediately followed by carboplatin IV over 2 hours and topotecan IV over 24 hours on day 2, then G-CSF subcutaneously beginning on day 4 and continuing until blood counts recover. PBSC are reinfused on day 5. Patients receive 1/3 of PBSC with each course. Treatment repeats every 4 weeks for 3 courses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity. Patients are followed at week 8 after treatment, then every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 25 patients will be accrued for this study.