Neoadjuvant Immunotherapy to ESCC
Currently, surgery after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, but the recurrence rate is high and the 5-year survival rate is low. Immunotherapy shows a potential treatment for esophageal cancer. Immunocheckpoint (PD-1/PD-L1) inhibitors can activate tumor immunity. The guidelines have recommended it as a sencond-line therapy. However, there is still lack of the evidence for its efficacy as a neoadjuvant therapy. This study is to conduct a randomized controlled, open label, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant immnotherapy combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patient with PD-L1 (CPS\>=10%) positive.
Esophagus SCC
DRUG: Sintilimab Injection plus Paclitaxel and Cisplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel and Cisplatin
Major Pathological Response (MPR) rate, MPR is defined as 10% or fewer viable cancer cells in the hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E)-stained slides from the resected tumor following neoadjuvant treatment., 30 days after the second cycle of treatment(each cycle is 21 days)
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR determines the tumor shrinkage rate, tumor boundary and the adhesion of tumor, at the end of the second cycle of treatment(each cycle is 21 days)|2-year progression-free survival (PFS), From date of surgery until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, every 3 months (up to 24 months)|The incidence of adverse events, Safety will be evaluated for all treated patients using CTCAE V 5.0., the day from the first treatment cycle
Currently, surgery after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is the standard treatment for patients with locally advanced esophageal cancer, but the recurrence rate is high and the 5-year survival rate is low. Immunotherapy shows a potential treatment for esophageal cancer. Immunocheckpoint (PD-1/PD-L1) inhibitors can activate tumor immunity. The guidelines have recommended it as a sencond-line therapy. However, there is still lack of the evidence for its efficacy as a neoadjuvant therapy. This study is to conduct a randomized controlled, open label, phase II clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant immnotherapy combined with neoadjuvant chemotherapy for locally advanced esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) patient with PD-L1 (CPS\>=10%) positive.