Durvalumab and Olaparib for the Treatment of Prostate Cancer in Men Predicted to Have a High Neoantigen Load
This phase II trial studies how well durvalumab and olaparib work in treating prostate cancer in men predicted to have specific genetic mutations (a high neoantigen load). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as durvalumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. PARPs are proteins that help repair DNA mutations. PARP inhibitors, such as olaparib, can keep PARP from working, so tumor cells can't repair themselves, and they may stop growing. Giving durvalumab and olaparib may kill more tumor cells in patients with prostate cancer predicted to have a high neoantigen load.
Biochemically Recurrent Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Durvalumab|DRUG: Olaparib|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Undetectable prostate specific antigen (PSA), Will assess if patients achieve undetectable PSA for post-prostatectomy patients (including those that also received salvage radiation) or PSA \< 0.5 ng/ml for post-definitive radiation patients., At 12 months after initiation of therapy
Incidence of adverse events (AEs) during durvalumab monotherapy, Will be assessed per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events CTCAE version (v) 5.0 guidelines., Up to 3 months|Incidence of AEs during durvalumab and olaparib combination therapy, Will be assessed per CTCAE v5.0 guidelines., Up to 6 months|PSA50 response, A descriptive summary (including the percentage and 90% confidence interval \[CI\]) of PSA50 response rate (proportion of patients with a decline in PSA \> 50% from baseline) will be provided at 3- and 6-month timepoints. The response rate will be reported with exact binomial two-sided 90% CI., At 3 and 6 months|Change in quality of life: RANDSF-36, Will be assessed using the RANDSF-36 score calculation, At the time of enrollment and then every three months for 24 months|Change in quality of life: IIEF, Will be assessed using the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) score calculation, At the time of enrollment and then every three months for 24 months
OUTLINE:

All patients receive durvalumab IV over 1 hour on day 1 of each cycle, total 6 cycles. Starting cycle 4, patients with CDK12 mutations and mismatch repair deficiency (MMRd)/microsatellite instability (MSI)-high will also receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1- 28 of cycles 4-6. Patients with homologous recombination mutation will also receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-28 of cycles 1-6. Cycles repeat every 28 days for 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks, and then every 12 weeks to complete 24 months (at 9, 12, 15, 18, 21 and 24 months).