Vaccine Therapy and Sargramostim in Treating Patients With Stage IV Malignant Melanoma
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies vaccine therapy and sargramostim in treating patients with stage IV malignant melanoma. Vaccines made from melanoma peptides or antigens may help the body build an effective immune response to kill tumor cells. Colony-stimulating factors, such as sargramostim, increase the number of white blood cells and platelets found in bone marrow or peripheral blood. Giving vaccine therapy together with sargramostim may be an effective treatment for malignant melanoma
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma
BIOLOGICAL: tyrosinase peptide|BIOLOGICAL: MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine|BIOLOGICAL: gp100 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|BIOLOGICAL: sargramostim|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Changes in tumor antigen peptide specific immune responses, Plots of the percent changes in these factors from their pretreatment levels against time will be constructed., Baseline and 24 weeks
Number and severity of hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities observed using the Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) version 2.0, Up to 3 years|Proportion of objective responses (complete response [CR] and partial response [PR]) observed, Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the immunological effects of immunization protocols utilizing MART-1:27-35 (MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine), tyrosinase (tyrosinase peptide) or gp-100 (gp100 antigen) peptides suspended in incomplete Freund's adjuvant (IFA) in the presence of two different concentrations of sargramostim (GM-CSF).

II. Define the safety and toxicity profile of an immunization protocol utilizing varying concentrations of MART-1:27-35, tyrosinase and gp-100 peptides suspended in IFA in the presence of two different concentrations of GM-CSF.

III. Collect preliminary data on therapeutic efficacy as it relates to parameters of immune function in patients with stage IV malignant melanoma.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive tyrosinase peptide, MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine, and gp100 antigen admixed in incomplete Freund's adjuvant subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 of weeks 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24.

ARM II: Patients receive tyrosinase peptide, MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine, and gp100 antigen admixed in incomplete Freund's adjuvant SC and lower-dose sargramostim SC on day 1 of weeks 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24.

ARM III: Patients receive tyrosinase peptide, MART-1:27-35 peptide vaccine, and gp100 antigen admixed in incomplete Freund's adjuvant SC and higher-dose sargramostim SC on day 1 of weeks 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, and 24.

In all arms, treatment may repeat every 3 months for up to 18 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.