A Study of PD-L1 Antibody KN035 in Japanese Subjects With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This is an open label, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of KN035 in Japanese patients with advanced and metastatic solid tumor. The dose escalation will follow the widely used 3+3 design.
Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
DRUG: KN035
Incidence of dose limiting toxicities, From screening to up to cycle 1 (28 days)|KN035 safety and tolerability assessed by monitoring AEs per the NCI-CTC-AE Version 4.03, physical examination, electrocardiograms, laboratory measurements and severity of adverse events, The safety of KN035 will be assessed throughout the study by monitoring adverse events (AEs) per the NCI-CTC-AE Version 4.03, physical examination, electrocardiograms, laboratory measurements and severity of adverse events., From screening to up to 1 months after the last dose of study drug (up to approximately 2 years
Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Peak Time (Tmax) of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|t1/2 of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Trough concentration of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Plasma clearance (CL) of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Apparent volume of distribution of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Accumulation rate of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Anti-Drug Antibody of KN035 in Japanese patients, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Changes of lymphocyte Subtyping, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 48 weeks|Changes of cytokine, From Pre-dose of the first dose to up to 6 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Up to 2 approximately years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Up to 2 approximately years|Progression-Free survival (PFS), Up to 2 approximately years|Duration of Response (DOR), Up to 2 approximately years
This is an open label, dose escalation study to evaluate the safety and tolerability of KN035 in Japanese patients with advanced and metastatic solid tumor.

The dose escalation will follow the widely used 3+3 design. Cohorts of 3-6 subjects will be enrolled sequentially at escalating doses of 1.0, 2.5, 5.0 and 10 mg/kg weekly. Dose escalation will continue until identification of MTD up to a maximum dose of 10 mg/kg. MTD is defined as the highest dose studied at which no more than 1 of 6 subjects has experienced a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in Cycle 1. The enrolled patients are managed under hospitalization for DLT observation period (C1 28 days). If no DLTs occur in a cohort of 3 subjects, a new cohort of 3 subjects will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 1 of 3 subjects in a cohort experiences a DLT, that cohort will be expanded to 6 subjects. If only 1 of the 6 subjects has a DLT, then the next cohort of 3 subjects will be treated at the next higher dose level. If 2 or more DLTs occur within a cohort, then that dose level will be above the MTD, and the previous lower (tolerated) dose level will be considered the MTD if ≤ 1 in 6 subjects has a DLT.

A subject who withdraws from the study during Cycle 1 for reasons other than a DLT will be replaced.

Subjects will be monitored for safety and efficacy throughout the study. After radiological tumor assessment at Screening, the first radiological assessment of tumor response status will be performed at Week 12 (± 1 week), unless there is clinical indication warranting earlier radiologic imaging. The same imaging technique used at baseline has to be used throughout the study.