Trastuzumab and Letrozole in Treating Postmenopausal Women With Progressive Advanced Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as trastuzumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Estrogen can cause the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using letrozole may fight breast cancer by lowering the amount of estrogen the body makes. Giving trastuzumab together with letrozole after disease progression may be an effective treatment for breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving trastuzumab together with letrozole works in treating postmenopausal women with progressive advanced breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab + Letrozole
Objective response rate as assessed by CT scan or MRI every 3 months, 3 months
Time to tumor progression (TTP) every 3 months, 3 months|Overall survival every 3 months, 3 months|Toxicity every 3 months, 3 months
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the efficacy of trastuzumab (Herceptin®) monotherapy followed by trastuzumab and letrozole in women with progressive advanced breast cancer that is resistant to prior treatment with a nonsteroidal aromatase inhibitor.

Secondary

* Determine the safety profile of this regimen in these patients.
* Correlate HER-2-extracellular domain (ECD) levels with response to treatment in these patients.
* Determine the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.
* Correlate response and time to tumor progression with changes in serum HER-2-ECD levels in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 30-90 minutes once in weeks 1-3 OR once in week 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients experiencing disease progression after 9 weeks receive trastuzumab as before and oral letrozole once daily in the absence of further disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 12 weeks until disease progression and then at 6 months.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30-40 patients will be accrued for this study.