Triptorelin With Either Exemestane or Tamoxifen in Treating Premenopausal Women With Hormone-Responsive Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Estrogen can stimulate the growth of breast cancer cells. Hormone therapy using triptorelin, exemestane, and tamoxifen may fight breast cancer by blocking the use of estrogen. It is not yet known whether giving triptorelin together with exemestane is more effective than triptorelin and tamoxifen in treating hormone-responsive breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase III trial is studying triptorelin and exemestane to see how well they work compared to triptorelin and tamoxifen in treating premenopausal women with hormone-responsive breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: exemestane|DRUG: tamoxifen|DRUG: triptorelin
Disease-free Survival, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where disease-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to the first appearance of one of the following: invasive breast cancer recurrence at local, regional, or distant site, invasive contralateral breast cancer, second (non-breast) invasive cancer, or death without cancer event; or censored at date of last follow up., 5-year estimate reported at a median follow-up of 72 months
Breast Cancer-free Interval, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where breast cancer-free interval is defined as the time from randomization to the invasive breast cancer recurrence at local, regional, or distant site, or invasive contralateral breast cancer; or censored at date of last follow up., 5-year estimate reported at a median follow-up of 72 months|Distant Recurrence-free Interval, Estimated percentage of patients alive and disease-free at 5 years from randomization, where distant recurrence-free interval is defined as the time from randomization to breast cancer recurrence at a distant site; or censored at date of last follow-up, 5-year estimates reported at a median follow-up of 72 months|Overall Survival, Estimated percentage of patients alive at 8 years from randomization, where overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause; or censored at date last known alive., 8-year estimates, reported at a median follow-up of 9 years
OBJECTIVES:

* Compare the disease-free survival, breast cancer-free interval, distant recurrence-free interval and overall survival of premenopausal women with endocrine-responsive breast cancer when treated with triptorelin and exemestane vs triptorelin and tamoxifen.
* Compare the quality of life, including late side effects of early menopause, of patients treated with these regimens.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, international, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to planned use of concurrent adjuvant chemotherapy (yes vs no), and number of positive lymph nodes (0 vs 1 or more). Treatment duration is 5 years. Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 5 years, and then annually thereafter. Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 2 years, and annually for 3 years.