BrUOG 397: NEO Rad (LOW): Neoadjuvant Low Dose Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy, Ipilimumab and Nivolumab
This single-arm phase 2 study will enroll patients with resectable and operable stage IB - III non-small cell lung cancer and treat them with pre-operative ipilimumab + nivolumab plus low-dose stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) delivered concurrently. Only patients who proceed to surgery will be evaluable for the primary endpoint. The primary efficacy outcome measurement will be pathologic response (including Major Pathologic Response (MPR), and Complete Pathologic Response (CPR)). Secondary outcome measures include safety, and exploratory biomarkers of immune response in pre- and post-operative blood and tissue. A two-stage design will stop the study if fewer than 3 of the first 9 evaluable patients do not achieve MPR. An early stopping rule for safety will stop the study if more than 12 patients are enrolled to find the first 9 evaluable patients.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Ipilimumab|DRUG: Nivolumab|RADIATION: SBRT
Number of Patients with a Pathologic Response, Assess Pathologic Response (major pathologic response and complete pathologic response) following neoadjuvant low dose SBRT, Ipilimumab and Nivolumab., From beginning of study treatment to approximately day 49-63 on study.
Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], Assess safety and operative morbidity following neoadjuvant low dose SBRT, Ipilimumab and Nivolumab and surgery., Beginning of study treatment through 90 days post study treatment completion.
This single-arm phase 2 study will enroll patients with resectable and operable stage IB - III non-small cell lung cancer and treat them with pre-operative ipilimumab + nivolumab plus low-dose stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) delivered concurrently. Only patients who proceed to surgery will be evaluable for the primary endpoint. The primary efficacy outcome measurement will be pathologic response (including Major Pathologic Response (MPR), and Complete Pathologic Response (CPR)). Secondary outcome measures include safety, and exploratory biomarkers of immune response in pre- and post-operative blood and tissue. A two-stage design will stop the study if fewer than 3 of the first 9 evaluable patients do not achieve MPR. An early stopping rule for safety will stop the study if more than 12 patients are enrolled to find the first 9 evaluable patients.