Effects of a Web Based Education Programme About Sexuality Aimed at Nurses That Care for Patients With Cancer
The purpose of the SexCan - WebEd Nurse study is to evaluate the effect of a five week online university course, "Bring it up - Assessment and support of patients' sexuality in cancer nursing", aimed at cancer nurses, on occupational self-efficacy and attitudes towards addressing sexuality with patients.
Neoplasms|Nurse-Patient Relations|Sexuality
OTHER: Bring it up - Assessment and support of patients' sexuality in cancer nursing
Change in Occupational Self-Efficacy (from baseline to 5 weeks post finished intervention), Measured with the "Short Occupational Self-Efficacy Scale". This instrument ranges from 6 to 36 points, where higher values indicate a higher grade of self-efficacy., At baseline and then 5 weeks post finished intervention.|Change in Occupational Self-Efficacy (from baseline to 19 weeks post finished intervention), Measured with the "Short Occupational Self-Efficacy Scale", At baseline and then 19 weeks post finished intervention.|Change in Attitudes towards addressing sexuality (from baseline to 5 weeks post finished intervention), Measured with the "Sexual Health - Extended Version - Swedish (PASH-Ext-S)". The instrument ranges from 27 to 135 points. Higher values indicate a higher degree of positive attitudes to addressing sexuality., At baseline and then 5 weeks post finished intervention.|Change in Attitudes towards addressing sexuality (from baseline to 19 weeks post finished intervention), Measured with the "Sexual Health - Extended Version - Swedish (PASH-Ext-S)", At baseline and then 19 weeks post finished intervention.
Change in Knowledge about the influence of cancer on sexuality (from baseline to 5 weeks post finished intervention), Study specific questionnaire, At baseline and then 5 post finished intervention.|Change in Knowledge about the influence of cancer on sexuality (from baseline to 19 weeks post finished intervention), Study specific questionnaire, At baseline and then 19 weeks post finished intervention.|Change in Number of conversations with patients relating to sexuality (from baseline to 5 weeks post finished intervention), At baseline and then 5 weeks post finished intervention.|Change in Number of conversations with patients relating to sexuality (from baseline to 5 weeks post finished intervention), At baseline and then 19 weeks post finished intervention.
Cancer nurses attending the course will be recruited. Effects will be used with a pre-post design at two occasions or until we reach 15 participants. Survey data will be collected at baseline and two times post the course. Qualitative interviews with participants will also be performed as well as observational data from the seminars in the course.

The participants' ward managers will also be invited to qualitative interviews considering how to implement the nurses' new knowledge clinically.