Trial Using Gilotrif for Advanced Penile Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Penile squamous cell carcinoma (PSCC) is a highly aggressive and relatively rare disease. Supportive evidence for the value of systemic therapy does not exist for this disease and there are no agents currently approved by regulatory agencies. This study will evaluate the drug Gilotrif in patients with metastatic progressive PSCC following chemotherapy. Gilotrif has shown supportive evidence in non-small cell lung cancer by inhibiting certain proteins that are also found in PSCC. The drug has the potential for some patients to exhibit a response contributing to a greater quality of life.
Penile Squamous Cell Carcinoma (PSCC)
DRUG: Gilotrif
Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival at 6 Months, Death will signify the time of progression free survival. Otherwise, the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines version 1.1 will be used to evaluate disease progression. Progression is defined as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., 6 months following study treatment
Response Rate, The Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors guidelines version 1.1 and disease assessment scans (bone, CT) will be used to evaluate tumor response., Baseline up to 3 months|Overall Survival, From date of study enrollment until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever comes first, assessed up to 30 months., Baseline to death (assessed up to 30 months).|Toxicities, The number of adverse events and serious adverse events will be tabulated using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03., Baseline up to 18 months
This is a non-randomized trial phase 2 trial in which the drug Gilotrif will be administered at an oral dosage of 40 mg daily. This will continue until there is disease progression or severe toxicities. Patients will undergo a clinical exam every 4 weeks as well as have blood collected. Radiographic scans will be done every 8 weeks.