Pembrolizumab With or Without Maintenance Sacituzumab Tirumotecan (Sac-TMT; MK-2870) in Metastatic Squamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) [MK-2870-023]
This is a phase 3 study of pembrolizumab in combination with carboplatin/taxane (paclitaxel or nab-paclitaxel) followed by pembrolizumab with or without maintenance sacituzumab tirumotecan (sac-TMT; MK-2870) in first-line treatment of metastatic squamous non-small cell lung cancer. It is hypothesized that pembrolizumab with maintenance sacituzumab tirumotecan is superior to pembrolizumab without sacituzumab tirumotecan maintenance with respect to overall survival (OS).
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer|NSCLC
BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|BIOLOGICAL: sac-TMT|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel
Overall survival (OS), OS is the time from randomization to death due to any cause., Up to ~50 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from randomization to the first documented progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first as assessed by Response Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST 1.1)., Up to ~79 months|Number of Participants With ≥1 Adverse Event (AE), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~79 months|Number of Participants Discontinuing from Study Therapy Due to AE(s), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention., Up to ~79 months|Change in Score from Baseline to a Predefined Timepoint in Participant-Reported Global health status/Quality of Life (QoL) Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30), European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) is a 30-item scale to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. The global health status and QoL scores are based on participant responses to items 29 ("How would you rate your overall health during past week?") and 30 ("How would you rate your overall quality of life during the week?") that are scored on a 7-point scale (1 = "Very poor" to 7 = "Excellent"). Higher scores indicate better overall health status., Baseline and up to ~79 months|Change in Score from Baseline to a Predefined Timepoint in Participant-Reported Dyspnea (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item scale to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. The dyspnea score is based on participant responses to item 8 ("Were you short of breath?") that is scored on a 4-point scale (1 = 'Not at All' to 4 = 'Very Much'). Higher scores indicate worse dyspnea symptoms., Baseline and up to ~79 months|Change in Score from Baseline to a Predefined Timepoint in Participant-Reported Cough (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31), EORTC QLQ-C13 is a 13-item addendum to EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess the overall quality of life of lung cancer patients. The cough score is based on participant responses to item 31 ("How much did you cough?") that is scored on a 4-point scale (1 = 'Not at All' to 4 = 'Very Much'). Higher scores indicate worse cough., Baseline and up to ~79 months|Change in Score from Baseline to a Predefined Timepoint in Participant-Reported Chest Pain (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40), EORTC QLQ-C13 is a 13-item addendum to EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess the overall quality of life of lung cancer patients. The chest pain score is based on participant responses to item 40 e (1 = "Not at All" to 4 = "Very Much")., Baseline and up to ~79 months|Time to First Deterioration (TTD) in Global Health Status/QoL Scores (EORTC QLQ-C30 Items 29 and 30), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item scale to assess the overall quality of life in cancer patients. TTD in global health status and QoL scores are based on participant responses to items 29 ("How would you rate your overall health during past week?") and 30 ("How would you rate your overall quality of life during the week?") that are scored on a 7-point scale (1 = "Very poor" to 7 = "Excellent"). Higher scores indicate better overall health status., Up to ~79 months|TTD in Dyspnea Score (EORTC QLQ-C30 Item 8), EORTC QLQ-C30 is a 30-item scale to assess the overall quality of life of cancer patients. TTD in dyspnea score is based on participant responses to item 8 ("Were you short of breath?") that is scored on a 4-point scale (1 = 'Not at All' to 4 = 'Very Much'). Higher scores indicate worse dyspnea symptoms., Up to ~79 months|TTD in Cough Score (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 31), EORTC QLQ-C13 is a 13-item addendum to EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess the overall quality of life of lung cancer patients. TTD in cough score is based on participant responses to item 31 ("How much did you cough?") that is scored on a 4-point scale (1 = 'Not at All' to 4 = 'Very Much'). Higher scores indicate worse cough., Up to ~79 months|TTD in Chest Pain Score (EORTC QLQ-LC13 Item 40), EORTC QLQ-C13 is a 13-item addendum to EORTC QLQ-C30 to assess the overall quality of life of lung cancer patients. TTD in chest pain score is based on participant responses to item 40 ("Have you had pain in your chest?") that is scored on a 4-point scale (1 = 'Not at All' to 4 = 'Very Much'). Higher scores indicate worse chest pain., Up to ~79 months
All participants undergo an initial induction phase of four cycles, each cycle consisting of pembrolizumab q3w + carboplatin q3w + paclitaxel q3w or nabpaclitaxel weekly. Participants are then randomly assigned to pembrolizumab maintenance vs. pembrolizumab + sac-TMT maintenance.