Efficacy and Safety of Plitidepsin in Patients With Advanced Unresectable or Metastatic, Relapsed/Refractory, Dedifferentiated Liposarcoma (DLPS): an Exploratory Phase II Multicenter Trial
Liposarcomas are soft tissue sarcomas most frequent. We distinguish three subtypes on the basis of their histological and cytogenetic characteristics: well-differentiated liposarcoma / dedifferentiated, myxoid liposarcoma and / or round cell liposarcoma and pleomorphic. Dedifferentiated liposarcomas (LDD) represent 20% of liposarcomas and are characterized by well-differentiated component associated with a contingent sarcomatous differentiation and fat-usually high grade. The LDD are most often rétropértionéal seat. Thus, their development is very long asymptomatic. At diagnosis, tumor volume is often very important making surgical removal impossible in a high proportion of cases. Operable tumors have also a risk of local recurrence by about 50% and about 20% metastatic. Chemotherapy is the only treatment of these advanced forms. However, the currently available drugs (adriamycin, ifosfamide) have only very limited effectiveness. Progression-free survival of patients does not exceed 2 months. The LDD is characterized cytogenetically by the constant presence of two amplicons (1p32 and 6q23) respectively targeting genes MAP3K5 and JUN. These two genes encode proteins involved in the signaling pathway Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Activation of JNK is involved in the loss of adipose differentiation and tumor aggressiveness of LDD. The plitidepsin is a drug capable of inducing apoptosis of tumor cells carrying a functional activation of the JNK pathway. This drug has such a pro-apoptotic and anti-proliferative in vitro models of LDD. plitidepsin could represent the treatment of choice for patients with advanced LDD. The objective of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of plitidepsin patients with locally advanced dedifferentiated liposarcomas and / or metastatic.
Adult Patients With Unresectable Locally Advanced or Metastatic, Relapsed/Refractory Dedifferentiated Liposarcoma
DRUG: plitidepsin
Percentage of Patients Remaining Alive and Progression Free at 3 Months (i.e. Week 12 ± 1) as Per RECIST1.1 (PFS3)., Progression is defined using New Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study), or a unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 3 months
Percentage of Patients With Objective Response at Six Months (as Per RECIST v1.1), Objective response assessed as per New Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) : Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 6 months|Percentage of Patients Remaining Alive and Progression Free at 6 Months as Per RECIST1.1., Progression is defined using New Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study), or a unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of one or more new lesions., 6 months|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival is defined as the delay between the start date of treatment and the date of progression or death (from any cause), whichever occurs first. Patients alive and progression free were censored at the date of last follow-up, death, or last patient contact. Progression is assessed as per RECIST v1.1., from start of study treatment to the end of the study (up to 10 months)|1-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, 1 year|Treatment Safety (AEs, SAEs and Laboratory Abnormalities) Graded According to the NCI-CTCAE Version 4.0., Toxicity were graded according to the NCI-CTCAE version 4.0., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of Participants With a Biomarker Amplification, Genomic status of biomarkers obtained by using array-comparative genomic hybridization., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Liposarcomas are soft tissue sarcomas most frequent. We distinguish three subtypes on the basis of their histological and cytogenetic characteristics: well-differentiated liposarcoma / dedifferentiated, myxoid liposarcoma and / or round cell liposarcoma and pleomorphic. Dedifferentiated liposarcomas (LDD) represent 20% of liposarcomas and are characterized by well-differentiated component associated with a contingent sarcomatous differentiation and fat-usually high grade. The LDD are most often rétropértionéal seat. Thus, their development is very long asymptomatic. At diagnosis, tumor volume is often very important making surgical removal impossible in a high proportion of cases. Operable tumors have also a risk of local recurrence by about 50% and about 20% metastatic. Chemotherapy is the only treatment of these advanced forms. However, the currently available drugs (adriamycin, ifosfamide) have only very limited effectiveness. Progression-free survival of patients does not exceed 2 months. The LDD is characterized cytogenetically by the constant presence of two amplicons (1p32 and 6q23) respectively targeting genes MAP3K5 and JUN. These two genes encode proteins involved in the signaling pathway Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Activation of JNK is involved in the loss of adipose differentiation and tumor aggressiveness of LDD. The plitidepsin is a drug capable of inducing apoptosis of tumor cells carrying a functional activation of the JNK pathway. This drug has such a pro-apoptotic and anti-proliferative in vitro models of LDD. plitidepsin could represent the treatment of choice for patients with advanced LDD. The objective of this study is to evaluate the anti-tumor activity of plitidepsin patients with locally advanced dedifferentiated liposarcomas and / or metastatic.