Radioactive Drug (177Lu-DOTATATE) for the Treatment of Locally Advanced, Metastatic, or Unresectable Rare Endocrine Cancers
This phase II trial studies how well 177Lu-DOTATATE works in treating patients with rare endocrine cancers that have spread from where they started to nearby tissue or lymph nodes (locally advanced), spread to other places in the body (metastatic), or cannot be removed by surgery (unresectable). Radioactive drugs, such as 177Lu-DOTATATE, may carry radiation directly to cancer cells and not harm normal cells. 177Lu-DOTATATE may help to control endocrine cancers compared to standard treatment.
Locally Advanced Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Locally Advanced Paraganglioma|Metastatic Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Metastatic Paraganglioma|Metastatic Parathyroid Gland Carcinoma|Pituitary Gland Carcinoma|Somatostatin Receptor Positive|Stage III Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IV Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVA Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVB Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Stage IVC Thyroid Gland Medullary Carcinoma AJCC v8|Unresectable Adrenal Gland Pheochromocytoma|Unresectable Paraganglioma
DRUG: Lutetium Lu 177 Dotatate
Objective response rate (ORR), Assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 determined by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Will be calculated as the proportion of patients with complete responses (CR), partial responses (PR), or stable disease (SD) at the CT/MRI assessment time point., Up to 52 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Objective response rate (ORR) by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 determined by Ia. Computed tomography (CT) or Ib. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate progression-free survival at 1-year. II. To correlate blood pressure control and change/discontinuation of antihypertensive medications with tumor responses in patients with pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas (PHPGs).

III. To correlate plasma metanephrines and chromogranin A with tumor responses in patients with PHPGs.

IV. To correlate calcitonin, carcinoembryonic antigen, and chromogranin A with tumor responses in patients with medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTCs).

V. To correlate pituitary hormones (depending on particular tumor, e.g. prolactin for prolactinomas, insulin-like growth factor (IGF-1) for acromegaly, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and 24-hour urine free cortisol for Cushing disease, and chromogranin A with tumor responses in patients with functional pituitary carcinomas).

VI. To correlate calcium, intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH), and chromogranin A with tumor responses in patients with parathyroid carcinoma.

VII. Toxicity assessment by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 (CTCAE 5.0).

VIII. To correlate tumor responses with tumor uptake score in somatostatin receptor scintigraphy, overall prognosis and responsiveness to lutetium Lu 177 dotatate (177Lu-DOTATATE).

IX. To determine the percentage of tumors that demonstrate uptake on diagnostic 68Gallium-DOTATATE positron emission tomography (PET)/CT that would make treatment with 177Lu-DOTATATE feasible.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate pituitary function in all patients to look for possible radiation late effects on the pituitary gland.

II. To estimate best biochemical response for specific tumor markers in patients with non-measurable disease.

III. To correlate biochemical response in patients with non-measurable disease with RECIST 1.1 tumor response criteria for patients with non-measurable disease.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 177Lu-DOTATATE intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes every 8-16 weeks. Treatment continues for up to 52 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at week 72 and then every 24 weeks for up to 5 years.