A Two Arm Trial of Axitinib and Carboplatin/Paclitaxel in Melanoma
This is a two arm prospective Phase II pilot trial designed to determine the optimal duration of break between axitinib and chemotherapy with carboplatin/paclitaxel in melanoma. In this study, 6 patients will be enrolled to Arm A, the FLT PET scan (3'deoxy-3'-18F-Fluorothymidine positron emission tomography scans)cohort. 30 patients will be enrolled to Arm B, the treatment-only cohort. 36 total patients will be enrolled. The treatment schedule will be the same in either cohort, with the exception of the FLT PET scans.
Melanoma
DRUG: Axitinib|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with tumor size reduction, i.e. the sum of partial responses plus complete responses. Radiographic response was evaluated using RECIST criteria during every 21-day cycle of treatment., Monthly during study treatment, up to 12 months
Optimal Interval Between the End of Axitinib Therapy and Initiation of Chemotherapy, Optimal interval between the end of axitinib therapy and initiation of chemotherapy, as determined using FLT PET as a Radiological Biomarker information of Resumption of DNA Synthesis Following Axitinib Therapy., Days 1, 14, 17, and 20 of cycle 1|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival is the duration from first dose of study medication to death. For participants who are alive, overall survival is censored at the last contact., Baseline until death or up to 24 months|Time to Progression (TTP), within 7 days of odd cycles after cycle 1 for the duration of treatment, up to 12 cycles|Increase From Nadir in the Sum of Maximum (18)F-FLT Uptake Values After Treatment Holiday, (18)F-FLT uptake values following a 7-day treatment holiday compared to the lower of Baseline or Day 14 value., Baseline, Day 14, Day 20
This is a two arm prospective Phase II pilot trial designed to determine the optimal duration of break between axitinib and chemotherapy with carboplatin/paclitaxel in melanoma. In this study, 6 patients will be enrolled to Arm A, the FLT-PET (3'deoxy-3'-18F-Fluorothymidine positron emission tomography scans)cohort. 30 patients will be enrolled to Arm B, the treatment-only cohort. 36 total patients will be enrolled. The treatment schedule and dose will be the same in either cohort, with the exception of the FLT PET scans. We are enrolling only 6 patients to Arm A, the FLT-PET cohort, because of study financial considerations.

Patients will be enrolled in Arm A first, the FLT-PET cohort, to accommodate the radiological manufacture of the FLT-PET scan dye. It is expensive to manufacture and it is not usable forever. However if a patient is unable to participate in Arm A because of logistical issues, i.e. not being able to travel to UCSF for FLT-PET scans we will offer them participation in Arm B so that they can receive treatment that is not available off study.

Each treatment cycle will last for 21days. During Cycle 1, patients will be treated with:

Days 1-14: axitinib 5 mg PO twice daily Days 15-21: break from treatment

In all cycles after Cycle 1, patients will be treated with:

Day 1: paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 over 3 hours followed by carboplatin AUC 5 (AUC 5 is a term used to describe the dosing of carboplatin based on a patient's height, weight and kidney function) over 45 minutes Days 1-14: axitinib 5 mg PO twice daily Days 15-21: break from treatment Arm A: FLT PET cohort subjects will have FLT PET scans up to 2 weeks prior to day 1 and on days 14, 17, and 21 of cycle 1.

Arm B: Treatment-only patients will receive administration of axitinib and carboplatin/paclitaxel on the same schedule and dose as Arm A but will not have FLT PET scans. Patients in Arm B will have standard tumor assessment with FDG PET-CT scans (F18-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans), CT Scans, and MRI's.