Partial Brain RT, Temozolomide, Chloroquine, and TTF Therapy for the Treatment of Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This trial studies the side effects of partial brain radiation therapy, temozolomide, chloroquine, and tumor treating fields therapy for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Chemotherapy drugs, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Chloroquine is normally used to treat strains of malaria and prior preclinical and clinical data suggests that it may increase the efficacy of both radiation and tumor treating fields therapy. Tumor treating fields therapy uses electric fields tuned to specific frequencies to disrupt cell division, inhibiting tumor growth and potentially causing cancer cells to die. The purpose of this study is to determine the safety of partial brain radiation therapy, temozolomide, chloroquine, and tumor treating fields therapy in patients with gliobastoma
Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma
RADIATION: 3-Dimensional Conformal Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT)|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Chloroquine|PROCEDURE: Tumor Treating Fields Therapy (TTF)
Proportion of patients who develop a specific acute toxicity (dermatitis), Will summarize dermatitis status, First 3 months of adjuvant therapy phase
Incidence of adverse events, Will detail the safety profile and measure (via magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography scans) the uptake and retention of alpha-\[11C\]methyl-L-tryptophan., First 3 months of adjuvant therapy phase
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the safety of partial brain radiation therapy plus temozolomide and chloroquine followed by tumor treating fields (TTFs) plus temozolomide and chloroquine, specifically grade 3 or higher dermatitis within the first 3 months of the adjuvant therapy phase.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To measure treatment effect via advanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and alpha-\[11C\]methyl-L-tryptophan (AMT)-positron emission tomography (PET).

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo 30 fractions of 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D CRT) or intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and receive temozolomide orally (PO) and chloroquine PO daily from day 1 for the duration of radiation therapy up to day 49. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ADJUVANT TREATMENT: Beginning 4 weeks after the last day of radiation therapy, patients receive temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-5 and chloroquine PO daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients demonstrating continued benefit may continue to receive temozolomide and chloroquine for up to 12 cycles. Patients also undergo TTF therapy over 18 hours or longer per day.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up monthly for 3 months.