Toripalimab Maintenance for Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
The guidelines for locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma currently recommend surgery / radiotherapy / chemotherapy / targeted therapy. However, the median PFS of patients with high risk factors after comprehensive treatment was about 17 months, and the 2-year PFS rate was about 40 %. The KEYNOTE-048 study showed that PD-1 monoclonal antibody alone or in combination with chemotherapy significantly improved survival and was safe for recurrent / metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, PD-1 monoclonal antibody has become the first-line treatment of metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. For locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, the existing studies on immunotherapy for neoadjuvant or concurrent chemoradiotherapy have not been clearly concluded. We previously used PD-1 monoclonal antibody for the maintenance treatment of patients after the first-line treatment of locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, without residual tumor, which showed a trend of prolonged survival. Therefore, this study intends to explore whether the maintenance treatment of PD-1 monoclonal antibody terripril can further improve the survival of patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma with high risk factors and no residual tumor after first-line comprehensive treatment, and the safety is good.
Locally Advanced Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Toripalimab
2-year progression-free survival, The time from the day of first-line systemic treatment to disease progression or death., 2 years
2-year Overall Survival, The time from the day of first-line treatment to the death of any cause., 2 years
≥Grade 3 Treatment-Related Adverse Events, Any adverse signs ( including abnormal laboratory results ), symptoms or diseases that are time-related to the use of the study drug, regardless of whether there is a causal relationship with the study drug, 2 years
The guidelines for locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma currently recommend surgery / radiotherapy / chemotherapy / targeted therapy. However, the median PFS of patients with high risk factors after comprehensive treatment was about 17 months, and the 2-year PFS rate was about 40 %. The KEYNOTE-048 study showed that PD-1 monoclonal antibody alone or in combination with chemotherapy significantly improved survival and was safe for recurrent / metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. Therefore, PD-1 monoclonal antibody has become the first-line treatment of metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. For locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, the existing studies on immunotherapy for neoadjuvant or concurrent chemoradiotherapy have not been clearly concluded. We previously used PD-1 monoclonal antibody for the maintenance treatment of patients after the first-line treatment of locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, without residual tumor, which showed a trend of prolonged survival. Therefore, this study intends to explore whether the maintenance treatment of PD-1 monoclonal antibody terripril can further improve the survival of patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma with high risk factors and no residual tumor after first-line comprehensive treatment, and the safety is good.