Carfilzomib for the Treatment of Patients With Advanced Neuroendocrine Cancers
The purpose of this study is to determine if carfilzomib is safe and effective in the treatment of patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumors.
Neuroendocrine Cancer
DRUG: Carfilzomib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (i.e. 2 CRs or PRs at least 4 weeks apart) to treatment according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) CR=disappearance of all target lesions. PR=at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., every 3 cycles (1 cycle= 28 days) until treatment discontinuation up to 4 years
Disease Control Rate (DCR), Percentage of participants with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) (≥ 6 cycles) according to RECIST v1.1 criteria. Complete Response is defined per RECIST as the disappearance of all target/non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Partial Response is defined per RECIST as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD. Stable disease is defined per RECIST as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest (nadir) sum LD since the treatment started., every 3 cycles (1 cycle= 28 days) until treatment discontinuation up to 4 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Measured from Day 1 of study drug administration to disease progression as defined by RECIST v1.1, or death on the study. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or unequivocal progression of non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions. Patients who did not have disease progression or death documented were censored on the date of the last visit with adequate assessment., up to 4 years|Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, The number of treatment-emergent adverse events will be graded utilizing the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) v4.03, From the day of the first dose to 30 days after the last dose of study medication, up to 4 years
Neuroendocrine malignancies such as pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PNETs) and gastrointestinal (GI) carcinoids, are generally rare but their incidences are increasing. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that proteasome inhibitors have activity against a variety of tumor types. Carfilzomib (Kyprolis®) is an irreversible proteasome inhibitor with a favorable safety profile that has been studied in a variety of hematologic and solid tumors. Carfilzomib received accelerated approval from the U.S. FDA in 2012, based on a favorable response rate, for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who received at least two prior therapies, and demonstrated disease progression within 60 days of completing the last therapy. In this multi-center study, the investigators propose to evaluate carfilzomib for the treatment of patients with advanced neuroendocrine cancers.