Effect of Early Postoperative Drinking Water on Postoperative Recovery Quality of Patients With Thyroid Surgery
This study is a single-center, prospective and randomized controlled study to investigate the effects of early recovery of oral intake (E) and late recovery of oral intake (L) on postoperative recovery quality and satisfaction of patients undergoing thyroid surgery. The study's primary outcome is quality of recovery-15 scale (Qor-15).
Thyroid Tumor
BEHAVIORAL: Early resumption of oral intake|BEHAVIORAL: Late resumption of oral intake
QoR-15 score on the first day after surgery, Using QoR-15 questionnaire to evaluate the quality of perioperative recovery. QoR-15 consists of 15 comprehensive questions, including physical comfort (5 items), psychological support (2 items), physical independence (2 items), emotional state (4 items), and pain (2 items), each item is scored with 0-10 points, 0 represents poor state, 10 represents good state, and the total score is the QoR-15 score of the patient., one day
QoR-15 score on the day of discharge, Using QoR-15 questionnaire to evaluate the quality of perioperative recovery. QoR-15 consists of 15 comprehensive questions, including physical comfort (5 items), psychological support (2 items), physical independence (2 items), emotional state (4 items), and pain (2 items), each item is scored with 0-10 points, 0 represents poor state, 10 represents good state, and the total score is the QoR-15 score of the patient., one day|Patient satisfaction, The overall satisfaction of the patients during hospitalization was scored immediately before the patients were discharged from the hospital. The patients were scored according to 0-10 points, 0 being completely dissatisfied and 10 being completely satisfied., through patient discharge, an average of 3-4 day|Postoperative pain, The patients were given self-evaluation before the first drinking water and 8 hours after the operation. They were divided into pharyngeal pain and surgical incision pain, which were scored according to 0-10 points respectively. 0 point was completely painless, and 10 point was unbearable pain., through patient discharge, an average of 3-4 day|Recovery of digestive function, Postoperative defecation and exhaustion time, through recovery of digestive function, an average of 1-2 day after surgery|Length of hospital stay, Length of hospital stay, through patient discharge, an average of 3-4 day|Total drainage volume after operation, Total drainage volume after operation, through removal of drainage tube, an average of 2 day
The subjects of this study are patients who will receive thyroid surgery in Peking Union Medical College Hospital. After the patient is included in the experiment, when the patient meets the exit criteria of the PACU, the patient will be randomly assigned to early resumption of oral intake group and late resumption of oral intake group to receive different treatments. Finally, researchers will collecte and evaluate the different outcome indicators of the two groups of patients.