The Adapting Disease Specific Outcome Measures Pilot Trial for Telehealth in Myasthenia Gravis
The goal of this pilot study is to determine the reliability of myasthenia gravis (MG) specific outcome measures obtained during virtual encounters with patients with myasthenia gravis. The main question it aims to answer is: Are MG-specific outcome measures obtained during virtual encounters reliable?

Participants will complete two virtual study visits in which they will be administered common MG-specific outcome measures and a newly developed outcome measure developed specifically for telemedicine assessments of MG patients.
Myasthenia Gravis
OTHER: Telehealth
Interrater reliability of the virtual Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC-v) score., Interrater reliability of the virtual Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC-v) score will be estimated between two independent rater assessments performed on Visit 1 (V1) and Visit 2 (V2). The MGC score is a validated, patient-reported 10-item assessment tool for evaluating the symptoms and signs of MG. Patient assessment includes self-report of impact (normal, mild, moderate, or severe) and is additionally weighted for clinical significance. Total score ranges from 0 to 50, with higher scores indicating a greater impact of MG on functional activities. A three point change is considered clinical meaningful. This brief assessment takes approximately 10 minutes to complete., 3 days (+/- 1 day)|Intrarater reliability (test-retest reliability) of the MGC-v score., Interrater reliability of the virtual Myasthenia Gravis Composite (MGC-v) score will be estimated between two independent rater assessments performed on Visit 1 (V1) and Visit 2 (V2). The MGC score is a validated, patient-reported 10-item assessment tool for evaluating the symptoms and signs of MG. Patient assessment includes self-report of impact (normal, mild, moderate, or severe) and is additionally weighted for clinical significance. Total score ranges from 0 to 50, with higher scores indicating a greater impact of MG on functional activities. A three point change is considered clinical meaningful. This brief assessment takes approximately 10 minutes to complete., 3 days (+/- 1 day)
The purpose of this study is to better understand the use of modified clinical assessments during telehealth visits for patients with Myasthenia Gravis (MG). The study will consist of 2 virtual telemedicine visits. A screening visit will be conducted to optimize the telemedicine environment, provide training on the telemedicine platform being used in the study, and collect demographic, medical history, and medication information. Participants who meet eligibility requirements will have a telemedicine visit (Visit 1) with a study doctor where assessments adapted for the telemedicine environment will be performed. Participants will also be asked to fill out questionnaires related to MG or their experience with telemedicine either online or with the study investigators. A second visit (Visit 2), conducted within 3 days (+/- 1 day), will replicate the assessments performed in V1. Visit 1 and Visit 2 will be recorded for later review by study team members. The investigators hope to establish the effectiveness of these clinical tools in order to better manage MG in the future in clinical care and research study visits.