8-Chloroadenosine in Combination With Venetoclax for the Treatment of Patients With Relapsed/Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
This phase I trial tests the safety, side effects, and best dose of a new 8-chloroadenosine in combination with venetoclax in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory). 8-Chloroadenosine may help block the formation of growths that may become cancer. Venetoclax is in a class of medications called B-cell lymphoma-2 (BCL-2) inhibitors. It may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking Bcl-2, a protein needed for cancer cell survival. Giving 8-chloroadenosine in combination with venetoclax may help prevent the disease from coming back in patients with acute myeloid leukemia.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: 8-Chloroadenosine|DRUG: Venetoclax
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Toxicities will be graded using the National Cancer Institute (NCI)-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 1 year|Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), Toxicities will be graded using the NCI-Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. DLT will be assessed after cycle one., Up to 1 cycle (Each cycle is 28 days)
Time to response, Defined by European LeukemiaNet (ELN) criteria 2017 in response-evaluable participants that achieve a best response of either complete remission (CR), complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery (CRi), or partial response (PR) at the end of study therapy. Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 1 year|Duration of response (DOR), Patients will be considered evaluable for response if they are eligible, have baseline disease assessments, and receive 2 cycles of protocol treatment, or achieve a CR/CRi after 1 cycle of protocol treatment, or progressed. Patients will have their response classified according to the European Leukemia Network (ELN) 2017 criteria. Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the first achievement of PR, CR, or CRi to time of disease progression, assessed up to 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Patients will be considered evaluable for response if they are eligible, have baseline disease assessments, and receive 2 cycles of protocol treatment, or achieve a CR/CRi after 1 cycle of protocol treatment, or progressed. Patients will have their response classified according to the European Leukemia Network (ELN) 2017 criteria. Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From start of protocol treatment to time of death due to any cause, or until last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year|Event-free survival (EFS), Patients will be considered evaluable for response if they are eligible, have baseline disease assessments, and receive 2 cycles of protocol treatment, or achieve a CR/CRi after 1 cycle of protocol treatment, or progressed. Patients will have their response classified according to the European Leukemia Network (ELN) 2017 criteria. Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From start of protocol treatment to time of disease relapse/progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurs earlier; or until last follow-up, assessed up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of a regimen combining 8-chloro-adenosine (8-Cl-Ado) and venetoclax in patients with relapsed or refractory (R/R) acute myeloid leukemia (AML), including type, frequency, severity, attribution, and duration of the toxicity.

II. Establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of 8-Cl-Ado when given in combination with venetoclax.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Obtain preliminary estimates of the anti-leukemia activity of the 8-Cl-Ado/venetoclax regimen by assessing the overall response rate (Complete remission\[CR\]+ complete remission with incomplete hematologic recovery \[CRi\]+ partial response \[PR\]) and complete remission rate (CR+CRi).

II. Obtain preliminary estimates of duration of remission (DOR), overall survival (OS), and event-free survival (EFS).

III. Determine the pharmacokinetics (PK) of plasma 8-Cl-Ado and metabolites when 8-Cl-Ado is given in combination with venetoclax.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate PK and pharmacodynamics (PD) of VEN/8-Cl-Ado combination therapy to identify biomarkers of clinical response and resistance.

II. Identify genes and pathways associated with response to VEN/8-Cl-Ado. III. Determine the metabolic consequences of VEN/8 Cl-Ado treatment on leukemia stem cells (LSCs).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive 8-Cl-Ado intravenously (IV) over 4 hours daily on days 1-5 and venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 28 days for up to 1 year.