Adjuvant Hypofractionated Whole Pelvis Radiation Therapy in Endometrial Cancer
Studying adjuvant hypofractionated whole pelvis radiation therapy in Endometrial Cancer.
Endometrial Cancer
RADIATION: Hypofractionated WPRT
Safety profile of hypofractionated, isoeffective whole pelvis radiation regimens for post-operative treatment of endometrial cancer using CTCAE version 5.0 and Patient Reported Outcome-CTCAE., Toxicity profile will be determined by assessment of acute gastrointestinal and genitourinary toxicity during WPRT and 3 months post-radiation using CTCAE version 5.0 and Patient Reported Outcome-CTCAE (PRO-CTCAE). Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be defined as any acute ≥ grade 3 gastrointestinal or genitourinary per CTCAE or a score of ≥4 on the 5-point scale per PRO-CTCAE., 3 months|Maximum tolerated dose per fraction (MTDF) of hypofractionated, isoeffective whole pelvis radiation regimens for post-operative treatment of endometrial cancer through CTCAE data and gastrointestinal PRO-CTCAE data., Determination of the MTDF will rely on toxicity data, specifically combined gastrointestinal and genitourinary CTCAE data and gastrointestinal PRO-CTCAE data. MTDF should not exceed \>20% of patients having a DLT per CTCAE or \>55% of patients having a dose-limiting GI toxicity per PRO-CTCAE. Further details in study design., 3 months
Impact of hypofractionated WPRT on patient quality of life using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Endometrial version 4.0., Quality of life data will be obtained for exploratory analysis only., 3 months|Patient compliance with hypofractionated WPRT, as defined by how many patients are able to complete WPRT without a break in treatment., Patient compliance with radiotherapy will be recorded and used for exploratory analysis only., 3 months
This is a Phase I study evaluating the safety of adjuvant hypofractionated whole pelvis radiation therapy (WPRT) in endometrial cancer. The primary objective of the study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose per fraction (MTDF), defined by acceptable acute clinician-reported GI and GU toxicity and patient-reported GI toxicity, of WPRT from among the two study dose levels. Acute GI and GU toxicity will be assessed according to both the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), version 5.0, and Patient Reported Outcome-CTCAE (PRO-CTCAE). Clinician-reported dose-limiting toxicity (C-DLT) is a binary outcome (yes/no), defined as an acute grade 3 or higher GI or GU per CTCAE, occurring within three months of completing WPRT. Patient-reported DLT (P-DLT) is a binary outcome, defined by a GI toxicity with a score of ≥4 on the 5-point scale per PRO-CTCAE, occurring within three months of completing WPRT. The MTDF is defined as the minimum of the dose with a C-DLT rate closest to the clinician-reported target C-DLT rate of 20% and the dose with a P-DLT rate closest to the patient-reported target P-DLT rate of 55%. Toxicity results of NRG-RTOG 1203- A Randomized Phase III Study of Standard vs. IMRT Pelvic Radiation for Post-Operative Treatment of Endometrial and Cervical Cancer- were used to define the acceptable percentage of DLTs. The study will accrue participants in cohorts of size 3. The starting dose level will be dose level 1 (41.25 Gy in 15 fx).