Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy in Preventing Recurrence in Patients With Breast Cancer After Surgery
This randomized phase III trial studies how well hypofractionated radiation therapy works in preventing the return of tumor cells in breast cancer patients following surgery. Hypofractionated radiation therapy delivers higher doses of radiation therapy over a shorter period of time and may kill more tumor cells and have fewer side effects.
Stage I Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IA Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IB Breast Cancer AJCC v7|Stage II Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIA Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIB Breast Cancer AJCC v6 and v7|Stage IIIA Breast Cancer AJCC v7
RADIATION: Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy
Complication Rate, Defined as the Percentage of Women Who Develop Grade 3 or Higher Late Adverse Event and/or Deterioration of Cosmesis From Excellent/Good to Fair/Poor or From Fair to Poor, The complication rate will be reported by arm., 24 months
Cause-specific Survival, Will be estimated with a Kaplan-Meier estimator and curve by treatment arm. Estimates will be given for one year with 95% CIs. Comparison between arms will employ a log-rank test., 1 year|Overall Survival, Will be estimated with a Kaplan-Meier estimator and curve by treatment arm. Estimates will be given for one year along with 95% CIs. Comparison between arms will employ a log-rank test., 1 year|Number of Patients Experiencing Distant Recurrence, Distant recurrence defined as metastatic cancer that has either been biopsy confirmed or clinically diagnosed as recurrent invasive breast cancer, 5 years|Number of Patients Experiencing Acute (Grade 3+) Adverse Events (AEs), The maximum grade for each type of acute (grade 3+) AE will be recorded for each patient. Data will be summarized as frequencies and relative frequencies by treatment arm. The relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration. Number of patients experiencing one or more grade 3+ events will be compared between arms using chi-squared tests. Adverse events were assessed using the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 3 months|Number of Patients Experiencing Grade 3+ Late Adverse Events, The maximum grade for each type of late AE will be recorded for each patient. Data will be summarized as frequencies and relative frequencies by treatment arm. The relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration. Number of patients experiencing one or more grade 3+ late AEs will be compared between arms using chi-squared tests., 24 months|Invasive Disease-free, Will be estimated with a Kaplan-Meier estimator and curve by treatment arm. Median invasive disease-free time will be given along with standard error. Comparison between arms will employ a log-rank test., 5 years|Percent of Patients With Locoregional Recurrence, The cumulative incidence of locoregional recurrence will be estimated using a competing risks method by treatment arm. The competing risks will be distant breast cancer recurrence and death. Comparison between arms will employ Fine-Gray regression. Locoregional recurrence is clinically diagnosed invasive breast cancer in the axilla, regional lymph nodes, chest wall, and/or skin of the ipsilateral breast at 5 years., 5 years|Disease-Free Survival, Will be estimated with a Kaplan-Meier estimator and curve by treatment arm. Median disease free survival time and standard error will be estimated. Comparison between arms will employ a log-rank test., 5 years
Patient Reported Outcomes/Quality of Life, The subscales of the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS), elements from Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), and other patient reported measures such as fatigue, breast pain, breast shape, and arm related morbidity outlined in the appendix will be summarized as the mean +/- standard deviation and median (minimum value, maximum value). Mixed models will be used to estimate changes at fixed time points., Up to 5 years|Patient Reported Outcomes/Quality of Life, The subscales of the Breast Cancer Treatment Outcomes Scale (BCTOS), elements from Patient-Reported Outcomes Version of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE), and other patient reported measures such as fatigue, breast pain, breast shape, and arm related morbidity outlined in the appendix will be summarized as the mean +/- standard deviation and median (minimum value, maximum value). Mixed models will be used to compare outcomes between arms., Up to 5 years|Patient Self-reported Cosmesis, Will evaluate fatigue, breast pain, arm function. The values of the cosmesis instruments (patient self-reported and panel-assessed) will be summarized with the frequencies and confidence intervals of fair or poor cosmesis events at baseline, 2 years, and 5 years by treatment arm. Comparisons between arms will employ chi-squared tests., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the 24-month complication rate of 5 fraction whole radiotherapy +/- concurrent boost as compared to 15 fraction radiotherapy +/- sequential boost.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate acute and late toxicity. II. To estimate the 5-year locoregional control, invasive disease-free survival and overall survival.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate fatigue, and other patient-reported outcomes. II. To evaluate clinical features, treatment technique, dose-volume parameters, histologic and genetic variants associated with fair and poor cosmetic outcomes or unplanned surgical intervention.

III. To evaluate the costs and comparative effectiveness of treatment. IV. Compare the use of photon therapy with spot scanning proton therapy in two different hypo-fractionated whole breast schemas.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Within 12 weeks of breast cancer surgery or adjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo radiation therapy in 15 daily fractions for 10 days.

ARM II: Within 12 weeks of breast cancer surgery or adjuvant chemotherapy, patients undergo hypofractionated radiation therapy in 5 daily fractions for 5 days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up to 5 years.