SRT in Combination With Pembrolizumab in Patients With Recurrent Prostate Cancer After Radical Prostatectomy
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a pembrolizumab therapy of pembrolizumab in combination with standard salvage radiation therapy (SRT) in patients with biochemical recurrence (BCR) of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) persistence after radical prostatectomy (RP).
Urologic Cancer|Biochemical Recurrence of Malignant Neoplasm of Prostate
DRUG: Pembrolizumab Injection [Keytruda]|RADIATION: Salvage Radiation Therapy (SRT)
Complete biochemical response, number of patients with complete biochemical response defined as a PSA level below limit of detection.

Patients will be counted as a responder with respect to the primary endpoint, if the PSA level is below the limit of detection at week 60 (± 2 weeks) after start of trial treatment. Patients will be counted as a non-responder with respect to the primary endpoint, if the PSA level is above the limit of detection at week 60 (± 2 weeks)., at week 60 (+/- weeks) after start of treatment
Radiographic progression-free survival, The probability of radiographic progession-free survival at week 60 (+/- 2 weeks) after start of treatment will be estimated as the number of patients who are alive and progression-free divided by the total number of treated patients., at week 60 (+/- 2 weeks) after start of treatment
PSA-nadir level, The PSA-nadir is defined as the lowest PSA-level measured after start of pembrolizumab administration., lowest PSA level during pembrolizumab administration (49 weeks)|Time to PSA-nadir (TNN), The time to PSA-nadir is defined as the time from start of pembrolizumab administration to this time point., from start of trial treatment (visit 1/cycle 1) to lowest PSA level (up to 17 visits/ cycles of trial treatment during 49 weeks)|Duration of pembrolizumab exposure, Number of administered pembrolizumab cycles., from start of pembrolizumab administration (cycle 1/visit 1) to up to visit /cycle 17 during 49 weeks for each patient, each cycle is 21 days|Dose of pembrolizumab, Cumulative dose as sum of all pembrolizumab doses given., from start of pembrolizumab administration (cycle 1/visit 1) to up to visit /cycle 17 during 49 weeks for each patient, each cycle is 21 days|Dose intensity of pembrolizumab, Cumulative dose as sum of all pembrolizumab doses given divided by the time under pembrolizumab treatment (last date minus first date of administration)., from start of pembrolizumab administration (cycle 1/visit 1) to up to visit /cycle 17 during 49 weeks for each patient, each cycle is 21 days|Dose changes of pembrolizumab, Number of patients with dose change of pembrolizumab along with reasons for dose change., from start of pembrolizumab administration (cycle 1/visit 1) to up to visit /cycle 17 during 49 weeks for each patient, each cycle is 21 days|Dose interruptions of pembrolizumab, Number of patients with interruptions of pembrolizumab administration along with reasons for dose interruptions., from start of pembrolizumab administration (cycle 1/visit 1) to up to visit /cycle 17 during 49 weeks for each patient, each cycle is 21 days|Dosage of subsequent Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in high-risk patients (cN+ in imaging or PSA >0.7 ng/ml at screening), Cumulative dose of ADT after month 6 after start of pembrolizumab administration., Month 6 after start of pembroblizumab administration to end of study (week 72)|Time to initiation of subsequent Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in high-risk patients (cN+ in imaging or PSA >0.7 ng/ml at screening), Time from month 6 after start of pembrolizumab administration to start of ADT., Month 6 after start of pembroblizumab administration to end of study (week 72)|Dosage of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in low-risk patients, Cumulative dose of ADT after start of pembrolizumab administration., Start of pembroblizumab administration to end of study|Time to initiation of Androgen Deprivation Therapy (ADT) in low-risk patients, Time from start of pembrolizumab administration to start of ADT., Start of pembroblizumab administration to end of study (week 72)|Functional assessment of cancer therapy - prostate cancer (FACT-P questionnaire, 4.0), Quality of life of patients will be evaluated using the Functional assessment of cancer therapy - prostate cancer (FACT-P questionnaire. The scoring and the analysis of the total score and the subscale scores will be performed according to the scoring manual available from www.facit.org.

Minimum value: 0, Maximum value (FACT-P Trial Outcome Index, TOI): 104, Maximum value (FACT-G total score): 108, Maximum value (FACT-P total score): 156, High score indicates better outcome., week 1, week 16, week 49, week 60
Current guidelines recommend a salvage radiation therapy (SRT) with at least 66 Gy as preferred treatment option in patients with biochemical recurrence (BCR) resp. PSA (prostate-specific antigen) persistence after radical prostatectomy (RP). The guideline recommendation is based on two non-randomized controlled trials that showed an improved cancer-specific survival and a better local tumor control. The optimal timing for a radiation therapy cannot be clearly defined by the available literature. A radiation therapy as early as possible with a PSA level \<0,5 ng/ml seems to be beneficial. The guideline recommendation is based on two non-randomized controlled trials that showed an improved cancer-specific survival and a better local tumor control. A complete biochemical response is to be expected in approx. 60-70% of patients after 12 months.

The established imaging modality in patients with BCR used to be computed tomography of the abdomen and bone scintigraphy for the detection of skeletal lesions. The introduction of PSMA PET/CT (prostate-specific membrane antigen positron emission tomography combined with CT) has changed the imaging in patients with recurrent prostate cancer and several studies could show improved oncological results compared to patients undergoing standard treatment without positron emission tomography (PET) positive lesions with a 10% improvement in biochemical recurrence-free survival after 2 years.

Immunotherapy alone has not yet proven to be efficacious in prostate cancer as a monotherapy in smaller studies. Several trials could show that the combination of the immunotherapy and radiation therapy has the potential to provide a synergistic effect in treating genitourinary malignancies, whereas more studies are needed to uncover the exact underlying mechanism. In brief, radiation therapy of the location of recurrence increases the tumor´s immunogenic potential and a systemic immunological reaction is initiated that leads to an increased activity of the immune system against tumor tissue (abscopal effect). Lately several trials have been evaluating a possible synergistic effect with tolerable side-effects. A trial combining those two treatment regimens in the early treatment of prostate cancer recurrence is not available up to date.

The clinical benefit of concomitant androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is controversial and literature failed to show a clear overall survival benefit for all patients. Several retrospective trials have been evaluating a concomitant ADT and for patients with risk factors like suspicious lymph-nodes in staging diagnostics. Several studies have been evaluating the effect of concomitant ADT though. Shipley et al. could show the addition of 24 months of bicalutamide to SRT resulted in significantly higher rates of long-term overall survival. However, sub-group analyses revealed that this effect counts mainly for patients with PSA of \>0.7 ng/ml before SRT. The GETUG-AFU trial did not find any survival benefit for short term (6 months) ADT additionally to SRT. However, a significant benefit in progression-free survival after 120 months of follow-up time was reported. A combination therapy of pembrolizumab and radiation therapy has not been evaluated before in this patient population. The investigators hypothesize that this combination is more effective than radiation therapy alone due to a radiogenic triggered immunomodulation which increases the anti-tumor effect of pembrolizumab. For patients with BCR or PSA persistence after RP no such treatment regimen has been tested yet.