Cetuximab After Immunotherapy for the Treatment of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer
This is a Phase II treatment, non-randomized, open label clinical trial to study the efficacy of the Cetuximab when administered as single agent in recurrent/ metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma after the failure or intolerance of immuno-oncology or immuno-oncology combined with chemotherapy.
Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Metastatic Head-and-neck Squamous-cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Cetuximab|OTHER: Questionnaire administration|OTHER: Quality of life assessment
Change in Overall Response Rate To Treatment with Cetuximab, Overall response rate is defined as the proportion patients achieving partial response or complete response per RECIST v1.1 criteria. An estimate of a 95% Exact Clopper Pearson confidence interval will be used. RECIST 1.1 criteria will be used to measure tumor size: Measurable disease is defined by the presence of at least 1 measurable lesion. A lesion, not previously irradiated per the protocol prior to enrollment, that can be accurately measured at baseline as ≥10 mm in the longest diameter (except lymph nodes which must have short axis ≥15 mm) with CT or MRI and that is suitable for accurate repeated measurements. Non-measurable: All other lesions, including small lesions (longest diameter \<10 mm or pathological lymph nodes with ≥10 mm to \<15 mm short axis at baseline). Only participants with measurable disease at baseline will be included in the study., 14 days before start of treatment, 7 weeks after start of treatment, and then every 6-8 weeks for the duration of treatment, up to approximately 2 years.
Duration of Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival will be defined as progression of local-regional disease, distant metastases or death without progression and will be reported as median progression-free survival as well as progression free survival at 6 month and 1 year time points. Investigators will estimate Kaplan Meier survival curves and estimate the median duration of response with 95% confidence intervals for these measures., At 6 months and at 1 year after enrollment on study|Duration of Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as death due to any cause and will be reported as median overall survival as well as overall survival at 6 month and 1 year time points. Investigators will estimate Kaplan Meier survival curves and estimate the median duration of response with 95% confidence intervals for these measures., At 6 months and at 1 year after enrollment on study|Duration of Response, Response is defined as (failure - progression of loco-regional disease or distant metastasis) Investigators will estimate Kaplan Meier survival curves and estimate the median duration of response and will also estimate 95% confidence intervals for this measure., At 6 months and at 1 year after enrollment on study|Number of Treatment-Related Toxicities with Cetuximab as Assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, Treatment-related side effects will be collected before each treatment based on clinical laboratory and radiologic changes and will be graded and reported. All patients who receive at least one dose of cetuximab will be considered evaluable for safety analysis. Investigators will create frequency tables that count the number and severity of toxicities observed in this study., Up to 2 years
Primary Objective:

• To measure Overall Response Rate to treatment with Cetuximab as single agent in patients with recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous cell cancer who failed PD-1 inhibitors alone or in combination with chemotherapy.

Secondary Objective(s):

* Measure Duration of Response (DUR), Progression Free Survival and Overall Survival and for treatment with single agent Cetuximab after immunotherapy with PD-1 inhibitors in Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
* Evaluate treatment toxicity with single agent Cetuximab in this patient population.

OUTLINE: Patients receive cetuximab intravenously (IV) over 60-120 minutes once every week in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 week and then every 6-8 weeks thereafter.