Sorafenib Relapase Prophylaxis After HCT With PTBCy Regimen
This is a single-center randomized open-label phase II clinical trial to compare relapse prophylaxis with sorafenib and observation after graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis with post-transplantation bendamustine and cyclophosphamide in high-risk myeloid malignancies. This is an intention to treat study, where randomization is performed at first documentation of CR after engraftment.
Acute Myeloid Leukemia, in Relapse|Myelodysplastic Syndromes|Chronic Myeloid Leukemia|Myeloproliferative Neoplasm
DRUG: Sorafenib
Event-free survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate of either relapse or secondary graft failure or death from all causes, 2 years
Overall survival, Kaplan-Meier estimate of death from all causes, 2 years|Cumulative incidence of primary and secondary graft failure, Cumulative secondary graft failure, competing risk is death and relapse, 365 days|Incidence of HCT-associated adverse events, Toxicity assessment is based on presence of NCI CTC AE 5.0 event grades 3-5. Veno-occlusive disease incidence and severity assessment is based on EBMT criteria 2020. Transplant-associated microangiopathy incidence assessment is based on Harmonization criteria. All toxicity measurements will be aggregated as severity scores., 180 days|Infectious complications, including analysis of severe bacterial, fungal and viral infections incidence, proportion of patients, requiring systemic treatment for bacterial, viral and fungal diseases, 180 days|Cumulative incidence of acute GVHD grade II-IV, 125 days, Cumulative incidence of patients with acute GVHD II-IV grade, competing risk is death, relapse and graft failure|Cumulative incidence of moderate and severe chronic GVHD, Cumulative incidence of patients with moderate and severe chronic GVHD according to NIH 2015 criteria, competing risk is death, relapse and primary graft failure, 2 years|Non-relapse mortality analysis, Cumulative incidence of patients with mortality without hematological relapse of malignancy, 2 years|GVHD-relapse-free survival analysis, Kaplan-Meier estimate of death, acute GVHD grade III-IV, severe chronic GVHD or relapse, 2 years|Cumulative incidence of relapse, Cumulative incidence of patients with relapse, competing risk is non-relapse mortality, 2 years
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) results steadily improve due to reduction of NRM. Standard risk patients now have the risk of HCT below 10% after matched donor transplantation. Nonetheless, there is limited improvement in CIR over time. Especially novel strategies to reduce relapse are needed for high-risk myeloid malignancies where standard HCT approaches result in relatively unfavorable outcomes. Among high-risk malignancies are refractory AML without hematological remission for HCT. In this group EFS rarely exceeds 15%. Some improvement in refractory AML was reported with intensified sequential conditioning regimens, but there use is limited to young and fit patients who comprise only around 20-30% of all refractory AML population. Also it was demonstrated that AML patients beyond CR2 have significantly worse prognosis than CR1 and CR2 patients. It is reported that long-term EFS in this group of patients is around 30%. The next adverse group of HCT recipients are patients with high-risk somatic mutations. It is reported in several studies that EFS in tp53-mutant AML even allografted in CR is 0%. Another adverse mutation is ASXL1, where also 0-10% EFS was demonstrated in large cohorts of patients. For therapy related myeloid malignancies it was also demonstrated that the CIR is higher and this group patients have even in CR have 30% EFS. Complex karyotype and monosomal karytope, involvement of chromosome 3 with EVI1 gene, which are common in this patients group, further exacerbate prognosis. Very high risk MDS was also reported to have dismal prognosis after allogeneic HCT. All these adverse groups were included in the study.

PTBCy GVHD prophylaxis provides augmented GVL and better disease control in high-risk myeloid malignancies, but GVL effect fades over time. While median relapse rate is significantly prolonged to 8 months against the previously reported in the literature 2-3 months, the relapse rate with long term follow up remains high. Thus this longer time to relapse gives enough time to initiate sorafenib prophylaxis which was shown to be one of the most promising agents for relapse prophylaxis. Given its immune modulatory properties the study hypothesis is that sorafenib with PTBCy GVHD prohylaxis will further augment GVL and facilitate better disease control.