Hepatic Arterial Infusion Chemotherapy (HAIC) Combined with Durvalumab and Lenvatinib in Patients with Locally Advanced or Metastatic Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma: a Phase 2 Study(HAIC-quad Trial)
At present, the first-line treatment for patients with advanced unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is mainly systemic treatment, but the improvement in efficacy is limited and is not enough to meet the current clinical treatment needs. Hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has the advantages of increasing local drug concentration and reducing toxic side effects compared to systemic intravenous chemotherapy. In order to enable patients with advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma to obtain better treatment effects, this study plans to explore HAIC combined with durvalumab and lenvatinib as the first-line treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic ICC, in order to provide a better treatment choice for their comprehensive treatment.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma (Icc)|HAIC|Durvalumab
DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy (HAIC)|DRUG: Lenvatinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Disease assessments based on investigator assessments were determined by using RECIST version 1.1 guidelines. The ORR was defined as the percentage of patients with confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR). The CR was defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and no new lesions. The PR was defined as \>= 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions (compared to baseline) and no new non-target lesion. A confirmed CR or PR was defined as 2 CRs or 2 PRs with no evidence of progression in-between. Patients who discontinued randomized treatment without progression, received a subsequent anti-cancer therapy and then responded were not included as responders for ORR., Up to approximately 26 months
Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time from the date of randomization until death due to any cause. Any patient not known to have died at the time of analysis was censored based on the last recorded date on which the patient was known to be alive. Median OS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique., Up to approximately 36 months|Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS based on investigator assessments according to RECIST version 1.1 was defined as time from date of randomization until date of objective disease progression or death (by any cause in the absence of progression), regardless of whether the patient withdrew from randomized therapy or received another anticancer therapy prior to progression. Progression (i.e., PD) was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (TLs) and an absolute increase of ≥5mm, taking as reference the smallest sum of diameters since treatment started including the baseline sum of diameters, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions. Median PFS was calculated using the Kaplan-Meier technique., Up to approximately 26 months|Number of Participants Who Experience One or More Adverse Events (AE), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any unfavorable and unintended sign including an abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure, regardless of whether it was considered related to the medical treatment or procedure, that occurred during the course of the study., Up to approximately 36 months
At present, the first-line treatment for patients with advanced unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma is mainly systemic treatment, but the improvement in efficacy is limited and is not enough to meet the current clinical treatment needs. Hepatic artery infusion chemotherapy (HAIC) has the advantages of increasing local drug concentration and reducing toxic side effects compared to systemic intravenous chemotherapy. In order to enable patients with advanced intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma to obtain better treatment effects, this study plans to explore HAIC combined with durvalumab and lenvatinib as the first-line treatment for patients with locally advanced or metastatic ICC, in order to provide a better treatment choice for their comprehensive treatment.