Focal ExAblate MR-Guided Focused Ultrasound Treatment for Management of Organ-Confined Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer
This study is intended to show that ExAblate™ MRgFUS is a safe procedure that can significantly postpone or eliminate the need of patients with organ confined intermediate risk prostate cancer to undergo a definitive treatment (i.e., Radical Prostatectomy or Radiation therapy) for their disease.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: ExAblate MRgFUS
The primary efficacy endpoint in this trial measured with whole-gland extended imaging-guided mapping biopsy, is Response scored dichotomously; success vs. failure, Response will be based on mapping biopsy defined by Gleason 7 Score in any part of the prostate gland, 24 months post treatment|Adverse events, Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, 24 months post treatment
Percent of patients with negative biopsy, % of patients with negative 5-month follow-up biopsy results in the treated part of the prostate, 5 months post treatment|Quality of Life - urinary symptoms - IPSS questionnaire score, Treatment effect on patients' Quality of Life (QoL), i.e., urinary symptoms, 24 months post treatment|Quality of Life - urinary continence - ICIQ-SF questionnaire score, Treatment effect on patients' Quality of Life, (QoL), i.e., urinary continence, 24 months post treatment|Quality of Life - sexual function - IIEF-15 questionnaire score, Treatment effect on patients' Quality of Life, (QoL), i.e.,sexual function, 24 months|Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA), PSA levels and post-treatment PSA kinetics will be assessed, 24 months post treatment
This study will evaluate the proportion of patients with organ-confined intermediate risk prostate cancer (OC-IRPC) undergoing focal ExAblate™ MRgFUS prostate treatment that will be free of clinically significant PCa which requires definitive treatment at 2 years after completion of their ExAblate™ treatment and to demonstrate the safety of focal ExAblate™ MRgFUS treatment.

Clinically significant PCa requiring definitive treatment is defined as pathology findings from whole-gland, imaging-guided, extended mapping biopsy of Gleason Score (GS) \> 7

The primary efficacy endpoint in this trial, measured at 24 months with whole-gland extended imaging-guided mapping biopsy, is Response scored dichotomously for each subject as follows:

* Response = 0 ("Failure"): Positive mapping biopsy defined as Gleason Score \> 7 (indicating definitive treatment) in any part of their prostate gland
* Response = 1 ("Success"): Negative mapping biopsy defined as Gleason Score \< 7.

Safety of ExAblate™ treatment will be determined by evaluation of the incidence and severity of device related complications from the first treatment day visit throughout entire follow-up duration.

All adverse events will be captured and recorded. However, the safety of the ExAblate™ treatment will be defined by the incidence and severity of treatment or device related adverse events, grades III - V (CTCAE version 4.03; 2010-06-14).

Secondary Effectiveness Outcomes:

1. % of patients with negative 5-month follow-up biopsy results in the treated part of the prostate
2. Treatment effect on patients' Quality of Life (QoL), the following validated self-reported urogenital functioning assessment instruments will be used before and following treatment at pre-specified intervals.

   1. Urinary symptoms - IPSS
   2. Urinary continence - ICIQ-UI-SF
   3. Sexual function - IIEF-15
3. PSA levels and post-treatment PSA kinetics will also be assessed