Liposome Encapsulated Docetaxel (LE-DT) in Patients With Solid Tumors
Liposome Encapsulated Docetaxel (LE-DT) is a novel proprietary delivery system of docetaxel developed by NeoPharm, Inc. In this Phase I study, the LE-DT was evaluated for the maximum tolerated dose and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) in patients with advance solid tumors. It was also evaluated for pharmacokinetic and anti-tumor effects.
Solid Tumors
DRUG: LE-DT
To evaluate the tolerability and safety, This Phase I, open-label, dose-escalation study was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of LE-DT in patients with advanced cancer. LE-DT was administered by intravenous infusion, over 1 hour, once every 21 days until occurrence of disease progression or toxicity requiring early treatment discontinuation. Dose escalation was not done until the safety and tolerability at a given dose level has been confirmed., 1 year
To evaluate the pharmacokinetic and anti-tumor effect, The patients were evaluated for pharmacokinetic profile upto 48 hours post treatment after cycle 1. The anti-tumor effects were evaluated after every two cycles of treatment., 1 year
Liposome Entrapped Doxetaxel (LE-DT) is a novel, proprietary delivery system of docetaxel developed by NeoPharm, Inc. Docetaxel (currently marketed as Taxotere®) is an anti-microtubule agent that prevents cell division by promoting the assembly and stabilization of microtubules and is used for the treatment of malignancies from breast, prostate, lung, gastric, head and neck. By removing toxic detergent used in Taxotere®, LE-DT showed reduced toxicity and comparable therapeutic efficacy in preclinical studies. In clinic, it is believed that LE-DT will offer advantages to the patient of fewer side effects at similar doses, and possibly greater effectiveness when used at higher doses. In addition, routine premedication to prevent hypersensitivity may not be required.

This study is designed to determine the following:

* The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose limiting toxicity (DLT) of LE-DT.
* The pharmacokinetics of docetaxel following intravenous administration of LE-DT.
* Any anti-tumor effects of LE-DT.

Up to 5 dose levels have been studied.