Nomogram for Predicting Difficult Transoral and Submental Thyroidectomy
No prior studies have stratified the difficulty of transoral and submental thyroidectomy (TOaST). The investigators aimed to investigate preoperative factors as indicators of difficult TOaSTs and to develop a predictive model accordingly.
Differentiated Thyroid Cancer
OTHER: Observations on clinicopathological factors influencing the difficulty of surgery
Number of participants with recurrent laryngeal nerve injury, impaired vocal cord mobility confirmed by postoperative laryngoscopy, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of participants with hypoparathyroidism, a postoperative parathyroid hormone level of less than 10 pg/ml, through study completion, an average of 1 year|Number of participants with mental nerve injury, a postoperative numbness in the lower lip and submental area, through study completion, an average of 1 year|operative time, operative time was defined as the duration from incision to closure, and was collected from anesthesia record sheet, through study completion, an average of 1 year
hospitalization, days of hospitalization, through study completion, an average of 1 year|degree of pain, pain intensity was assessed using a standard visual analogue score, with a score of 0 to 10 corresponding to no pain to the most severe pain, approximately 4 hours after surgery and on postoperative day 1
Thyroid cancer is the most common endocrine malignancy, with a female predominance. Thyroidectomy is the main treatment for thyroid cancer, and considering the good prognosis of thyroid cancer, endoscopic thyroid surgery, which avoids neck incision, is being widely used in the clinic in order to improve the life treatment of patients. Among them, endoscopic thyroidectomy with transoral approach has a shorter learning curve because of the short surgical path. However, due to the complex structure of the neck, small space, and rich blood supply of the thyroid gland, surrounded by parathyroid glands and important nerves, endoscopic thyroid is difficult and has a long learning curve. In addition, a series of complications such as haemorrhage, hypoparathyroidism and laryngeal reentrant nerve injury can seriously affect the quality of patient survival. Difficult thyroidectomy is usually characterized by a long operative time, high intraoperative bleeding and a high incidence of postoperative complications. According to the literature, in open thyroid surgery, the degree of difficulty is associated with factors such as goiter, inflammation, and hyperthyroidism. However, the degree of difficulty of thyroidectomy due to various factors varies and is difficult to predict. Surgical difficulty is closely related to the outcome and safety of thyroidectomy, which is an urgent concern for surgeons. And there is no study on the degree of difficulty of transoral and submental endoscopic thyroidectomy, therefore, there is an urgent need for an effective and objective method to determine the preoperative factors affecting the degree of surgical difficulty and to establish a model for validation, so that it can be subsequently replicated in other hospitals.