Investigation of Genomic Alteration in Patients With Luminal A or Luminal B Subtypes
This is a translational study in patients with operated early breast cancer of Luminal A or Luminal B sub types.The Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group (HeCOG) has designed an observational biomarker-driven study in patients with Luminal A or Luminal B breast cancer, with the aim to collect valuable biological material from these patients and investigate biomarkers with potential prognostic value.
Breast Cancer
Progression free survival, From treatment initiation to the first documented disease progression, up to 5 years|Overall survival, From date of treatment initiation until death from any cause or date of last contact whichever occurred first, assessed up to 5 years.
The HE10A/13 study is an observational study of the Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group (HeCOG). Its main purpose is the collection of biological material from patients in search of prognostic / predictive biomarkers. Each patient signed an informed consent for the provision of biologic material for future research purposes. The study was conducted in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. The clinical and translational protocol has been approved by the Hellenic Cooperative Oncology Group Scientific Committee and is under review by the Institutional Review Board of Metropolitan Hospital. Patients exclusively with Luminal A or Luminal B (Estrogen Receptors (ER)-positive with or without Progesterone Receptors (PgR) positive, HER-negative) breast cancer who received adjuvant chemotherapy with positive lymph nodes or node-negative with tumor stage or pathological features according to Saint Gallen guidelines suggesting high-risk or when genomic testing determined in favor of adjuvant chemotherapy are eligible for registration in the study.

Before registration to the study, each patient signed an informed consent for the provision of biologic material for research purposes.

Potential biomarkers will be examined using in situ or molecular methods in Formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor sections. For tumor subtyping immunohistochemistry for ER, PgR, HER2, Ki67 and Fluorescence in Situ Hybridization (FISH) will be performed where needed for the assessment of HER2 status; for Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) and CK5 for the classification of basal-like tumors; and, the expression of CD8, CD3 and FOXP3 on (Tumor- infiltrating Lymphocytes (TILs) will also be evaluated. Moreover, will be evaluated the mutational profile, including actionable genomic alterations, and the immune response -related profile of Greek women with breast cancer, via the application of DNA/RNA Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technologies, relative also to patient outcome.