Chronic Intestinal Pathologies Analytical Cohort at TouLouse
In the general population, the percentage of people with at least one digestive disease is 16.7%. Among these digestive diseases, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and patients who should benefit from digestive examinations as part of a screening oriented either by the patient's family history or following the performance of an immunological screening test ( FIT) in the stool will be studied. The aim of this project is to build a biological collection with associated clinical data for research projects.
Inflammatory Bowel Diseases|Colon Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: blood and intestinal biopsy sampling
Biological collection associated with clinical data, Set up a biological collection associated with clinical data on main intestinal tract diseases in order to understand their physiopathology, Baseline|Biological collection associated with clinical data, Set up a biological collection associated with clinical data on main intestinal tract diseases in order to understand their physiopathology, pre-intervention/procedure/surgery
Identify new potential therapeutic molecules, Assessment of new treatment on organoids made thanks to intestinal biopsies, Baseline|Optimize treatment success rates for IBD, Assessment of new treatment on organoids made thanks to intestinal biopsies, Baseline
In the general population, the percentage of people with at least one digestive disease is 16.7%. Among these digestive diseases, two of them namely inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) will be more particularly studied. This interest is based on the increasing frequency of these two pathologies, their chronicities but above all the limited physiopathological data available. In addition, it seems interesting to study a third population, namely patients who should benefit from digestive examinations as part of a screening oriented either by the patient's family history or following the performance of an immunological screening test ( FIT) in the stool. The study of this population is part of an improvement in knowledge on the carcinogenesis of colorectal cancer.

To study these populations, blood, serum, plasma and tissues from colonous biopsies or surgical samples will be collected.

This cohort will make it possible to study, among other things, the pathophysiology of chronic diseases of the small intestine and the colon (IBD, IBS, screening) in order to improve their management through the development of new biomarkers and therapeutic targets.