Trial of Patidegib Gel 2%, 4%, and Vehicle to Decrease the Number of Surgically Eligible Basal Cell Carcinomas in Gorlin Syndrome Patients
Multicenter, double-blind, randomized, vehicle-controlled study that evaluates the efficacy and safety of patidegib gel 2% and 4% in comparison with vehicle in participants at least 18 years of age that meet the diagnostic criteria for basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS). Participants will be randomized to receive patidegib gel 2%, patidegib gel 4%, or the vehicle gel for a 26-week treatment period.
Basal Cell Nevus Syndrome
DRUG: Patidegib|DRUG: Vehicle gel
Clinical Efficacy: Percent Change in Tumor Size of Treatment-targeted Surgically Eligible Basal Cell Carcinomas (SEBs) From Baseline, SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed basal cell carcinoma (BCC) 5 millimeters (mm) or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin, and 9 mm or greater at sites other than the face. The percent change in greatest diameters of treatment-targeted surgically eligible basal cell carcinomas (SEBs) from Baseline to Week 26 was calculated as follows: (sum \[Baseline\] - sum \[Week 26\] / sum \[Baseline\] \* 100), where sum = the greatest diameters of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs and positive numbers represent decrease in tumor size and negative numbers to represent increase in tumor size. Missing values were imputed using Last-Observation Carried Forward (LOCF)., Baseline, Week 26|Molecular Efficacy: Percent Change in the Hedgehog (HH) Signaling Pathway Target Gene Glioma-associated Oncogene Homolog 1 (GLI1) Messenger Ribonucleic Acid (mRNA) Levels From Baseline, SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin, and 9-mm or greater at sites other than the face. A single baseline SEB designated as a treatment targeted tumor at Baseline was biopsied first at Baseline and again following 6 weeks of treatment. This was used to assess percent change in GLI1 mRNA levels as follows: (Baseline - Week 6) / Baseline \* 100, where positive numbers to represent decrease in GL1 mRNA level and negative numbers to represent increase in GL1 mRNA level. Any missing values were not imputed; all available data is summarized., Baseline, Week 6|Safety and Tolerability Assessment of Treatment With Patidegib Gel: Number of Participants With a Treatment-emergent Adverse Event Causally Related to Study Drug, All serious adverse events (SAEs) and all other non-serious adverse events (AEs) regardless of causality are located in the Reported AE Module. AEs considered as related where categorized by the Investigator as either definitely related, probably related, or possibly related. Treatment-emergent AEs are those with an onset after use of study drug., Baseline through Week 26|Safety and Tolerability Assessment of Treatment With Patidegib Gel: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Administrative Site Skin Condition AEs Causally Related to Study Drug, All SAEs and all other non-serious AEs, regardless of causality, are located in the Reported AE Module. The number of participants reporting administrative-site, skin condition treatment-emergent AEs considered related to study drug by the Investigator are presented below. Treatment-emergent AEs are those with an onset after use of study drug., Baseline through Week 26
The Number of Participants Reporting New SEBs on the Face From Baseline for the Combined Patidegib Treatment Groups, Facial SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin. A new facial SEB was defined as an SEB first noted on the face after Week 2 that developed at a site where there was no visible BCC of any size at Baseline or Week 2. New facial SEBs were investigated for participants on vehicle gel versus participants on patidegib 2% and 4% gel. Missing values were imputed using LOCF., Baseline, Week 26|The Mean Number of New SEBs on the Face for the Combined Patidegib Treatment Groups, Facial SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin. A new facial SEB was defined as an SEB first noted on the face after Week 2 that developed at a site where there was no visible BCC of any size at Baseline or Week 2. New facial SEBs were investigated for participants on vehicle gel versus participants on patidegib 2% and 4% gel. Missing values were imputed using LOCF. The mean number of new SEBs (number per participant) are presented. No measure of dispersion/precision was calculated., Baseline, Week 26|The Mean Number of New SEBs on the Face for the Combined Patidegib Treatment Groups by Tumor Population, Facial SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin. A new facial SEB was defined as an SEB first noted on the face after Week 2 that developed at a site where there was no visible BCC of any size at Baseline or Week 2. New facial SEBs were investigated for participants on vehicle gel versus participants on patidegib 2% and 4% gel. Missing values were imputed using LOCF. The mean number of new SEBs (number per participant) are presented. No measure of dispersion/precision was calculated., Baseline, Week 26|Percent Change in Baseline Treatment-targeted SEBs Tumor Size From Baseline, SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin, and 9 mm or greater at sites other than the face. The percent change in greatest diameters of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs from Baseline to Week x (Week 6, 10, 14, 18, or 22) was calculated as follows: (sum \[Baseline\] - sum \[Week x\] / sum \[Baseline\] \* 100), where sum = the greatest diameters of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs, and positive numbers to represent decrease in tumor size and negative numbers to represent increase in tumor size. Missing values were imputed using LOCF., Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, and 22|Percent Change in Central Facial SEBs From Baseline, Central facial SEBs were defined as those located on the nose or periorbital area (eyelids) which were 3 mm or greater at Baseline. The percent change from Baseline to Week x (Week x = Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, or 26) in central facial SEBs was calculated as follows: \[sum (Baseline) - sum (Week x)\] / \[sum (Baseline)\] \* 100 where sum = the greatest diameters of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs where positive numbers to represent decrease in tumor size and negative numbers to represent increase in tumor size. Missing values were imputed using LOCF., Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26|Proportion of Non-central Facial BCCs Increasing to ≥ 5 mm From Baseline, The proportion of non-central facial BCCs that at Baseline measured a greatest diameter of \< 5 mm and increased to a diameter of ≥ 5 mm by Week x (Week x = Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, or 26) were calculated for each participant as follows: (Number of non-central facial BCCs with greatest diameter ≥ 5 mm at Week x) / (Number of non-central facial BCCs with greatest diameter \< 5 mm at Baseline). Missing values were imputed using LOCF., Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26|Proportion of Treatment-Targeted SEBs No Longer Classified as SEBs After 26 Weeks, SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin, and 9 mm or greater at sites other than the face. The proportion of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs that at the end of 26 weeks of treatment were no longer large enough to be classified as SEBs (that is, the proportion of Baseline treatment targeted SEBs on the face that became \< 5 mm in greatest diameter and non-facial Baseline treatment targeted SEBs that became \< 9 mm in greatest diameter) were calculated for each participant as follows:

(Number of Baseline treatment-targeted facial SEBs with greatest diameter \< 5 mm) + (Baseline treatment targeted non-facial SEBs with greatest diameter \< 9 mm) / Number of baseline treatment targeted SEBs.

Missing values were imputed using LOCF., Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26
Percentage of Treatment-targeted SEBs Achieving Clear or Almost Clear on the 5-point Investigator Static Global Tumor Assessment (ISGTA) Scale, The ISGTA is a scale with scores ranging from 0 (clear), 1 (almost clear), 2 (minimal residual tumor), to 3 (clearly visible tumor). The Investigator assessed each Baseline treatment-targeted SEB at Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26. SEBs were defined as clinically diagnosed BCC 5 mm or greater in diameter on the face, excluding the nose and periorbital skin, and 9 mm or greater at sites other than the face. The percentage of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs evaluated as being clear or almost clear at Week x (Week x = Week 6, 10, 14, 18, 22 or 26) based on the ISGTA scale was calculated as follows: (Number of baseline treatment-targeted SEBs with ISGTA score of 0 or 1 at Week x) / (Number of Baseline treatment-targeted SEBs) \* 100. Missing data were imputed using LOCF. The percentage of responders achieving clear (0) or almost clear (1) on the ISGTA scale are presented by Week., Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26
Participants who meet the study entry criteria will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive patidegib gel 2%, patidegib gel 4%, vehicle gel. One or two tubes of the assigned study drug will be dispensed to the participant at the Baseline visit. Additional tubes will be dispensed at subsequent visits through Week 22. The study drug will be applied topically to the entire face as well as to treatment-targeted surgically eligible basal cell carcinomas (SEBs) at other anatomical sites twice daily for 26 weeks of treatment.

Information on reported and observed adverse events will be obtained at each visit. An abbreviated physical examination will be performed at Baseline, Week 14, and Week 26.

At Baseline and Weeks 6, 10, 14, 18, 22, and 26, all visible basal cell carcinomas (BCCs) (excluding areas below the knees) will be identified by the Investigator, circled in ink, photographed, measured, and recorded on a body diagram. Treatment-targeted SEBs (defined as the 5 SEBs on the face and/or other anatomical areas identified at Baseline as SEBs) will be treated during the 26-week treatment phase. If a participant has 5 eligible previously untreated facial SEBs (excluding tumors on nose and eyelids) these tumors will be the participant's 5 baseline treatment-targeted SEBs and non-facial baseline SEBs will not be treated with study drug. Tumors to be measured and mapped include the 5 baseline treatment-targeted tumors as well as all other facial tumors including those on the eyelids and the nose. In addition, up to 10 non-treatment-targeted non-facial tumors will also be measured and mapped.