Pathogenesis of Hematologic Malignancies
The cause of blood and bone marrow cancers is poorly understood; however, most research focuses on how cancer cells grow and develop. Because the causes of these cancers are unknown, current treatments may be unnecessarily harsh and often do not provide a cure. Identifying the causes of blood cancers would allow for the development of treatments that are more likely to provide a cure. To find the causes of blood and bone marrow cancers, we will look for specific cancer cell abnormalities that are responsible for cancer cell growth. We will then look to see if drugs that can reverse these abnormalities can kill cancer cells.
Acute Leukemia|Lymphoproliferative Disorders|Myeloproliferative Disorders|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
PROCEDURE: blood draw, bone marrow procedure, or tissue biopsy
Identify and determine the frequency of mutations causing aberrant signaling pathway function in patients with acute leukemias (AL), lymphoproliferative disorders (LPD), myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), and myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN), Integrated functional genomics studies (whole genome sequencing, RNAi, proteomics, drug sensitivity, expression profiling) will be used to identify aberrant signaling pathways that contribute to the formation of hematologic malignancies., After laboratory analyses are complete. Lab samples are collected at the time of a scheduled blood draw, bone marrow procedure, tissue biopsy, or other visit for usual medical care
The cause of blood and bone marrow cancers is poorly understood; however, most research focuses on how cancer cells grow and develop. Because the causes of these cancers are unknown, current treatments may be unnecessarily harsh and often do not provide a cure. Identifying the causes of blood cancers would allow for the development of treatments that are more likely to provide a cure. To find the causes of blood and bone marrow cancers, we will look for specific cancer cell abnormalities that are responsible for cancer cell growth. We will then look to see if drugs that can reverse these abnormalities can kill cancer cells.