HN-BIO 02: A Phase II Randomized Study of the Effects of Delayed Elective Radiotherapy on Head and Neck MRI and Immune Response Biomarkers
This is a single centre prospective exploratory study of effects of radiation therapy on biomarker development in patients with newly diagnosed (head and neck squamous cell carcinoma) HNSCC receiving curative therapy. This research is part 2 of the HN-BIO study.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Head and Neck
RADIATION: Standard of care external beam radiotherapy (single integrated boost)|RADIATION: Standard of care external beam radiotherapy (two-phase treatment)
Confirm feasibility of recruitment of HN patients for on treatment repeat biopsy of the primary tumor +/- neck nodes, Achieve a minimum recruitment rate of one patient per month., 7 weeks|Change in fMRI during radiotherapy, Study association of changes in fMRI and tissue biomarkers during radiotherapy. Assessed through hypoxic regions visible on imaging scans., 7 weeks|Assess changes in tumor microenvironment during differing radiotherapy scheduling via repeat biopsy., Assess effect of varying radiotherapy treatment volumes on changes in tumor microenvironment via repeat biopsy before and during radiotherapy. Quantify effect of delayed treatment of dLN on dynamic changes tumor immune micro-environment and hypoxia status during radiotherapy. Perform exploratory analysis of study data correlating changes in tumor microenvironment and hypoxia status with disease response to therapy., 7 weeks
Validate novel and established fMRI imaging as predictive and prognostic radiotherapy biomarkers for HNSCC, Correlate changes in TME and hypoxia with changes in fMRI on repeat assessment. Correlate fMRI characterized tumor with pathological post-operative specimen., 7 weeks
This study will recruit up to 40 patients planned to receive curative (chemo) radiotherapy for (head and neck squamous cell carcinoma) HNSCC with primary tumor and/or involved lymph node suitable for repeat biopsy in clinic. After being informed about the study and potential risks, patients giving written informed consent will be randomized to receive conventional radiotherapy (single integrated boost or conventional two-phase at clinician discretion) or reversed two-phase treatment with delayed irradiation of elective nodal volumes. Patients will not be informed of their randomization result.

Patients in both arms will undergo a baseline functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scan and within 72 hours, when possible, a biopsy of the primary tumor +/- lymph node will be performed in an out-patient clinic. If a suitable biopsy has been recently performed as part of diagnostic work up the baseline biopsy on study will be omitted when possible. In week 2 of radiotherapy, patients will have a second fMRI scan and a paired biopsy within 72 hours of the scan, where possible. A further optional biopsy and paired fMRI scan in week 4 will be considered for patients who are tolerating therapy without \>G1 toxicities. 16-24 hours prior to each biopsy the patient will take oral pimonidazole. At the time of each biopsy a blood draw will be performed.