Assessment of Ergonomics in 3D vs 2D Thoracoscopic Lobectomy
Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) pulmonary lobectomy is currently widely employed as the first treatment option for surgical management of early stage (stage I-II) non-small-cell-lung-cancer (NSCLC).

Thanks to recent technological advances in high definition display systems, three dimensional VATS (3D) has been developed in an attempt of overcoming some optical limits of two dimensional (2D) VATS.

In this single center randomized trial our aim is to comparatively assess ergonomics of 3D versus 2D VATS lobectomy for early stage NSCLC.
Early Stage Non-small-cell Lung Cancer (Stage 1-2)
PROCEDURE: 3D VATS lobectomy|PROCEDURE: 2D VATS lobectomy
a difference ≥10% in the score calculated for the maneuvring ergonomical domain., 3 ergonomical domains: exposure, instrumentation and maneuvering are assessed by 4 thoracic surgeons using a new scoring scale (score range 1, unsatisfactory to 3 excellent). Primary outcome is a difference ≥10% (sd=0.3) in at least one of the evaluated domains., one week after surgery
Operative time, Total duration (min) of the surgical procedure from first incision opening to last incision closure, during surgery|intraoperative bleeding, Total amount of blood (mL) lost during the surgical procedure, intraoperative|postoperative drainage volume, Total amount of fluid (mL) collected through the chest drain during in-hospital stay, two weeks after surgery|surgical mortality, Fatal complications occurryng within 90 days after surgery, 90 days after surgery|complications, Any adverse event recorded perioperatively or after the surgical procedure during in-hospital stay, 30 days after surgery|hospital stay, Overall duration (days) of in-hospital stay after the surgical procedure, 30 days after surgery|a difference ≥10% in the score calculated for the exposure ergonomical domain., 3 ergonomical domains: exposure, instrumentation and maneuvering are assessed by 4 thoracic surgeons using a new scoring scale (score range 1, unsatisfactory to 3 excellent). Primary outcome is a difference ≥10% (sd=0.3) in at least one of the evaluated domains., one week after surgery|a difference ≥10% in the score calculated for the instrumentation ergonomical domain., 3 ergonomical domains: exposure, instrumentation and maneuvering are assessed by 4 thoracic surgeons using a new scoring scale (score range 1, unsatisfactory to 3 excellent). Primary outcome is a difference ≥10% (sd=0.3) in at least one of the evaluated domains., one week after surgery
Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) is widely employed for pulmonary lobectomy in early stage non-small-cell-lung-cancer (NSCLC). Indeed, VATS is thought to represent an optimal minimally invasive surgical option which is deemed superior to conventional thoracotomy since it enables smaller incisions with no rib spreading thus minimizing both postoperative pain and hospital stay.

For over than three decades, several thoracic surgeons adopted VATS for anatomical lung resection using two-dimensional (2D) display systems. However, a 2D image lacks depth of perception which may negatively affect surgical manoeuvring.

Three dimensional (3D) display systems for VATS can offer superior magnified vision of the surgical field and better perception of depth during surgical manoeuvring potentially shortening learning curve, which may thus overcome some optical limitations of 2D systems.

In this single center randomized trial our aim is to comparatively assess ergonomics of 3D versus 2D VATS lobectomy for early stage (stage I-II) NSCLC. For this purpose we compared three ergonomical domains: exposure, instrumentation and maneuvering with the aid of a scoring scale entailing analysis of 5 main technical steps: vein, artery bronchus, lymph node and fissure score.

The evaluation process of the five surgical steps was carried out by 4 thoracic surgeons who individually scored all recorded operations.