Comparison of Probiotics, Metformin & Their Combination Therapy in the Treatment of PCOS
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common gynecological state worldwide characterized by numerous small cysts in the ovaries mainly due to the imbalance of endocrine hormones in premenopausal women. Metformin is long being used for different symptoms of PCOS along with other medication. This study involves the assessment of different parameters of PCOS.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome
DRUG: Probiotic Agent|DRUG: Metformin
Biochemical parameter:, Fasting serum glucose:

The blood sample for FBS will be collected on day 2 or 3 of the menses. The blood samples will be taken before the start and at the end of the treatment.

fasting glucose 80-100 mg/dl, 12 weeks|Hormonal parameter:, Androgens:

The concentration of these hormones will be evaluated at the baseline and at the end of treatment usually in the morning between 8:00 am to 9:00 am after overnight fasting

Serum testosterone:15 and 70 ng/dL, 12 weeks|Change in cyst size on Ultrasonography, Ovary cyst size:

The size of the cyst will be measured before the start and at the end of the study, considering 12 or more follicles in at least 1 ovary or both-measuring 2-9 mm in diameter-or a total ovarian volume greater than 10 cm3, 12 weeks|Luteinizing Hormone, LH

The concentration of this endocrine hormones is determined will be obtained on day 2 or 3 of the normal menstruation cycle and at any time in women with amenorrhea.

LH: 1.9 to 12.5 IU/L, 12 weeks|INSULIN LEVELS, Fasting serum insulin:

The sample is collected after fasting of 12 to 14 hours will be measured before and after intervention

fasting insulin \< 25 mIU/L, 12 weeks|Lipid, Lipid profile:

1. Total cholesterol
2. LDL
3. HDL
4. Triglyceride

The serum lipid concentrations will be evaluated spectrophotometrically by means of commercial kits at baseline and at the end of the study

Total cholesterol \< 200

Triglyceride: \<150 mg/dl

HDL: \> 60mg/ dl

LDL: \< 130mg /dl, 12 weeks|Follicle-stimulating hormone, The concentration of this endocrine hormones is determined will be obtained on day 2 or 3 of the normal menstruation cycle and at any time in women with amenorrhea.

LH: 4.5 to 21.5 IU/L, 12 weeks|LH and FSH ratio, LH:FSH The serum levels of FSH:LH ratio will be assessed before the start and at the end of the management on day 2 or 3 of the normal menses and at any time in women with amenorrhea.

1.5:1, 12 weeks
Change in Physical symptoms in PCOS, Weight:

The body weight of the females will be recorded at baseline and at the end of the treatment with the help of weighing machine in kg., 12 weeks|Menstruration, Menstrurational irregularities:

All study participants will be asked about menstruation irregularities at the time of enrollment.They will also be enquired about for long they have their cycles have been disturbed.They will be asked to maintain their cycle dates as well., 12 weeks|Hirsutism, Hirsutism:

History and physical examination, including pelvic examination at the start and at the end of treatment using the Ferriman-Gallwey scale for hirsutism., 12 week|Acne, Acne:

Acne score will be taken at baseline and at the end of the treatment through the Global Acne grading system., 12 week
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a hormonal disorder affecting the women of reproductive age. It is a heterogeneous health condition that affects 1 in every 10 women of childbearing age. Women of all races and ethnicities are at risk for PCOS, but risk increases multiple folds if the BMI is greater than 30kg/m2. The common signs and symptoms, the women usually represent with are menstrual irregularities, hyperandrogenemia and multiple cysts in ovaries. The exact cause of PCOS is still unknown but genetic and obesity is considered to be the most common cause.

Metformin has been considered as the first line agent for the treatment of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and up till now it has been used as a first line drug for PCOS. Despite its beneficial effects in PCOS it has several adverse effects. Moreover, patients usually seek two or more drugs along with metformin to relieve maximum symptoms of PCOS like for ovulation clomiphene citrate must be given etc. So there is a need of novel and comprehensive agent that can prove to be effective in improving maximum symptoms of this disease. Probiotics have received renewed attention in the 21st century through research studies. World Health Organization's (WHO) 2001 defines probiotics as live micro-organisms that, when administered in adequate amounts, confer a health benefit on the host. In recent year it has shown tremendous promising effect in treatment of different diseases like diarrhea, gingivitis and obesity etc with negligible side effects.

In this context the investigators are going to evaluate and compare the effects of probiotics, metformin and their combination therapy in treatment of various symptoms of PCOS.60 newly diagnosed PCOS patient will be assigned in the open label randomized clinical trial. As mentioned above patients will be divided into three groups with 20 patients each. In group 1, the dosage of metformin will be 500mg B.D and 2 gm of probiotic sachet O.D, the second group will be given metformin 500mg B.D. and the third group will be 2mg of probiotics B.D. It would be a follow-up study that would be conducted in Gynecology OPD of Tertiary Care Hospital