Effect of Gelsectan® in the Treatment of Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) is an intestinal disorder affecting patients undergoing rectal resection for rectal cancer. A possible therapeutic option may be Gelsectan®, a class II device used in Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of Gelsectan® in improving the symptoms of LARS.
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome
DEVICE: Gelsectan®
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score, The median Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score before and after the treatment with Gelsectan®. The Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score ranges from 0 to 42, where 0 represent no LARS symtpoms and 42 represent major LARS symtpoms., 28 days after treatment initiation
Air incontinence, The grade of flatus incontinence as measured on Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The air incontinence domain ranges from 0 (no symtpoms) to 7 (severe symtpoms)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Stool incontinence, The grade of stool incontinence as measured on Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The stool incontinence domain range from 0 (no symtpoms) to 3 (severe symptoms)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Stool frequency, The grade of stool frequency as measured on Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The stool frequency domain ranges from 0 (regular frequency) to 5 (irregular frequency)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Defecation fractioning, The grade of defecation fractioning as measured on Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The defecation fractioning domain ranges from 0 (no symptoms) to 11 (severe symptoms)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Defecation urgency, The grade of defecation urgency as measured on Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The defecation urgency domain ranges from 0 (no symptoms) to 16 (severe symptoms)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument (MSKCC-BFI) score, The median Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument (MSKCC-BFI) score before and after the treatment with Gelsectan®. The Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Bowel Function Instrument (MSKCC-BFI) score ranges from 0 (normal defecatory condition) to 68 (severe defecatory symptoms)., 28 days after treatment initiation|Major Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) proportion, The difference in the proportion of patients with a severe Low Anterior Resection Syndrome score before and after the treatment, as defined by a Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score equal to or higher than 30., 28 days after treatment initiation|Diarrhea, The difference in the proportion of patients reporting diarrheic feces before and after the treatment as evaluated by the Bristol scale, 28 days after treatment initiation
Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) affects almost 70% of patients after rectal resection for rectal cancer and is characterized by intestinal symptoms including urgency, fractioned defecation, and fecal incontinence. LARS is clinically diagnosed using the LARS score: a score higher than 21 indicates the presence of LARS and a score higher than 30 indicates severe LARS. The treatment opportunities for LARS are limited and failure rates are high. Gelsectan® is a class II device containing xyloglucans, xylo-oligosaccharides, pea proteins, and tannins from grape seeds extract, resulting effective in improving intestinal symptoms in patients with diarrheic Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS). Given the symptomatic similarities between LARS and IBS, Gelsectan® may represent a valid first line treatment for LARS patients.

The objective of this study is to provide preliminary data to determine whether the administration of Gelsectan® may ameliorate the symptoms of LARS.