Enhancing Information Management for Young Adults After Genetic Cancer Risk Testing
This research is being done to develop the electronic platform Nest for young adults (ages 18-39) who have had prior cancer genetic testing. The platform will give patients and their clinicians access to continuously updated information about both pathogenic variants and variants of uncertain significance (VUS).

The name of the intervention used in this research study is:

Nest portal (electronic platform for patients and clinicians)
Genetic Predisposition to Disease|Genetic Predisposition
BEHAVIORAL: Nest Platform
Proportion of Participant Utilization (Feasibility), Defined as \> 70% of consenting participants who use the intervention., 2 hours|Proportion of Clinician Utilization (Feasibility), Defined as \> 70% of consenting clinicians who use the intervention., 2 hours|Proportion of Clinicians with FIM (Feasibility of Intervention Measure) Score > 4, Defined as \>70% of clinicians consider the intervention feasible as assessed by the post-visit survey., At post-visit survey, up to 2 hours|Proportion of Participants with AIM (Acceptability of Intervention Measure) Score > 4, Defined as \> 70% of young adult participants consider the intervention successful as measured by a post-visit AIM score \>4, At post-visit survey, up to 30 days|Proportion of Clinicians with AIM Score > 4, Defined as \> 70% of clinicians consider the intervention successful as measured by a post-visit AIM score \>4, at post-visit survey, up to 2 hours
Change in knowledge of cancer risk, Change in cancer knowledge will be assessed by participant survey at baseline and post visit., Baseline and post visit up to 2 hours|Change in Recommended screening, Change in Recommended screening will be assessed by participant survey at baseline and post visit., Baseline and post visit up to 2 hours
The goal of the electronic platform Nest is to help patients understand and manage genetic test results and recommended care and to help clinicians with access to results and recommendations, facilitating orders, and documentation. The portal has two parts, one for participants and one for clinicians.

For the first phase of the study, participants will give their feedback on the Nest portal's content and processes that will guide refinement of the portal. The Pilot phase will test the feasibility and acceptability of the intervention.

The research study procedures include a baseline survey, using the portal after receiving a brief orientation from the study team, a follow-up survey, and then a 30-minute interview.

Participants will be in this research study for up to 2 hours.

It is expected that about 40 people will take part in this research study.

The electronic platform is being developed by Nest Genomics.