DeStress for Health: Partnering With Granville and Vance Counties to Reduce Stress and Cancer Risk
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether a positive psychology intervention paired with a health behavior intervention is successful in decreasing perceived stress and increasing positive affect in residents of Vance and Granville County. Participants will attend 4 classes that occur once a week. The first class will focus on nutrition, the second class will focus on exercise, the 3rd class will focus on tobacco use, and the 4th class that will review the previous 3 classes and help participants incorporate the strategies taught in the Destress for Health Program into their everyday lives. The duration of each class is 1 hour and the classes will be held once a week for a total of 4 weeks. Participants in this research study will be asked to complete 2 surveys. The first survey will occur during class 1, and will ask participants about their demographic information, health behaviors, stress levels, emotions, and behaviors. The second survey will be conducted over the phone and will occur 30-days after the final class and will ask participants about their health behaviors, stress levels, emotions, behaviors and also about whether or not they felt the classes they attended were useful to them. Total study duration is about 2 months.
Stress Reduction
BEHAVIORAL: DeStress for Health Program
Number of Participants Recruited in a 6-Month Time-frame, Measured via subject enrollment log, 6 Months|Percentage of Participants That Stay in Study for Duration, Measured via subject enrollment log, 3 Months|Percentage of Participants That Attend All Intervention Sessions, Measured via subject enrollment log, 3 Months|Percent of Participants Rating Intervention as Useful, Measured on a scale from 1-5 with 1 being "Not Useful at All" and 5 being "Extremely Useful"., 3 Months|Percent of Participants Recommending Intervention to Friend, Measured on a scale from 1-5 with 1 being "Not at All" and 5 being "Extremely"., 3 Months
Change in Stress Self Regulation As Measured By a Survey, Baseline, 3 Months|Change in Positive Emotion As Measured by a Survey, Baseline, 3 Months|Change in Behavioral Self Regulation As Measured by a Survey, Baseline, 3 Months
The purpose of this research study is to determine whether a positive psychology intervention paired with a health behavior intervention is successful in decreasing perceived stress and increasing positive affect in residents of Vance and Granville County. Participants will attend 4 classes that occur once a week. The first class will focus on nutrition, the second class will focus on exercise, the 3rd class will focus on tobacco use, and the 4th class that will review the previous 3 classes and help participants incorporate the strategies taught in the Destress for Health Program into their everyday lives. The duration of each class is 1 hour and the classes will be held once a week for a total of 4 weeks. Participants in this research study will be asked to complete 2 surveys. The first survey will occur during class 1, and will ask participants about their demographic information, health behaviors, stress levels, emotions, and behaviors. The second survey will be conducted over the phone and will occur 30-days after the final class and will ask participants about their health behaviors, stress levels, emotions, behaviors and also about whether or not they felt the classes they attended were useful to them. Total study duration is about 2 months.