From the Model to the Adaptation of a Therapeutic Education Program (TEP) in Cancer Research
The use of oral targeted therapies draws new medical management but also new practices for the patients (compliance), their family and the healthcare professionals \[1,2\]. These therapies have sometimes heavy toxicity: side effects to identify, to treat, and for the patient to learn to manage. This situation underlines the importance of a therapeutic education to accompany this "learning" \[3\]. Nevertheless, in France, the therapeutic educational programs, built according to the "standards" of the therapeutic education (TE), are still very rare in cancer research \[4\]. In May 2012, a therapeutic educational program for these patients has been developed in the oncology department of the Teaching Hospital of Bordeaux through a multidisciplinary team. This program, dedicated to metastatic renal cancer patients treated by oral targeted therapies, becomes here an object of research: MODAP (action-research).
Health Services Research
OTHER: Interviews with 2 oncologists and 10 patients|OTHER: Interviews with 15 patients
Health quality of life with QLQC30 questionnaire, Three years
Participation rate to the program stages, Quantitative data analysis of questionnaires about the health program satisfaction Participation rate to the program stages Attendance to the program stages Management of therapeutic plan : number of rendez-vous changed by the patient or healers, Two years|Number of rendez-vous changed by the patient, Two years|Number of rendez-vous changed by the healers, Two years|Number of therapeutic education procedures stages versus the number realized, Two years|Number of calls by nurses, Management of therapeutic plan : number of rendez-vous change by the patient or healers, number of therapeutic education procedures stages versus the number realized, number of calls by nurses, Two years
At the diagnosis, 25 to 30 % of renal cancer patients present a metastatic disease. The prognosis remains dark in spite of the advent of the targeted therapies from 2007. Actually, the use of oral targeted therapies, most of the time carried out on an outpatient basis (sunitinib in particular), draws new medical management but also new practices for the patients (compliance), their family and the healthcare professionals \[1,2\].

These therapies have sometimes heavy toxicity: side effects to identify, to treat, and for the patient to learn to manage. This situation underlines the importance of a therapeutic education to accompany this "learning" \[3\]. Nevertheless, the therapeutic educational programs, built according to the "standards" of the therapeutic education (TE), are still very rare in cancer research \[4\]: multiplicity of the pathology (a cancer, cancers), multiplicity of the patients' experiences, the difficulty of implementation? In May 2012, in front of the experience told by the patients and the professionals in the context of metastatic renal cancer, the members of the oncology department of the Teaching Hospital of Bordeaux, the therapeutic educational Federation, the Coordination Cancer Centre (3C), an anthropologist, an expert patient and a patient's association developed a therapeutic educational program for these patients \[current approval\].

This program, built on the model of the TE in France, becomes here an object of research: MODAP (action-research).