Lapatinib +/- Trastuzumab In Addition To Standard Neoadjuvant Breast Cancer Therapy.
This study will examine safety and efficacy of Lapatinib in combination with a standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy including 5FU, Epirubicin, Cyclophosphamide and Paclitaxel. Tumor tissue will be obtained at 3 timepoints (optional 4th) to evaluate tumor response to treatment.
Neoplasms, Breast
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: FEC75|DRUG: Lapatinib
Percentage of Participants With Overall Pathological Complete Response (pCR) After 26 Weeks of Therapy, A pCR in the breast was defined as no pathologic evidence of invasive disease (residual ductal carcinoma in situ \[DCIS\] or lobular carcinoma in situ \[LCIS\] was allowed). A pCR in the axillary lymph node(s) was defined as no evidence of breast cancer cells in the lymph node (including subcapsular sinus). Overall pCR was defined as the sum of pCR in the breast and pCR in the lymph nodes. 26 weeks of therapy comprised the 2-week run-in phase, 12 weeks of treatment with FEC, and 12 weeks of treatment with Paclitaxel., Week 26
Percentage of Participants With Clinical Complete Response (cCR) at 26 Weeks or at End of Treatment (EOT) or Early Withdrawal, cCR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving either a Complete Response (CR) or a Partial Response (PR) using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions, and PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Week 26 or EOT or Early withdrawal|Percentage of Participants (Par.) With Disease-free Survival (DFS) at the End of 5 Years From Randomization, Percentage is the Kaplan Meier estimate of DFS. DFS is time from randomization until disease recurrence (contralateral breast cancer; second primary cancer; progression during neo-adjuvant treatment; or death from any cause). Par. who experienced progression during treatment and were withdrawn were considered to have a DFS event at withdrawal., From first dose date until disease progression, assessed up to a maximum of 5 years|Number of Participants With the Indicated Electrocardiogram (ECG) Status at Baseline and at EOT or Early Withdrawal, 12-lead ECGs were performed, and participants were classified as having normal ECG, abnormal- not clinically significant (NCS) ECG, and abnormal-clinically significant (CS) ECG per investigator opinion and reported result., Baseline and EOT (up to Week 26) or Early withdrawal|Cumulative Number of Participants With at Least One Decrease of More Than or Equal to 20% in Left Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF) at the Indicated Time Points Compared to LVEF at Baseline, LVEF is the measurement of how much blood is being pumped out of the left ventricle of the heart (the main pumping chamber) with each contraction and is used to determine cardiac function. LVEF was measured by performing echocardiogram (ECHO). If ECHO could not be performed or if the investigator believed that it was not conclusive to evaluate LVEF, then a multigated acquisition (MUGA) scan was performed., Weeks 3, 9, and 15; EOT or early withdrawal; and 3- and 6-month survival follow-up after last chemotherapy course
Mean Intra-tumoral Expression of the Indicated Proteins at Baseline and Day 14, Expression (exp) of biomarker proteins (prot) were analyzed to determine if individual prot levels either in the Baseline or Day 14 breast tumor biopsy specimen correlated with breast pCR. A biomarker indicates a change in exp or state of a prot that correlates with the risk or disease progression, or with the susceptibility of the disease to a given treatment. Biomarkers are characteristic biological properties that can be detected and measured in parts of the body like blood or tissue. pCR=yes: participants (par.) had breast pCR. pCR=no: par. did not have breast pCR. Prot exp values are represented as normalized, scaled values; the unit of measurement is unit-less. Raw exp values were processed as follows: background subtraction of the raw exp value, then that value divided by beta-acting exp to normalize the exp value. A Standard Z score was calculated to scale the exp value., Tumor core biopsy taken at Baseline and Treatment Day 14|Cancer Stem Cells and the Correlation to Response/Non-response to Treatment, Stem cell data were of poor quality and thus could not be analyzed. Increases or decreases in cancer stem cells and how the changes correlated with response/non-response to treatment were to have been assessed., Tumor core biopsy taken at Baseline and Treatment Day 14|Transcriptional Profiling of Total RNA and the Correlation to Response/Non-response to Treatment, Transcriptional data were of poor quality and thus could not be analyzed. Gene pathways that correlate with response/non-response to treatment were to have been evaluated. The unit of measure is unit less; however, the processed values would be considered normalized relative expression level., Tumor core biopsy taken at Baseline and Treatment Day 14
This study will examine safety and efficacy of Lapatinib in combination with a standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy including 5FU, Epirubicin, Cyclophosphamide and Paclitaxel. Tumor tissue will be obtained at 3 timepoints (optional 4th) to evaluate tumor response to treatment.