Pembrolizumab and Combination Chemotherapy Before Surgery for the Treatment of Muscle-Invasive Bladder Cancer
This pilot study is evaluating how well pembrolizumab and combination chemotherapy before surgery work for the treatment of specific types of muscle-invasive bladder cancer that have unusual appearance (variants). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methotrexate, vinblastine, adriamycin, and cisplatin work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Giving pembrolizumab and combination chemotherapy before surgery may work better in treating patients with these muscle invasive bladder cancer variants compared to chemotherapy alone.
Stage II Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Stage IIIA Bladder Cancer AJCC v8|Muscle Invasive Bladder Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Methotrexate|BIOLOGICAL: Pegfilgrastim|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Radical Cystectomy|DRUG: Vinblastine Sulfate
Pathologic complete response rate, At time of radical cystectomy
Incidence of adverse events, Will evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity of the regimen., Up to 90 days post treatment|Tumor infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) density, TIL density will be summarized by means, medians, and quantiles. Changes will be evaluated as both absolute and percentage change. Descriptive statistics will also be used when needed., At time of radical cystectomy|Recurrence-free survival, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., At 2 years
OUTLINE:

Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of weeks 0, 3, and 6 and methotrexate IV, vinblastine IV, doxorubicin IV, and cisplatin IV on day 1 of weeks 0, 2, 4, and 6 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 or 2 of weeks 0, 2, 4, and 6 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care radical cystectomy.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up about 1 month after surgery and then every 3-6 months for 2 years.