Olaparib in Adults With Recurrent/Metastatic Ewing's Sarcoma
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial to test the efficacy of Olaparib in adult participants with recurrent/metastatic Ewing's Sarcoma following failure of prior chemotherapy.
Ewing's Sarcoma
DRUG: Olaparib
Objective Response Rate of Olaparib, Number of participants with objective response rate as defined as PR+CR as determined by RECIST vs. 1.1.

Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 years
Progression-Free Survival, Number of patients with progression free survival after two years from starting the trial., Two years|Overall Survival, Number of patients survived for 2 years after enrolling onto this study., Two years|Number of Participants Experiencing a Grade 3 or 4 Clinically Significant and Related Adverse Event, Adverse events were graded according to CTCAE v.4 (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events). Events are graded on a scale of 1 = mild, 2 = moderate, 3 = severe, 4 = life-threatening, 5 = fatal. Only events that are clinically significant and which the treating investigator considers to be related to administration of olaparib are counted for this outcome measure., 2 years
Primary Objectives Evaluate the objective response rate of olaparib in adult patients with recurrent and/or metastatic Ewing's sarcoma following failure of conventional chemotherapy.

Secondary Objectives To evaluate the progression-free survival, overall survival, and safety of olaparib in this patient population (ie Number of Participants With Adverse Events). As an exploratory objective, the investigators will evaluate (in subjects who agree to an optional biopsy) differences in pre- and post-treatment tumor DNA alterations and differences in levels of protein and RNA expression related to PARP inhibition.

Study Design Potential subjects who discuss and sign the informed consent form will undergo screening studies. Eligible patients will administer olaparib and obtain restaging imaging studies after 6 and 12 weeks on study, and then every 8 weeks thereafter. Participants will remain on study drug until disease progression, onset of unacceptable toxicities, or subject withdraws consent.