Pilot Study to Evaluate the Effects of a Generic Goserelin Acetate in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This open-label study is designed to obtain preliminary data on the efficacy of a new depot formulation of goserelin, Pepti 10.8mg, in ambulatory patients with carcinoma of the prostate who, in the opinion of the Investigator, is a candidate for androgen deprivation therapy, after a single injection. Secondarily, it is designed to assess the pharmacokinetics, safety profile and PSA response of this new formulation.
Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Goserelin Acetate
Changes in testosterone levels, To evaluate the effects of one Pepti implant on testosterone serum concentration from day 0 to day 84, 84 days
Changes in PSA, To assess the changes in blood PSA (Prostate Specific Antigen) levels from PSA laboratory results. This testing is to be performed to assess whether patients can be considered for continuing treatment with an LHRH analogue., 84 days|# of treatment emergent adverse events occurring, To assess the safety profile of depot formulation of Pepti 10.8mg from day 0 to day 84, all adverse events will be recorded., 84 days
A 12 week (84 day) single injection study in 12 patients with carcinoma of the prostate.

During the screening phase, all patients will come to the clinic for a screening visit (V1), during which the patient's eligibility will be evaluated and baseline assessments will be performed. Eligible patients will sign the informed consent form at this visit.

Within 2 weeks after the screening visit, eligible patients will receive a subcutaneous injection of Pepti 10.8mg on day 0 (V2) and samples will be collected for goserelin 1h, 1.5h, 2h and 3h after the injection. Monitoring of the effects for approximate 4h after the injection will be performed.

Thereafter, patients will return to the clinic for follow-up visits approximately every 2 weeks (Visit 3 to 9: Day 7, 21, 35, 49, 63, 77 and 84). The follow-up visits are planned to enable repeated blood sampling designed to evaluate the testosterone response, safety profile and PSA response.