DISCO Application for the Improvement of Financial Outcomes in Patients With Hematologic Cancer
This phase II trial studies how well the DIScussion of COst (DISCO) application (app) works in improving financial outcomes in patients with hematologic cancer. The DISCO app is an electronic, highly scalable and tailorable education and communication intervention that may help researchers learn more about improving how patients and oncologists discuss cancer treatment costs
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia, BCR-ABL1 Positive|Plasma Cell Myeloma
BEHAVIORAL: The DISCO App|BEHAVIORAL: Usual Care
Presence of cost discussion observed via video recordings of patient-physician treatment discussions., Number of participates who have a treatment cost discussion will be evaluated with a validated observational scale. This is an investigator-developed scale and its called the Discussion of Cost (DISCO) scale. A higher score means a better outcome., Observed during the video-recorded patient-physician interaction.
Referrals for financial or psychological support, Number of participants who receive a referral for financial or psychological support will be evaluated with a self-report item. This an investigator-developed yes/no one-item response. A "yes" response is a better outcome than a "no" response., Immediately after the patient-physician interaction|Self-efficacy in managing treatment cost, How efficacious each participant feels about managing treatment costs will be evaluated with an adapted validated self-report scale and its title is: Managing Treatment Cost Self-Efficacy scale. This an investigator-adapted scale, and a higher score means a better outcome (max =7; min = 1)., Immediately after the patient-physician interaction|Self-efficacy in patient-physician interactions, How efficacious each participant feels about interacting with physicians will be evaluated with a validated self-report scale, and its title is: Perceived efficacy in patient-physician interactions (PEPPI). A higher score means a better outcome.(max =50; min = 10), Immediately after the patient-physician interaction|Treatment cost distress, How distress each participant feels about how much their treatment will cost them will be evaluated with an investigator-developed validated self-report scale, and its title is: Treatment Cost Distress Scale. A higher score means a worse outcome. (max =7; min = 1), Immediately after the patient-physician interaction|Anticipated material hardship, How much anticipated material hardship each participant feels they may experienced due to treatment costs will be evaluated with a validated self-report scale, and its title is: Economic Hardship Scale. A higher score means a worse outcome. (max =7; min = 1), Immediately after the patient-physician interaction|Financial toxicity, How much material and psychological hardship the patients experiences due to treatment cost will be evaluated with a validated self-report scale, and its title is: Comprehensive Score for Financial Toxicity (COST). A higher score means a worse outcomes. (max=7; min=1), 3 months after the patient-physician interaction
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the effectiveness of the DISCO app on prompting patient-oncologist treatment cost discussions during patient-physician interactions (as observed in video recordings), patient outcomes related to financial toxicity immediately after the patient-oncologist interaction, and at a 3-month follow up.