SL-401 in Combination With Azacitidine or Azacitidine/Venetoclax in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), High-Risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome (MDS) or Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm (BPDCN)
This research study is studying a drug as a possible treatment for diagnosis of AML, BPDCN and high-risk MDS.

The interventions involved in this study are:

* SL-401
* Azacitidine
* Venetoclax
Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndrome|Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm
DRUG: Azacitidine|DRUG: SL-401|DRUG: Venetoclax
Maximum Tolerated Dose, To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of SL-401 in combination with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax in this patient population and evaluate the safety of this regimen, 2 years
Complete Response Rate, To estimate the complete remission (CR) / CR with incomplete count recovery (CRi) rate within 6 cycles of combination therapy consisting of SL-401 administered with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax in subjects with AML and high-risk MDS, 2 years|Time to response, To estimate the time to response with SL-401 in combination with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax, 2 years|Duration of remission, To estimate the duration of remission with SL-401 in combination with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax, 2 years|Progression Free Survival, To estimate the 1 and 2-year progression free survival (PFS) with SL-401 in combination with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax, 1 and 2 years|Overall Survival, To estimate the overall survival (OS) with SL-401 in combination with azacitidine or in combination with azacitidine and venetoclax, 2 years
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational intervention and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational intervention to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the intervention is being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has approved azacitidine and venetoclax as a treatment option for AML. However, the combination of these two drugs with SL-401 has not been FDA approved.

The combination of SL-401, azacitidine and venetoclax has not been FDA approved for BPDCN. However, SL-401 has been FDA approved for BPDCN.

The combination of SL-401 and azacitidine has not been FDA approved for BPDCN.

In this research study, the study drug SL-401 will be combined with the standard dose of azacitidine (for MDS patients) or azacitidine/venetoclax (for AML and BPDCN patients). The goal of this research study is to try and determine the safest, highest dose of study drug, SL-401, in combination with azacitidine or azacitidine/venetoclax that can be given to patients with AML, BPDCN or high-risk MDS. SL-401 works by stopping or slowing the growth of cancer stem cells, which are the undeveloped cells which can develop into cancer cells. The goals of this research study are to look at if this combination works to help treat your cancer and if there is any lasting effect of this combination. This study will also look at how the SL-401, in combination with azacitidine or azacitidine/venetoclax, affects certain proteins in your blood and bone marrow. SL-401 has been given to patients with AML, and MDS in the past, but this is the first time it will be given in combination with another drug.