Bortezomib, Melphalan, and Total-Body Irradiation Before Stem Cell Transplant in Treating Patients With Multiple Myeloma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of bortezomib when given together with melphalan, and total-body irradiation before stem cell transplant and to see how well it works in treating patients with multiple myeloma. Giving chemotherapy and total-body irradiation before a stem cell transplant stops the growth of cancer cells by stopping them from dividing or killing them. The stem cells that were collected from the patient's blood or bone marrow are returned to the patient to replace the blood-forming cells that were destroyed by the chemotherapy and total-body irradiation.
DS Stage I Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage II Plasma Cell Myeloma|DS Stage III Plasma Cell Myeloma|Refractory Plasma Cell Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib|RADIATION: Total-Body Irradiation|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Autologous Bone Marrow Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation|PROCEDURE: Peripheral Blood Stem Cell Transplantation|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
MTD defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity in at least one-third of patients (phase I), Day 36|The number and severity of all adverse events (phase I), Will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion., Up to 3 years|Proportion of complete responses (CR) defined as a CR noted as the objective status on two consecutive evaluations (phase II), Will be tabulated and summarized in this patient population. The grade 3+ adverse events will also be described and summarized in a similar fashion. 95% confidence intervals for the true success proportion will be calculated., Up to 3 years
CR rate at day 100 estimated by the total number of patients who achieve a complete CR by day 100 post-transplant divided by the total number of evaluable patients, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true CR rate at day 100 will be calculated., At day 100|Time to progression, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the earliest date with documentation of disease progression, assessed at 1 year|Time to progression, Will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from registration to the earliest date with documentation of disease progression, assessed at 2 years|Maximum grade for each type of adverse event, Will be recorded for each patient, and frequency tables will be reviewed to determine patterns. Additionally, the relationship of the adverse event(s) to the study treatment will be taken into consideration., Up to 3 years
Proportion of patients who achieve MRD negative status estimated by the number of patients who are MRD negative divided by the total number of evaluable patients who achieve a CR, Exact binomial 95% confidence intervals for the true MRD negative rate will be calculated., Up to 3 years|Abnormal ratio and suppressed uninvolved immunoglobulin assessed by HevyLite assay, The correlation of these categories with whether MRD is present (yes vs. no) will be evaluated using Fisher's exact test. In addition, the relationship between these categories and time to progression will be evaluated using Kaplan-Meier methods and log-rank statistics., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of bortezomib that can be added to high dose melphalan and low dose total body irradiation as part of conditioning chemotherapy for myeloma. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of the bortezomib added to high dose melphalan and low dose total-body irradiation (TBI) in patients with myeloma undergoing stem cell transplantation, as defined by achievement of complete response (CR). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To examine the toxicities associated with addition of bortezomib to high dose melphalan and TBI in patients with multiple myeloma (MM).

II. To determine the progression free rate at 1 and 2 years.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the proportion of patients achieving a minimal residual disease (MRD) negative status.

II. To assess the HevyLite assay prior to and during treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of bortezomib followed by a phase II study.

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days -5 and -2, TBI twice daily (BID) on days -5 and -2, and melphalan IV over 1 hour on days -4 and -3.

TRANSPLANT: Patients undergo autologous bone marrow or peripheral blood stem cell transplant on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 100 days and then every 90 days for up to 3 years.