Radiation Hypofractionation Via Extended Versus Accelerated Therapy (HEAT) for Prostate Cancer
Accelerated Hypofractionation Radiotherapy for prostate cancer of 36.25 Gy delivered in 5 fractions will not be inferior to the standard treatment of 70.2 Gy given in 26 fractions with respect to two-year failure defined as a positive biopsy two years post treatment completion or earlier evidence of biochemical or clinical failure.
Prostate Cancer
RADIATION: Extended Hypofractionation Radiotherapy|RADIATION: Accelerated Hypofractionation Radiotherapy
Percentage of participants achieving two-year failure., Reported will be the percentage of participants achieving either a biochemical or clinical failure or positive biopsy. Biochemical Failure will be evaluated using the Phoenix definition wherein failure occurs when the Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) is ≥ 2 ng/ml more than the lowest PSA measurement before the current one. Clinical failure will be reported as any clinical evidence of local progression or recurrence. A positive biopsy will be concluded via histological evaluation., Up to 2 years
Incidence of treatment related adverse events., Toxicity will be reported as the incidence of treatment related grade 2 or higher gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) toxicity. Toxicity will be assessed using the descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., 2 years|Percentage of Participants achieving failure, Efficacy will be reported as the percentage of participants achieving biochemical or clinical failure between participants with low and early intermediate risk for prostate cancer. Biochemical Failure will be evaluated using the Phoenix definition wherein failure occurs when the Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) is ≥ 2 ng/ml more than the lowest PSA measurement before the current one. Clinical failure will be reported as any clinical evidence of local progression or recurrence., Up to 2 years|Mortality Rate, Rate of death from prostate cancer will be reported., Up to 5.25 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival will be reported as the elapsed time from randomization to death from any cause. For surviving patients, follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact., Up to 5.25 years|Percentage of participants achieving ASTRO-defined biochemical failure, American Society for Therapeutic Radiation and Oncology (ASTRO) Consensus Definition (ACD) failure is defined as three consecutive rises in post-treatment PSA, measured at the specified follow-up intervals., Up to 5.25 years|HRQOL as assessed by MAX-PC questionnaire, Health-related quality of life (HRQOL) will be measured using the scores on the Modified 18-item Memorial Anxiety Scale for Prostate Cancer (MAX-PC) from pre-treatment to post-treatment. The scale consists of 18 items (e.g. "I thought about prostate cancer even though I didn't mean to.") scored on a scale from 0 ("not at all") to 3 ("often"). Total scores range from 0 to 54, with higher scores indicating higher levels of anxiety., Up to 5.25 years|HRQOL as assessed by EPIC-SF-12 questionnaire, Health-related Quality of Life (HRQOL) will be measured using the Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite and Medical Outcomes Study SF-12 (EPIC SF-12) to evaluate patient function and satisfaction after prostate cancer treatment. The questionnaire has 5 subscales (Urinary Function, Urinary Symptoms, Bowel Habits, Sexual Function and Hormonal Function). Each subscale has a total score ranging from 0-100, with higher scores representing better HRQOL., Up to 5.25 years|Incidence of late-occurring treatment related adverse events, Late occurring toxicity will be reported as the incidence of treatment related grade 2 or higher gastrointestinal (GI) or genitourinary (GU) toxicity occurring more than three months after treatment completion. Toxicity will be assessed using the descriptions and grading scales found in the revised NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0., Up to 5.25 years
Accelerated Hypofractionation Radiotherapy for prostate cancer of 36.25 Gy delivered in 5 fractions will not be inferior to the standard treatment of 70.2 Gy given in 26 fractions with respect to two-year failure defined as a positive biopsy two years post treatment completion or earlier evidence of biochemical or clinical failure.