A Phase I/II Open Label Extension Study of BIBF 1120 Administered Orally Once or Twice Daily to Establish Safety, Pharmacokinetics and Efficacy in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumours and Clinical Benefit From Previous Therapy With BIBF 1120
The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the long-term safety of BIBF 1120 in terms of incidence and intensity of Adverse Events and changes in safety laboratory parameters.

Secondary objectives are the collection of further safety data (vital signs), efficacy data and the determination of pharmacokinetic characteristics during long-term therapy with BIBF 1120.
Neoplasms
DRUG: BIBF 1120
Incidence and Intensity of Adverse Events With Highest CTCAE Grade 1, All patients who had grade 1 adverse events (AEs) as the worst grade of the AE. Incidence and intensity of Adverse Events with grading of Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., From signing the informed consent until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Incidence and Intensity of Adverse Events With Highest CTCAE Grade 2, All patients who had grade 2 adverse events (AEs) as the worst grade of the AE. Incidence and intensity of Adverse Events with grading of Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., From signing the informed consent until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Incidence and Intensity of Adverse Events With Highest CTCAE Grade 3, All patients who had grade 3 adverse events (AEs) as the worst grade of the AE. Incidence and intensity of Adverse Events with grading of Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., From signing the informed consent until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Incidence and Intensity of Adverse Events With Highest CTCAE Grade 4, All patients who had grade 4 adverse events (AEs) as the worst grade of the AE. Incidence and intensity of Adverse Events with grading of Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., From signing the informed consent until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Incidence and Intensity of Adverse Events With Highest CTCAE Grade 5, All patients who had grade 5 adverse events (AEs) as the worst grade of the AE. Incidence and intensity of Adverse Events with grading of Adverse Events according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)., From signing the informed consent until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Liver Enzymes, Difference from baseline (normalized value). Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From signing the informed consent until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Bilirubin, Creatinine and Glucose, Difference from baseline (normalized value). Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From signing the informed consent until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Haemoglobin, Difference from baseline for Haemoglobin (normalized value). Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From baseline until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Haematology and Differentials Parameters, Difference from baseline (normalized value). Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From signing the informed consent until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Coagulation Parameters, Difference from baseline (normalized value) in coagulation parameters Prothrombin time, international normalised ratio (PT-INR) and partial thromboplastin time. Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From signing the informed consent until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Difference From Baseline for Electrolytes, Difference from baseline (normalized value). Baseline was defined as the value at the time point closest to but prior to very first administration of trial medication. The standard error is actually the Interquartile Range calculated as P75 minus P25., From signing the informed consent until end of treatment, up to 991 days
Clinically Relevant Abnormalities for Vital Signs, Clinically relevant abnormalities for Vital Signs (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and pulse rate). New abnormal findings or worsening of baseline conditions were reported as Adverse Events., From baseline until final follow-up, up to 991 days|Pre-dose Concentration of Nintedanib in Plasma at Steady-state (Cpre,ss), Cpre,ss represents the pre-dose concentration of Nintedanib in Plasma at steady-state at day 29, Just before drug administration every 28±7 days after day 29|Unconfirmed Best Overall Response, Unconfirmed best overall response assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours) criteria (version 1.0).

PD = Progressive disease., Baseline until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Unconfirmed Best Objective Response, Unconfirmed best objective response assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours) criteria (version 1.0), Baseline until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Clinical Benefit, Clinical benefit was defined as the absence of disease progression (no PD or nonevaluable clinically progressive disease) determined by RECIST (version 1.0)., Baseline until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Confirmed Objective Response, Confirmed objective response assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours) criteria (version 1.0), Baseline until end of treatment, up to 991 days|Progression Free Survival, Percentage of participants that experienced progression free survival (PFS), assessed by RECIST (Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours) (version 1.0), by day 1230. Progression was defined as progressive disease (PD) or non-evaluable clinically progressive disease.

PFS was defined for patients without PD at screening as the time from first treatment with the trial drug in the previous trial until onset of PD or death, whatever comes earlier.

Patients with PD could enter the trial if they showed signs of clinical benefit. For patients with PD at screening, the RECIST assessment at screening was used as a new baseline value and PFS was the time from first treatment with the trial drug in this trial until the onset of progressive disease in this trial or death, whatever comes first., First drug administration (in previous trial) until end of treatment, up to 1230 days
The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the long-term safety of BIBF 1120 in terms of incidence and intensity of Adverse Events and changes in safety laboratory parameters.

Secondary objectives are the collection of further safety data (vital signs), efficacy data and the determination of pharmacokinetic characteristics during long-term therapy with BIBF 1120.