Cardiac Adverse Reactions Related to Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor in NSCLC Patients
This is a prospective, open label, single arm study. A total of 300 patients with primary non-small cell lung cancer treated with PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors(ICIs) are expected to included . All patients will follow up for at least 1 year. Patients with cardiac adverse reactions after PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment at admission or during the subsequently follow-up period will randomly assigned a random number to each patient by computer random sequence. Patients with odd random number will treat with RASI（renin-angiotensin system inhibitors）, and those with even random number will treat with ARNI（angiotensin-receptor-neprilysin inhibitor）.
Adverse Reactions|Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients|Cardiac Event
DRUG: renin-angiotensin system inhibitors or angiotensin-receptor-neprilysin inhibitor
Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events, a) Primary Outcome is Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events（MACE）related to ICIs，includes: cardiovascular death, myocardial infarction(nonfatal), stroke(nonfatal), heart failure that caused readmission, 1 year
Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE), Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) related to ICIs, includes: arrhythmia, cardiogenic chest pain, valvular heart disease, cardiomyopathy, myocardial pericardial disease, 1 year|All cause of death, every reason that cause patient's death after ICIs treatment, 1 year|examination indexes, The examination indexes that related to myocardial damage, 1 year
This is a prospective, open label, single arm study. A total of 300 patients with primary non-small cell lung cancer treated with PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors(ICIs) are expected to included . All patients will follow up for at least 1 year. Patients with cardiac adverse reactions after PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment at admission or during the subsequently follow-up period will randomly assigned a random number to each patient by computer random sequence. Patients with odd random number will treat with RASI（renin-angiotensin system inhibitors）, and those with even random number will treat with ARNI（angiotensin-receptor-neprilysin inhibitor）.