A Study of LY2584702 With Erlotinib or Everolimus in Participants With Solid Tumors
Study I3G-MC-JGCB (JGCB) is a multicenter, nonrandomized, open-label, dose-escalation Phase 1b study of LY2584702 in combination with either erlotinib or everolimus.
Metastases, Neoplasm|Carcinoma, Non-small Cell Lung|Renal Cell Carcinoma|Neuroendocrine Tumors
DRUG: LY2584702|DRUG: Erlotinib|DRUG: Everolimus
Recommended Dose for Phase 2 Studies, The recommended dose for the Phase 2 (Dose Confirmation Phase) study was determined by safety assessment. Doses were escalated following the assessment for toxicity based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0). Any adverse events (AE) that were possibly related to LY2584702 were considered toxicities. The Phase 2 dose of LY2584702 was not determined due to unacceptable toxicities of LY2584702 in combination with erlotinib or everolimus in Phase 1 of the study., Baseline up to 6 cycles of 28 days
Clinically Significant Effects (Number of Participants With Adverse Events), Clinically significant events were defined as serious adverse events (SAEs) and other non-SAEs regardless of causality. A summary of serious and other non SAEs regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Event module., Baseline up to 7 months|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of enrollment to the date of objectively determined progressive disease (PD) or death whichever comes first. Censoring of PFS was defined as participants not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who did not have objective PD, PFS was censored at the date of the last objective assessment; for participants who received subsequent systematic anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from study treatment) prior to objectively determined disease progression, PFS was censored at the date of the last objective progression-free disease assessment prior to post discontinuation of therapy. PFS was not analyzed due to different tumor types and different doses., Baseline to disease progression or death or up to 166 days postbaseline|Percentage of Participants Achieving Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) [Response Rate (RR)], Response was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm) and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions; PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter of target lesions., Baseline to disease progression or death or up to 6 cycles of 28 days|Pharmacokinetics, Maximum Observed Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of LY2584702, Cycle 1 Day 1 (C1 D1): predose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8 hours postdose and Cycle 1 Day 8 (C1 D8): predose, 0.5, 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8 hours postdose of 28-day cycle|Pharmacokinetics, Area Under the Concentration Time Curve (AUC), AUC from time 0 to 8 hours (AUC0-8) and AUC from time 0 to infinity (AUC0-∞)., Cycle 1 Days 1 (C1 D1) and Cycle 1 Day 8 (C1 D8) of 28-day cycle|Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) [Best Overall Response (BOR) (CR+PR+SD)], BOR was determined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) criteria. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 millimeters (mm) and normalization of tumor marker level of non-target lesions; PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions; Progressive Disease (PD) was defined as at least 20% increase in sum of LD of target lesions and minimum 5 mm increase over nadir. SD was defined as small changes that did not meet above criteria., Baseline up to 112 Days
Number of Participants Who Died Due to Progressive Disease Within 30 Days of Study Drug Discontinuation, Within 30 days of study drug discontinuation
Study JGCB will consist of the following parts:

Part 1 - Dose Escalation to maximum tolerated dose in each arm.

Arm A - LY2584702 + Erlotinib in participants with advanced or metastatic cancer.

Arm B - LY2584702 + Everolimus in participants with advanced or metastatic cancer.

Part 2 - Dose Confirmation of maximum tolerated dose from each arm in Part 1.

Arm A - LY2584702 + Erlotinib in participants with advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer.

Arm B - LY2584702 + Everolimus in participants with advanced renal cell carcinoma after treatment failure with sunitinib or sorafenib, or advanced neuroendocrine tumors.