Nivolumab Plus Axitinib in Patients With Anti-PD1 Refractory Advanced Melanoma
This is Phase II trial of nivolumab plus axitinib for patients with unresectable stage III or IV melanoma who have progressed on prior anti-PD1 therapy with or without concomitant anti-CTLA4 therapy. Patients will receive treatment with nivolumab 480 mg intravenously every 4 weeks and axitinib 5 mg twice daily by mouth. Patients may continue both agents for up to two years if they do not experience disease progression or dose-limiting toxicities.
Advanced Melanoma|Unresectable Melanoma
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Axitinib
Overall Response Rate (ORR), Overall response rate (ORR) will be estimated by the percentage of patients who achieve Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as best response by RECIST v1.1 criteria (with exact 95% CI). Per RECIST v1.1, Complete Response (CR) is defined as disappearance of all target lesions; disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. Partial Response (PR) is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum LD., Up to 12 weeks from baseline (after treatment)
Serious Adverse Events Possibly, Probably or Definitely Related to Study Treatment, Frequency of patients experiencing Serious Adverse Events determined to be possibly, probably or definitely related to study treatment using a Bayesian monitoring scheme to continuously monitor the rate of severe adverse events (SAE). SAEs are defined as grade 3 and higher toxicity events that are attributable to the study combination therapy. Toxicity events will evaluated by NCI Common Terminology for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0)., Up to 28 days after discontinuation of study treatment|Progression-free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival is the time measured from the initial date of treatment to the date of documented progression, or the date of death (in the absence of progression), whichever occurs first, with progression defined by RECIST v 1.1. Progressive disease (PD) is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the LD of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum LD recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of one or more new lesions; appearance of one or more new lesions and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, Up to 5 years|Overall Survival (OS), The length of time from the start of treatment that patients remain alive, until death from any cause., Up to 5 years
This trial hypothesizes that decreasing hypoxia in the TME will re-sensitize melanoma tumors to anti-PD1 therapy. Axitinib has already been safely combined with anti-PD1 therapy and was overall well-tolerated. With nivolumab plus axitinib taken together, based on previously published work and data from our laboratories, it is hypothesized that axitinib can metabolically remodel the TME to render it more sensitive to ICB, specifically by reducing intra-tumoral hypoxia, increasing T cell infiltration, and increasing polyfunctional T cells. It will determined if treatment with nivolumab plus axitinib will prolong both progression-free and overall survival.