Expanded Access Study Of BEXXAR® For Low Grade And Transformed Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This is a single arm, multi-center, expanded access study of Iodine I 131 Tositumomab (BEXXAR) therapeutic regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade or transformed low-grade non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. The primary objective is to make Iodine I 131 Tositumomab more broadly available to patients. Secondary endpoints will be to obtain additional safety and efficacy information for this treatment regimen. Post study drug administration follow-ups will continue for up to ten years. These will include blood-work and adverse event assessments for 13 weeks post dosing, patient response evaluations at Week 13, Months 6, 12, 18, 24, and Long-Term Follow-ups every 6 months until the elapse of 5 years from the dosimetric dose and then annually thereafter through year 10. Thyroid function will be monitored annually during Long-term follow-up.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin
BIOLOGICAL: Iodine I 131 Tositumomab Therapeutic Regimen
Number of Participants With Unconfirmed Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) and Unconfirmed Complete Response, A participant was defined as a responder if he/she sustained a complete response (CR: the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or partial response (PR: greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of perpendicular diameter \[SPPD\] determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease). Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma., From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to 161 months)|Number of Participants With Confirmed Response (Complete Response or Partial Response) and Confirmed Complete Response, A participant was defined as a responder if he/she sustained a complete response (CR: the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or partial response (PR: greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the sum of the product of perpendicular diameter \[SPPD\] determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease). Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart., From randomization until the first documented complete response or partial response (up to 161 months)|Duration of Response for Participants With Unconfirmed Response (CR+PR), Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented CR (the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or PR (greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the SPPD determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease) until disease progression (PD). PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma., From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to 161 months)|Duration of Response for Participants With Confirmed Response (CR+PR), Duration of response is defined as the time from the first documented CR (the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms) or PR (greater than or equal to a 50% decrease in the SPPD determined at Baseline; no increase in the size of the other nodes, liver, or spleen; no new sites of disease) until disease progression (PD). PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by the International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart., From the time of the first documented response (CR or PR) until disease progression (up to 161 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) in Unconfirmed Complete Responders, DOR is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented disease progression. Unconfirmed CR is defined as the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms. Response was evaluated by an investigator per guidelines developed by The International Workshop to Standardize Response Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma., From the time of the first documented unconfirmed CR until PD (up to 161 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) in Confirmed Complete Responders, DOR is defined as the time from the first documented response to the first documented disease progression. CR is defined as the disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and all disease-related symptoms. A confirmed response (CR and PR) requires that the response be confirmed by another response (same or better) at least 4 weeks apart., From the time of the first documented CR until PD (up to 161 months)|Time to Progression or Death, Time to progression is defined as the time from the treatment start date to the first documented incidence of disease progression (PD) or death. PD is defined as greater than or equal to a 50% increase from nadir in the SPPD for all measurable disease. Lesion changes believed to represent measurement variation associated with radiographic technique should not be classified as PD., From the treatment start date to the first documented incidence of disease progression (PD) or death (up to 161 months)
Time to Treatment Failure, Time to treatment failure is defined as the time from the date of the dosimetric dose to the first occurrence of the following: treatment withdrawal, decision to seek additional therapy, study removal, disease progression, receipt of alternative therapy for lymphoma, or death study withdrawal for any reason. Participants withdrawn for reasons other than progression or death were censored at their date of withdrawal., From the dosimetric dose to the first occurrence of the following: treatment withdrawal, decision to seek additional therapy, study removal, disease progression, receipt of alternative therapy, or death (up to 161 months)
This is a single arm, multi-center, expanded access study of Iodine I 131 Tositumomab (BEXXAR) therapeutic regimen for patients with relapsed or refractory low-grade or transformed low-grade non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma. The primary objective is to make Iodine I 131 Tositumomab more broadly available to patients. Secondary endpoints will be to obtain additional safety and efficacy information for this treatment regimen. Post study drug administration follow-ups will continue for up to ten years. These will include blood-work and adverse event assessments for 13 weeks post dosing, patient response evaluations at Week 13, Months 6, 12, 18, 24, and Long-Term Follow-ups every 6 months until the elapse of 5 years from the dosimetric dose and then annually thereafter through year 10. Thyroid function will be monitored annually during Long-term follow-up.