Impact of Robot-assisted Radical Prostatectomy Technique on Short-term Continence Recovery
To assess and compare the short-term post-operative continence recovery rate in two cohorts of men undergoing Robot Assisted Radical Prostatectomy (RARP), each randomized to undergo RARP with Vattikuti Institute technique or Retzius sparing technique.
Urinary Incontinence
PROCEDURE: Retzius sparing radical prostatectomy|PROCEDURE: Vattikuti Urology Institute radical prostatectomy|DEVICE: da Vinci Surgical System
Urinary Continence Recovery, 24-hour pad weights, One week after the removal of the suprapubic urinary catheter
Number of Participants With Urinary Continence Recovery, 0 pad per day, within 3 months from the intervention|Number of Participants With Peri and Postoperative Complications, Clavien-Dindo complications, 1-year median follow up|Number of Participants Who Regained Potency Postoperatively (as Measured by Sexual Health Inventory for Men (SHIM) Score of 17 or Greater), SHIM ranges from 0-25 with higher scores indicating better sexual function; a score of \>=22 is normal and \>=17 is considered mild ED, 1-year median follow up|Number of Participants Who Had Biochemical Recurrence (Post-operative Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Value >=0.2 ng/ml), Patients without biochemical evidence of disease recurrence (i.e. postop PSA \>=0.2 ng/mL), 1-year median follow up|Post-operative Urinary Function and Urinary Function-related Quality of Life, International Prostatic Symptom Score (continuous score from 0-35, higher scores indicating worse urinary function), Within 3 months from the intervention
Number of Patients Who Regained Urinary Continence Postoperatively, 0 pad per day, 1 year median follow up|Post-operative Urinary Function and Urinary Function-related Quality of Life, MSKCC (Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center) STAR questionnaire (symptom tracking and reporting). Score ranges from 0-25, with higher scores indicating better urinary function, 1 year median follow up
Traditionally, RARP is performed using a trans-peritoneal technique that pass anteriorly to the bladder. This technique necessitates the dissection and/or manipulation of many structures, which might compromise post-operative urinary continence recovery. These structures include the pubo-prostatic ligament, Santorini plexus, neurovascular bundle, and veil of Aphrodite. Recently, a "Retzius-sparing" technique to perform RARP has beed described. This approach passes posteriorly to the bladder, through the space of Douglas, which should minimize the damaged to the aforementioned structure. Theoretically, the latter technique should improve post-operative urinary continence recovery. However, a randomized comparison between the "traditional" RARP and "Retzius-sparing" RARP is still lacking.