GP-induced Chemotherapy Combined With IMRT and TPF-induced Chemotherapy Combined With IMRT in the Treatment of Distant Metastatic Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
Mainly compared with GP induction chemotherapy combined with IMRT and TPF induction chemotherapy combined with IMRT in the treatment of nasopharyngeal carcinoma, the cure rate, remission rate, treatment of distant metastases and lymph node metastasis, quality of life improvement rate, etc.
Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: GP+IMRT|DRUG: TPF+IMRT
Progress-free survival(PFS), Progress-free survival(year) is calculated from the date of randomization to the date of the first progress at any site or death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., 3 years
Overall survival(OS), The OS(year) was defined as the duration from the date of random assignment to the date of death from any cause or censored at the date of the last follow-up., 3 years|Locoregional failure-free survival(LRFS), The LRFS(year) is evaluated and calculated from the date of random assignment until the day of first locoregional relapse or until the date of the last follow-up visit., 3 years|Distant metastasis-free survival(DMFS), The DMFS(year) is evaluated and calculated from the date of random assignment until the day of first distant metastases or until the date of the last follow-up visit., 3 years|Overall response rate, Tumour response(CR/PR/SD/PD) was classified according to RECIST v1.1, 3 years|Incidence of acute and late toxicity, Incidence of acute toxicity（Grade1/2/3/4） is calculated for each adverse event respectively and severity is evaluated on basis of Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 4.0 criteria. Late radiation toxicities were assessed using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group and European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer late radiation morbidity scoring scheme, 3 years
1. The main purpose: Whether the GP program can improve the efficiency of patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma, especially overall survival (OS), in the TPF program. 2. Secondary purpose: To compare the progression-free survival (PFS) local failure-free survival (LR-FFS), the short-term remission rate of the tumor, the adverse chemotherapy response, and the treatment compliance Sex, as well as quality of life. 3. Significance of the research project Nasopharyngeal carcinoma is sensitive to radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Platinum-based chemotherapy is used in the treatment of distant metastasis and metastasis. It can effectively alleviate local symptoms and reduce local symptoms. The tumor volume thereby reduces the high dose area of the target area. Primary lesions and lymphatic drainage area radiotherapy can reduce tumor burden, relieve symptoms, and improve quality of life.