Depocyt® With Sorafenib in Neoplastic Meningitis
The purpose of this study is to determine the tolerability and side effects of oral sorafenib in combination with intrathecal DepoCyt.
Neoplastic Meningitis
DRUG: DepoCyt|DRUG: Sorafenib
Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Safety and tolerability of sorafenib with DepoCyt. Toxicities were to be reported using tables and descriptive statistics by type and grade. All patients were to be followed up until death., 6 Months
Number of Participants With Progression Free Survival (PFS) at 6 Months, Kaplan-Meier analysis of PFS was to be performed and the PFS at 6 months in the study patients were be empirically described. All patients were to be followed up until death., 6 Months|Number of Participants With Overall Survival (OS), Several secondary endpoints were to be analyzed in a descriptive fashion. All patients were to be followed up until death., 6 Months|Sorafenib Levels in Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF), CSF sorafenib level was to be measured over time, and the means and standard errors of the sorafenib level were to be plotted at specific sampling time points. CSF sorafenib levels may also have been correlated with patients' PFS, OS, or cytology using descriptive statistical methods (e.g., KM analysis stratified by high vs. low CSF sorafenib levels). The log transformation of lab values were to be employed on the continuous variables whenever necessary., 6 Months|CSF and Serum Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) Levels, CSF and serum VEGF levels were to be measured over time, and the means and standard errors of the respective VEGF levels were to be plotted at specific sampling time points. The respective VEGF levels may also have been correlated with patients' PFS, OS, or cytology using descriptive statistical methods similarly as mentioned above. The log transformation of lab values were to be employed on the continuous variables whenever necessary., 6 Months
After an Ommaya reservoir has been placed in the patient's head, the patient will receive DepoCyt through that reservoir every 2 weeks for 5 doses, then every 4 weeks for an additional 5 doses (a total of 10 DepoCyt treatments). Patients will also receive oral sorafenib at 400 mg twice a day throughout the treatment course until disease progression or death. Patients will receive brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) with contrast (and whole spine, if necessary) and spinal fluid studies will be obtained every 8 weeks through the Ommaya reservoir until disease progression, death, or unacceptable toxicity. In addition, patients will have spinal fluid obtained to test for sorafenib levels at each study visit after the start of sorafenib as well as prior to sorafenib treatment for controls.