A Phase 1b / 2 Drug Resistant Immunotherapy With Activated, Gene Modified Allogeneic or Autologous γδ T Cells (DeltEx) in Combination With Maintenance Temozolomide in Subjects With Recurrent or Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma
This multicenter, Phase 1b/2 study is being conducted to determine if the experimental cell therapy is safe, tolerable and can delay the return of cancer in patients with a newly diagnosed or recurrent glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) in combination with standard chemotherapy treatment temozolomide (TMZ). If there is a 25% or greater improvement in survival in this study then the therapy should be studied further.
Glioblastoma
BIOLOGICAL: Autologous genetically modified gamma-delta T cells|BIOLOGICAL: Allogeneic genetically modified gamma-delta T cells
Autologous Phase 2, Arm A in newly diagnosed glioblastoma: 12-month overall survival (OS) rate, Date of first dose to date of death by any cause, 12 Months|Allogeneic Phase 1b, establishes the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) for phase 2 allogeneic arms and subject or product characteristics that will optimize manufacturing, \<30% dose limiting toxicity (DLT) observed with dose, 28 days|Allogeneic Phase 2, Arm B confirmed recurrent glioblastoma, 9-month overall survival (OS), Date of first dose to date of death by any cause, 9 Months|Allogeneic Phase 2, Arm C newly diagnosed glioblastoma, 12-month overall survival (OS) rate, Date of first dose to date of death by any cause, 12 Months
Assessment of safety, Assessment of safety is based on total number of treatment emergent adverse events and serious adverse events Assessment of safety is also based on change from baseline of clinical laboratory tests including change in liver function tests, renal function and complete blood counts Assessment of safety is also based on change from baseline of vital signs including heart rate, blood pressure, temperature and pulse oximetry, 12 Months|Assessment of tolerability, Assessment of tolerability is based on total number of treatment emergent adverse events and serious adverse events Assessment of tolerability is also based on change from baseline of clinical laboratory tests including change in liver function tests, renal function and complete blood counts Assessment of tolerability is also based on change from baseline of vital signs including heart rate, blood pressure, temperature and pulse oximetry, 12 Months|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR is defined as the rate of the best overall response as complete response (CR) or partial response (PR)., 12 Months|Time to progression (TTP), Time to progression will be defined as the time from first dose until objective tumor progression, 12 Months|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be defined as the time from first dose until objective tumor progression or death, whichever comes first., 12 Months|Definition of product characteristics, Product characteristics that predict for maximal success of product creation:

Age of donor ( \<50 years of age, 51-65 years of age, \>65 years of age), Total white blood cell count and individual immune cell count (neutrophils, T cells, gamma delta T cells) of the apheresis product, Time to infusion of manufactured product of apheresis material (1 month, 2months), 12 Months
This is a Phase 1b and 2 open-label cellular therapy trial using genetically modified gamma-delta (γδ) T cells or DeltEx Drug Resistant Immunotherapy (DRI). Gamma-delta T cells are a type of immune cell that may help the immune system recognize and kill cancer cells. The cells have been modified to make them resistant to the killing effects of chemotherapy such that they may be administered in combination with chemotherapy without being destroyed. The chemotherapy that is being used in this study is called temozolomide (TMZ) which is the standard-of-care used to treat glioblastoma patients. The DRI cells are given in combination with a standard dose of TMZ and are administered through a catheter directly into the brain where the tumor is located.

There are four arms to this study for eligible subjects with either newly diagnosed or relapsed IDH wild-type (IDH-wt) glioblastoma (GBM). Arm A will enroll newly diagnosed glioblastoma subjects to receive DRI cells derived from their own cells (autologous). The Phase 1b, Arms B and C will enroll subjects to receive DRI cells derived from a donor's cells (allogeneic). Subjects in the Phase 1b portion and Arm B must have relapsed disease, that is disease that has returned after initial treatment, while Arm A and C subjects must have newly diagnosed disease.

Prescreening subjects will have a standard-of-care surgical resection of their tumor. Once their preliminary eligibility is confirmed, they will have a Rickham catheter placed which is a device typically used to deliver chemotherapy into the brain that will be used to deliver the DRI cells directly to the tumor.

Following the surgical resection, subjects in Arm A will return to the study doctor's office/clinic to undergo a procedure called an apheresis. This procedure will isolate the immune cells from the blood to help make the DRI product for the subject. These cells include the gamma-delta T cells that will be used to make the DRI cells. Once the cells for the DRI product are made, they are frozen and stored for future use. In the Phase Ib and Arms B and C of the trial, a donor will undergo apheresis to provide the source of cells for the DRI product.

Following apheresis and confirmation that the required number of gamma-delta T cells were successfully collected; subjects in Arm A and C will begin the recommended or standard-of-care treatment for newly diagnosed GBM. This will include six weeks of chemotherapy with TMZ and radiation. Subjects will then have about a four week break prior to beginning the maintenance phase of treatment. Maintenance therapy includes five days of chemotherapy, every 28 days, which is repeated for six cycles. The previously frozen DRI product is thawed, prepared and is infused on the first day of each five-day cycle through the Rickham catheter. Subjects received a total of 6 infusions.

Subjects in the Phase Ib and Arm B will only receive one dose of TMZ along with the DRI product every 28 days for a total of six cycles.

Subjects will be observed for a of minimum 30 days after receiving the first dose of the DRI gamma-delta T cells. Subjects will be followed for potential side effects. The approximate duration of the study may be up to 15 years, or until disease progression or subjects withdraw from the study.