Radical Local vs. Palliative Therapy for Breast Cancer Patientts With Ipsilateral Humerus or Sternum Oligometastasis
A Randomized, Open Label, Phase III Trial to Evaluate Radical Local Treatment versus Palliative Treatment for Breast Cancer Patients with Primary Ipsilateral Humerus or Sternum Oligometastasis
Breast Cancer|Oligometastasis
PROCEDURE: Radical resection|RADIATION: Radical radiotherapy|OTHER: Palliative treatment
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as time from randomization to disease progression or death, whichever occurs first, 4 years
Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as time from randomization to death for any cause. If there is no death reported for a subject before the date cutoff for OS analysis, OS will be censored at the last contact date at which the subject is known to be alive.

For patients who had not died up to the cut-off date, the date they were last known to be alive was derived from the patient status records, the trial completion record, radiological imaging assessments, the study treatment termination record, and the randomization date., 4 years|Patient Reported Outcomes, Breast cancer specific health treatment related quality of life and general health status (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Breast (FACT-B) \[version 4\]), 4 years
This is a prospective, randomized, and multicenter study to compare the radical local treatment versus palliative treatment for breast cancer patients with primary ipsilateral humerus or sternum oligometastasis.

183 subjects will be randomized divided into two groups (experimental group and control group) at a ratio of 2 to 1.

Control group: Palliative treatment. No radical surgical resection or radiotherapy is performed in this group. But palliative internal fixation or radiotherapy for pain relief is permitted. Moreover, systemic chemotherapy, endocrine therapy and targeted therapy are allowed.

Experimental group：Radical local treatment. Radical resection is performed, and the cutting edge is negative, or radical local radiotherapy is feasible (cumulative radiotherapy dose is greater than or equal to 50Gy). Systemic endocrine therapy and targeted therapy are allowed after radical local therapy. However, whether systemic chemotherapy should be used is determined by clinicians according to clinical experience or guidelines.