Study on the Accessibility and Feasibility of Intelligent Applet for Health Intervention of Cancer Patients
In the 5G era with the revolutionary improvement of network speed, digital medical care has brought great convenience to health services. There is a lack of mobile medical data on cancer care worldwide. We designed an applet based on mobile intelligent electronic devices with a doctor-patient dual interface for the perioperative management of cancer patients and verified its applicability in the general population. This study aims to specifically improve the applet according to the characteristics of cancer patients, use it to accurately manage and intervene cancer patients, and establish a rapid doctor-patient communication platform, hoping to improve prognosis.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Health intervention based on intelligent applet
Acceptability of the applet by cancer patients as assessed by questionnaire, Investigated by a questionnaire with 33 questions, and compared with other mobile medical methods to explore the accessibility, 3 months|Acceptability of the applet by medical oncology staff as assessed by questionnaire, The questionnaire includes 22 questions, collecting information on attitude feedback, time input, and training cost of medical staff using the mobile medical applet, 3 months
Self-reported quality of life as assessed by ED-5Q-5L scale, EQ-5D-5L is a set of standardized scales for measuring health status, including 5 dimensions (1-5 points for each dimension) and a VAS for overall assessment of health status. Developed by the European Society for quality of life, it can provide a simple and universal health measurement method for clinical and economic evaluation., 3 months|Psychological status as assessed by the HADS scale, Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS): A self screening questionnaire composed of 7 anxiety subscales and 7 depression subscales. The total score of each subscale is between 0 and 21. The higher the total score, the more serious the anxiety or depression., 3 months|Symptom distress as assessed by the MD Anderson symptom scale, Symptom distress is assessed with MD Anderson symptom scale, which is composed of 13 symptom severity and 6 symptom interference subscales. It is used to assess the interference of symptoms to patients' daily life. The item scores range from 1 to 10. The higher the average score, the more serious the symptom., 3 months
In the 5G era with the revolutionary improvement of network speed, digital medical care has brought great convenience to health services. There is a lack of mobile medical data on cancer care worldwide. We designed an applet based on mobile intelligent electronic devices with a doctor-patient dual interface for the perioperative management of cancer patients and verified its applicability in the general population. This study aims to specifically improve the applet according to the characteristics of cancer patients, use it to accurately manage and intervene cancer patients, and establish a rapid doctor-patient communication platform, hoping to improve prognosis.