The Safety and Efficacy Test of Nutri-PEITC Jelly in Head and Neck Cancer Patients
This triple-blinded randomized placebo control trial aims to investigate the safety and efficacy of Nutri-PEITC jelly, a functional food, in head and neck cancer patients. The primary outcome measure includes adverse events, health-related quality of life, tumor response and progression-free survival. The secondary outcome includes serum p53 and cytochrome C levels and functional status.
Head and Neck Neoplasms|Quality of Life|Nutrition Related Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutri-jelly with PEITC|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Nutri-jelly
Adverse events, Evaluation of adverse events by physical examination, blood tests, and interviewing the subjects, 1 month and 3 months after receiving intervention|Changes in Health-related quality of life score compared to baseline, Evaluation of Health-related quality of life by using questionnaire FACT-HN, Baseline, 1 month and 3 months after receiving intervention|Changes in Tumor response compared to baseline, Evaluation of tumor response following RECIST criteria at 1 month and 3 months, Baseline, 1 month, 3 months after receiving intervention|Progression-free survival time, The length of time during the intervention that the participant lives with stable disease, The time of the intervention until any signs or symptoms of progressive disease be recorded.
Serum p53 level, Level of both wild type and mutant p53 in serum, 1 month and 3 months after receiving intervention|Serum cytochrome C level, Level of cytochrome C in serum, 1 month and 3 months after receiving intervention|Changes in Functional status, Evaluation of functional status using KPS (Karnofsky Performance Score) score, Baseline, 1 month and 3 months after receiving intervention
Previously, Nutri-jelly, a novel edible nutritious gel for patients with chewing and swallowing difficulties, was shown to be effective in improving the quality of life of head and neck cancer patients. Recently, Nutri-PEITC jelly is recently developed by addition of Phenethyl Isothiocyanate (PEITC), a phytochemical compound with chemopreventive action in animal bearing oral cancer. It intends to be a functional food for cancer survivor. The dose of PEITC in Nutri-jelly was based on safe and effective dose determined in animal studies. Furthermore, Nutri-PEITC jelly was proven safe in healthy volunteers who daily consumes for a consecutive month with no serious adverse events. The purpose of this study is to determine safety and efficacy of Nutri-jelly with PEITC in head and neck cancer patients.

independent variable: continuous Nutri -jelly with PEITC intake dependent variable (outcome): adverse effects, health-related quality of life score, tumor response, progression-free survival, serum p53 and cytochrome C levels and functional status