Platform Trial of Novel Regimens Versus Standard of Care (SoC) in Participants With Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) - Sub-study 2
This study is a sub-study of the master protocol 205801 (NCT03739710). This sub study will assess the clinical activity of novel regimen (Feladilimab plus Ipilimumab) in participants with NSCLC.
Neoplasms
DRUG: Feladilimab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Part 1: Number of Participants With Any Adverse Events (AEs) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that, at any dose resulted in death, was life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent disability/incapacity, or is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations which involved medical or scientific judgment or is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. SAEs are subset of AEs. AEs were coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA dictionary)., Up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Number of Participants With Dose Limiting Toxicities (DLTs), Criteria for dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) included hematologic indicators such as febrile neutropenia as defined by CTCAE v5; Grade 4 neutropenia of \>7 days in duration; Grade 4 anemia and Grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia with bleeding. Non-hematologic criteria, comprising Grade 4 toxicity; Grade 3 pneumonitis of any duration; Grade 3 toxicity that does not resolve to ≤Grade 1 or baseline within 3 days despite optimal supportive care; any Grade 2 ocular toxicity requiring systemic steroids, or any ≥ Grade 3 ocular toxicity Any other toxicity considered to be dose-limiting that occurs beyond four weeks was considered as DLT. Any other event which in the judgment of the investigator and GSK Medical Monitor is considered to be a DLT., Up to 21 days|Part 1: Number of Participants With Worst-case Change Post-baseline in Hematology Parameters, Blood samples were collected for evaluation of hematology parameters. The summaries of worst-case change from Baseline with respect to normal range have been presented for only those laboratory tests that are gradable by CTCAE v5.0. The number of participants with decreases to low from baseline, changes to normal or no changes from baseline, and increases to high values have been presented. Baseline was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date., Baseline (Day 1) and up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Number of Participants With Worst-case Change Post-baseline in Clinical Chemistry Parameters, Blood samples were collected for evaluation of clinical chemistry parameters. The summaries of worst-case change from Baseline with respect to normal range have been presented for only those laboratory tests that are gradable by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. The number of participants with decreases to low from baseline, changes to normal or no changes from baseline, and increases to high values have been presented. Baseline was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date., Baseline (Day 1) and up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Number of Participants With Worst Case Change Post-baseline in Urinalysis Parameters, Urine samples were collected for evaluation of urinalysis parameters using dipstick method. The dipstick test gave results in a semi-quantitative manner. Baseline was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. The summaries of worst-case change from Baseline with respect to normal range have been presented for only those laboratory tests that are gradable by CTCAE v5.0. The number of participants with 'Any increase', or 'no changes/decreased' values have been presented., Baseline (Day 1) and up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Potential of Hydrogen (pH) of Urine, Urine samples were collected from participants to assess urine pH levels. pH is measured on a numeric scale ranging from 0 to 14; values on the scale refer to the degree of alkalinity or acidity. A pH of 7 is neutral. A pH less than 7 is acidic, and a pH greater than 7 is basic. Normal urine has a slightly acid pH (5.0 - 6.0). Baseline was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Changes from baseline in urine pH were reported., Baseline (Day 1), week 4, week 7, week 10, week 13 and week 29 (Treatment Discontinuation)|Part 1: Change From Baseline in Specific Gravity of Urine, Urine samples were collected from participants to analyze urine specific gravity. Baseline was defined as the most recent, non-missing value prior to or on the first study treatment dose date. Changes from baseline in specific gravity of urine were reported., Baseline (Day 1), week 4, week 7, week 10, week 13 and week 29 (Treatment Discontinuation)|Part 1: Number of Participants With AE Leading to Dose Modifications, An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a study treatment, whether or not considered related to the study treatment. The number of participants who experienced AE leading to dose modifications were evaluated., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Overall Survival, OS is defined as the time from randomization until death due to any cause., Up to 29 weeks
Part 1: Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR) as their best overall response (BOR) recorded from the date of randomization until disease progression or initiation of new anti-cancer therapy, whichever is earlier based on blinded independent central review (BICR) evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 (v1.1). CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must be \<10 millimeter in the short axis. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters (e.g., percent change from baseline)., Up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR + PR at any time, plus stable disease (SD) \>=12 weeks. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm. Stable Disease (SD) was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease., Up to 29 weeks|Part 1: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) and Minimum Concentration (Cmin), Blood samples were collected for PK analysis., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Milestone Survival Rate at 12 and 18 Months, Milestone survival rate is the proportion of participants who are alive at a specific, predefined point in time after a certain event or diagnosis post treatment., At 12 and 18 months|Part 2: Number of Participants With Complete Response (CR), Partial Response (PR), Stable Disease (SD), and Progressive Disease (PD) Based on RECIST 1.1, Complete Response \[CR\], Partial Response \[PR\], stable disease \[SD\], and progressive disease (PD) as assessed by the investigator per IMWG. CR defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than (\<)10 mm; PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Stable Disease (SD) was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the smallest sum of diameters recorded since the treatment started., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With iRECIST Complete Response (iCR), iRECIST Partial Response (iPR), iRECIST Stable Disease (iSD), iRECIST Confirmed Progressive Disease (iCPD), and iRECIST Unconfirmed Progressive Disease (iUPD), Modified RECIST 1.1 for immune-based therapeutics (iRECIST) is based on RECIST v 1.1 but adapted to account for the unique tumor response seen with immunotherapeutic drugs. iRECIST was to be used to assess tumor response and progression and make treatment decisions. iCR: disappearance of all target lesions; iPR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as a reference, the baseline sum of the diameters (e.g. percent change from baseline). iCPD: either 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions; iSD: stable disease in the absence of CR or PD and iUPD: unconfirmed progressive disease when PD is unconfirmed., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With PFS, ORR, DOR, and DCR, PFS defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death, whichever will occurs earlier, per RECIST criteria. ORR defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR or PR at any time per RECIST criteria. DOR defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, per RECIST criteria. DCR was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR + PR at any time, plus stable disease (SD) \>=12 weeks., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With iPFS, iORR, and iDOR, iPFS defined as time from the date of randomization to the date of disease progression or death, whichever will occurs earlier, per iRECIST criteria. iORR defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed iCR or iPR at any time per iRECIST criteria. iDOR defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR until disease progression or death, per iRECIST criteria., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With AEs and SAEs, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that; results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations judged by physician, is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. AEs and SAEs were planned to be coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) coding system., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With AESI, Number of participants with AESI were planned to be evaluated., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With AEs and SAEs Leading to Dose Modification, An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of a medicinal product, whether or not considered related to the medicinal product. SAE is defined as any untoward medical occurrence that; results in death, is life-threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, other situations judged by physician, is associated with liver injury and impaired liver function. AEs and SAEs were coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) coding system. Number of participants with AEs and SAEs leading to dose modification (delays/withdrawal) were planned to be evaluated., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Hematology Lab Parameters, Blood samples were to be collected for the analysis of hematology parameters. The laboratory parameters were to be graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5. Grade 1 (G1): mild; Grade 2 (G2): moderate; Grade 3 (G3): severe or medically significant. Higher grade indicates greater severity and an increase in CTCAE grade were to be defined relative to the Baseline grade., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Clinical Chemistry Lab Parameters, Blood samples were to be collected for the analysis of chemistry parameters. The laboratory parameters were to be graded according to CTCAE version 5. G1: mild; G2: moderate; G3: severe or medically significant. Higher grade indicates greater severity and an increase in CTCAE grade were to be defined relative to the Baseline grade., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Clinically Significant Changes in Vital Signs, Vital signs were planned to be measured after 5 minutes of rest and taken in the same position throughout the study., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Maximum Concentration (Cmax) and Minimum Concentration (Cmin), Blood samples were planned to be collected for PK analysis., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Post-baseline Positive Anti-drug Antibodies (ADAs) Against Feladilimab, Serum samples were to be collected for the analysis of the presence of ADAs using validated immunoassays., Up to 29 weeks|Part 2: Number of Participants With Post-baseline Positive Anti-drug Antibodies (ADAs) Against Iplimumab, Serum samples were to be collected for the analysis of the presence of ADAs using validated immunoassays., Up to 29 weeks
This study is a sub-study of the master protocol 205801 (NCT03739710). This sub study will assess the clinical activity of novel regimen (Feladilimab plus Ipilimumab) in participants with NSCLC.