D-Lung: An Analytics Platform for Lung Cancer Based on Deep Learning Technology
Lung cancer is one of main cause of cancer death in worldwide, characterized of low 5-year survival rate of less than 20%. Pulmonary nodule is considered as the typical imaging manifestation in early stage of lung cancer. The National Lung Screen Trial has demonstrated that the mortality rates could decline greatly, by the utility of low-dose helical computed tomography for screen of pulmonary nodules. Thus, automatic detection, diagnosis and management of pulmonary nodules, play the vital roles in computer-aided lung cancer screening and early intervention.
Lung Cancer
RADIATION: computed tomography
accuracy, proportion of true results(both true positives and true negatives) among whole instances, 2 years|sensitivity, true positive rate in percentage(%) derived by ROC analysis, 2 years|specificity, true negative rate in percentage (%) derived by ROC analysis, 2 years|area under curve (AUC), area under ROC curve in percentage (%), 2 years
average number of false positives per scan (FPs/scan), FPs/scan in number (N) based on free-response receiver operating characteristic (FROC) analysis, 2 years|competition performance metric (CPM), Competitive performance metric (CPM) is a criterion used for CAD system evaluation. Based on FROC paradigm, CPM score is computed as an average sensitivity at seven predefined average false positive rates. CPM score ranges from 0 to 1, with higher CPM score indicating better CAD performance., 2 years
Lung cancer is one of main cause of cancer death in worldwide, characterized of low 5-year survival rate of less than 20%. Pulmonary nodule is considered as the typical imaging manifestation in early stage of lung cancer. The National Lung Screen Trial has demonstrated that the mortality rates could decline greatly, by the utility of low-dose helical computed tomography for screen of pulmonary nodules. Thus, automatic detection, diagnosis and management of pulmonary nodules, play the vital roles in computer-aided lung cancer screening and early intervention.