A Study of Adoptive Immunotherapy With Autologous Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes in Solid Tumors
Background: T cell based adoptive immunotherapy including CTL and TIL may stimulated the immune system and stop cancer cells from growing.

Objective: Phase I clinical trial to investigate the toxicity and immune response of therapy with autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes as adjuvant treatment for metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and hepatocellular carcinoma after primary operation, radiotherapy and chemotherapy.

Methodology: Phase I clinical trial in patients with advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma, hepatocellular carcinoma, breast cancer and other solid cancers. The investigators isolated lymphocytes from fresh tumor tissues, activated and expanded TILs in vitro; and infused the enough number (10e9 to 10e10) of TIL back patients.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Breast Carcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: tumor infiltrating lymphocytes, IL-2
• the safety and tolerability of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in combination with Interleukin-2(IL-2) in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)., Twenty of participants with adverse events as a measure of safety and tolerability according to standard NIH criteria including fever, mucositis, dermatitis, vomiting and hematologic toxicity leucopenia, neutropenia and lymphocytoponia etc. and a Quality of Life assessment. Adverse events will be reported on the case report form. The problility of observing at least one subject experience an adverse event in a sample of 20 subjects is 0.99, if the probability of the event occurring is assumed to be 0.2. There will be 95% power to detect a change in the proportion of adverse events in the group from 0 before treatment to 0.2 after treatment., {Time Frame: 12 months}
• immune efficacy and anti-tumor effects of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) in combination with Interleukin-2(IL-2) in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)., Treatment response will be measured by immune response including the frequency of EBV antigen-specific T cells and ELISPOT detection for IFNg, EBV DNA concentration and tumor size. These data will be examined for normality and transformed if required., [ Time Frame: 12 Months]
Tumor infiltrating lymphocytes were isolated from tumor tissues from tumor biopsy or operation. These TILs were cultured in human IL-2 medium for 2 to 3 weeks, and reactivated by OKT3, irradiated feeder cells from the PBMCs of healthy donors and LCL set from EBV-transformed normal B cells, and expanded in human IL-2 medium for another 15 days. 10e9 to 10e10 TILs were yielded. The phenotype, function and sterile were detected before these TILs infused patients. After accepting operation or first round of routine chemotherapy and radiotherapy, the patients were treated with autologous TILs 10e9-10e10 via intravenous in 30 min, q weekX2 weeks, and followed by two weeks with daily sc low-dose interleukine-2.

Patients will be evaluated for toxicity and immune response. Peripheral blood of patients using multimer analysis and/or ELISPOT assays. Additional, we will be able to determine anti-tumor effects from immunotherapy by evaluating the clinical response of patients with stable or progressive disease at the time of TILs infusion. Lastly, we will assess additional tumor markers in patients with relapsed/refractory disease by immunohistochemical staining of tumor sections from previous diagnostic or therapeutic biopsy samples to determine the incidence of additional tumor antigen targets that may be used in future studies.