Oncologists' Perceptions on Physical Activity and Exercise
The aim of this observational and nationwide study is to investigate the knowledge and perceptions of the entire population of Greek specialists and medical residents in pathological oncology regarding physical activity and exercise in patients with cancer. Sub-objectives of the study are to investigate the barriers and facilitating factors in counseling and prescribing exercise in cancer patients. The data collection will be conducted through a validated questionnaire developed in a previous study, which will be sent via an online Google Form platform, ensuring the anonymity and confidentiality of the participants' responses. The questionnaire will include demographic characteristics, four basic scales with mandatory responses (subjective knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviour in physical activity and exercise) and an optional scale of objective knowledge in physical activity and exercise.
Perceptions on Physical Activity and Exercise
BEHAVIORAL: Quantitative study
Investigation of oncologists' perceived knowledge on physical activity and exercise via questionnaire., Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

Likert-type scale questions, with responses ranging from 1 to 5 (low to high level of perceived knowledge).

Higher scores mean a better outcome., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)|Investigation of oncologists' attitudes on physical activity and exercise via questionnaire, Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

Likert-scale questions, with responses ranging from 1 to 5 (low to high level of agreement with statements).

Higher scores mean a better outcome., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)|Investigation of oncologists ' abilities to promote physical activity and exercise via questionnaire, Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

Likert-type scale questions, with responses ranging from 1 to 5 (low to high level of perceived ability).

Higher scores mean a better outcome., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)|Investigation of oncologists ' behavior on physical activity and exercise via questionnaire, Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

Likert-type scale questions, with responses ranging from 1 to 5 (never to always).

Higher scores mean a better outcome., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)
Investigation of oncologists' objective knowledge on physical activity and exercise via questionnaire., Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

Potential responses include ''True'', ''False'', and ''Don't know''. Higher scores mean a better outcome., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)|Investigation of oncologists' facilitators and barriers on physical activity and exercise councelling and prescription via questionnaire, Only physicians, specialists, and residents in pathological oncology who manage patients with cancer will be included.

1. Likert-type scale questions, with responses ranging from 1 to 5 (never to always). Higher score regarding facilitators means a better outcome, while a higher score regarding barriers means a worse outcome.
2. Multiple choice questions., Once during the study (i.e. from 05/2025 to 10/2025)
The aim of this observational and nationwide study is to investigate the knowledge and perceptions of the entire population of Greek specialists and medical residents in pathological oncology regarding physical activity and exercise in patients with cancer. Sub-objectives of the study are to investigate the barriers and facilitating factors in counseling and prescribing exercise in cancer patients. The data collection will be conducted through a validated questionnaire developed in a previous study, which will be sent via an online Google Form platform, ensuring the anonymity and confidentiality of the participants' responses. The questionnaire will include demographic characteristics, four basic scales with mandatory responses (subjective knowledge, attitudes, skills and behaviour in physical activity and exercise) and an optional scale of objective knowledge in physical activity and exercise.