Whole-Abdominal Radiation Therapy and Cisplatin in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Endometrial Cancer That Has Been Removed by Surgery
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as cisplatin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Radiation therapy may also make tumor cells more sensitive to cisplatin. Giving radiation therapy together with cisplatin after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of whole-abdominal radiation therapy when given together with cisplatin in treating patients with stage III or stage IV endometrial cancer that has been removed by surgery.
Endometrial Cancer
RADIATION: Vaginal Brachytherapy|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Whole Abdominal Radiation [WAR] Therapy
Toxicity as assessed by GOG Common Toxicity Criteria, Study duration|Recommended phase II dose of whole-abdominal radiotherapy, Study duration
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine a recommended phase II dose of adjuvant whole-abdominal radiotherapy when administered with cisplatin in patients with optimally debulked stage III or IV carcinoma of the endometrium.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of whole-abdominal radiotherapy (WAR).

Patients receive 3 courses of standard chemotherapy comprising carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV. Beginning within 6 weeks after completion of standard chemotherapy, patients receive cisplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and undergo a single fraction of WAR on day 1. Treatment with cisplatin and WAR repeats weekly for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may undergo standard vaginal brachytherapy beginning no earlier than the last course of standard chemotherapy or no later than 1 week before the start of cisplatin and WAR.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of WAR until the recommended phase II dose (RPTD) is determined. The RPTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the RPTD.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 30 patients will be accrued for this study.