High Dose Busulfan and Bortezomib in Treating Patients With High Risk Multiple Myeloma Undergoing Stem Cell Transplant
This pilot phase II trial studies how well giving high dose busulfan together with bortezomib works in treating patients with high risk multiple myeloma undergoing stem cell transplant. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as busulfan, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cells growth. Giving busulfan together with bortezomib before a stem cell transplant may kill more cancer cells
Refractory Multiple Myeloma|Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: tacrolimus|DRUG: sirolimus|BIOLOGICAL: anti-thymocyte globulin|DRUG: fludarabine phosphate|DRUG: busulfan|DRUG: bortezomib|PROCEDURE: allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Incidence and Severity of Acute GVHD Using Fludarabine Phosphate / Busulfan / Bortezomib Preparative Regimen and Triple Immune Suppression With Tacrolimus, Sirolimus and Anti-thymocyte Globulin, Graded using the Glucksberg scale. Proportions and confidence intervals will be estimated. Estimated using binary proportion estimates as well as competing risk method., First 6 months post-transplant|Time to Platelet Absolute Neutrophil Recovery (Engraftment), Estimated using Kaplan-Meier method., First 6 months post-transplant|Treatment Related Mortality Defined as Death in Continuous or Complete Remission, Based on National Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4., From the date of transplant to the date of death, assessed up to 6 months post transplant|Grade III and IV Non Hematologic Toxicities, Based on NCI CTCAE version 4., First 6 months post transplant
Incidence of Myeloma Progression, Time to the first observation of disease progression/relapse post transplant, assessed up to 2 years post transplant|Incidence of Transplant Related Mortality and Morbidity, Up to 2 years post transplant|Incidence of TTP, Up to 2 years post transplant|Incidence of SOS, Up to 2 years post transplant|Incidence and Severity of Chronic GVHD, Up to 2 years post transplant|Incidence of Opportunistic Infections Including CMV, HSV, and EBV Reactivation, Weekly to day 100|Overall Survival, Up to 2 years post transplant|Progression Free Survival, From the day of transplant to progression, death, or last contact, assessed up to 2 years|Recovery of T-cell, B Cell and NK Cell Phenotypes, Days 30, 60, 90, and at 6 months after transplant
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine time to engraftment absolute neutrophil count (\> 0.5 x 10\^9/L for 3 consecutive days), and platelet (\> 20X 109\^/L for 3 consecutive days).

2. Incidence and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) using fludarabine (fludarabine phosphate) / busulfan / bortezomib preparative regimen and triple immune suppression with tacrolimus, sirolimus and Thymoglobulin (anti-thymocyte globulin).

3. To determine the safety related to this combination in the first six months post transplant, specifically, treatment related mortality and grade III and IV non hematologic toxicities, based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4 (v4).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Incidence of myeloma progression in this high risk group of patients.

II. Incidence of transplant related mortality and morbidity.

III. Incidence of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) and sinusoidal obstructive syndrome (SOS).

IV. Incidence and severity of chronic GVHD.

V. Incidence of opportunistic infections including cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) reactivation.

I. Overall and progression free survival (PFS) at Day 100, 6 months, 1 \& 2 years post transplant.

VII. To determine recovery of T-cell, B cell, and natural killer (NK) cell phenotypes post transplant.

OUTLINE:

CONDITIONING REGIMEN: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate intravenously (IV) on days -7 to -3, busulfan IV on days -6 to -3, and bortezomib IV on day -2.

GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: Patients receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV on days -3 to -1, sirolimus orally (PO) on day -3, and tacrolimus IV on day -3. Patients undergo allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) on day 0.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 2 years.