Precision Diagnosis and Prospective Cohort Study for Myasthenia Gravis: Multicenter Analysis in China
The present study is a prospective cohort study aiming to improve the clinical capacity in the diagnosis and natural history of Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). 300 MG patients are planned to recruit, document and prospectively follow up. Management of screening test and cohort manifestation are studied.
Myasthenia Gravis
OTHER: Biomarkers and omics data
Myasthenia gravis foundation of America post intervention status, Myasthenia gravis foundation of America post intervention status (PIS) is assessed by the investigators during follow up. According to history inquiry and physical examination, participants are rated as clinical remission (no complain of myasthenia, no weakness at physical examination, and no therapies concerning MG for one year), pharmocological remission (no complain of myasthenia, no weakness at physical examination, but undertaking MG therapies at the last year), minimal manifestation (no complain of weakness, but showing weakness at physical examination), improvement (symptoms and signs), unchanged (symptoms and signs) , worsening(symptoms and signs), exacerbation(symptoms and signs), and death (medical record)., 3 years
Change From Baseline in Quantitative Myasthenia Gravis (QMG) Scores at the follow up, A quantitative MG scoring system (QMG Score) is essential in the objective evaluation of therapy for MG.This scoring system is based on quantitative testing of sentinel muscle groups. Total QMG score range from 0 (extreme disease severity) to 39 (none), higher score indicated less disease severity., Baseline, 1 year, 2 year, and 3 year|Change From Baseline in Activities of Daily Living (ADL) Scores at the follow up, The MG-ADL scale assesses the impact of MG on patients' daily functions. Physicians use this tool to score a patient's MG symptoms based on the patient's recall of symptoms during the prior week. A person's score can range from zero (normal) to 24 (most severe)., Baseline, 1 year, 2 year, and 3 year|Change From Baseline in Myasthenia Gravis-Quality of Life Questionnaire-15 item (MG-QOL15) Scores at the follow up, The MG-QOL15 is helpful in informing the clinician about the patient's perception of the extent of and dissatisfaction with MG-related dysfunction. Total MG-QOL15 score range from 0 (none) to 60 (extreme disease severity), higher score indicated more disease severity., Baseline, 1 year, 2 year, and 3 year
The present study is a prospective cohort study aiming to improve the clinical capacity in the diagnosis and natural history of Chinese patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). 300 MG patients are planned to recruit, document and prospectively follow up. Management of screening test and cohort manifestation are studied.