Study of Gamma Interfereon in Metastatic Colorectal Carcinoma
The purpose of this study is to evalute the response and toxicity of metastatic colorectal cancer patients to the regimen of gamma interferon added to bolus and infusional 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin (GFL) with or without bevacizumab.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil|DRUG: Leucovorin (LV)|DRUG: Gamma-Interferon-1b (IFN-γ)|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Best Response (BR), BR is recorded from start of treatment until progressive disease (PD). Imaging was repeated by same technique after every 4 cycles of treatment. Response was evaluated per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines version 1.0. Per RECIST v1.0 and CT scan: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of longest diameter of target lesions; Stable Disease (SD), neither sufficient shrinkage in sum of LD of target lesions to be PR nor increase of \>=20%; PD, increase in existing lesions or new lesions., After every 4 cycles of treatment (approximately every 56 days for up to about 280 days)
Early Response Rate (RR) (Stratum 1 Only), Early RR evaluated in stratum 1 to see if bevacizumab (bev) would be added to GFL treatment (tx). Patients with stable disease (SD) pre 5th cycle of tx had bev added. Response was evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.0. Per RECIST and CT scan: Complete Response (CR), disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in sum of longest diameter (LD) of target lesions; SD, neither sufficient shrinkage in sum of LD of target lesions to be PR nor increase of \>=20%; Progressive Disease (PD), increase in existing lesions or new lesions., After 4 cycles of treatment (approximately 56 days)|Time to Progression, Patients were censored if they did not progress, stopped particiaption due to an adverse event, or withdrew consent following the start of study treatment. Response was evaluated by Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) guidelines version 1.0. Per RECIST v1.0, Progressive Disease (PD) is defined as a measurable increase in smallest diameter of any target or non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions, since baseline., From date of study treatment start until date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 15 months
The purpose of this study is to evalute the response and toxicity of metastatic colorectal cancer patients to the regimen of gamma interferon added to bolus and infusional 5-fluorouracil and leucovorin (GFL) with or without bevacizumab.