Treatment of Depressive Symptoms in Breast Cancer Patients: Comparison of Cognitive Therapy and Bright Light Therapy
Depressive symptoms are highly frequent among cancer patients. These symptoms significantly impair quality of life (e.g., hopelessness, greater risk of suicidal behaviours) and may even affect patients' prognosis (e.g., through decreased adherence to cancer treatments). Cognitive therapy (CT) is an established treatment for depression in the general population, but its efficacy has not yet been investigated in non-metastatic cancer patients. Furthermore, because the accessibility to CT is very limited in routine cancer care and because many patients are reluctant to use pharmacological treatment, they often turn to alternative treatments such as bright light therapy (BLT), but empirical data on its efficacy are needed before its use can be recommended. Goal 1: To assess at post-treatment, as compared to a waiting-list control condition, the effect of bright light therapy (BLT) and cognitive therapy (CT): (1a) in reducing depressive symptoms; and (1b) in improving subjective and objective sleep parameters, in reducing fatigue and anxiety and in increasing patients' functioning and quality of life. Goal 2: To compare at post-treatment and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups the effect of BLT and CT : (2a) in reducing depressive symptoms; and (2b) in improving subjective and objective parameters of sleep, in reducing fatigue and anxiety and in increasing patients' functioning and quality of life. It is hypothesized that, As compared to control patients after their waiting period, both BLT and CT groups will have significantly greater improvement of all symptoms at post-treatment. However, as compared to BLT patients, CT patients will show greater improvements of all symptoms at post-treatment and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups. This study will provide empirical data on the efficacy of two approaches for treating depressive symptoms in cancer patients in order to better inform the scientific community, health care providers, and patients on the most effective depression treatments to implement in cancer care.
Treatment of Depressive Symptoms in Cancer Patients
BEHAVIORAL: Cognitive therapy of depression|BEHAVIORAL: Bright light therapy
Changes in depressive symptoms, Pre-treatment (at recruitment; about 2 weeks before starting the experimental condition of 8 weeks), post-treatment (immediately after the experimental condition of 8 weeks), 3-month follow-up and 6-month follow-up
Changes in subjective and objective parameters of sleep, Pre-treatment (at recruitment; about 2 weeks before starting the experimental condition of 8 weeks), post-treatment (immediately after the experimental condition of 8 weeks), 3-month follow-up and 6-month follow-up|Changes in fatigue, Pre-treatment (at recruitment; about 2 weeks before starting the experimental condition of 8 weeks), post-treatment (immediately after the experimental condition of 8 weeks), 3-month follow-up and 6-month follow-up|Changes in anxiety, Pre-treatment (at recruitment; about 2 weeks before starting the experimental condition of 8 weeks), post-treatment (immediately after the experimental condition of 8 weeks), 3-month follow-up and 6-month follow-up|Changes in quality of life, Pre-treatment (at recruitment; about 2 weeks before starting the experimental condition of 8 weeks), post-treatment (immediately after the experimental condition of 8 weeks), 3-month follow-up and 6-month follow-up
Depressive symptoms are highly frequent among cancer patients. These symptoms significantly impair quality of life (e.g., hopelessness, greater risk of suicidal behaviours) and may even affect patients' prognosis (e.g., through decreased adherence to cancer treatments). Cognitive therapy (CT) is an established treatment for depression in the general population, but its efficacy has not yet been investigated in non-metastatic cancer patients. Furthermore, because the accessibility to CT is very limited in routine cancer care and because many patients are reluctant to use pharmacological treatment, they often turn to alternative treatments such as bright light therapy (BLT), but empirical data on its efficacy are needed before its use can be recommended. Goal 1: To assess at post-treatment, as compared to a waiting-list control condition, the effect of bright light therapy (BLT) and cognitive therapy (CT): (1a) in reducing depressive symptoms; and (1b) in improving subjective and objective sleep parameters, in reducing fatigue and anxiety and in increasing patients' functioning and quality of life. Goal 2: To compare at post-treatment and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups the effect of BLT and CT : (2a) in reducing depressive symptoms; and (2b) in improving subjective and objective parameters of sleep, in reducing fatigue and anxiety and in increasing patients' functioning and quality of life. It is hypothesized that, As compared to control patients after their waiting period, both BLT and CT groups will have significantly greater improvement of all symptoms at post-treatment. However, as compared to BLT patients, CT patients will show greater improvements of all symptoms at post-treatment and at 3- and 6-month follow-ups. This study will provide empirical data on the efficacy of two approaches for treating depressive symptoms in cancer patients in order to better inform the scientific community, health care providers, and patients on the most effective depression treatments to implement in cancer care.