Determine Effect of Enzalutamide (MDV3100) on the Androgen Signaling Pathway in Correlation With the Anti-tumor Effects of Enzalutamide
This study is being conducted to determine the effect of enzalutamide on the androgen signaling pathway in correlation with the anti-tumor effects of enzalutamide to identify potential predictors of response or resistance to therapy.
Metastatic Progressive Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Enzalutamide
Change From Baseline in Bone Marrow Testosterone, Bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Day 1 visit prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration. Repeat bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Week 9 visit. If a repeat bone marrow was not performed at the Week 9 visit or if a patient discontinued the study before the Week 9 visit, a bone marrow biopsy was obtained at the Safety Follow-up visit.

Assessment of intratumoral testosterone was assessed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry., Baseline, Week 9|Change From Baseline in Bone Marrow Dihydrotestosterone, Bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Day 1 visit prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration. Repeat bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Week 9 visit. If a repeat bone marrow was not performed at the Week 9 visit or if a patient discontinued the study before the Week 9 visit, a bone marrow biopsy was obtained at the Safety Follow-up visit.

Assessment of intratumoral dihydrotestosterone was assessed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry., Baseline, Week 9|Change From Baseline in Bone Marrow Testosterone at Week 9 by Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Status, Bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Day 1 visit prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration. Repeat bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Week 9 visit. If a repeat bone marrow was not performed at the Week 9 visit or if a patient discontinued the study before the Week 9 visit, a bone marrow biopsy was obtained at the Safety Follow-up visit. Assessment of intratumoral testosterone was assessed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry.

Serum samples for measurement of PSA levels were obtained at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at the Week 9 visit.

The change from baseline in bone marrow testosterone levels at Week 9 was correlated with PSA response status at Week 9., Baseline, Week 9|Change From Baseline in Bone Marrow Dihydrotestosterone at Week 9 by Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Response Status, Bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Day 1 visit prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration. Repeat bone marrow biopsies were performed at the Week 9 visit. If a repeat bone marrow was not performed at the Week 9 visit or if a patient discontinued the study before the Week 9 visit, a bone marrow biopsy was obtained at the Safety Follow-up visit. Assessment of intratumoral dihydrotestosterone was assessed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry.

Serum samples for measurement of PSA levels were obtained at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at the Week 9 visit.

The change from baseline in bone marrow dihydrotestosterone levels at Week 9 was correlated with PSA response status at Week 9., Baseline, Week 9
Percentage of Participants at Week 9 With a Response in Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA), Serum samples for measurement of PSA levels were obtained at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at the Week 9 visit., Baseline, Week 9|Median Time to Study Drug Discontinuation, Exposure to study drug through the data cutoff of 26AUG2011 only. Fifteen participants (25.0%) were still on study drug as of the data cut-off date and were censored at this date., Duration of study treatment through the data cutoff, up to 3 years.|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 5., Baseline, Week 5|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 9., Baseline, Week 9|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 17., Baseline, Week 17|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 25., Baseline, Week 25|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Baseline, Week 33|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 41., Baseline, Week 41|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 49., Baseline, Week 49|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 57., Baseline, Week 57|Change From Baseline in Urinary N-Telopeptide, Samples for measurement of urinary N-telopeptide were collected at baseline prior to initiation of enzalutamide administration and at Week 65., Baseline, Week 65
This study is being conducted to determine the effect of enzalutamide on the androgen signaling pathway in correlation with the anti-tumor effects of enzalutamide to identify potential predictors of response or resistance to therapy.