Multilevel Interventions to Increase Adherence to Lung Cancer Screening
Screening for lung cancer has the potential for a profound public health benefit. Repeat annual screening is necessary for early detection of lung cancer. The investigators will test two interventions which include patient education and reminders to improve adherence to lung cancer screening.
Lung Cancer|Lung Cancer Screening
OTHER: Stepped Reminders|OTHER: Patient Education
Rate of repeat annual lung cancer screening, Electronic health records will be searched for screening low dose CT (LDCT)., 9-15 months after index LDCT
Knowledge of lung cancer screening, Knowledge of lung cancer screening eligibility, time to return and cost on patient reported outcomes survey., 8 weeks after index LDCT|Attitudes and beliefs, The Lung Cancer Screening Health Belief Scale measures self-efficacy for lung cancer screening. The self-efficacy for lung cancer screening scale ranges from 9-36, with higher scores indicating lower self-efficacy., 8 weeks after index LDCT
Screening for lung cancer has the potential for a profound public health benefit.

Successful population-based screening requires continuous monitoring to adherence repeat screening in high risk adults to achieve similar results. Repeat annual screening is necessary for early detection of lung cancer. Baseline or first LDCT scans detect prevalent lung cancer, when subsequent screening detects new nodules. However, adherence to screening is low, ranging at 28-38% from centers nationally.

The investigators developed two novel, patient-centered interventions to address patient education and offering reminders for on-time screening. To address these goals, the specific aims are to: 1) Compare effectiveness of two multilevel interventions relative to usual care in improving (a) rates of adherence to lung cancer screening, (b) patient-centered outcomes; and (c) clinic outcomes; and 2) Determine the patient-, clinician-, and system-level factors that influence changes in adherence to inform lung cancer screening programs.