Phase II Study of Alternating Sunitinib and Temsirolimus
In the past 5 years, treatment for metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma (mRCC) has focused on agents directed at blocking tumor and vascular growth pathways. Sunitinib blocks the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFr) and temsirolimus is an inhibitor of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR). Both sunitinib and temsirolimus are FDA approved agents for mRCC. When agents like these are given together, the toxicity increases but they can be given safely, at full doses, sequentially. We hypothesize that alternating these agents will double the progression free survival (PFS) of the agents when given sequentially.
Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sunitinib|DRUG: Temsirolimus
Progression Free Survival, To determine the time to disease progression in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients treated with alternating targeted therapy. This time interval constitutes the metric progression free survival time., From the date of randomization until the first documented disease progression or date of death from any cause, evaluated every 12 weeks throughout duration of study treatment
Clinical Response Rate as Measured by Best Response Achieved, To be assigned a status of partial response or complete response, changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments that should be performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response are first met. In the case of stable disease, follow-up measurements must have met the stable disease criteria at least once after study entry at a minimum interval (in general, not less than 6-8 weeks) that is defined in the study protocol. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by CT/MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Every 12 weeks from randomization until progression, estimated time frame is 18 months|To Characterize the Toxicity Profile, The toxicity profile will be characterized by observations of AEs and SAEs graded by the CTCAE criteria v4.0., Throughout the duration of the patient remaining on study treatment which was a median time of 8 months
SUMMARY: Alternating Targeted Therapy in Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma: A Phase II Study of Alternating Sunitinib and Temsirolimus

Patients with measurable metastatic renal cell carcinoma (any histology) are eligible. All patients will be treated as outlined below with sunitinib alternating with temsirolimus.

Patients will be treated continuously, until evidence of progression of disease, or for up to two cycles following disappearance of all disease.

A cycle is defined as:

Sunitinib 50mg by mouth daily for 4 weeks followed by a two week rest Temsirolimus 25mg IV weekly for 4 weeks followed by a two week rest