Intestinal Microbiota and Colorectal Cancer in Inflammatory Bowel Disease
Build a collection of fecal microbiota in order to determine the characteristics of gut microbiota associated with colorectal cancer in Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
Inflammatory Bowel Disease|Colorectal Cancer
Composition of fecal microbiota by 16S sequencing, Microbiota composition will be assessed using MiSeq technology, Baseline
Profile of fecal bile acids, Characterize the profile of fecal bile acids of the patients included in the biological. collection. After extraction, the bile acid profile will be determined by LC-MS / MS (liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry).

- Characterize some cultivable species of gut microbiota of patients included in the study by culture. Aerobic and anaerobic bacterial strains will be isolated from patients stools and stored for further characterization., Baseline
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) are chronic and relapsing disabling disease. Crohn's disease (CD) and Ulcerative colitis (UC) are the two main types of IBD.

Patients with IBD are at greater risk of intestinal infection including viral infections (including cytomegalovirus) and bacterial (especially Clostridium difficile). In the long term, patients with colonic involvement are at an increased risk of colorectal cancer (CRC). Moreover, it has been reported in several cohort studies that patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) associated with IBD (PSC-IBD), have an even increased risk of CRC (about 10 to 20% at 10 years). Other studies also suggest that the microbiota has an impact on liver diseases. Conversely, cholestatic liver diseases (such as PSC) can influence the microbiota, notably through modification of the production of bile acids. Finally, the role of the gut microbiota in the development of the CRC in IBD has been well established in animal models. The pathophysiological mechanisms are not well understood but may involve an alteration of the balance between protective bacteria against harmful microbiota.

This study aims to investigate the link between gut microbiota, intestinal inflammation, colorectal cancer, bile acid and liver diseases and this, through the creation of a biological collection of fecal microbiota from fecal samples from 8 groups of subjects: (i) IBD without CCR (ii) IBD with CCR, (iii) IBD with dysplasia, (iv) non IBD without CCR, (v) non IBD with CCR, (vi) IBD-CSP without CCR, (vii ) IBD-CSP with CCR, (viii) IBD-CSP with dysplasia. In these patients, microbiota composition will be assessed by sequencing technology.