APG-2449 in Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
APG-2449 is a novel, orally active, multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which inhibits FAK, ALK, and ROS1 with nanomolar potencies. In preclinical studies, APG-2449 demonstrated potent antiproliferative activity in various cancer cell lines as a single agent. In combination treatment, APG-2449 enhanced anti-proliferative activities of several chemotherapeutic and targeted agents. It is indicated that APG-2449 may have a broad therapeutic potential for the treatment of human cancer as a single agent and in combination with other classes of anticancer drugs. APG-2449 is intended for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors. Upon completion of the Phase 1 dose escalation study to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), several phase Ib/II studies will be implemented accordingly.
Advanced Solid Cancer|Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Esophageal Cancer|Ovarian Cancer|Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma
DRUG: APG-2449
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of APG-2449 in subjects with advanced solid tumors, 28 days|Recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), To determine the tentative recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of APG-2449 in subjects with advanced solid tumors, 28 days
Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax), Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax) will be assessed on all participants with APG-2449 treatments, 28 days|Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC), Area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) will be assessed on all participants with APG-2449 treatments, 28 days|Phosphorylation of FAK protein, Phosphorylation of FAK protein will be assessed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells on all participants with APG-2449 treatments, 28 days|Preliminary efficacy assessment: Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, To assess preliminary efficacy in subjects with solid tumors using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1, 4 weeks
APG-2449 is a novel, orally active, multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which inhibits FAK, ALK, and ROS1 with nanomolar potencies. In preclinical studies, APG-2449 demonstrated potent antiproliferative activity in various cancer cell lines as a single agent. In combination treatment, APG-2449 enhanced anti-proliferative activities of several chemotherapeutic and targeted agents. It is indicated that APG-2449 may have a broad therapeutic potential for the treatment of human cancer as a single agent and in combination with other classes of anticancer drugs. APG-2449 is intended for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors. Upon completion of the Phase 1 dose escalation study to establish the maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), several phase Ib/II studies will be implemented accordingly.