Fish Oil and Green Tea Extract in Preventing Prostate Cancer in Patients Who Are at Risk for Developing Prostate Cancer
RATIONALE: Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming, growing, or coming back. The use of fish oil and/or green tea may prevent prostate cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying how well a fish oil and/or green tea supplement works in preventing prostate cancer in patients with prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia or who are at risk for developing prostate cancer.
Precancerous Condition|Prostate Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: green tea catechin extract|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: fish oil|OTHER: placebo|OTHER: placebo
Fatty Acid Synthase Expression by Immunohistochemistry at Pre- and Post-intervention (FAS Summary Score), Sections of paraffin-embedded prostate biopsy tissue were stained for fatty acid synthase (FAS) expression. The FAS Summary Score was calculated as the product of percent stained (1=0-25%, 2=25-50%, 3=51-75%, 4=76-100%) and stain intensity (0-3) by immunohistochemistry. The range of the product is 0-300., Baseline (pre-intervention) and end of study (time to surgery for those with malignant findings or up to 8 weeks for those with benign biopsies, post-intervention)|Cell Proliferation by Ki67-immunohistochemistry at Pre- and Post-intervention, Cell Proliferation by Ki67 is calculated as the percent stained by immunohistochemistry. Ki-67 values were log-transformed because the original distribution was skewed. Analysis was done on log-base2 transformed values., End of study
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the cancer preventing effects of fish oil supplementation and green tea extract use on markers of alteration in lipid metabolism in prostate tissue samples.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are stratified according to age (under 65 vs 65 and over). Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive oral fish oil three times daily and oral green tea extract twice daily.
* Arm II: Patients receive an oil placebo three times daily and oral green tea extract twice daily.
* Arm III: Patients receive oral fish oil three times daily and a placebo twice daily.
* Arm IV: Patients receive an oil placebo three times daily and another placebo twice daily.

Treatment in one of the above-listed arms continues for up to 20 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

All patients undergo a prostate biopsy on the last day of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients receive a follow-up phone call at/around 30 days later.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 144 patients will be accrued for this study.