Oral Decitabine (ASTX727) and Durvalumab in Recurrent and/or Metastatic Head and Neck Cancer Patients
This is a non-randomized, open-label, Phase IbI study to assess the safety and efficacy of oral decitabine (ASTX727) and durvalumab (MEDI4736) combination therapy in the treatment of patients with recurrent and/or metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) who have progressed during or after treatment with anti-PD-1, anti-PD-L1, or anti-CTLA-4 monotherapy for recurrent and/or metastatic disease. The clinical trial is studying drugs that can boost the participant's immune system against the cancer cells as a possible treatment for head and neck cancer.

The study interventions involved in this study are:

* Oral Decitabine (ASTX 727)
* Durvalumab (MEDI4736)
Head and Neck Cancer
DRUG: Oral Decitabine|DRUG: Durvalumab
Phase I: Biologically Effective Dose (BED) of oral decitabine (ASTX 727), Changes in HLA Class I and tumor antigen expression, 2 months|Phase II: Progression free survival (PFS), RECIST 1.1, 2 years
Phase I: Number of participants with treatment-related adverse events, CTCAE v4.3., 2 years|Phase II: Best overall objective response rate (ORR), RECIST 1.1., 2 years|Phase II: Overall survival (OS), 2 years
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational drug and also tries to define the appropriate dose of the investigational drug to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drugs are still being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved durvalumab (MEDI4736) or tremelimumab as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved oral decitabine (ASTX 7272) for the participant's specific disease but it has been approved for other uses.

This is a first in human study evaluating the safety of combining these different drugs. Durvalumab (MEDI4736) is part of a family of proteins that make up the immune system. The body generates these proteins, or antibodies, in response to foreign substances (particles not typically found in the body such as bacteria and viruses) and these antibodies can protect against infection. Durvalumab (MEDI4736) is an antibody that is being studied in several other clinical trials to see if it has an effect in helping the immune system to recognize and eliminate abnormal cells in the body.

Investigators hope that decitabine may increase the chance of the immune system to recognize the cancer cells.

In this research study, the investigators are looking for the highest effective dose of decitabine in combination with durvalumab (MEDI4736) to improve the natural ability of the immune system to recognize and target head and neck cancer cells.