Trametinib or Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Refractory or Advanced Biliary or Gallbladder Cancer or That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well trametinib or combination chemotherapy works in treating patients with refractory or advanced biliary or gallbladder cancer or that cannot be removed by surgery. Trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as fluorouracil, leucovorin calcium, and capecitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. It is not yet known whether giving trametinib is more effective than combination chemotherapy in treating patients with biliary or gallbladder cancer.
Adult Cholangiocarcinoma|Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage C Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage D Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Hilar Cholangiocarcinoma|Localized Non-Resectable Adult Liver Carcinoma|Recurrent Adult Liver Carcinoma|Recurrent Childhood Liver Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma|Recurrent Gallbladder Carcinoma|Stage II Gallbladder Cancer|Stage III Childhood Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IIIA Gallbladder Cancer|Stage IIIB Gallbladder Cancer|Stage IV Childhood Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage IV Distal Bile Duct Cancer|Stage IVA Gallbladder Cancer|Stage IVB Gallbladder Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Carcinoma
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Fluorouracil|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Leucovorin Calcium|DRUG: Trametinib
Overall Survival, From date of registration to date of death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., Up to 2 years from registration
Number of Patients With Grade 3 Through Grade 5 Adverse Events That Are Related to Study Drug, Adverse event reporting followed the CTCAE (NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) Version 4.0. Only adverse events that are possibly, probably or definitely related to study drug are reported., Up to 2 years|Objective Response Rate, Confirmed response (CR) is two or more objective statuses of CR a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration. Partial response (PR) is two or more objective statuses of PR or better a minimum of four weeks apart documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration. Unconfirmed CR is one objective status of CR documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration but not qualifying as CR or PR. Unconfirmed PR is one objective status of PR documented before progression or symptomatic deterioration but not qualifying as CR, PR or unconfirmed CR., Up to 2 years from registration|Progression-free Survival, From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause. Patients last known to be alive and progression free are censored at date of last contact., Up to 2 years from registration
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess overall survival (OS) in patients with refractory advanced biliary cancer randomized to Arm 1: trametinib compared to those randomized to Arm 2: chemotherapy (either 5-fluorouracil \[fluorouracil\] and leucovorin \[leucovorin calcium\] or capecitabine).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the frequency and severity of adverse events of trametinib in this patient population.

II. To assess response rate (RR) and progression-free survival (PFS) in patients randomized to Arm 1: trametinib and patients randomized to Arm 2: chemotherapy (fluorouracil \[5-FU\] or capecitabine in this patient population).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if a 16-gene expression signature is predictive of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) efficacy as evidenced by improved RR, PFS, and OS.

II. To evaluate the effects of trametinib on the inflammatory cytokine and explore potential associations with response rate and survival.

III. To estimate lean soft tissue and fat mass weight gain as a result of treatment with trametinib vs. capecitabine in patients with advanced refractory biliary cancer.

IV. To bank tissue samples for other future correlative studies including next generation sequencing and whole genome methylation assays. NOTE: These potential future correlative studies will not be performed until an amended protocol with relevant detailed information including specific arms and assays is approved by Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP).

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive trametinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM II: Patients receive 1 of 2 treatment regimens at the discretion of the investigator.

ARM IIA: Patients receive leucovorin calcium intravenously (IV) over 2 hours and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46-48 hours on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM IIB: Patients receive capecitabine PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years.