Computed Tomography (CT) Coronary Angiogram Evaluation in Cancer Patients Having CT Thorax, Abdomen and Pelvis
Currently patients with certain cancer usually have routine follow up (Computed Tomography of Thorax, Abdomen and Pelvis) CT TAP scans to see response to treatment or relapse. The study proposal allows the evaluation of the coronary arteries by modifying the current CT TAP technique without significant additional procedures, intravenous contrast or radiation - i.e. an opportunistic Computed Tomography Coronary Angiogram (CTCA) without any penalty. The question is does performing Computed Tomography (CT) of the thorax in such a way confer important additional information about cardiac risk? At the same time the investigators need to ensure that doing scan as per CTCA protocol produces equivalent image quality to evaluate other structures in the chest. A recent small retrospective study has using a similar technique suggests that it may in fact improve image quality due to less cardiac related motion artefact.
Coronary Stenosis
RADIATION: CT TAP Scan
Objective Image quality analysis, Calculating image noise as measured by standard deviation (SD) in a region of interest., 20 minutes|Objective Image quality analysis, Calculating contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), 20 minutes|Subjective Image quality analysis, All image data sets will be presented in blinded and randomized manner to two experienced consultant radiologists. Subjective image quality will be assessed in terms of subjective image noise, subjective image contrast, lesion conspicuity, diagnostic confidence and artefacts. The image quality attributes are taken from the European Guidelines on Quality Criteria for Computerized Tomography document and have been proven to be robust in comparing subjective image quality., 20 minutes
Dose estimation, The total exam dose-length product (DLP) displayed by the CT scanner at the end of each CTPA is recorded. The effective dose in mSv is calculated by multiplying the total DLP for each exam by the conversion coefficient for the chest of 0.014 (as taken from National Radiological Protection Board Document)., 20 minutes|Coronary segments analysis, Image quality of the 4 main coronary arteries (left main, left anterior descending, left circumflex, and right coronary artery) was determined based on a 4-point grading system - Non-diagnostic; Adequate; Good; Excellent., 20minutes
The study is a non-inferiority observational study to primarily ensure that the Computed Tomography of Thorax, Abdomen and Pelvis (CT TAP) technique produces equivalent image quality of the lungs (hence the need to scan with both conventional technique and the Electrocardiograph \[ECG\] gated technique) and secondarily to evaluate the effectiveness of demonstrating the coronary arteries in this cohort of patients who have not received heart rate control.