Spectroscopic MRI, Proton Therapy, and Avastin for Recurrent Glioblastoma
The purpose of this research is to find hidden cancer with an experimental magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan called spectroscopic magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI). That spectroscopic MRI scan will be used to increase the area of the brain receiving radiation and then the dose of radiation in attempt to kill more of the cancer. Proton radiotherapy and bevacizumab (Avastin) are used to minimize the possible side effects of this approach.
Recurrent Glioblastoma
RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Proton Therapy (IMPT)|DRUG: Bevacizumab
Percentage of patients for whom sMRI-guided therapy is technically successful, The percentage of participants for whom sMRI-guided therapy is successful will be reported as the percentage of participants who show no significant residual tumor after protocol therapy., About 60 days|Incidence of Grade 3 irreversible or any Grade 4/5 neurologic toxicity., The incidence of irreversible Grade 3 or any Grade 4/5 neurologic adverse events (AEs) or serious adverse events (SAEs) in study participants will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0, per physician discretion. Incidence of these toxicities will be reported for both cohorts, Cohort A (sMRI-Guided RT at 35 Gy in 10 fractions) and Cohort B (sMRI-Guided RT at 40 Gy in 10 fractions)., Up to 6 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the start of radiation therapy to any documented progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first. Surviving patients without progression will be censored at the date of last contact., Up to 2 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the start of radiation therapy to date of death from any cause. Surviving patients will be censored at the date of last contact., Up to 2 years|Comparison of Cerebral Blood Volumes (CBV) among MRI techniques, Comparison of the cerebral blood volumes (CBV) in participants measured by Spectroscopic MRI (sMRI) versus by conventional MRI and multiparametric MRI (mpMRI). CBV is defined as the volume of blood in a given amount of brain tissue, most commonly milliliters of blood per 100 g of brain tissue., About 3 months|Comparison of Apparent Diffusion Coefficients (ADC) among MRI techniques, Comparison of the apparent diffusion coefficients (ADC) in participants measured by Spectroscopic MRI (sMRI) versus by conventional MRI and multiparametric MRI (mpMRI). ADC is a measure of the magnitude of diffusion (of water molecules) within tissue, and is commonly clinically calculated using MRI with diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI). ADC of tissue is expressed in units of mm2/s., About 3 months|Volume of enhancing disease at first progression compared to MRI volumes., Assessed by evaluating the patterns of failure after sMRI-guided radiotherapy and correlating with sMRI and other mpMRI markers., About 3 months|Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) Scores: FACT-Br Questionnaire, Health-Related Quality of Life will be assessed using scores from the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Brain (FACT-Br) questionnaire version 4. The FACT-Br will be used to evaluate patient function and satisfaction after protocol treatment. The questionnaire has 5 subscales (Physical Well-being, Social/Family Well-being, Emotional Well-being, Function Well-being and Brain Cancer). Response options for each item form a 5-point Likert scale, ranging from 0 ("Not al all") to 4 ("Very Much"). The questionnaire has a total score ranging from 0 - 200, with higher scores representing better HRQOL., Up to 2 years
A common second course of radiation therapy for recurrent glioblastoma uses 35 Gy in 10 fractions to a small area defined by gadolinium enhancement on MRI. This is based in part on a recent cooperative group trial (RTOG 1205, NCT01730950) with concurrent bevacizumab resulting in very low toxicity and borderline progression free survival benefit. We hypothesize that radiation therapy would be more effective for recurrent glioblastoma when delivered to a larger area defined by spectroscopic MRI. The spectroscopic MRI can delineate occult microscopic disease not seen on clinical MRI. Our group was a partner in the multi-institutional spectroscopic MRI guided dose escalation pilot trial in the first line for glioblastoma (NCT03137888) showing safety and efficacy of planning radiation therapy based on spectroscopic MRI Choline to NAA (Cho:NAA) ratio maps. A local Cho:NAA ratio above 2 (Cho:NAA\>2) is known to correlate with high local GBM burden on pathology. In this study, we will use the same technique to target radiation therapy to recurrent glioblastoma in a larger area of the brain harboring microscopic tumor. We will start with the conventional radiation dose of 35 Gy in 10 fractions to the larger area defined by the spectroscopic MRI. If this is safe and feasible, we will perform a dose escalation to 40 Gy in 10 fractions to areas of gadolinium enhancement and sMRI Cho:NAA\>2 since existing data suggests that those areas harbor the highest risk of future progression. Use of proton radiotherapy to limit brain targeted outside of the treated regions and bevacizumab to prevent radiation toxicity are hypothesized to limit the side effects of this approach.