Novel MRI Techniques for the Characterization and Treatment Assessment of High Grade Brain Lesions
This trial studies different magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques and their ability to provide clearer pictures of lesions in patients with high grade brain lesions. An MRI is a type of imaging scan. Using different MRI techniques to produce clearer images of the brain may help researchers learn about the features of brain lesions and the effects of chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.
Brain Neoplasm|Lymphoma|Metastatic Malignant Neoplasm in the Brain|Recurrent Malignant Brain Neoplasm
DRUG: Gadobenate Dimeglumine|DRUG: Gadobutrol|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Differences in T2 spin parameters, Will use 3-dimensional (3D) quantitative mapping to determine whether different in T2 spin parameters exist between the peritumoral area and normal brain in the contralateral hemisphere. If the data are normal, will calculate 95% confidence intervals around the mean paired difference in baseline T2 between the peritumoral and normal regions. If the data are not normally distributed, ordered statistics will be calculated, and bootstrapping will be used to estimate the 2.5th and 97.5th percentiles for the median., Baseline|Differences between peritumoral and normal brain, Will use 3D quantitative mapping to examine how differences between peritumoral and normal brain in the contralateral hemisphere change before and after treatment. The regions of interest drawn on measured magnetic resonance (MR) spin parameter and MR perfusion parameter values will be grouped according to time point (pre- or post-treatment) and area (peritumoral, tumoral, and normal brain in the contralateral hemisphere). Descriptive statistics and boxplots of these measurements, paired differences between areas and paired differences between time points will be calculated. Will calculate 95% confidence intervals around the mean paired change between area differences at baseline and post-treatment., Baseline up to 120 days
Usefulness of T2 values in distinguishing non-enhancing components of the tumor, Will use area under an receive operating curve to determine whether T2 values might be useful in distinguishing non-enhancing components of the tumor as well as predicting response to treatment. Paired data from all patients will be used in this analysis., Up to 120 days|Quantification of T1 and proton density (PD) parameters, Will quantify T1 and PD spin parameters of the peritumoral area and their differences before and after treatment., Baseline up to 120 days|Post-contrast T1 spin parameters with perfusion characteristics, Will examine post-contrast T1 spin parameters with perfusion characteristics as measured by an established dynamic susceptibility contrast technique., Up to 120 days|Differences in measured perfusion parameters before and after treatment., Will examine differences in measured perfusion parameters before and after treatment., Baseline up to 120 days
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To use 3-dimensional (3D) quantitative mapping to determine whether differences in T2 spin parameters exist between the peritumoral area and normal brain in the contralateral hemisphere at baseline.

II. To use 3D quantitative mapping to examine how differences between peritumoral and normal brain in the contralateral hemisphere change before and after treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine whether T2 values might be useful in distinguishing non-enhancing components of the tumor as well as predicting response to treatment.

II. Quantify T1 and proton density (PD) spin parameters of the peritumoral area and their differences before and after treatment.

III. Examine post-contrast T1 spin parameters with perfusion characteristics as measured by an established dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) technique.

IV. Examine differences in measured perfusion parameters (blood volume and mean transit time of each tumor) before and after treatment.

OUTLINE:

Within 21 days before standard of care chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy, patients undergo an MRI scan for the first set of images. Patients then receive either gadobutrol or gadobenate dimeglumine intravenously (IV) and undergo an MRI for the second set of images. All MRI scans take a total of 60 minutes to complete. Patients then repeat the MRI scans 120 days after standard of care chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy.