Ipilimumab or High-Dose Interferon Alfa-2b in Treating Patients With High-Risk Stage III-IV Melanoma That Has Been Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase III trial studies ipilimumab to see how well it works compared to high-dose interferon alfa-2b in treating patients with high-risk stage III-IV melanoma that has been removed by surgery. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as ipilimumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Interferon alfa-2b may interfere with the growth of tumor cells and slow the growth of melanoma and other cancers. It is not yet known whether ipilimumab is more effective than interferon alfa-2b in treating patients with melanoma.
Melanoma of Unknown Primary|Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IIIB Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Cutaneous Melanoma AJCC v6 and v7
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Interferon Alfa-2b
Recurrence-free Survival (RFS; Arm B [HDI] vs. Arm C [LIP]), Recurrence-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to recurrence or death, whichever occurs first. The following criteria constitute the only acceptable evidence of disease recurrence.

Lung and liver: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease.

Central Nervous System: A positive brain CT or MRI scan or CSF cytology. Cutaneous, Subcutaneous and Lymph Node Recurrence: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease.

Bone and Other Organs: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease identified on two different radiologic studies: i.e., positive nuclear bone scan or PET scan and contrast GI series or ultrasound, X-ray or CT of abdomen for abdominal disease., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for years 3-5 and then annually up to 8 years|5-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate (Arm B [HDI] vs. Arm C [LIP]), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or date last known alive., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for years 3-5|Recurrence-free Survival (RFS; Arm A [HIP] vs. Arm B [HDI]), Recurrence-free survival is defined as the time from randomization to recurrence or death, whichever occurs first. The following criteria constitute the only acceptable evidence of disease recurrence.

Lung and liver: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease.

Central Nervous System: A positive brain CT or MRI scan or CSF cytology. Cutaneous, Subcutaneous and Lymph Node Recurrence: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease.

Bone and Other Organs: Positive cytology or biopsy in the presence of a single new lesion or the appearance of multiple lesions consistent with metastatic disease identified on two different radiologic studies: i.e., positive nuclear bone scan or PET scan and contrast GI series or ultrasound, X-ray or CT of abdomen for abdominal disease., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for years 3-5 and then annually up to 8 years|5-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate (Arm A [HIP] vs. Arm B [HDI]), Overall survival is defined as the time from randomization to death or date last known alive., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for years 3-5
Change in FACT-G (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General) Total Score From Baseline to 3 Months, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General (FACT-G) is a 27-item questionnaire that has four areas of measurements (physical well-being, social/family well-being, emotional well-being and functional well-being) with a scale of 0-4. The FACT-G total score ranges between 0 and 108. The higher the score, the better the quality of life. Change in FACT-G total score from baseline to 3 months was calculated as month 3 score - baseline score., Assessed at baseline and 3 months|Change in FACIT-D (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Diarrhea) Diarrhea Subscale Score From Baseline to 3 Months, The diarrhea subscale of The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Diarrhea (FACIT-D) is an 11-item questionnaire with a scale of 0-4. The FACIT-D diarrhea subscale score ranges between 0 and 44. The higher the score, the better the quality of life. Change in FACIT-D diarrhea subscale score from baseline to 3 months was calculated as month 3 score - baseline score., Assessed at baseline and 3 months|Change in FACT-BRM (Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Biologic Response Modifiers) Total Score From Baseline to 3 Months, The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - Biologic Response Modifiers (FACT-BRM) is a questionnaire including FACT-G (The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy - General) and additional sections addressing physical and mental quality of life aspects. It is a 40-item questionnaire with a scale of 0-4. The FACT-BRM total score ranges between 0 and 160. The higher the score, the better the quality of life. Change in FACT-BRM total score from baseline to 3 months is calculated as month 3 score - baseline score., Assessed at baseline and 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate recurrence-free survival (RFS) between patients randomized to receive post-operative adjuvant ipilimumab given at either 10 mg/kg (high dose ipilimumab; HIP) or 3 mg/kg (low dose ipilimumab: LIP) versus those randomized to receive high-dose interferon alfa-2b (HDI) utilizing a hierarchical design assessing HIP versus HDI first and LIP versus HDI second (if the first comparison is significant).

II. To evaluate overall survival (OS) between patients randomized to receive post-operative adjuvant ipilimumab given at either 10 mg/kg (HIP) or 3 mg/kg (LIP) versus those randomized to receive HDI utilizing a hierarchical design assessing HIP versus HDI first and LIP versus HDI second (if the first comparison is significant).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate safety and tolerability of post-operative adjuvant ipilimumab therapy given at either 10 mg/kg (HIP) or 3 mg/kg (LIP).

II. Among patients enrolled by Clinical Community Oncology programs (CCOPs), to compare the global quality of life (QOL) between the ipilimumab arms versus HDI using Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-General (G) form and to evaluate the effect of treatment-related side effects that may have an impact on the health-related domains of QOL using Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy (FACIT)-diarrhea (D) and FACT-biological response modifiers (BRM).

OUTLINE: Patients age \>= 18 are randomized to Arms A, B, or C and patients ages 12-17 are randomized to Arms D, E, or F.

ARM A: Patients receive induction high-dose ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance high-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (closed accrual as of 4/4/14) (adult accrual has completed to Arms A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

ARM B: Patients receive induction high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b subcutaneously (SC) on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every week for 48 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (adult accrual has completed to Arms A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

ARM C: Patients receive induction low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. (adult accrual has completed to Arms A, B, and C as of 8/15/2014)

ARM D: Patients receive induction high-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance high-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM E: Patients receive induction high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b IV over 20 minutes on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, and 22-26 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive maintenance high-dose recombinant interferon alfa-2b SC on days 1, 3, and 5. Treatment repeats every week for 48 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity

ARM F: Patients receive induction low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on week 24, patients receive maintenance low-dose ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 90 days for a maximum of 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly for up to 15 years.