German-funded Laparoscopic Approach to Cervical Cancer
The G-LACC trial is a prospective, interventional, multicenter, open-label, randomized and controlled non-inferiority operative trial.

The main goal of this clinical trial is to evaluate the non-inferiority of minimally invasive radical hysterectomy in contrast to abdominal radical hysterectomy in patients with early-stage cervical cancer. In the case of SHAPE criteria, surgery may also be performed as minimally invasive or abdominal simple hysterectomy. The primary criterion for assessment is disease-free survival (DFS). As secondary outcomes, overall survival (OS), disease recurrence, quality of life, intra-/postoperative complications, and serious adverse events are recorded for assessment.
Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic or robot-assisted radical/simple hysterectomy|PROCEDURE: Abdominal radical/simple hysterectomy
Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival (DFS) is defined as the time from randomization to disease recurrence or death from any course (whichever occurs first). The date of disease recurrence is defined as the date of biopsy., up to year 5
Overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause., up to year 5|Disease recurrence, The date of recurrence of disease is defined as the date of biopsy. A suspicion of disease recurrence (clinical or by imaging) should be verified by histopathological assessment. Disease recurrence will be assessed and recorded at each follow-up visit starting 6 months post-surgery., up to year 5 starting 6 months post-surgery|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL): Core questionnaire, Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) will be assessed by using the validated questionnaire European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 (EORTC QLQ-30), up to year 5|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL): Cervical cancer questionnaire, Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) will be assessed by using the validated questionnaire EORTC QLQ Cervical Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-CX24), up to year 5|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL): General health status, Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) will be assessed by using the validated questionnaire EuroQoL EQ-5D-3L, up to year 5|Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL): Sexual activity, Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) will be assessed by using the validated sexual activity questionnaires (SAQ)., up to year 5|Lymphatic side effects: Investigator assessment, Lymphatic side effects will be assessed by the investigator using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 3.0), up to year 5|Lymphatic side effects: Patient assessment, Lymphatic side effects will be assessed by the patient using the Lymphoedema Quality-of-Life (LYMQOL) questionnaire., up to year 5|Complications and treatment-associated morbidity, Treatment-related intraoperative complications are recorded on the day of surgery according to Rosenthal's definition.

Treatment-related postoperative complications are recorded from the day of surgery until one year after surgery., up to one year after surgery|Serious adverse events, Serious adverse events (SAEs) will be captured from the day of surgery until one year post surgery. Treatment-related SAEs are documented as intra-/postoperative complications according to Outcome 5., up to one year after surgery|Health care costs: Cost-effectiveness, Cost-effectiveness will be determined as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios., up to year 5|Health care costs: Direct cost assessment, Direct costs will be assessed via internal accounting and billing systems within the hospitals., up to year 5|Health care costs: Cost-utility analysis, Quality-adjusted life years (QALY) calculations will be used for a cost-utility analysis., up to year 5
Eligible patients will be randomly allocated to both treatment arms in a 1:1 ratio. Within an accrual period of 4 years, 378 patients will be included per arm (756 in total) across all sites. The Follow-up period after surgery will take a minimum of 5 years.

In the standard arm, radical hysterectomy is performed as per standard technique abdominal radical hysterectomy (Piver type 2 or 3 or Querleu \& Morrow Type B or C) with salpingectomy +/- oophorectomy. Ovaries may be removed or preserved +/- transposition. Surgery includes pelvic lymph node dissection or optional sentinel lymph node biopsy (SNB) according to current guidelines in both arms.

In the experimental arm, radical hysterectomy is performed as per standard conventional 2D/3D laparoscopic or robotic assisted technique (Querleu \& Morrow Type B or C) with salpingectomy +/- oophorectomy. Ovaries may be removed or preserved +/- transposition. The following protective measures are mandatory for the minimally invasive arm: LEEP/conization prior to randomization or vaginal closure prior to colpotomy. Transcervical manipulators are not permitted. Use of uterus manipulators/ cervical adapter (without transcervical device) is allowed only after LEEP/conization. Meticulous dissection of pelvic (sentinel) lymph nodes including use of endobags and avoiding the dissemination of cancer cells will be implemented (tumor hygiene).

Due to the positive results of the SHAPE trial published at Plante et al. NEJM 2024, in both arms simple hysterectomy can be considered for patients with low-risk early-stage cervical cancer (SHAPE criteria: tumor \< 2 cm, \< 10 mm depth of stromal invasion (LEEP/cone) BUT has to be determined BEFORE randomization. Simple hysterectomy has to be performed as extrafascial hysterectomy and the preparation of a max. 5 mm vaginal cuff is required to ensure negative margins. Surgery can be performed including removal of the sentinel lymph nodes following the concept of sentinel lymph node biopsy (SNB) and according to the current guidelines.