Incremental Cost-Utility Study on Prehabilitation Among Older Patients With Colorectal Cancer Undergoing Surgery
A prospective multicenter observational cost-utility study following older or high-risk patients with colorectal cancer with and without prehabilitation before surgery.
Colorectal Cancer|Surgery
OTHER: Prehabilitation
EQ-5D-5L, Quality of life according to the EuroQol-5 dimensions-5 levels questionnaire. The 5 dimensions cover mobility, selfcare, daily activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety. All dimensions are rated on a 5 level scale ranging from 'I have no problems with ....(dimension)' to 'I am not able to/I am extremely...(dimension)'. The first option is considered 'better' and the latter as 'worse'., 0-6 months|Costs, From a societal perspective including health care consumption costs, patient out-of-pocket costs, and productivity losses of informal caregivers, 0-6 months
Number of deceased patients, Data on mortality will be assessed based on medical records., 0-6 months|Morbidity, Number and severity of complications will be assed based on medical records., 0-6 months|(I)ADL dependence by GARS, Dependence regarding (instrumental) acitivities of daily living ((I)ADL)according to the Gait Assessment Rating Scale (GARS). Several items with regard to self-reliance are scored according to the phrase 'I can do ....(item) completely independently.......'. Possible answers are 'Without any effort', 'with some effort', 'With a lot of effort', and 'Only with help from others'. The first is considered better and the latter as worse., 0-6 months|(I)ADL dependence by TOPICS-SF, Dependence regarding (instrumental) acitivities of daily living according toThe Older Persons and Informal Caregivers Survey Short form (TOPICS-SF) questionnaire for patients. This questionnaire contains GARS and EQ-5D amongst others and is spread throughout the questionnaire., 0-6 months|Return to normal activity, The return to normal activity (RNA) of patients is investigated by the different questionnaires listed above on several time-points. After surgery, we can examine the time within a time frame of 6 months that patients return to their normal activities., 0-6 months|Care-related burden among informal caregivers, The Older Persons and Informal Caregivers Survey Minimum Dataset (TOPICS-MDS) questionnaire for caregivers in which the domains 'self-reported health' (by RAND-36 health survey), 'quality of life' (by carerQol), 'hours of informal care' (number), and 'perceived burden' (on visual analog scale) are covered., 0-6 months
This study will answer the question whether prehabilitation is cost-effective in colorectal cancer surgery among individual patients aged 70 years and above or patients with an American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) score of III. We also aim to identify factors facilitating or impairing implementation of prehabilitation such that it is cost-effective.