Study of Veltuzumab and 90Y-Epratuzumab in Relapsed/Refractory, Aggressive NHL
The goal of this study is to evaluate a new approach to immunotherapy in NHL by combining two antibodies, veltuzumab and epratuzumab. For treatment, epratuzumab has also been attached to a radioactive isotope called 90yttrium (90Y-epratuzumab). Veltuzumab and 90Y-epratuzumab attack different areas on lymphoma cells. Because of this, treatment with the combination may provide more effective treatment in NHL than either veltuzumab or 90Y-epratuzumab given alone.
Non Hodgkin's Lymphoma|NHL|Aggressive NHL|Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Veltuzumab and 90Y-Epratuzumab Tetraxetan|DRUG: 90Y-epratuzumab tetraxetan|DRUG: veltuzumab
Safety/dose limiting toxicity, Patients are closely monitored during and after all infusions, and then at intervals over a 12-week post-treatment evaluation period. Safety evaluations required in all patients include vital signs, physical examination, CBC, serum chemistries, serum immunoglobulins, urinalysis, peripheral blood B-cell levels (immunophenotyping based on CD19), and HAHA (to be analyzed by Sponsor). Adverse events and abnormal laboratories will be graded for toxicity according to NCI CTC v3.0 criteria., 12 weeks
Efficacy, CT or PET/CT imaging will be used to quantify changes in index lesions identified on baseline imaging, with responses classified according to revised response criteria for NHL (Cheson, 2007).

Patients with stable disease or objective responses continue limited follow-up evaluations, including CT evaluations, physical examinations and serum laboratories every 3 months for the first year and then every 6 months up to a total of 5 years or until progression of disease., 12 weeks-5 years
The treatment portion of this study consists of study drug administrations each week for four weeks in a row (a total of 4 treatment days). Patients will then return at intervals up to 12 weeks for blood samples and for evaluations to see if their disease responded and to monitor any adverse effects related to treatment. Some blood tests may then need to be repeated at least a few times and/or until any abnormal findings at earlier evaluations have resolved. Otherwise, patients will continue to be evaluated every 3 months for two years, then every 6 months up to 5 years or until the disease worsens. Participation in the study will end when NHL disease worsens.