Quality of Life in Children Treated for Cancer
RATIONALE: Questionnaires that measure quality of life may improve the ability to plan treatment for children with cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying the quality of life in children treated for cancer.
Leukemia|Lymphoma|Unspecified Childhood Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
OTHER: Quality of Life Forms
Quality of life questionnaire, To complete the development of a self-reported, quality of life questionnaire (MM-QOL) for the pediatric oncology population., Length of study
To see if this measure will discriminate between i) those undergoing treatment for cancer, ii) those who are survivors of cancer, and iii) a national sample of age- and sex-matched controls., To assess the validity of a quality of life questionnaire (MM-QOL) that is being developed for survivors of childhood cancer. To see if this measure will discriminate between i) those undergoing treatment for cancer, ii) those who are survivors of cancer, and iii) a national sample of age- and sex-matched controls (data has already been collected on the latter). To compare the responses to the new scale items with those from established scales (CHQ) that tap relevant QOL domains such as emotional, social, and physical functioning., Length of study|Test internal scale reliability, To assess the reliability of a quality of life questionnaire (MM-QOL) that is being developed for the survivors of childhood cancer. To test internal scale reliability (studies already being conducted). To assess test-retest reliability., Length of study
OBJECTIVES: I. Assess the validity and reliability of a quality of life questionnaire (MM-QOL) that is being developed for patients with previously or currently treated childhood cancers.

OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (8-12 vs 13-20) and treatment (current vs previous). Patients are randomized to one of two arms of the study. Arm I (Reliability): Patients will complete the same questionnaire two weeks apart. (age 13-20 stratum closed as of 7/14/00) Arm II (Validity): Patients will complete a study questionnaire plus a Child Health Questionnaire. Patients between ages 8-12 are interviewed and patients between ages 13-20 complete a written questionnaire.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 716 patients (416 for arm I (208 for 8-12 age group and 208 for 13-20 age group) and 300 for arm II (150 for 8-12 age group and 150 for 13-20 age group)) will be accrued for this study.