GRID Therapy as Palliative Radiation for Patients With Advanced and Symptomatic Tumors
Palliative radiation therapy represents 40% of the on-going radiation at the Jewish General Hospital. In a traditional palliative radiation treatment to bulky or radioresistant tumors, radiotherapy schema varies from 24 to 30 Gys given in 3 to 10 fractions, depending on the tumor size, tumor location and tumor pathology. However, for many patients this treatment involves considerable toxicity, travel and time spent at the hospital. Spatially fractionated radiation (SFR) is an alternative technique that consists in delivering one single treatment, given through a grid containing holes. The present study is proposing to validate SFR as a safe and effective mean to palliate patients with symptomatic bulky tumors (more than 8 cm) or with tumors known to be resistant to radiation.
Patients With Symptomatic or Bulky Tumors (More Than 8 cm) or With Tumors Resistant to Radiation
RADIATION: spatially fractionated radiation therapy
Symptom relief, as measured using the CTCAE grading system (v4.0) and pain questionnaire, 3 months post treatment
Acute toxicity of treatment, as measured using the CTCAE grading system (v4.0), 1 week|Long-term toxicity of treatment, as measured using the CTCAE grading system (v4.0), 3, 6, 9, 12 months|Cost-effectiveness, as measured by evaluating the cost of the procedure per patient and the efficacy of treatment with regards to symptom relief and tumor response, 3 months|Tumor response, measured on CT-scan, 8 weeks
Palliative radiation therapy represents 40% of the on-going radiation at the Jewish General Hospital. In a traditional palliative radiation treatment to bulky or radioresistant tumors, radiotherapy schema varies from 24 to 30 Gys given in 3 to 10 fractions, depending on the tumor size, tumor location and tumor pathology. However, for many patients this treatment involves considerable toxicity, travel and time spent at the hospital. Spatially fractionated radiation (SFR) is an alternative technique that consists in delivering one single treatment, given through a grid containing holes. The present study is proposing to validate SFR as a safe and effective mean to palliate patients with symptomatic bulky tumors (more than 8 cm) or with tumors known to be resistant to radiation.