RISI in the Treatment of Recurrent Chest Wall Malignancies After EBRT
This study will observe the efficacy and toxicities of 3-dimensional printing noncoplanar template assisted CT guided radioactive iodine-125 seeds implantation in the treatment of patients with recurrent chest wall malignancies after external beam radiotherapy prospectively, and analyzes the influence of clinical and dosimetric factors on the outcomes.
Chest Wall Tumor
RADIATION: Radioactive Iodine-125 Seeds Implantation
Local control time, The time from the date of seeds implantation to the date of recurrence of the implanted tumor or the date of last observation., Outcomes will be followed up every 2-3 months after enrollment. The total follow-up time is 3 years.|Incidence of adverse events, The adverse events are evaluated by the common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE). The rate of each adverse event will be measured., Outcomes will be followed up every 2-3 months after enrollment. The total follow-up time is 3 years.
Overall survival time, The time from the date of seeds implantation to the date of death from any cause or the date of last observation., Outcomes will be followed up every 2-3 months after enrollment. The total follow-up time is 3 years.
Radioactive Iodine-125 seed brachytherapy is a conventional treatment in Peking University Third Hospital. Radioactive Iodine-125 seed brachytherapy is the implantation of Iodine-125 seed into tumors.The radioactive Iodine-125 seed can release low dose of irradiation persistently which kills tumors cell and causes less damage to normal tissue at the same time. This study will enroll the patients with recurrent chest wall malignancies after external beam radiotherapy (primary or metastasis) who underwent CT-guided radioactive iodine-125 seed implantation assisted by 3D-printing template from 2019 to 2021. The investigators evaluate the dose that covers 90% target volume(D90) and other parameters after the implantation. The efficacy and adverse events will be observed. Local control(LC) time and overall survival(OS) time are evaluated.