The Efficacy and Safety of Ensartinib As Adjuvant Therapy in Stage I ALK-positive NSCLC Patients with High Risk Factors
This study is designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of a 2-year adjuvant treatment with Ensartinib in stage I ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients with high-risk factors. The study population includes patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who have undergone R0 resection and have not received any postoperative treatment, with a TNM stage of I and high-risk factors for recurrence.
NSCLC|ALK|Stage I|Adjuvant Treatment
DRUG: Ensartinib group
2 year disease-free survival rate, 2-year DFS rate refers to the percentage of patients who remain free of any signs or symptoms of the disease (in this case, cancer) for two years after receiving treatment., up to 2 year
5 year overall survival rate., The 5 year overall survival rate (5-year OS) is a critical measure in clinical oncology, indicating the percentage of patients who are still alive five years after being diagnosed with cancer or starting treatment., up to 5 year|Disease-free survival, Disease-free survival (DFS) is a measure used in clinical oncology to describe the length of time after treatment during which a patient remains free from any signs or symptoms of the disease., up to 5 year
A total of 40 patients will be enrolled in the study. All patients will receive adjuvant therapy with Ensartinib at a dose of 200 mg, once daily, orally, for a continuous period of 2 years, or until disease recurrence or intolerable toxicity occurs. The efficacy and safety of Ensartinib treatment will be evaluated.Before any study-related procedures are conducted, informed consent will be obtained. Demographic information, a complete medical history, surgical history, and smoking history will be collected. The TNM stage of the primary tumor at diagnosis will be recorded/confirmed. Tumor assessments and other screening examinations required for the screening period will be completed.Ensartinib will be administered at a dose of 200 mg, orally, once daily, for 2 consecutive years. During the first year, efficacy evaluations and safety visits (including physical examinations, laboratory tests, tumor assessments, and quality-of-life assessments) will be conducted every 12 weeks. During the second year and beyond (prior to progression), efficacy evaluations and safety visits will be conducted every 24 weeks.After the study completion by the investigator and the recording of disease progression at each stage, long-term survival follow-up information will be collected every 24 weeks. Patients who discontinue study treatment for reasons other than disease progression (excluding loss to follow-up or death) will continue to undergo objective tumor assessments every 24 weeks to gather information on disease progression. If a patient experiences recurrence within 2 years post-surgery, survival follow-up will be conducted via telephone every 24 weeks after recurrence, continuing until 5 years post-surgery or death.