OPC5: Pressurized IntraThoracic Aerosol Chemotherapy (PITAC) in Patients With Malignant Pleural Effusion.
This study will monitor and evaluate patient and personnel safety and toxicity during the implementation and evaluation of Pressurized IntraThoracic Aerosol Chemotherapy (PITAC) directed treatment. Furthermore, this study will focus on Quality of Life questionnaires, LENT score, and evaluate pain and breathlessness using af visual analogue scales (VAS).
Malignant Pleural Effusion|Pleural Neoplasms|Quality of Life|Chemotherapy Effect|Chemotherapeutic Toxicity|Pleural Carcinomatosis|Pleural Cavity Effusion
DRUG: PITAC
Medical adverse events, Number of patients with medical adverse events (AEs) according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 6.0 defined as CTCAE ≥ 4 within 30 days after the procedure., 30 days from PITAC directed treatment|Surgical complications, Number of patients with surgical complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification defined as Clavien-Dindo ≥ 3b within 30 days after the procedure., 30 days from PITAC directed treatment
Number of patients completing three PITAC treatments, To evaluate the number of patients completing three PITAC treatments, 12 months|Extent of visible pleural metastasis, To macroscopically evaluate the extent of visible pleural metastasis (PLM) during PITAC directed therapy via the new PLM-score based on size of lesions (LS).

LS 0 No tumor seen LS1 Tumor up to 0.5 cm LS2 Tumor up to 5.0 cm LS3 Tumor \> 5.0 cm or confluence, 12 months|Pathology on pleural metastasis biopsies, To evaluate Pleural Regression Grade Score (Ple-RGS) in biopsies from visible pleural metastasis Ple-RGS is a modification of the Peritoneal Regression Grading score (PRGS). Ple-RGS 1: Complete histological response Ple-RGS 2: Regressive changes are predominant over cancer cells (major response) Ple-RGS 3: Cancer cells are predominant over regressive changes (minor response) Ple-RGS 4: No response, 12 months|Cytology on malignant pleural effusion fluid, To evaluate cytology on MPE during PITAC directed therapy. The cells will be graded according to a five-tiered score: malignant cells, suspicious cells, atypical cells, no malignant cells and other, 12 months|LENT score, To evaluate the LENT score after each PITAC directed therapy. Low risk: 0-1 Moderate risk: 2-4 High risk: 5-7, 12 months|Length of Stay (LOS), Quantify the length of stay (LOS) (surgery = day 0), 12 months|Personnel safety (environmental), Assess personnel safety by measuring of platinum traces in the operating room., 12 months|Personnel safety (biological), Assess personnel safety by measuring of platinum traces in blood samples from surgeons and/or OR nurses., 12 months|Lung function evaluation by SAT, To evaluate lung function by saturation (SAT) before PITAC directed treatment (day 0) and at discharge (day 1), day 30 and 3 months after the last PITAC directed treatment, 12 months|Breathlessness, To evaluate breathlessness using visual analogue scales (VAS-breath) before PITAC directed treatment (day 0) and at discharge (day 1), day 30, and 3 months after the last PITAC directed treatment, 12 months|Pain assessment, To evaluate pain using visual analogue scales (VAS-pain) before PITAC directed treatment (day 0) and at discharge (day 1), day 30, and 3 months after the last PITAC directed treatment, 12 months|Quality of Life questionnaires, To evaluate the quality of life with EORTC-QLQ-C30 at baseline, day 30 and 3 months after the last PITAC directed treatment, 12 months|Change in MPE volume, To calculate the change in volume of drained MPE from 2 months before the first PITAC treatment to three months after the last PITAC treatment, 12 months|Long term complications, To assess long-term complications 3 months after the third PITAC directed treatment, 12 months|Survival, Median overall survival, 12 months|Lung function evaluation by FEV1, To evaluate lung function by Forced Expired Volume in the first second (FEV1) before PITAC directed treatment (day 0) and at discharge (day 1), day 30 and 3 months after the last PITAC directed treatment, 12 months
This is a safety and feasibility study of repeated (minimum two procedures) PITAC directed treatments, and the primary outcome is the number of patients with medical adverse events (AEs) according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and/or surgical complications according to the Clavien-Dindo classification. This study will include consecutive MPE patients until 20 patients have completed at least two PITAC´s. The PITAC directed treatment will be performed in 4 week intervals. Bedside ultrasound, VAS-pain and VAS-breathlessness, and Quality of Life questionnaires will be performed at baseline, one month follow-up and three months follow-up.

Patients with MPE who are eligible for surgery are identified during the multidisciplinary tumor (MDT) conference at the Department of Surgery, Odense University Hospital (OUH), and included based on predefined in- and exclusion criteria. Patients with MPE from non-colorectal or -appendix cancer will be treated with a combination of cisplatin and doxorubicin. Patients with MPE from colorectal or appendix cancer will be treated with oxaliplatin.

In brief, The PITAC procedure is the application of aerosolized chemotherapy into the pleural cavity using thoracoscopy. PITAC is performed in the prone or lateral position. A double lumen endotracheal tube is used to allow exclusion of the ipsilateral lung, but this is not (always) necessary with the patient in the prone position. The first trocar is placed guided by ultrasound, and after safe positioning a second trocar can be inserted guided by video thoracoscopy. The chemotherapy is applied to the pleural cavity through a nebulizer inserted through one of the trocars and linked to a high-pressure injector. After five minutes the chemotherapy has been delivered to the pleural cavity, and after an additional 30 minutes of simple diffusion, the intrathoracic air saturated with chemotherapy is evacuated through a series of filters.

The patients are monitored for a minimum of one day and will after each PITAC directed treatment be screened for adverse events.