Phase I of Histone Deacetylase (HDAC) Inhibitor Panobinostat With Ipilimumab With Unresectable III/IV Melanoma
The purpose of this study is to find out if an investigational drug called panobinostat can be given safely with another drug called ipilimumab. Investigators want to learn more about the side effects of this combination of drugs using different doses of panobinostat and the same dose of ipilimumab.
Melanoma|Skin Cancer
DRUG: Panobinostat|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), MTD and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of panobinostat (PAN), administered in combination with ipilimumab (IPI) in participants with unresectable Stage III or Stage IV melanoma.

The goal is to enroll up to 36 patients for determination of the MTD, but will be successfully concluded earlier if 12 patients are accrued at the dose determined to be the MTD, with 3 dose limiting toxicities (DLTs).

All participants who receive study any drug therapy will be evaluated for safety. Safety assessments will be based on medical review of adverse event reports and the results of vital sign measurements, physical examinations, and clinical laboratory tests. Triplicate 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs) will be collected prior to dosing on Day 1 of induction cycle 1. MTD of PAN in milligrams (mg), with IPI at 3 mg/kg., Up to 36 months
Immune Related Overall Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and immune-related Response Criteria (irRC). RECIST: Best overall response from start of treatment until disease progression/recurrence. Immune-related Complete Response (irCR): Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions for at least 4 weeks from date of documentation of irCR. Immune-related Partial Response (irPR): Sum of the products of the 2 largest perpendicular diameters of all index lesions, measured and captured as the Sum of Product of Diameters (SPD) baseline. Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for Progressive Disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter (LD) since the treatment started. Immune-related Progressive Disease (irPD): At least a 25% increase in the SPD of all index lesions and new measurable lesions (irSPD) over the nadir SPD calculated for the index lesions., Up to 36 months|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression Free Survival (PFS): is defined for each participant as the time from first dosing to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause. If a subject has not progressed or died at the time of analysis, PFS will be censored on the date of the last disease assessment. PFS will be calculated by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1. Progressive Disease (PD) = 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions., Up to 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), Overall survival: The time from randomization until death from any cause., 36 months
The purpose of this study is to find out if an investigational drug called panobinostat can be given safely with another drug called ipilimumab. Investigators want to learn more about the side effects of this combination of drugs using different doses of panobinostat and the same dose of ipilimumab.