Phase II Maraviroc for GVHD Prevention
RATIONALE: Successful allogeneic stem-cell transplantation is often limited by graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Migration of donor cells into tissues plays a major role in GVHD. Drugs that block chemokine receptors such as CCR5, can potentially decrease the migration of donor cells into tissues. Blocking CCR5 after allogeneic stem-cell transplantation may therefore reduce the rates of GVHD.

PURPOSE: This study explores the efficacy of pharmacologic inhibition of CCR5 in prevention of GVHDby administering maraviroc during allogeneic stem-cell transplantation with reduced intensity conditioning.
Hematologic Malignancy
DRUG: Maraviroc 300 mg
Day +180 Rate of Grade II-IV Acute GVHD, The cumulative incidence of grade II-IV acute GVHD by day 180 after the stem-cell infusion. This is based on consensus conference criteria., 180 days
Detailed Description:

PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

To estimate the cumulative incidence of grade 2-4 acute GVHD by day 180 with the addition of maraviroc to a standard prophylaxis regimen in patients with hematologic malignancies undergoing reduced intensity allogeneic stem-cell transplantation (RIC SCT) from unrelated donors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

1. To assess the toxicity of a prolonged administration of maraviroc in patients undergoing RIC SCT.
2. To estimate the rates of severe (grade 3-4) acute GVHD by day 100 and 180, grade 2-4 acute GVHD by day 100, organ-specific acute GVHD, chronic GVHD, relapse, infections, non-relapse mortality, use of immunosuppressive therapies and 1-year survival in patients treated with maraviroc after RIC SCT.
3. To assess the effect of treatment with maraviroc on immune recovery, engraftment and donor T-cell chimerism in peripheral blood and in target organs.
4. To assess the effect of donor and recipient CCR5 genotype on the incidence of acute GVHD in patients receiving maraviroc as part of a GVHD prophylaxis regimen.

OUTLINE: Patients receive a standard conditioning regimen with fludarabine and busulfan followed by a peripheral blood stem cell infusion from an unrelated donor, standard GVHD prophylaxis and standard antiviral and antifungal prophylaxis. In addition, all patients receive maraviroc from day -3 to d+ 90.

Patients are followed for 1 year after the stem-cell infusion.