Para Aortic Lymphadenectomy : Always ?
Cervical cancer affects more than 3000 new cases per year in France. The treatment of stage IB3 to IVA cervical cancer is based on concomitant radio-chemotherapy. The irradiation volumes are based, according to current recommendations, on imaging examinations and / or on the results of a laparoscopic Para-aortic lymphadenectomy (PAL). There is some risk of false negatif with the PET/CT. For this reason, most of the time, PAL is offered when there is no pathological paraaortic lymph node on PET/CT. The investigators suppose that this staging surgery could be avoid when no pathological pelvic nodes are identified on PET/CT. The investigators use a retrospective study, to analyse histological report of systematic PAL, comparing to results of pre-operative PET/CT.
Cervical Cancer
PROCEDURE: Para Aortic Lymphadenectomy (PAL) by laparoscopy
negative predictive value of PET/CT on para aortic nodes when no pathological pelvic nodes., negative predictive value of PET/CT on para aortic nodes when no pathological pelvic nodes.

The intraoperative 3D optical scan gives the tumor localization obtained by radioguided occult lesion localization thanks to pen marking left by the surgeon. The comparison is done by superimposing both acquisitions., 1 day
morbidity of PAL, morbidity of PAL, 1 day
Cervical cancer affects more than 3000 new cases per year in France. The treatment of stage IB3 to IVA cervical cancer is based on concomitant radio-chemotherapy. The irradiation volumes are based, according to current recommendations, on imaging examinations and / or on the results of a laparoscopic Para-aortic lymphadenectomy (PAL). There is some risk of false negatif with the PET/CT. For this reason, most of the time, PAL is offered when there is no pathological paraaortic lymph node on PET/CT. The investigators suppose that this staging surgery could be avoid when no pathological pelvic nodes are identified on PET/CT. The investigators use a retrospective study, to analyse histological report of systematic PAL, comparing to results of pre-operative PET/CT.