What is the Optimal Training Model for Cervical Awareness?
Cervical cancer represents the fourth most prevalent malignant disease and the fourth leading cause of mortality among women on a global scale. Despite screening and preventive vaccination efforts, cervical cancer remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in low- and middle-income countries.
HPV Infection|Cervical Cancer|Cervical Dysplasia
BEHAVIORAL: Education Intervention
Test Score, Pre-Training, Participants will first take a test where they will receive a maximum of 25 points and a minimum of 0 points. Then the participants will be automatically assigned to one of the 4 training models, then the trainings will be given and the same test will be applied to the participants again.

By looking at the second test and first test scores, it will be determined which training model increases the participant's score more. Thus, we will be able to understand which form of education increases HPV and cervical awareness in our society., After completion of the 25-item assessment tests (first and second test) and training, an average of 1 month.|Test Score, Post-Training, Participants will first take a test where they will receive a maximum of 25 points and a minimum of 0 points. Then the participants will be automatically assigned to one of the 4 training models, then the trainings will be given and the same test will be applied to the participants again.

By looking at the second test and first test scores, it will be determined which training model increases the participant's score more. Thus, we will be able to understand which form of education increases HPV and cervical awareness in our society., After completion of the 25-item assessment tests (first and second test) and training, an average of 1 month.
A number of studies have been conducted with the aim of raising awareness about HPV and cervical cancer. However, there is currently no evidence-based consensus on the most effective method of education. The objective of this study is to identify the optimal training method by conducting a randomised controlled trial among healthcare professionals. The training methods under consideration are as follows: 1) Video-based training, 2) Classical lecture training, 3) Brochure, 4) Audio recording (Radio broadcast).

Prior to the commencement of the designated training methods, participants will be required to complete a web-based pre-test. Subsequent to this, the system will automatically assign each participant to a training intervention. Upon completion of the training programme, participants will be required to undertake a second test, the results of which will inform the selection of the most effective training method.

This study will be conducted separately in several distinct healthcare professional groups. Each randomized controlled trial will include 400 participants.

Planned groups include:

Public health nurses

Medical doctors

Medical interns

Midwives

The objective is to identify the most effective educational intervention for improving awareness of HPV and cervical cancer prevention within each group.