Phase 2 Trial of AEZS-108 in Chemotherapy Refractory in Triple Negative Breast Cancer
This is a therapeutic exploratory Phase 2 study evaluating AEZS-108 compared to standard single agent cytotoxic chemotherapy (SSCC) as measured by the median time of progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with chemotherapy refractory triple negative (ER/PR/HER2-negative) LHRH-R positive metastatic breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: AEZS-108|DRUG: SCCC|DRUG: Dexamethasone
Efficacy of AEZS-108 compared to SSCC as measured by the median time of progression-free survival (PFS)., PFS is defined as the time elapsed from randomization to the date of documented progression or death, whichever comes first. For surviving patients without progression who begin alternative treatment, PFS will be censored at the last date of documented progression-free status prior to starting alternative treatment. Similarly, losses to follow up will be censored at the last date of documented progression-free status., Up to two years
Efficacy of AEZS-108: overall response, Overall response per RECIST 1.1 (i.e. complete response (CR) + partial response (PR)., Up to two years|Efficacy of AEZS-108: clinical benefit, Overall clinical benefit = complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) + stable disease (SD), up to 2 years|Efficacy of AEZS-108: duration of response, The duration of overall response is measured from the time measurement criteria are met for CR or PR (whichever is first recorded) until the first date that recurrent or progressive disease is objectively documented (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started). The duration of overall CR is measured from the time measurement criteria are first met for CR until the first date that progressive disease is objectively documented., up to 2 years|Efficacy of AEZS-108: time to progression (TTP), TTP is defined as the time elapsed from randomization to the earliest date of documented disease progression. For surviving patients without progression of breast cancer who begin alternative treatment, TTP will be censored at the last date of documented progression-free status prior to starting alternative treatment. This is expected to be negligible and, if the actual data suggest otherwise, competing risk methods will be used instead of Kaplan-Meier estimates. Similarly, losses to follow up will be censored at the last date of documented progression free status., up to 2 years|Efficacy of AEZS-108: overall survival, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the elapsed time from start of therapy to death from any cause. For surviving patients, follow-up will be censored at the date of last contact., up to 2 years|Toxicity of AEZS-108 in this patient population, All patients will be evaluable for toxicity from the time of their first treatment with the study drug., up to 2 years
The study will be conducted as an open-label randomized two-arm multicenter Phase II study. Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into one of the two treatment arms within each stratum: AEZS-108 (267 mg/m2 every 21 calendar days) (Arm A) OR SSCC (Arm B) at discretion of treating oncologist cycled every 21 calendar days.

Stratified randomization will be used with number of prior lines of therapies (1-2 versus \>2). Tumor assessment will be repeated every 2 cycles. At the time of disease progression, Arm B patients may be crossed over to AEZS-108 as long as none of the exclusion criteria for study entry apply. Particularly, LVEF ≥50% is required, and patients failing on liposomal doxorubicin cannot be crossed over to AEZS-108.

Analysis of the main study endpoint, PFS, will follow a group sequential design with one interim and one final analysis utilizing the O'Brien-Fleming stopping boundaries procedure. The study will be terminated for futility if the lower bound is crossed and for superiority if the upper bound is crossed. The sponsor may also terminate the study for futility based on other considerations such as safety.