Increasing Screening for Cancer Using EHR-Nudges
In this study, personalized nudges to clinicians and patients will be evaluated to help increase breast cancer screening rates in accordance with USPSTF guidelines among women with a primary care visit, with a particular emphasis on those at high risk for non-completion of cancer screening. In partnership with Penn Medicine (Penn) and Case Western Reserve University-University Hospitals (UH), two complementary, concurrent, 6-month, cluster-randomized, pragmatic trials will be conducted. Those assigned to the intervention arm will receive the following clinician and patient level nudge interventions: clinicians will receive a default pended order for a mammogram in the visit encounter in the EHR (Penn and UH), and patients will receive post-visit text message reminders to encourage them to schedule their mammogram (Penn). Patients identified as high risk for noncompletion will be individually randomized to receive an additional bidirectional text message nudge or the standard text messaging (Penn).
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Post-visit patient text messaging|BEHAVIORAL: Default pended order|BEHAVIORAL: High risk bidirectional post-visit text messaging
Proportion of patients who complete a screening mammogram within 3 months after the visit, The primary outcome is screening mammogram completion within 3 months after the first eligible primary care visit., 3 months
Proportion of patients who complete a screening mammogram within 6 months after the visit, The secondary outcome is screening mammogram completion within 6 months after the first eligible primary care visit., 6 months
Cancer is a leading cause of mortality in the United States. While strong USPSTF guideline recommendations support appropriate screening for early detection and to avoid preventable deaths, breast cancer screening is often underutilized. Increasing breast cancer screening rates is challenging, in part, because it requires complementary decisions from clinicians (e.g., recommend and counsel patients about screening) and patients (e.g., to internalize risks and choose to complete screening). Presently, the lack of interventions directly targeting both clinicians' and patients' decision-making may underscore the relatively stagnant screening rates in the United States. There is a significant need to develop and scale low-cost interventions that increase breast cancer screening while simultaneously addressing the needs of high-risk patients and reducing disparities. Building upon prior work, the investigators propose to develop and test EHR-based clinician and patient nudges, with an additional intensified nudge to high-risk patients, to help increase screening mammography rates.

This study consists of two complementary and concurrent, cluster-randomized, pragmatic trials to be conducted at Penn and UH.