Rituximab, Combination Chemotherapy, and 90-Yttrium Ibritumomab Tiuxetan for Patients With Stage I or II Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
This phase II trial is studying how well giving rituximab together with combination chemotherapy and 90-Yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan works in treating patients with stage I or stage II lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as prednisone, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, and vincristine, work in different ways to stop cancer cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Monoclonal antibodies such as rituximab and yttrium 90-Yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan can locate cancer cells and either kill them or deliver radioactive cancer-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Combining a monoclonal antibody with combination chemotherapy and a radiolabeled monoclonal antibody may kill more cancer cells.
Contiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Extranodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma of Mucosa-associated Lymphoid Tissue|Nodal Marginal Zone B-cell Lymphoma|Noncontiguous Stage II Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Splenic Marginal Zone Lymphoma|Stage I Adult Diffuse Large Cell Lymphoma|Testicular Lymphoma|Waldenström Macroglobulinemia
BIOLOGICAL: rituximab|DRUG: prednisone|DRUG: cyclophosphamide|DRUG: doxorubicin|DRUG: vincristine|RADIATION: indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan|RADIATION: radiation therapy|PROCEDURE: positron emission tomography
Complete Response (CR) +Complete Response/Uncertain (CRu) in Patients Treated With R-CHOP Followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™., Response was assessed based upon the criteria from the International Workshop to Standardize Criteria for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (Cheson, 1999). CR is defined as complete disappearance of all detectable clinical and radiographic evidence of disease and disappearance of all disease related B-symptoms if present prior to therapy, as well as normalization (normal limits of institutional labs) of those biochemical abnormalities (e.g., LDH) definitely attributed to NHL. CRu is defined as meeting the criteria of CR except one or more of the followings: A residual dominant node (or extra-nodal mass) that is currently \> 1.5 cm in greatest diameter that has decreased by \> 75% from baseline in the product of its diameters. Individual dominant nodes (or extra-nodal masses) that were previously confluent must have decreased by \> 75% in SPD compared with the size of the original mass. Indeterminate bone marrow (increased number or size of aggregates without cytologic or architectural atypia)., Assessed after 2 cycles of R-CHOP, after completion of R-CHOP, and at Week 12 After 90-Yttrium Zevalin|Functional CR in Patients Treated With R-CHOP Followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™., Patients will be considered a functional CR if they meet the criteria for a CR, or if they meet the criteria for a CRu or partial response (PR) by CT and are PET negative. Please see primary outcome #1 for the definition of CR and CRu. PR is defined as: A decrease of \>50% in the SPD (sum of products of the diameters) of the six largest (or less) dominant nodes or extra-nodal masses. No increase in the size of the liver or the spleen. No unequivocal progression in any non-measurable or non-dominant site. Splenic and hepatic nodules must regress by \>50% in SPD (sum of the products of the diameters). Bone marrow assessment is not relevant for determination of a PR because it is assessable and not measurable disease. No new sites of disease., Assessed after 2 cycles of R-CHOP, after completion of R-CHOP, and at Week 12 After 90-Yttrium Zevalin
3-year Time to Treatment Failure (TTF) Rate, Time to treatment failure (TTF) is defined as the time from step 1 registration to disease progression or death. TTF is censored at last documented progression free for cases without progression. The 3-year TTF rate is defined as the probability of patients remaining free from treatment failure at 3 years., Assessed every 3 months for one year; every 4 months for the second year; then every 6 months for 3 years; then annually to 10 years from patient entry.|3-year Overall Survival (OS) Rate, Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from step 1 registration to death of any cause. OS is censored at the date last known alive for cases that are alive. The 3-year OS rate is defined as the probability of patients remaining alive at 3 years., Assessed every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years; then annually to 10 years from patient entry.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the complete response rate (CR) and functional CR rate in patients with previously untreated stage I (with at least 1 risk factor) or stage II CD20+ diffuse large cell lymphoma who receive therapy with R-CHOP followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the time to treatment failure, duration of response, and overall survival in these patients who receive therapy with R-CHOP followed by 90-Yttrium -Zevalin™.

II. To evaluate the toxicity of this therapy. III. To evaluate the toxicity of adding involved field radiation therapy \> 12 weeks after Zevalin™ for patients with CT+/PET+ residual masses.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate PET scans pre -and post - R-CHOP/Zevalin™ therapy.

OUTLINE:

R-CHOP (rituximab, prednisone, cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin,vincristine): Patients receive oral prednisone once daily on days 1-5. Patients also receive rituximab IV over several hours followed by cyclophosphamide IV, doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving a complete response (CR) after 2 courses receive 2 additional courses. Patients achieving a partial response, uncertain CR, or stable disease receive 4 additional courses. Patients are evaluated 3 weeks after the last course of therapy. Patients with progressive disease go off study.

Radioimmunotherapy: Beginning no more than 9 weeks after the reevaluation (or 12 weeks after the last dose of R-CHOP), patients receive rituximab IV on day 1 followed by indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes for imaging studies. Patients then receive rituximab IV followed by yttrium 90-Yttrium ibritumomab tiuxetan IV over 10 minutes on day 8.

Radiotherapy: Patients with residual disease by CT scan or positron emission tomography (PET) scan after 12 weeks after radioimmunotherapy undergo conventional involved-field radiotherapy.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually for 5 years.