An Efficacy and Safety Study of JNJ-64041757, a Live Attenuated Listeria Monocytogenes Immunotherapy, in Combination With Nivolumab Versus Nivolumab Monotherapy in Participants With Advanced Adenocarcinoma of the Lung
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether the efficacy of JNJ-757 combined with nivolumab is better than the efficacy of nivolumab monotherapy for participants with mesothelin-positive relapsed/refractory Stage IIIB or Stage IV adenocarcinoma of the lung. The open-label study comprises of two parts i.e. Phase 1b (safety run-in) and Phase 2. Phase1b consists of 1 arm whereas Phase 2 is randomized into 2 groups i.e. Group A and Group B.
Adenocarcinoma of Lung
BIOLOGICAL: JNJ-64041757|DRUG: Nivolumab
Phase 1b: Percentage of Participants With Objective Response, Objective response rate was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST). RECIST for CR - disappearance of all lesions; all lymph nodes were non-pathological in size and normalization of tumor marker level; PR - greater than or equal to (\>=) 30 percent (%) decrease in the sum of the diameters of all target lesions compared with baseline, in absence of new lesions or unequivocal progression of nontarget lesions., Up to 6.8 Months
Phase 1b: Duration of Objective Response (DOR), Duration of objective response was defined as the time from initial documentation of a response (CR or PR) to first documented date of disease progression (PD) or death from any cause. RECIST for PD - sum of diameters had increased by \>= 20% and \>=5 mm from nadir (including baseline if it was smallest sum). Participants with measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" based on non-target disease, there was an overall level of substantial worsening that merits discontinuation of therapy (if target disease is stable disease \[SD\]/PR). Participants without measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" of non-target disease, increase in overall tumor burden must be comparable to increase required for PD of measurable disease. Furthermore, appearance of 1 or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Progression-free Survival (PFS) Event (Progressed or Died Before Progression), Number of participants with PFS event (progressed or died before progression) were reported. PFS - time from date of randomization until date of first documented evidence of PD (or relapse for participants who experience CR during study) or death from any cause, whichever comes first. RECIST for PD - sum of diameters had increased by \>= 20% and \>=5 mm from nadir (including baseline if it was smallest sum). Participants with measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" based on non-target disease, there was an overall level of substantial worsening that merits discontinuation of therapy (if target disease is SD/PR). Participants without measurable disease: for "unequivocal progression" of non-target disease, increase in overall tumor burden must be comparable to increase required for PD of measurable disease. Furthermore, appearance of 1 or more new lesions or unequivocal progression of a non-target lesion., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Overall Survival (OS) Event (Died), Number of participants with OS event (died) were reported. Overall Survival was defined as the duration from the date of randomization to the date of participant's death due to any cause., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event is any untoward medical event that occurs in a participant administered an investigational product and it does not necessarily indicate only events with clear causal relationship with the relevant investigational product. TEAEs are defined as adverse events with onset or worsening on or after date of first dose of study treatment., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Positive Blood Culture, Number of participants with surveillance cultures positive for listeriosis were reported., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Bacterial Shedding, Number of participants with bacterial shedding were reported. The shedding of JNJ-64041757 was studied in feces by stool or rectal swab, urine and saliva., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Serum Concentrations of Nivolumab, Nivolumab serum concentrations were reported., Up to 6.8 months|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Anti-nivolumab Antibodies, Number of participants with antibodies to nivolumab were reported., Up to 6.8 months
This study evaluates safety and efficacy of JNJ-64041757 with nivolumab. The total study duration will be up to 3 years. It will consist of safety run-in and randomized phase which will comprise of Screening phase(Day(D) -28 to D -1),Treatment Phase,End of Adverse Event Evaluation Period (100 D after last dose of nivolumab)and Post-treatment Follow-up Phase(Every 3 Months). The primary hypothesis is that addition of JNJ-640417577 to nivolumab will result in higher objective response rate compared with nivolumab monotherapy in at least one of programmed death receptor ligand 1 subgroups in participants with relapsed or refractory StageIIIB or StageIV adenocarcinoma of lung. The study procedures include blood culture bacterial shedding assessments, pharmacokinetics, immunogenicity, and biomarkers. Safety will be monitored throughout study.