Erlotinib in Treating Patients With Recurrent Malignant Glioma or Recurrent or Progressive Meningioma
Phase I/II trial to study the effectiveness of erlotinib in treating patients who have recurrent malignant glioma or recurrent or progressive meningioma. Erlotinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth.
Adult Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Adult Anaplastic Oligodendroglioma|Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Adult Grade I Meningioma|Adult Grade II Meningioma|Adult Grade III Meningioma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: erlotinib hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Number of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) Each Dose Level Phase I, DLT Definition: any grade 3 thrombocytopenia and grade 4 anemia and neutropenia; any non-hematologic grade 3 toxicity; failure to recover from toxicities to be eligible for re-treatment with erlotinib within 2 weeks of the last dose of erlotinib., 28 days|Define Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Erlotinib by Phase 1 Cohorts, standard 3+3 dose escalation design 3 patients in each dose level, observed for 28 days before enrollment to next level. if none of the patients experienced DLT dose escalated, if 1 of 3 experienced DLT 3 more enrolled at that level, if none of the 3 additional pts had DLT escalate to next level, if one or more of the additional pts experienced DLT, the MTD was exceeded and 3 more patients were treated at the next lower dose (if only 3 pts treated at the lower dose). The MTD is the dose at which 0/3 or 1/6 patients have experienced a DLT with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 patients encountering DLT., cycle 1 - 28 days|6 Months Progression-free Survival in Recurrent Malignant Gliomas (Phase II), Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over BL if no decrease), OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., 6 months
Percent of Participants With a Grade 3 or 4 Adverse Events Phase 1, CTCAE, 1 year|1 Year Survival - Phase II Newly Diagnosed GBM Post RT, 12 month survival for newly diagnosed stable GBM post RT treated with erlotinib post RT, At 1 year|Overall Survival Newly Diagnosed GBM Post RT, Overall Survival defined as Time from Start of treatment to time of death due to any cause, 2 years|Response Rate (Complete or Partial Response) Graded Using Modified RECIST Criteria Phase II, Measurable: Bidimensionally measurable lesions w/ clearly defined margins by MRI

Evaluable: Unidimensionally measurable lesions, masses w/margins not clearly defined.

Complete Response (CR): Complete disappearance of all measurable/evaluable disease. No new lesions. No evidence of non-evaluable disease. Patients on minimal/no steroids.

Partial Response (PR): \>/= to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. Responders must be on same/decreasing doses of dexamethasone.

Stable/No Response: Does not qualify for CR, PR, or progression.

Progression: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over BL if no decrease), OR clear worsening of any evaluable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., At 1 year|Percent of Patients With One or More Grade 3-5 Toxicity Described Based on the CTC Severity Grading Phase II, Summarized by descriptive statistics., Up to 1 year|Time of Peak Plasma Concentration Per Dose Level Phase I (on Anticonvulsants) -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1.|Peak Plasma Concentration Per Dose Level Phase I (on Anticonvulsants) -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1. One sample on day 8 cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2,3 and 5|Estimation of the Area Under the Curve Per Dose Level Phase I (on Anticonvulsants) -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1. One sample on day 8 cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2,3 and 5|Trough Level Per Dose Level Phase I (on Anticonvulsants) -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, cycle 1 day eight|Peak Plasma Concentration Level for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs - Phase 2 - Dose 150mg -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1. One sample on day 8 cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2,3 and 5|Time to Peak Plasma Concentration for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs - Phase 2 - Dose 150mg -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1. One sample on day 8 cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2,3 and 5|Estimation of Area Under the Curve for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs - Phase 2 - Dose 150mg-, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, baseline, 1,2,4,6,8,12,24h post administration day 1 cycle 1. One sample on day 8 cycle 1 and day 1 of cycle 2,3 and 5|Trough Level for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs - Phase 2 - Dose 150mg -, plasma concentrations relative to erlotiniab administration and sample time and dose level, One sample on day 8 cycle 1|Pharmacokinetics (Plasma) Level for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs, Drug administered 6 days prior to surgery, Pre-surgery and time of resection|Pharmacokinetics (Tissue) Level for Recurrent Patients Not on Enzyme-inducing Antiepileptic Drugs, Drug administered 6 days prior to surgery, Pre-surgery and time of resection
OBJECTIVES:

Phase 1 I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose of erlotinib in patients with recurrent malignant glioma or recurrent or progressive meningioma.

II. Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients. III. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients.

Phase 2 I. Determine the 6-month progression-free survival (recurrent malignant glioma) II.12-month survival of patients treated with this drug (stable glioblastoma post radiation therapy)

Phase 2 - Secondary Recurrent Malignant Glioma I. Objective Tumor Response rate associated with erlotinib therapy in recurrent or progressive malignant glioma.

III. 12-month survival of patients treated with this drug Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients. IV.. Determine the pharmacokinetics of this drug in these patients

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to study phase (I vs II), concurrent enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs (EIAEDs) (yes vs no), histology (recurrent GBM vs recurrent anaplastic glioma vs recurrent meningioma vs stable GBM), preoperative candidacy (yes vs no), and concurrent steroids (yes vs no).

Phase I: Patients concurrently receiving EIAEDs receive oral erlotinib once daily. Courses repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is the dose preceding that at which at least 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

Phase II: Once the MTD is determined, additional patients concurrently receiving EIAEDs are treated with erlotinib as above at the phase II dose. Patients not concurrently receiving EIAEDs are treated with erlotinib as above at a predetermined dose.

Patients are followed for survival.