Onvansertib in Combination With FOLFIRI and Bevacizumab for Second Line Treatment of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients With a KRAS Mutation
The purpose of the Phase 1b/2 study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Onvansertib, administered orally, daily on Day 1-5 and Day 15-19 of each 28-day cycle, in combination with FOLFIRI + Bevacizumab, as second-line treatment in adult participants who have metastatic colorectal cancer with a KRAS mutation. Participants must have histologically confirmed metastatic and unresectable disease, and previously failed treatment or be intolerant to fluoropyrimidine and oxaliplatin with or without bevacizumab.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer|KRAS Gene Mutation
DRUG: Onvansertib|BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|DRUG: FOLFIRI
Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Dose-limiting Toxicities (DLTs), DLTs were defined as a Grade 4 hematologic adverse events (AEs), Grade ≥ 3 non-hematologic AEs that were considered related to the study drug and that did not resolve within 14 days following presentation with standard management and care, Grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, neutropenic fever, any death not clearly due to the underlying disease or extraneous causes, or any change in liver function that met Hy's Law criteria of a DLT., Up to Day 28|Phase 1b: Number of Participants With Treatment-emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), AEs were defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans. TEAEs are defined as any AE that started on or after the first day of study treatment and within 30 days of the last administration of study treatment, or that worsened on or after the first day of study treatment. AE severity was graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 on a scale from Grade 1 (mild) to Grade 5 (death). An AE was considered "serious" if it resulted in death, life-threatening AE, hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, persistent or significant incapacity, or congenital anomaly/birth defect. The Investigator determined relatedness to the use of onvansertib.

Clinically significant changes in vital signs, laboratory parameters, electrocardiograms, physical examinations, weight, and Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status were reported as AEs., Up to a maximum of 81 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants documented to have a confirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) using the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1). Two-sided 95% confidence interval (CI) was calculated using the exact binomial Clopper-Pearson method.

CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. All lymph nodes must have been non-pathological in size (\< 10mm short axis).

PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks
Phase 2: Number of Participants With TEAEs, AEs were defined as any untoward medical occurrence associated with the use of a drug in humans. TEAEs are defined as any AE that started on or after the first day of study treatment and within 30 days of the last administration of study treatment, or that worsened on or after the first day of study treatment. AE severity was graded according to the CTCAE version 5.0 on a scale from Grade 1 (mild) to Grade 5 (death). An AE was considered "serious" if it resulted in death, life-threatening AE, hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization, persistent or significant incapacity, or congenital anomaly/birth defect. The Investigator determined relatedness to the use of onvansertib.

Clinically significant changes in vital signs, laboratory parameters, electrocardiograms, physical examinations, weight, and ECOG performance status were reported as AEs., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants documented to have a confirmed CR, PR or stable disease (SD) using the RECIST v1.1. Two-sided 95% CI was calculated using the exact binomial Clopper-Pearson method.

CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have had a reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. All lymph nodes must have been non-pathological in size (\< 10mm short axis).

PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the Baseline sum diameters.

SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD).

PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an increase of at least 5mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time in months from the date of first administration of study treatment until the first observation of PD or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, i.e.: (date of first PD or death date of first administration of study treatment +1)/30.4375. Median and 95% CI were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method. Participants who did not have an observed documented PD or death from any cause were censored at the latest tumor response assessment date.

PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions. The sum must also demonstrate an increase of at least 5mm. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Duration of Response (DoR), DoR was calculated as the (date of first documented tumor progression or death due to any cause minus date of first documentation of a subsequently confirmed objective response plus 1)/30.4375. Participants who did not have an observed documented PD or death from any cause were censored at the latest tumor response assessment date., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time in months from the date of first administration of study treatment until death due to any cause, i.e.: (Date of death date of first administration of study treatment +1)/30.4375. Participants who did not have documented death from any cause were censored at the date they were last known to be alive. OS was added as an endpoint with Protocol Amendment #1, therefore, OS data was only collected from then onward., Up to a maximum of 131 weeks|All-Treated Analysis Set: Percentage Change in KRAS-mutant Allelic Fraction (MAF), Blood samples were analyzed for the presence of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA \[including KRAS mutations\]). KRAS-mutant allelic burden was based on liquid biopsies., Cycle 1 Day 1 and Cycle 2 Day 1 (28-day cycle length)|Phase 2: Observed Plasma Concentration at the End of Each Dosing Interval (Ctrough) of Onvansertib, Plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters for onvansertib were estimated using non-compartmental methods., Pre-dose on Day 1 of Cycles 1 and 3 (28-day cycle length)
The purpose of the Phase 1b/2 study is to determine the safety and efficacy of Onvansertib, administered orally, daily on Day 1-5 and Day 15-19 of each 28-day cycle, in combination with FOLFIRI + Bevacizumab, as second-line treatment in adult participants who have metastatic colorectal cancer with a KRAS mutation. Participants must have histologically confirmed metastatic and unresectable disease, and previously failed treatment or be intolerant to fluoropyrimidine and oxaliplatin with or without bevacizumab.