Vemurafenib Combined With Whole Brain Radiation Therapy or Radiosurgery in Patients With BRAF Mutation-Positive Melanoma and Brain Metastases
This phase I trial studies the best dose of vemurafenib when combined with whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) in patients with v-raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) mutation-positive melanoma and brain metastases. Radiation therapy is an effective treatment for patients with brain metastases. Patients with multiple metastases are typically treated with WBRT. For patients with a few metastases, SRS alone can be used. Vemurafenib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Combining radiation treatment with vemurafenib for melanoma patients with brain metastases may result in improved local control and prolonged survival.
Recurrent Melanoma|Stage IV Melanoma|Tumors Metastatic to Brain
DRUG: Vemurafenib|RADIATION: Whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT)|RADIATION: Radiosurgery (SRS)
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vemurafenib, The last dose studied or the previous dose, based on clinical judgment of the degree of toxicity seen at the last dose., Up to 1 year
Proportion with complete response, Estimate through the Kaplan-Meier method and compute associated 95% confidence intervals, Up to 1 year|Proportion with partial response, Estimate through the Kaplan-Meier method and compute associated 95% confidence intervals, Up to 1 year|Median survival, Estimate through the Kaplan-Meier method and compute associated 95% confidence intervals, Up to 1 year|Progression free survival based on Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria based on the brain MRI and systematic assessment by the treating physician, Will be determined for each arm separately, as well as the entire study patient population, Up to 1 year|Overall survival, Will be determined for each arm separately, as well as the entire study patient population, Up to 1 year|Local control rates of brain metastases, Analysis of local control will be done separately in each arm, Up to 1 year|Rate of developing new brain metastasis, Analysis of rate of developing new brain metastasis will be done separately in each arm, Up to 1 year|Response of extracranial disease, Will be determined for each arm separately, as well as the entire study patient population, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of vemurafenib when combined with WBRT or SRS and determine a recommended phase II dose of vemurafenib to be used with WBRT or SRS in patients with brain metastases from melanoma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine local control rates of the brain metastases in each arm. II. To determine the rates of developing of new brain metastases in each arm. III. To determine the response of extracranial disease. IV. To determine the overall survival rate and progression free survival rate. V. To determine the safety and tolerability of each arm.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of vemurafenib. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms based on the number and size of brain metastasis.

All patients receive vemurafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) beginning 3-5 days before the start of radiation therapy and continuing in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

ARM A: Patients undergo WBRT once daily (QD) for 10 doses.

ARM B: Patients undergo SRS (gamma knife, tomotherapy, cyberknife, or megavoltage linear accelerator \[LINAC\] radiation therapy) on day 1.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up on weeks 5 or 7, 9 and 13, and then on months 4, 6, 9, and 12.