Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Unresectable Locally Advanced or Metastatic Adenocarcinoma of the Bile Duct or Gallbladder
This phase II trial is studying how well bortezomib works as first-line systemic therapy in treating patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma (cancer) of the bile duct or gallbladder. Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for their growth.
Adenocarcinoma of the Extrahepatic Bile Duct|Adenocarcinoma of the Gallbladder|Advanced Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Gastrointestinal Cancer|Localized Unresectable Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Adult Primary Liver Cancer|Recurrent Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Recurrent Gallbladder Cancer|Unresectable Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer|Unresectable Gallbladder Cancer
DRUG: bortezomib
Objective Response Rate, Objective Response Rate (ORR) was determined by best response on radiologic assessment (computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0., Up to 1 year
Time to Disease Progression, Time from initiation of therapy to first progressive disease., Up to 1 year|Overall Survival, The time from initiation of therapy to death or last follow-up., Up to 1 year|Correlation of the Degree of Proteasome Inhibition in Peripheral Blood With the Degree of Proteasome Inhibition in Tumor Specimens, Proteasome inhibition compared between tumor specimens and peripheral blood. Sufficient tissue samples are required for this analysis., Once in the screening period (within 14 days of starting treatment)|Correlation of Phenotypic Expression of NF-kB, p53, and Other Molecular Markers in Biliary Washings and Tumor Biopsies With Clinical Outcomes, Evaluation of clinical outcomes with expression of molecular markers specified and others. Sufficient amount of biliary washings and tumor biopsies needed for analysis., Once in the screening period (within 14 days of starting treatment)|Correlation of Treatment With Changes in Phenotypic Expression of Molecular Markers, Phenotypic expression of molecular markers before and after study treatment, Duration of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic adenocarcinoma of the bile duct or gallbladder treated with bortezomib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the time to disease progression in patients treated with this drug.

II. Determine the overall survival of patients treated with this drug. III. Correlate the degree of proteasome inhibition in peripheral blood with degree of proteasome inhibition in tumor specimens of patients treated with this drug.

IV. Correlate phenotypic expression of NF-kB, p53, and other molecular markers in biliary washings and tumor biopsies with clinical outcomes in patients treated with this drug.

V. Correlate treatment with this drug with changes in phenotypic expression of molecular markers in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

Patients receive bortezomib IV over 3-5 seconds on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year.