MoleMapper, Visiomed, and Confocal Microscopy in Screening Participants for Melanoma
This trial studies how well MoleMapper, Visiomed, and confocal microscopy work in screening participants for melanoma. Analyzing images (photographs) made with three different portable imaging systems may be as good as a visit to a dermatologist's office for finding melanomas before they can spread.
Cutaneous Melanoma|Melanocytic Nevus|Skin Carcinoma
OTHER: Confocal Microscopy|OTHER: Dermoscopy|PROCEDURE: Imaging Procedure|DRUG: Lidocaine|PROCEDURE: Punch Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Shave Biopsy
Sensitivity of the imaging modalities, Sensitivity is defined as recommend immediate biopsy (red) lesions correctly identified as red by the dermatologists. The nature of statistical data analyses will be descriptive and exploratory to estimate effect sizes and their variation as well as generate hypotheses for the future study design. Sensitivity and specificity will be estimated along with exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year|Specificity of imaging modalities, Specificity is defined as green (follow-up at annual skin exam) or yellow lesions (recommend examination by dermatologist in 3 months) correctly identified. The nature of statistical data analyses will be descriptive and exploratory to estimate effect sizes and their variation as well as generate hypotheses for the future study design. Sensitivity and specificity will be estimated along with exact 95% confidence intervals., Up to 1 year
Sensitivity by changes after consideration of in vivo reflectance mode confocal scanning laser microscopy (RCM) report, Secondary analysis will be done with the biopsied lesions that were analyzed by RCM. The dermatologists will be provided a report of the RCM findings as well as the VisioMed images and asked to make the same classification as above. Changes in sensitivity and specificity will be determined., Up to 1 year|Specificity by changes after consideration of RCM report, Secondary analysis will be done with the biopsied lesions that were analyzed by RCM. The dermatologists will be provided a report of the RCM findings as well as the Visiomed images and asked to make the same classification as above. Changes in sensitivity and specificity will be determined., Up to 1 year
Improvements in virtual triage of patients when enabling patients to take and submit digital dermoscopy images from home, Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the clinical utility of clinical images, digital dermoscopy images and in-vivo confocal microscopy for teledermatology.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To incorporate in vivo confocal images into the triage system in order to determine to what degree the information gathered in this modality changes the classification of a lesion assigned by a licensed dermatologist.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the potential improvement of virtual patient triage when adding digital dermoscopy images to clinical images presented by patients to their provider (via e-visit or e-consult).

OUTLINE:

Participants undergo imaging of suspicious moles via smartphone application (app) MoleMapper/Sklip app/native smartphone camera app, digital dermoscopy, and confocal microscopy. Participants then receive lidocaine subcutaneously (SC) and undergo shave or punch biopsy of suspected melanomas.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up within 1 week.