Safety and Effectiveness of ABM-168 in Adults with Advanced Solid Tumors.
This is a Phase 1, First-in-Human (FIH), open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and dose expansion study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and preliminary anti-tumor activity of ABM-168 in adult patients with RAS or RAF or NF-1 mutated advanced solid tumors as ABM-168 may have a significant effect in inhibiting cell growth.
Advanced Solid Tumor|RAS Mutation|RAF Mutation|NF1 Mutation
DRUG: ABM-168
Determine Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) and/or Recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), Dose limiting toxicities (DLT) which defines the MTD/RP2D, Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Incident Rate., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by incident rate., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability, severity per Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0), Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by severity. Adverse events will be assessed according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. For consistency, Version 5.0 will be used throughout the trial regardless of any subsequent versions of the CTCAE criteria that may become available. If CTCAE grading does not exist for a specific adverse event, the severity should be assessed based on the general guidelines outlined in CTCAE v5.0., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-AE causality., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by causality of adverse events (AEs)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Lab abnormalities., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by clinically significant abnormalities in clinical laboratory testing., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Body Temperature., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by body temperature changes from base-line in Fahrenheit., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Heart Rate, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by heart rate changes from base-line in BPM (beats per minute)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Pulse Rate, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by pulse rate changes from base-line in BPM (beats per minute)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Respiratory Rate, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by respiratory rate changes from base-line in breaths per minute., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Systolic Blood Pressure, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by blood pressure changes from base-line in systolic blood pressure (measured in mmHg)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Diastolic Blood Pressure, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by blood pressure changes from base-line in diastolic blood pressure (measured in mmHg)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Ocular side effects., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by ophthalmology assessment., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-ECG parameters., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by ECGs (QT interval)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-ECOG performance, Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by ECOG scores (0-Fully active; - 5-Dead)., Day 28 after last dosing.|Safety and tolerability-Karnofsky performance., Safety and tolerability of ABM-168 monotherapy as determined by Karnofsky performance scores - 70 (able to care for self and live at home) - 100 (able to carry on normal activity)., Day 28 after last dosing.
This is a First-in-Human (FIH), open-label, multicenter, dose escalation and dose expansion, Phase I study of ABM-168, for the treatment of advanced solid tumors in adult patients.

The study consists of two parts:

Part A: Dose escalation. The starting dose of ABM-168 is 0.5 mq po qd, and dose escalation will be guided by a "3+3" design. ABM-168 will be administered once daily on a continuous schedule. Each treatment cycle consists of 28 days.

Part B: Dose Expansion. Expansion will be conducted in the adult patients with advanced solid tumors that carry either RAS, RAF or NF-1 mutations. There are two cohorts for Dose Expansion: Patients will be enrolled into either Dose Expansion Cohort 1 (EX1) or Dose Expansion Cohort 2 (EX2).

* Cohort EX1: Patients enrolled will have preferred indications (i.e., melanoma, colon cancer, lung cancer, and pancreatic carcinoma) who had confirmed RAS, RAF or NF-1 mutations and measurable lesion(s) at the beginning of the study. Patients with measurable brain lesions(s) which have metastasized are highly preferred.
* Cohort EX2: Patients enrolled will have primary CNS (Central Nervous System tumors with confirmed RAS, RAF or NF-1 mutations.

Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) will be evaluated and managed per the pre-defined DLT criteria and rules specified in the protocol. MTD (Maximum Tolerated Dose) and/or RP2D will be determined based on the totality of safety, clinical pharmacokinetics, and efficacy data from all evaluable patients enrolled and in treated in both dose escalation cohorts and dose expansion cohorts. The RP2D (recommended phase II dose) could be the MTD, or alternatively a dose recommended by the SMC (Safety Monitoring Committee) if no MTD is determined in the dose escalation and/or dose expansion.