Mechanical Thrombectomy for Acute Lower Limb Deep Vein Thrombosis in Tumor Patients
This study will conduct a prospective single blind controlled study on the clinical efficacy and safety indicators of 50 cancer patients with acute lower limb deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The patients were randomly divided into an experimental group (improved mechanical thrombectomy (PMT) group) and a control group (traditional simple anticoagulation group) using the "envelope method", with 25 cases each. After the end of treatment, clinical prognosis evaluations were conducted on the patient's vital signs, symptoms and signs, lower limb Doppler ultrasound examination, patient PTS score (Villalta score), quality of life score (QOL), etc. at 3, 6, and 12 months. Adverse events, the presence or absence of thrombus recurrence, and re surgical intervention were recorded. This study is expected to propose a new strategy for the treatment of acute DVT in cancer patients, thereby improving the overall level of VTE prevention and treatment.
Cancer Patients With Acute Lower Limb Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT)
PROCEDURE: mechanical thrombectomy (PMT)
The incidence of PTS at 12 months after surgery, Villalta Rating at 12 months after surgery, 1 year
This study will conduct a prospective single blind controlled study on the clinical efficacy and safety indicators of 50 cancer patients with acute lower limb deep vein thrombosis (DVT). The patients were randomly divided into an experimental group (improved mechanical thrombectomy (PMT) group) and a control group (traditional simple anticoagulation group) using the "envelope method", with 25 cases each. After the end of treatment, clinical prognosis evaluations were conducted on the patient's vital signs, symptoms and signs, lower limb Doppler ultrasound examination, patient PTS score (Villalta score), quality of life score (QOL), etc. at 3, 6, and 12 months. Adverse events, the presence or absence of thrombus recurrence, and re surgical intervention were recorded. This study is expected to propose a new strategy for the treatment of acute DVT in cancer patients, thereby improving the overall level of VTE prevention and treatment.