The Consistency of Drug Screening in Vitro and Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Results in Breast Cancer Patients
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer could make unresectable breast cancer be resectable and improve breast conservation rate. Patients with triple negative or Her2 enriched subtype who achieved pCR after neoadjuvant chemotherapy would have better survival. But the overall pCR rate of breast cancer was about 20%. And patients with luminal like subtype were less reactive for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Improving pCR rate maybe could achieve better survival. So, different methods have tried to select effective drug before chemotherapy.Drug sensitivity screening in vitro for different chemotherapy drugs was a promising method. This study will explore whether drug screening by culturing breast cancer cells in vitro from breast cancer tissue could consistent with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients.40 breast cancer patients were recruited.The results of drug sensitivity in vitro and pathological evaluation after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were compared whether they were consistent.
Breast Cancer|Drug Effect
Consistency rate of drug sensitivity in vitro and in vivo, Compute the percentage of patients whose drug sensitivity were consistent between in vitro and in vivo, as both were sensitive or insensitive., through study completion, an average of 2 years
Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer could make unresectable breast cancer be resectable and improve breast conservation rate. Patients with triple negative or Her2 enriched subtype who achieved pCR after neoadjuvant chemotherapy would have better survival. But the overall pCR rate of breast cancer was about 20%. And patients with luminal like subtype were less reactive for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Improving pCR rate maybe could achieve better survival. So, different methods have tried to select effective drug before chemotherapy.Drug sensitivity screening in vitro for different chemotherapy drugs was a promising method. This study will explore whether drug screening by culturing breast cancer cells in vitro from breast cancer tissue could consistent with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients.40 breast cancer patients who would receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy were recruited.Breast cancer tissues were obtained before chemotherapy. The breast cancer cells were cultured in unadhesive dishes. Chemotherapy drugs were put in dishes and drug sensitivity were evaluated. Patients received operation and pathological evaluationc after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The results of drug sensitivity in vitro and pathological evaluation after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were compared whether they were consistent.