PET/MR Versus CECT Scans in Imaging Patients With Ovarian Cancer or Highly Suspected Ovarian Cancer
This trial studies how well positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance (PET/MR) versus contrast enhanced computerized tomography (CECT) scans work in locating ovarian cancer tumors in patients with known or suspected ovarian cancer. PET, MR, and CECT scans use different methods to create images of areas inside the body. This trial is being done to see if PET/MR scans may help doctors locate ovarian cancer tumors, predict how well these tumors may be removed during surgery, and predict how patients respond to platinum-based chemotherapies compared to standard of care CECT scans.
Malignant Ovarian Neoplasm|Ovarian Carcinoma
RADIATION: Dynamic Enhanced CT|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Lesion detection accuracy, Lesion detection accuracy will be summarized using frequencies and percentages by modality. McNemar's test will be used to compare accuracies between positron emission tomography (PET)/magnetic resonance (MR) and contrast enhanced computerized tomography (CECT). Other diagnostic metrics (sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value) will be estimated along with 95% confidence intervals. Logistic regression model will be used to assess effect of patient and tumor characteristics on diagnostic accuracy., Up to 3 years
Diagnostic accuracy by location, Will be analyzed using linear regression or generalized linear regression models where applicable., Up to 3 years|Response status, Will be analyzed using linear regression or generalized linear regression models where applicable., Up to 3 years|Imaging and genomic data analysis, Correlation between imaging and genomic data will be analyzed using linear regression or generalized linear regression models where applicable., Up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare PET/MR and contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) to determine the accuracy in patients with advanced-stage serous ovarian cancer or highly suspected ovarian cancer using diagnostic laparoscopy as the gold standard with respect to lesion detection.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES (EXPLORATORY):

I. Correlating imaging findings such as enhancement pattern, apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) values, standardized uptake value (SUV) values, and advanced image analytics such as texture with pathology and genomic analysis for those lesions evaluated as a discovery arm.

II. Assess whether MR (multiparametric and functional) and PET findings predict response to platinum based chemotherapy.

III. To compare PET/MR and contrast enhanced CT to predict tumor negative (R0) resection using surgery as the gold standard.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergo standard of care CECT scan and PET-MRI scan over 90-120 minutes within 30 days before laparoscopy or cytoreduction. Patients who do not undergo cytoreduction based on diagnostic laparoscopy undergo additional PET-MRI and standard of care CECT scans after completion of chemotherapy and before cytoreduction.