Clinical and Molecular Study With Digital Support of Patients With Inoperable Lung Cancer
The purpose of this study is to provide high quality oncology services to patients with inoperable Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) in Greece. These services will be based on 3 pillars:

1. Clinical: personalized treatment will be administered and its effectiveness and safety will be recorded and evaluated.
2. Molecular: the gene footprint of each patient at the beginning of his treatment, the molecular identity of his tumor will be analyzed and recorded based on analysis with modern Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) techniques.
3. Digital: Patients will have access to the digital platform where they will record the adverse reactions they will face during their treatment.
Non-Small Cell Carcinoma of Lung, TNM Stage 4
OTHER: Digital platform
Molecular identification of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, up to 36 months
Overall survival, up to 36 months|Data correlation, up to 36 months
Lung cancer is the primary cause of cancer death worldwide regardless of gender or age group. Based on the most recent statistics for our country, every year about 9000 new cases of lung cancer are diagnosed. Lung cancer is the most common type of cancer in Greece in both men and women. It is estimated that about 8000 people lose their lives annually from this disease, while the total number of deaths from lung cancer seems to exceed in number the sum of deaths due to breast, prostate and colorectal cancer.

For many decades chemotherapy was the cornerstone and the only treatment option for lung cancer. In the last 20 years, the discovery and study of various molecular subtypes in non-small cell lung cancer has led to the development of targeted therapies. Modern oncology has multiple targeted therapies for corresponding molecular subtypes, such as ROS-1 rearrangements, amplifications and mutations of the MET gene, RET rearrangements, mutations of the BRAF gene, NTRK gene fusions, HER2 gene mutations, as well as KRAS mutations.The detection of molecular pathways, targeted mutations and biomarkers is a critical step in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with non-small cell lung cancer, in both early and advanced stage.The use of NGS (Next Generation Sequencing) technology as modern tool for accessing genetic material is adopted by more and more clinicians worldwide. The molecular analysis of the tumor with the technique of NGS, is considered as a necessity in the practice of modern oncology in order the patients to receive the best treatments for their disease.

a) Clinical pillar: In this study will be included 200 patients, 18 years old and older, with PS 0-2, treated for inoperable NSCLC stage IV. Patient will be treated according to the local standard of care based on their medical history. b)After signing the Informed Consent patients will provide biological material (blood samples and Formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissues) in order to proceed with the molecular arm of the study and the extended NGS analysis. In addition to molecular analysis, an economic analysis of the use of health resources will follow for a detailed understanding of the relevant financial aggregates and the improvement of the performance of existing resources. c) On the digital arm each patient will have access in the digital platform of CAREACCROSS which allows continuous and remote access for both patient and their physician with absolute security and data privacy.

All patients will be included in the digital monitoring and information program from their mobile phone and will have contact the investigator and the study team.