Preemptive Treatment With XONRID to Reduce Radiation Induced Dermatitis in Head and Neck Cancer Patients
There is a strong need to study products with a preemptive role in radiation dermatitis development, with a trial design taking in account patient subjective evaluation and compliance.

XONRID is a promising device for radiation high grade dermatitis prevention; it is a topical gel that prevents and treats skin symptoms such as erythema, itching, burning sensation and pruritus, induced by radiotherapy or other causes.
Head and Neck Cancer
DEVICE: XONRID
Worst skin toxicity, Worst skin toxicity during treatment and until 2 weeks after according to CTCAE , as assessed independently by 2 physicians, 14 months
MeanPatient Reported Outcome (PRO), Mean and worst score (measured on a numeric 0-6 scale, where 0= absence of symptom and 6= worst intensity of symptom) of Patient Reported Outcome (PRO) with Skindex 16 questionnaire performed weekly until reaching a total dose of 50 Gy on neck, 14 months|Median time to G2 radiation dermatitis development, Median time to G2 radiation dermatitis development according to CTCAE, 14 months|Compliance, Compliance to experimental treatment assumption considering a complete cpmpliance from 0 to 2 applications skipped, a partial compiance from 3 to 10 applications skipped and an absent compliance from 11 to 14 applications skipped., 14 months|Grade of late toxicity, Grade of late toxicity (skin fibrosis according to CTCAE) at 6 month follow up visit after treatment ending, 14 months
The patients will be treated with XONRID + standard of care (SOC) preemptive treatment adopted during radiation treatment for head and neck cancer patients in the Institution.

Patients will be planned to receive Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy Techniques (IMRT or volumetric modulated radiotherapy, VMAT) with conventional fractionation at total dose of 50-66 GY in postoperative setting and 66-70 Gy in radical setting. Radiotherapy will be planned with simultaneous boost (SIB) approaches, using conventional fractionation (1.8-2.12 Gy/die). According to histology, stage and pathology reports, patients could receive concomitant platinum based chemotherapy.

The patients will be evaluated at baseline, at weekly intervals during RT and six months after treatment completion by 2 different treating physicians for each visit. The evaluation will consist of a physician-assessed toxicity assessment using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG), and patient-reported outcome measured using the Skindex-16 questionnaire.

In addition objective in vivo measurements of skin erythema and pigmentation based on reflectance spectrometry (RS) will be performed.

Measurements will be performed before RT, every 5 RT fractions (once a week) up to the end of RT and 6 months after RT completion (same timing as clinical evaluation). Instrumental RS measurement will be performed at five different fixed regions within the area treated with RT, in any cases only on flat skin regions of the neck in an area corresponding to the second node level and in absence of hair or nevus.