Intervention of CAR-T Against Cervical Cancer
The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of CAR T cells immunotherapy in patients who have GD2, PSMA, Muc1, Mesothelin or other markers positive cervical cancer. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the persistence and function of CAR T cells in the body.
Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Cervical cancer-specific CAR-T cells
Safety of CART cells in patients using CTCAE version 4.0 standard to evaluate the level of adverse events, Physiological parameter (measuring cytokine response), 3 months
Persistence and proliferation of CART cells in patients, The expansion and functional persistence of CART cells in the peripheral blood of patients will be measured by qPCR on Day 7, 14, 21, 28, 60 and 90 after infusion., 3 months|Anti-tumor effects, Objective response, such as complete response (CR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD), or progressive disease (PD) will be assessed by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria., 1 year
Cervical cancer is a cancer arising from the cervix. Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection causes more than 90% of cases. Other risk factors include smoking, a weak immune system, birth control pills, starting sex at a young age, and having many sexual partners, but these are less important. Worldwide, cervical cancer is both the fourth-most common cause of cancer and the fourth-most common cause of death from cancer in women. The treatment of cervical cancer consists of surgical intervention, radiation, chemotherapy and immunotherapy.

In this study, the participant's T-cells will be collected and modified. Then the modified T cells, called chimeric antigen receptor modified-T cells (CAR T) which can recognize specific molecules that are expressed on the surface of cervical cancer cells, are given back to the participant by intravenous infusion.

The purpose of this clinical trial is to assess the feasibility, safety and efficacy of CAR T cells immunotherapy in patients who have GD2, PSMA, Muc1, Mesothelin or other markers positive cervical cancer. Another goal of the study is to learn more about the persistence and function of CAR T cells in the body.