Phase II IMNN-001 (Also Known as GEN-1) on SLL With BEV and NACT, Newly Diagnosed Advanced Ovarian, Fallopian Tube or Primary Peritoneal Cancer
This is a 1:1 randomized, open label, multi-center phase I/II trial to evaluate the safety, dosing, efficacy, and biological activity of adding IMNN-001 to chemotherapy + BEV compared to chemotherapy + BEV alone.
Ovarian Cancer|Fallopian Tube Cancer|Primary Peritoneal Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Bevacizumab|DRUG: IMNN-001
Minimal Residual Disease, To determine if the addition of IMNN-001 reduces the rate of histologically documented MRD as determined by SLL in the experimental group (chemotherapy + BEV + IMNN-001) as compared to the control group (chemotherapy + BEV)., 8 months
PFS, Progression Free Survival comparison in experimental vs. control arm, 2 years|OS, Overall Survival comparison in experimental vs. control arm, 3 years
This is a 1:1 randomized, open label, multi-center phase I/II trial to evaluate the safety, dosing, efficacy, and biological activity of adding IMNN-001 to chemotherapy + BEV compared to chemotherapy + BEV alone. The chemotherapy (NACT \&amp; adjuvant) will be a standard regimen of carboplatin + paclitaxel administered every three weeks for a total of 7-9 cycles. The protocol requires at least 4 cycles of NACT and allows up to 2 additional cycles of neoadjuvant therapy at the Investigator's discretion based on response and other clinical considerations. ICS will take place 3-4 weeks from last dose of NACT. Following at least a 4-week recovery from ICS, 3 additional adjuvant cycles of study treatments will be administered. The minimum time interval between surgery and BEV administration will be 4 weeks for safety. BEV will be included at Cycles 2, 3, 6, and 7. BEV may be substituted by an FDA approved biosimilar. The experimental arm will add IMNN-001 weekly to each cycle of chemotherapy + BEV beginning with Cycle 1 Day 15 and continue weekly through the last cycle of adjuvant therapy.