Non Inferiority Study of Preoperative Chemotherapy Without Pelvic Irradiation for Rectal Cancer
This study is a non-inferiority phase III randomised trial comparing preoperative chemotherapy alone (modified FOLFIRINOX) to chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy in patients with primary resectable locally advanced rectal cancer. The primary endpoint of the study is 3-year progression free survival.

Expected 3 year PFS rate in the preoperative chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy arm is 75%. This hazard rate, in an exponential survival model, corresponds to a decrease in the 3-year PFS rate on the preoperative chemotherapy arm to 67%. The study will randomize 540 patients (270 in the chemotherapy group and 270 in the chemoradiotherapy group) in 42 french academic centers.
Rectal Cancer|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Chemotherapy|DRUG: Radiochemotherapy
Survival, 3-year progression-free survival, 3 years
Acute treatment toxicity, Acute and late treatment related toxicity: the rates of treatment related toxicity grade II or more, Up to 1 month after the end of preoperative treatment|Late toxicity related to treatment, Late treatment related toxicity: the rates of treatment related toxicity grade II or more, 3 years after surgery|Compliance to treatment, The rate of patients that receive full dose treatment, Up to 1 month after the end of preoperative treatment|Radiological response, Radiologic response on post-treatment MRI based on tumor size reduction and tumor regression grade (ymrTRG), 28±5 days after the end of preoperative treatment|The rate of R0 resection, Rate of complete resection with safe \> 1mm circumferential and longitudinal margin, 4 weeks after surgery|Quality of mesorectal excision: 3-grades Quirke scoring system, 3-grades Quirke scoring system of the quality of mesorectal excision, 4 weeks after surgery|Number of lymph nodes harvested, A count of number of lymph nodes harvested, 4 weeks after surgery|Size of circumferential margin, Mesurement of circumferential margin, 4 weeks after surgery|Size of longitudinal margin, Mesurement of longitudinal margin, 4 weeks after surgery|Sphincter saving surgery rate, The rate of surgery with intestinal continuity and anal sphincter preservation, 4 weeks after surgery|Postoperative morbidity, Postoperative morbidity: 30 day or in-hospital postoperative morbidity rates, 30 days after resection|Postoperative mortality, Postoperative mortality: 30 day or in-hospital postoperative mortality rates, 30 days after resection|Pathologic response after chemotherapy, Pathologic response on Rodel Tumor Regression Grade, 4 weeks after surgery|Pathologic response after chemoradiotherapy, Pathologic response after chemoradiotherapy: rate of major pathologic response base on Rodel Tumor Regression Grade, 4 weeks after surgery|Loco-regional recurrence free survival, Loco-regional recurrence free survival: 3-year locoregional recurrence free survival rates, At 3 years|Uncontrolled local recurrence, Uncontrolled local recurrence: 3-year uncontrolled local recurrence free survival rates, At 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival: 3 year overall survival rates, At 3 years|Overall survival, Overall survival: 5 year overall survival rates, At 5 years|EORTC QLQ-CR29, Assessed by the validated scales of quality of life for Colorectal Cancer Patients (QLQ-CR29) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 25 to 104 (104 is the worst quality of life), Diagnosis time|EORTC QLQ-CR29, Assessed by the validated scales of quality of life for Colorectal Cancer Patients (QLQ-CR29) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 25 to 104 (104 is the worst quality of life), 28±5 days after the end of preoperative treatment|EORTC QLQ-CR29, Assessed by the validated scales of quality of life for Colorectal Cancer Patients (QLQ-CR29) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 25 to 104 (104 is the worst quality of life), At 6 months after surgery|EORTC QLQ-CR29, Assessed by the validated scales of quality of life for Colorectal Cancer Patients (QLQ-CR29) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 25 to 104 (104 is the worst quality of life), 1 year after surgery|LARS Scores, Bowel function assessed by the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The score ranges from 0 to 42 (42 is the most severe LARS), Diagnosis time|LARS Scores, Bowel function assessed by the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The score ranges from 0 to 42 (42 is the most severe LARS), 28±5 days after the end of preoperative treatment|LARS Scores, Bowel function assessed by the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The score ranges from 0 to 42 (42 is the most severe LARS), 6 months after surgery|LARS Scores, Bowel function assessed by the Low Anterior Resection Syndrome (LARS) score. The score ranges from 0 to 42 (42 is the most severe LARS), 1 year after surgery|Quality of life - physical functioning: QLQ-C30, Health related physical functioning assessed by the validated scale for Cancer Patients (QLQ-C30) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 0 to 100 (100 is the worst physical functioning), At diagnosis|Quality of life - physical functioning: QLQ-C30, Health related physical functioning assessed by the validated scale for Cancer Patients (QLQ-C30) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 0 to 100 (100 is the worst physical functioning), 28±5 days after the end of preoperative treatment|Quality of life - physical functioning: QLQ-C30, Health related physical functioning assessed by the validated scale for Cancer Patients (QLQ-C30) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 0 to 100 (100 is the worst physical functioning), 6 months after surgery|Quality of life - physical functioning: QLQ-C30, Health related physical functioning assessed by the validated scale for Cancer Patients (QLQ-C30) of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). The scales ranges from 0 to 100 (100 is the worst physical functioning), 1 year after surgery
This study is a national, multicenter, open-label randomized, 2-arm phase III non-inferiority trial.

Patients with mid or low LARC (cT3N0 or cT1-T3N+ with CRM \> 2 mm on pretreatment MRI) will be randomized to two arms of treatment: one experimental arm with systemic FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy for 3 months and one control arm with systemic FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy for 3 months followed by conventional standardized radiochemotherapy (intensified-modulated radiotherapy 50Gy + capecitabine). The choice of FOLFIRINOX for preoperative chemotherapy is based on recent data regarding its safety and efficacy rectal cancer with or without metastatic disease. Since the annual world meeting of ASCO 2020, a new standard of treatment has been adopted using the combination of chemotherapy followed by radiochemotherapy that has been show to improve disease free survival in phase III controlled randomized trial (Conroy et al, J Clin Oncol 38: 2020 (suppl; abstr 4007).

All patients will have reassessment MRI after preoperative treatment and before surgery.

Objectives and study endpoints

- primary endpoint : 3-year progression-free survival (PFS) from the time to randomization. In this trial, a modified definition of PFS will be used for the primary endpoint. The rationale for using this modified definition of PFS is to better assess time to failure of the whole treatment strategy (preoperative treatment and surgery).

Progression will be assessed as follows:

* progression during preoperative treatment and before surgery: circumferential resection margin ≤ 2mm at MRI reeassessemnt and diagnosis of any new distant lesion whatever the site (liver, lung, peritoneum, adrenal) are considered as progression events.
* progression after surgery: recurrence/progression after surgery or death, whatever comes first.

  * Secondary endpoints: treatment related toxicity, treatment compliance, R0 resection rate, sphincter saving surgery rate, postoperative morbidity and mortality rates, loco-regional recurrence free survival, overall survival, bowel and sexual functions at diagnosis, quality of life, radiologic and pathologic response after preoperative treatment.

Statistical analysis A sample size of 518 patients, based on an expected accrual duration of 36 months, 60 months follow-up, and an expected 3 year PFS rate in the preoperative chemotherapy followed by chemoradiotherapy arm of 75%, is expected to provide 239 PFS events required to provide 80% power to declare non-inferiority of the preoperative chemotherapy arm when the true hazard ratio between arms is 1.0 (H1). This design has a global type one-error rate of 0.05 if the true hazard ratio between arms is 1.39 (H0). This hazard rate, in an exponential survival model, corresponds to a decrease in the 3-year PFS rate on the preoperative chemotherapy arm to 67%. By considering a rate of 4% for not informative or lost to follow-up patients the total number of patients to be included in this trial was 518\*100/96 = 540 patients.

Ancillary studies Pronostic value of circulating cancer cells before and after preoperative treatment and after surgery in patients undergoing surgery for rectal cancer after chemotherapy or radiochemotherapy will be evaluated. After assessment of prognostic value of each rate on survival, recurrence and response to treatment, evaluation of prognostic impact of variation of the rate during differents phases of treatment will be carried out.