Pazopanib in Treating Patients With Recurrent Glioblastoma
This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well pazopanib works in treating patients with recurrent glioblastoma. Pazopanib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor
Adult Giant Cell Glioblastoma|Adult Glioblastoma|Adult Gliosarcoma|Recurrent Adult Brain Tumor
DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
6 Months Progression-free Survival, Calculated from study registration till 6month time point. Progression defined by Macdonald criteria Progression imaging features: 25% of more increase in enhancing lesions; any new lesions clinical features: clinical deterioration, 6 months|Number of Participants Discontinuing Treatment Due to Toxicity, Use NCI Common toxicity Criteria Adverse Event Version 3.0 to grade toxicities. Any patient who received at least one dose of pazopanib was evaluable for toxicity. Calculated the number of participants who had an event that was related to pazopanib that caused the patient to stop treatment due to this event., 2 years
Most Common Toxicities Experienced After at Least One Dose of Pazopanib, NCI Common Toxicity Criteria (CTCAE) version 3.0. All patients that received at least one dose of pazopanib were evaluable. All events recorded that were related to drug were calculated per patient., Up to 2 years|Overall Radiographic Response (ORR) Rate, The Macdonald criteria, roughly similarly to other systems, divides response into 4 types of response based on imaging (MRI) and clinical features

1: complete response; 2: partial response; 3:stable disease; 4:progression

Complete response imaging features: disappearance of all enhancing disease (measurable and non-measurable) sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions clinical features; no corticosteroids; clinically stable or improved

Partial response imaging features: 50% or more decrease of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks: no new lesions clinical features: stable or reduced corticosteroids; clinically stable or improved

Stable disease imaging features: does not qualify for complete response, partial response or progression clinical features: clinically stable

Progression imaging features: 25% of more increase in enhancing lesions; any new lesions clinical features: clinical deterioration, 2 years|Best Radiographic Response, Using the Macdonald criteria, the best MRI image response while the patient was on active treatment.

1: complete response; 2: partial response; 3:stable disease; 4:progression

Complete response imaging features: disappearance of all enhancing disease (measurable and non-measurable) sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions clinical features; no corticosteroids; clinically stable or improved

Partial response imaging features: 50% or more decrease of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks: no new lesions clinical features: stable or reduced corticosteroids; clinically stable or improved

Stable disease imaging features: does not qualify for complete response, partial response or progression clinical features: clinically stable

Progression imaging features: 25% of more increase in enhancing lesions; any new lesions clinical features: clinical deterioration, 3 years|Overall Survival, calculated from study registration until date of death or patient censored at the last date known alive, From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 2 years|Time to Progression or Progression Free Survival, PFS for patients who died on treatment or within 30 days of the end of treatment w/out progression date, was date of death. All other pts without documented progression were censored at the date of last follow-up prior to start new treatment.

All 35 patients were included in an intent to treat analysis for PFS and OS. 3 pts censored for PFS, all less than 2 wks after study registration., 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the therapeutic efficacy of pazopanib hydrochloride, as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS), in patients with recurrent glioblastoma.

II. Determine the safety profile of this drug in these patients.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the efficacy of this drug, as measured by radiographic response, time to progression, and overall survival, in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride daily on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 2 years.