Ebastine in Combination With Docetaxel as a Treatment for Castration-resistant Metastatic Prostate Cancer
This is an open-label phase I/II study evaluating the addition of ebastine to docetaxel in the treatment for metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer.

Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 fashion to receive ebastine daily during and after treatment with a maximum of 10 courses of docetaxel.

The primary endpoint is change in the profile of urinary and blood lipids to indicate absorption and possible efficacy of ebastine.

Secondary endpoints include PSA response and radiologic progression free survival.
Metastatic Castration-resistant Prostate Cancer
DRUG: Docetaxel + Ebastine|DRUG: Docetaxel
Changes in the profile and concentration of urinary lipids and blood lipids, Measurement of lipid species concentration, focusing on Bis(monoacylglycero)phosphate and lysophospholipids in urine and blood, before, during, and after treatment, compared to PSA levels, radiologic response, and control group results., Blood+urine samples are collected at baseline, at evaluation scans (after 4th and 7th cycles), and at the end of treatment (after 10 Docetaxel cycles, upon progression before 10 cycles, or at study discontinuation). Each cycle is 21 days.
radiologic progression-free survival, Radiologic progression-free survival is defined as ≥ two new lesions on an 8-week bone scan plus two additional lesions on a confirmatory scan, ≥ two new confirmed lesions on any scan ≥ 9 weeks after enrolment, and/or progression in nodes or viscera on cross-sectional imaging as defined by RECIST 1.1 (see below), or death., By comparing with a baseline scan, the treatment effect and disease status will be evaluated with a scan after the 4th and 7th cycles, at end of treatment undtil study completion. Each cycle is 21 days. A patient will receive a maximum of 10 cycles.|PSA response, Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) Response criteria according to Prostate Cancer Working Group (PCWG3) 3rd edition, PSA response will be monitored during treatment, compared to radiologic response after the 4th and 7th cycles, and at treatment completion (maximum 10 cycles/progression/discontinuation). Each cycle lasts 21 days
The complete study protocol can be studied by contacting the authors.