Autologous T-Cells Expressing a Second Generation CAR for Treatment of T-Cell Malignancies Expressing CD5 Antigen
Patients eligible for this study have a type of blood cancer called T-cell leukemia or lymphoma (lymph gland cancer).

The body has different ways of fighting infection and disease. No one way seems perfect for fighting cancers. This research combines two different ways of fighting disease, antibodies and T cells. Antibodies are proteins that protect the body from bacterial and other diseases. T cells, or T lymphocytes, are special infection-fighting blood cells that can kill other cells including tumor cells. Both antibodies and T cells have shown promise treating patients with cancers, but have not been strong enough to cure most patients.

T lymphocytes can kill tumor cells but there normally are not enough of them. Some researchers have taken T cells from a person's blood, grown more in the lab then given them back to the person. In some patients who've had recent bone marrow or stem cell transplant, the number of T cells in their blood may not be enough to grow in the lab. In this case, T cells may be collected from their previous transplant donor, who has a similar tissue type.

The antibody used in this study, called anti-CD5, first came from mice that have developed immunity to human leukemia. This antibody sticks to T-cell leukemia or lymphoma cells because of a substance on the outside of these cells called CD5. CD5 antibodies have been used to treat people with T-cell leukemia and lymphoma. For this study, anti-CD5 has been changed so that instead of floating free in the blood it is now joined to the T cells. When an antibody is joined to a T cell in this way it is called a chimeric receptor. In the lab, investigators have also found that T cells work better if stimulating proteins, such as one called CD28, are also added. Adding the CD28 makes the cells grow better and last longer in the body, giving them a better chance of killing the leukemia or lymphoma cells.

In this study investigators will attach the CD5 chimeric receptor with CD28 added to it to the patient's T cells or the previous bone marrow transplant donor's T cells. The investigators will then test how long the cells last. The decision to use the bone marrow transplant donor's T cells instead of the patient's will be based on 1) whether there is an available and willing donor and 2) the likelihood of the patient's T cells being able to grow in the lab. These CD5 chimeric receptor T cells with CD28 are investigational products not approved by the FDA.
T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Lymphoma|T-non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|T-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
GENETIC: Autologous CD5.CAR/28zeta CAR T cells|GENETIC: Allogeneic CD5.CAR/28zeta CAR T cells
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT) rate, Defined as the proportion of subjects in each group with DLT evaluated as per the CTCAE 4.0 with the exception of Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) and neurological toxicities that are related to T cell infusions., 6 weeks post-infusion
Overall Response Rate, Overall response rate is calculated as the proportion of subjects with the best overall response according to a revised response criteria for malignant lymphoma or bone marrow analyses for leukemia. Evaluations of tumor size will be performed within 4 weeks of beginning treatment and 6-8 weeks after T cell infusion (earlier if clinically indicated)., 4 weeks pre-infusion and 6 weeks post-infusion
To make the T cells the investigators will take blood from the patient or from the previous bone marrow transplant donor and stimulate it with growth factors to make the T cells grow. To get the CD5 antibody and CD28 to attach to the surface of the T cell, investigators insert the antibody gene into the T cell. This is done with a virus called a retrovirus that has been made for this study and will carry the antibody gene into the T cell. This virus also helps investigators find the T cells in the patient's blood after they are injected. Because the patient will have received cells with a new gene in them the patient will be followed for a total of 15 years to see if there are any long term side effects of gene transfer.

When the patient is enrolled on this study, they will be assigned a dose of CD5 chimeric receptor-T cells Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to proliferate (grow) and accomplish their functions and that this may not happen if there are too many other T cells in circulation. Because of that, the patient will receive two chemotherapy medications prior to receiving the CD5 chimeric receptor-T cells.

One medication is called cyclophosphamide and the other fludarabine. The patient will receive 3 daily doses of each drug, ending at least one day before the patient receives the chimeric receptor-T cells. These drugs will decrease the numbers of the patient's own T cells before the CD5 chimeric receptor T cells are infused and also will help decrease the number of other cells that may interfere with the chimeric receptor-T cells working well. These drugs are part of many regimens that are used to treat leukemia or lymphoma and not expected to have any effect on the patient's tumor with the doses given.

A potential side effect of receiving the chemotherapy as well as receiving CD5.CD28 Chimeric Receptor T cells is that it can cause development an Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) infection which can cause illness or formation of a growth or tumor. This side effect can be life threatening or fatal. To decrease this risk, following the chemotherapy but before administration of the CD5.CD28 Chimeric Receptor T cells, a dose of Rituximab (or a similar drug) will be given. Rituximab is an IV medication that is approved by the Food and Drug Administration to treat elevated levels of EBV in the body.

The patient will be given an injection of CD5.CD28 Chimeric Receptor T cells into the vein through an IV at the assigned dose. The injection will take from 1 to 10 minutes. Before the patient receives the injection, they may be given a dose of Benadryl and Tylenol. The treatment will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Texas Children's Hospital or Houston Methodist Hospital.

The patient will be followed in the clinic after the injection for up to 3 hours, and the patient will have to remain locally for a minimum of 6 weeks after the infusion. If there is evidence of EBV reactivation, the patient must remain locally for 8 weeks. During this initial phase patients will come to the clinic at least twice a week. Patients will be monitored closely for any side effects including signs of viral infection, or overgrowth of virus-infected cells that can behave like a tumor and require specific treatment. These side effects may require hospitalization for evaluation and management.

If after a 4-6 week evaluation period after the infusion, the patient has achieved a complete response (measured by bone marrow or radiology scans), the patient's primary oncology doctors may decide the patient should proceed to bone marrow transplant, at which time the patient will be removed from the treatment portion of the study.

Before being treated, the patient will receive a series of standard medical tests:

Physical exam and History; Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function; Pregnancy test for female patients who are of child bearing potential; Measurements of the patient's tumor by scans and/or bone marrow studies

The patient will also receive standard medical tests during treatment and after:

Physical exams and History; Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function; Blood tests to check for any evidence of viral infection

Graft versus Host Disease assessments:

Measurements of the patient's tumor by scans and/or bone marrow studies 6-8 weeks after the infusion and then per standard of care.

To learn more about the way the CD5 chimeric receptor-T cells are working and how long they last in the body, extra blood will be drawn. The total amount on any day is about 10 teaspoons (50 mL) or no more than 3 mL per 2.2 pounds body weight in children. This volume is considered safe but may be decreased if the patient is anemic. This blood may be drawn from a central line if the patient has one. Blood will be taken before the chemotherapy drugs, several hours after the T cell infusion, at 1 week, 2 weeks, 3 weeks (optional), 4 weeks, 6 weeks and 8 weeks (optional) after the infusion, at 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, at 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, then yearly for a total of 15 years. We will also test blood to check for signs of viral infection at the following time points: within 1 to 2 weeks prior to chemotherapy drugs, prior to T cell infusion, then at weeks 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8 for all patients, and months 3, 6, 9, 12 for patients who do not proceed to bone marrow transplant. The total blood drawn during participation in this study will not exceed 280 teaspoons.

Once the dose escalation portion of the study is completed, the trial will be expanded and treat up to an additional 6 patients (2 cohorts) at the MTD in each group to gather additional safety data and preliminary efficacy data.