Continuous Infusion Chemotherapy (CI-CLAM) for the Treatment of Relapsed or Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Other High-Grade Myeloid Neoplasms
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of a chemotherapy regimen given by continuous intravenous infusion (CI-CLAM), and to see how well it works in treating patients with acute myeloid leukemia that has come back (relapsed) or does not respond to treatment (refractory) or other high-grade myeloid neoplasms. Drugs used in CI-CLAM include cladribine, cytarabine and mitoxantrone, and work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Continuous intravenous infusion involves giving drugs over a time duration of equal to or more than 24 hours. Giving CLAM via continuous infusion may result in fewer side effects and have similar effectiveness when compared to giving CLAM over the shorter standard amount of time.
Myeloid Neoplasm|Recurrent Acute Myeloid Leukemia|Refractory Acute Myeloid Leukemia
DRUG: Cladribine|DRUG: Cytarabine|BIOLOGICAL: Recombinant Granulocyte Colony-Stimulating Factor|DRUG: Mitoxantrone
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Will use the Bayesian Optimal Interval ("BOIN") design to select the MTDs for continuous infusion G-CSF, cladribine, cytarabine and mitoxantrone (CI GCLAM)., Up to 35 days from start of treatment (or 28 days only if a patient presents with an absolute blast count (white blood count x percent blasts) > 50,000 or one that is doubling every 3 days and is > 25,000)
Treatment responses, Will assess treatment responses (e.g. complete response \[CR\] +/- minimal residual disease \[MRD\] , incomplete CR, morphologic leukemia free state, partial response, resistant disease)., Up to 5 years post treatment|Incidence of adverse events, Will use the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 for toxicity and adverse event reporting., Up to 5 years post treatment
OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive CI-CLAM consisting of cladribine and cytarabine via continuous intravenous infusion (CIV) on days 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 1-5, or 1-6 depending on dose level assignment, and mitoxantrone via CIV on days 1-2 or 1-3 depending on dose level assignment. G-CSF may be added at the discretion of the treating physician, as per standard of care. Patients that do not achieve a response of minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative complete remission (CR) after the first cycle are eligible to receive a second cycle of CI-CLAM. Treatment continues for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically for up to 5 years.