Panitumumab, Paclitaxel, Carboplatin and 5FU in the Treatment of Potentially Resectable Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma
This is an open-label, Phase II, single-stage study evaluating the use of panitumumab, paclitaxel, carboplatin and 5FU as an induction regimen in subjects with gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The expectation is that this combination will both increase potential overall survival by incorporating novel biologic therapy in the neoadjuvant setting and decrease potential surgical mortality by eliminating pre-operative radiation therapy.
Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma|Adenocarcinoma of the Distal Esophagus|Adenocarcinomas of the Gastroesophageal Junction|Adenocarcinoma of the Proximal Stomach
DRUG: Panitumumab|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: 5FU
Response Rate, The primary endpoint is overall response rate (ORR) as determined per RECIST guidelines version 1.1 from baseline and restaging scans conducted between Days 36 to 43. Response is defined as the occurrence of either Complete Response (CR) or Partial Response (PR) as best response. CR is defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. A PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of the target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From the start of study treatment until restaging evaluation performed between days 36 to 43
Pathologic Response Rate, The patient will be scored as having had a pathologic complete response (pCR) if the routine histologic examination of the resected specimen shows no residual invasive cancer by standard hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E) examination., At time of surgery (between days 50 to 64)|Resection Rate of Surgery, The patient will be scored as having an R0 resection, if no invasive cancer is detected involving the margins of the resection by routine microscopic hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E)examination, and the operative report indicates complete resection with no residual disease.

The patient will be scored as having an R1 resection, if invasive cancer is detected involving the margins of resection by routine microscopic hematoxylin and eosin (H\&E) examination, and the operative report indicates complete resection with no residual disease.

The patient will be scored as having an R2 resection, if the operative report indicates incomplete resection or gross residual disease., At time of surgery (between days 50 to 64)|Thirty-day Surgical Mortality, All subjects who have undergone surgical resection will be followed for a 30-day postoperative safety evaluation. Death from any cause within 30 days of the date of surgery will be considered a surgical mortality death., From date of surgery to 30 days after date of surgery|Survival, 2-year survival from first dose of panitumumab
This is an open-label, Phase II, single-stage study evaluating the use of panitumumab, paclitaxel, carboplatin and 5FU as an induction regimen in subjects with gastroesophageal adenocarcinoma. The expectation is that this combination will both increase potential overall survival by incorporating novel biologic therapy in the neoadjuvant setting and decrease potential surgical mortality by eliminating pre-operative radiation therapy.