Somatic Mosaicism in Twins Discordant for Childhood Cancer
Somatic mosaicism in cancer associated genes is one potential explanation for discordance in childhood cancer that has not been fully explored to date. This pilot study will focus on twins with central nervous system (CNS) tumors who are identified through the Children's Oncology Group's Project: EveryChild (PEC) registry or volunteer.
Pediatric Central Nervous System Tumor|Central Nervous System Tumor|Discordant Twin|Somatic Mutation
OTHER: Biospecimen collection|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Compare the prevalence of somatic mosaicism in classic cancer-associated genes in monozygotic (MZ) twins discordant for childhood brain tumors., Sequence blood and saliva DNA samples from 25 MZ twin pairs using a panel of 94 known cancer associated genes., Up to 18 months
Compare the profile of mutations detected in DNA extracted from pre- and post-treatment blood samples from a subset of CNS tumor patients., Determine the frequency of somatic mosaicism in twins discordant for CNS tumors. Will use an exact test of proportions to determine whether the affected twin is more likely to have a mosaic mutation. The comparison of pre-treatment and post-treatment samples in the CNS tumor cases will include a descriptive comparison of the mutations identified in each sample, Up to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To conduct a descriptive study of same sex twins (MZ and DZ) discordant for childhood CNS tumors identified through the Children's Oncology Group Project:EveryChild registry.

II. To compare the prevalence of somatic mosaicism in classic cancer-associated genes in monozygotic (MZ) twins discordant for childhood brain tumors. In our pilot study, we will sequence blood and saliva DNA samples from 25 MZ twin pairs using a panel of 94 known cancer associated genes.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare the profile of mutations detected in DNA extracted from pre- and post-treatment blood samples from a subset of CNS tumor patients. The purpose of this aim is to ensure that differences in somatic mosaicism detected in twin pairs are not caused by cancer therapy.

Outline:

Twins with CNS tumors will undergo blood and saliva DNA samples with the goal is to learn more about genetic differences that may lead to CNS tumor development.