Understanding What Matters Most to Patients: Establishing the Validity of a Best-Worst Scaling Survey
This study will evaluate the validity of using a survey to quantify patient preferences at the point-of-care and the potential effectiveness of the survey to improve goal-concordant care. The primary hypothesis is that by identifying the strength of patient preferences for outcomes with this survey clinicians will be able to improve goal-concordant care by aligning clinical recommendations with patients' preferences. This study will have 50 patients with newly diagnosed hematologic malignancy complete the survey throughout their disease course (up to 2 years) and conduct qualitative interviews with a subset (n = 20) of participants. The information obtained from these participants will be used to refine the survey. Interviews with oncologists and palliative care specialists (up to 10) will inform implementation.
Hematologic Neoplasms
OTHER: Assessment Surveys|OTHER: Qualitative Interviews
Content Validity of Best-Worst Scaling (BWS) Survey, Cognitive interviewing will be used to evaluate the content validity of using a BWS survey to quantify the preferences of older patients with hematologic malignancies at the point-of-care. BWS survey asks patients a series of questions where they choose one attribute as best and one as worst - the 7 included in this survey are maintaining usual activities, living longer, avoiding dependence on others, avoiding short-term side effects, avoiding long-term side effects, avoiding hospitalizations, and avoiding high out-of-pocket costs., 3 months after treatment decision
Acceptability of Best-Worst Scaling (BWS) Survey to Patients, Number of patients who respond with agree/strongly agree to "I found survey acceptable to clarify my preferences", Up to 7 days after treatment decision|Preliminary Efficiency of Best-Worst Scaling (BWS) Survey, Number of patients who respond moderately effective/very affective to "how effective was the survey to help you and your doctor choose a treatment that was consistent with your goals?", Up to 7 days after treatment decision|Completion Rate Over Time, The completion rate over time will be reported by the number of patients who complete the BWS survey at each time point, in 3 months intervals., Up to 1 year
This study will evaluate the validity of using a survey to quantify patient preferences at the point-of-care and the potential effectiveness of the survey to improve goal-concordant care. The primary hypothesis is that by identifying the strength of patient preferences for outcomes with this survey clinicians will be able to improve goal-concordant care by aligning clinical recommendations with patients' preferences. This study will have 50 patients with newly diagnosed hematologic malignancy complete the survey throughout their disease course (up to 2 years) and conduct qualitative interviews with a subset (n = 20) of participants. The information obtained from these participants will be used to refine the survey. Interviews with oncologists and palliative care specialists (up to 10) will inform implementation.