Endostar Combined With Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy for Locoregionally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
A total of 300 patients with pathologically confirmed Locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma were enrolled. Patients were randomly divided into two groups, with 150 patients in each group. One group was treated with Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar and the other group was treated with Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy. The short term efficacy and the toxic and side effects of these treatments were evaluated. The 1-year, 3-year, 5-year overall survival and progression-free survival of patients were analyzed. The investigators data may provide an alternative option for the treatment of Locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma with high efficacy and low toxicity.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Endostar|DRUG: DDP
3-year Progression Free Survival, The subjects were randomly divided into two groups. Group A: concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar，including 3 cycles of intravenous infusion, and 2 cycles of maintenance therapy after radiotherapy，and Group B: concurrent chemoradiotherapy, concurrent chemotherapy for 2 or 3 cycles. After treatment, the subjects go into observation period. MRI will be used for evaluating the carcinoma status. During 3 years, any relapse or death will be recorded., 3 years
5-year Overall Survival, The subjects were randomly divided into two groups. Group A: concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar，including 3 cycles of intravenous infusion, and 2 cycles of maintenance therapy after radiotherapy，and Group B: concurrent chemoradiotherapy, concurrent chemotherapy for 2 or 3 cycles. After treatment, the subjects go to observation period for 5 years., 5 years
This study was a multicenter, prospective, randomized controlled clinical trial. A set of unified standards were used, including the clinical research program, inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria, chemoradiotherapy regimen and evaluation criteria. Five medical centers participated in this study and 300 patients with pathologically confirmed Locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma were enrolled. These patients were stratified according to clinical stage and participating center, and were randomly divided into two groups: concurrent chemoradiotherapy combined with Endostar group ( IMRT 70-74Gy, Endostar 7.5mg / m2, 3 cycles of intravenous infusion, and 2 cycles of maintenance therapy after radiotherapy) and concurrent chemoradiotherapy group ( IMRT 70-74Gy, DDP 100mg / m2, intravenous infusion over 2 hours , for 2-3 cycles). After treatment, follow-up was performed every 3 months. The treatment toxicity, local control rate, distant metastasis-free survival, overall survival, progression-free survival were observed and assessed.