Evaluation of Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) in Patients Who Speak Two Languages Fluently
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive test used to detect changes in brain activity by taking picture of changes in blood flow. The imaging helps doctors better understand how the brain works. Task based fMRI (TB fMRI) prompts patients to perform different activities (e.g. word selection in a reading task), and is routinely performed on patients in preparation for a Neurological surgery (surgery that involves the nervous system, brain and/or spinal cord). The purpose is to locate areas of the brain that control speech and movement; these images will help make decisions about patient surgeries. However, there are however gaps in knowledge specific to the language areas of the brain, especially for non-English patients and bilingual patients (those who are fluent in more than one language). This study proposes to evaluate if resting state fMRI (RS fMRI) that does not require any tasks, along with a novel way to analyze these images using "graphy theory," may provide more information. Graph theory is a new mathematical method to analyze the fMRI data. The overall goal is to determine if graph theory analysis on RS fMRI may reduce differences in health care treatment and outcomes for non-English speaking and bilingual patients. We hope that the results of this study will allow doctors to perform pre-operative fMRI in patients who do not speak English.
Glioma|Glioma of Brain|Glioma of Spinal Cord
BEHAVIORAL: Multilingual Aphasia Examination|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Language paradigms + RS fMRI|DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Language paradigms + RS fMRI + one anatomical sequence
Comparison of RS fMRI and overall TB fMRI, Through study completion, an average of 1 day
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a non-invasive test used to detect changes in brain activity by taking picture of changes in blood flow. The imaging helps doctors better understand how the brain works. Task based fMRI (TB fMRI) prompts patients to perform different activities (e.g. word selection in a reading task), and is routinely performed on patients in preparation for a Neurological surgery (surgery that involves the nervous system, brain and/or spinal cord). The purpose is to locate areas of the brain that control speech and movement; these images will help make decisions about patient surgeries. However, there are however gaps in knowledge specific to the language areas of the brain, especially for non-English patients and bilingual patients (those who are fluent in more than one language). This study proposes to evaluate if resting state fMRI (RS fMRI) that does not require any tasks, along with a novel way to analyze these images using "graphy theory," may provide more information. Graph theory is a new mathematical method to analyze the fMRI data. The overall goal is to determine if graph theory analysis on RS fMRI may reduce differences in health care treatment and outcomes for non-English speaking and bilingual patients. We hope that the results of this study will allow doctors to perform pre-operative fMRI in patients who do not speak English.