Lapatinib and Ixabepilone in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
RATIONALE: Lapatinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as ixabepilone, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving lapatinib together with ixabepilone may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of lapatinib given together with ixabepilone in treating patients with advanced solid tumors.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: ixabepilone|DRUG: lapatinib ditosylate
Safety and Toxicity, Assessed by NCI CTCAE v 3.0, Toxicity will be assessed at the beginning of every cycle and on day 8 and 15 of every cycle for at least eight weeks (2 cycles). Maximum of 6 cycles.
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), One cycle (4 weeks)|Preliminary efficacy, One year
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To evaluate the safety and feasibility of lapatinib ditosylate in combination with ixabepilone in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Secondary

* To determine the maximum-tolerated dose of this regimen in these patients.
* To assess, preliminarily, the efficacy of this regimen in these patients.
* To perform laboratory correlative studies on tissue and blood specimens from these patients to investigate potential predictors of response.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study.

Patients receive oral lapatinib ditosylate once daily on days 1-28 and ixabepilone IV on days 1, 8, and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Archival tumor tissue samples are collected for EGFR/HER2 pathway analyses via immunohistochemistry, mRNA analysis via RT-PCR, EGFR mutation analyses, Kras and braf mutation analysis via sequencing, and RAS mutations via PCR and sequencing. Blood samples are also collected periodically for tumor DNA and proteomics, acetylated alpha-tubulin analysis, EGFR-HER2 pathway genotypes, and pharmacogenomics.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for 30 days.