Intensity-modulated Radiotherapy With or Without Concurrent Chemotherapy for Stage II Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
A prior phase III randomized trial showed considerable survival benefit from the combined treatment of cisplatin-based concurrent chemotherapy and two-dimensional conventional radiotherapy (2DCRT) for patients with stage II (the Chinese 1992 staging system) nasopharyngeal carcinoma. However, since intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) was known to be superior to 2DCRT in local control, progression free survival and even overall survival, it is a pivotal question whether stage II \[T1N1M0 and T2N0-1M0, based on the 2010 International Union against Cancer/American Joint Committee on Cancer (UICC/AJCC) staging system\] patients can still obtain significant benefit from the additional concurrent chemotherapy in the IMRT era.

The investigators' retrospective study (PMID:26528755 ) indicated that low risk nasopharyngeal carcinoma (T1N1M0, T2N0-1M0 or T3N0M0, the 2010 UICC/AJCC staging system) patients who underwent IMRT could not benefit from cisplatin-based concurrent chemotherapy. Therefore, the investigators perform this randomized controlled trial to address this question, on a prudent assumption that IMRT alone was not inferior to IMRT plus concurrent chemotherapy in stage II patients.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Intensity-modulated radiotherapy
Overall survival, Two year
failure-free survival, two year|distant metastasis-free survival, two year|locoregional relapse-free survival, two year|Number of participants with treatment-related acute adverse events as assessed by CTCAE v4.0, two months|quality of life assessing by questionnaires, through study completion, an average of 5 year
Eligible patients are randomly assigned to receive intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) alone or IMRT plus concurrent chemotherapy. IMRT is given as 2.0-2.30 Gy per fraction with five daily fractions per week for 6-7 weeks to a total dose of 66 Gy or greater to the primary tumor. Concurrent chemotherapy consisted of cisplatin 100 mg/m² every 3 weeks for 3 cycles. The primary endpoint is overall survival (OS). Secondary end points include failure-free survival(FFS), locoregional relapse-free survival (LRFS), distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS), toxic effects and quality of life. All efficacy analyses are conducted in the intention-to-treat population, and the safety population include only patients who receive their randomly assigned treatment.