A Phase I/ II Study of Fragmented Autoantigen Stimulated T-cell-immunotherapy Combined with Radiotherapy (FAST-CR)
Evaluation and exploration of the phase I/II clinical safety and efficacy of personalized FAST(Radiation fueled antigens stimulated T-cell immunotherapy )cancer vaccine combined with radiotherapy.
Breast Cancer, Colorectal Cancer|Melanoma|Lung Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: individualized tumor FAST vaccine combination (including adjuvant)
safe, The primary endpoint of this study: The Phase I safety evaluation will involve a 3×3 dose escalation of the vaccine (based on a similar international clinical trial, NCT05366062, with low, medium, and high-dose groups, each group receiving 500,000, 1 million, and 2 million cancer cell fragments, respectively, with 3 participants per group). The safety profile will be summarized, including the incidence and severity of adverse events (Evaluation criteria: Treatment toxicity graded according to CTCAE 5, (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5). If the summary of Phase I toxicity shows no significant higher toxicity compared to existing immunotherapies, the study will proceed to the Phase II efficacy trial., one month
OS (Overall Survival), OS (Overall Survival) is defined as the time from the start of FAST treatment to death from any cause., 5 years|DFS (disease free survival), the period of time from the end of treatment or the initial diagnosis of the disease during which the patient shows no signs of disease recurrence, metastasis, or the appearance of new tumors. It is commonly used to assess the disease-free period following cancer treatment., 5 years
Tumor whole-cell vaccines, as one of the methods for tumor immunotherapy, have become a key focus of numerous preclinical studies. Among these, the latest approaches include cryopreserved silica-based vaccines/aged cell vaccines and genetically engineered vaccines. These vaccines induce immunogenic cell death in tumor cells, thereby reshaping the body's immune tolerance and promoting in-situ immunity (in-situ vaccination). They enhance the diversity of tumor-associated antigens in the draining lymph nodes, increase the recruitment of T cells, and promote tumor recognition and anti-tumor effects. At the same time, whole-cell vaccines retain all potential antigens of the tumor cells, and this integrity increases the likelihood of immune activation and recognition of distal tumors. Additionally, since the vaccine uses the patient's own tumor tissue, it reduces the risk of immune overactivation that might be caused by foreign components. Preclinical studies have found that in a surgical resection model of primary tumors in experimental animals, the FAST vaccine can significantly inhibit the recurrence and metastasis of tumor lesions, remodel the immune microenvironment of colonized organs, achieve systemic clearance of micro-metastases, suppress tumor recurrence and metastatic progression, and prolong the survival of the experimental animals. On the other hand, many advanced cancer patients in the clinic are not amenable to surgical resection, with a high tumor burden. Moreover, the immune response induced by the whole-cell autologous FAST vaccine requires a certain period to develop. Therefore, in our preclinical study, the investigators combined FAST vaccine administration with radiotherapy to control local tumors in experimental animals. The results showed that this approach significantly enhanced both innate and adaptive immunity, inhibited tumor progression and metastasis, and improved the survival rate of the experimental animals.

This study aims to recruit tumor patients who have undergone standard surgical treatment and those with advanced tumors who have failed standard treatment or experienced disease progression (after failure of third-line treatment),Using the patient's individualized tumor tissue, the investigators will prepare the FAST tumor cell vaccine and combine it with precision radiotherapy to conduct safety and efficacy studies on tumor patients who meet the inclusion criteria.