Intramuscular ACM-CpG Monotherapy in Patients With Advanced/Metastatic Solid Tumors With Prior Response to Immunotherapy Alone or in Combination With Chemotherapy
ACM-CpG is a CpG-B TLR9 agonist, which in animal models has led to shrinkage and complete disappearance of injected tumors, durable antitumor memory, and growth inhibitory effects on non-injected tumors while intramuscular administration led to durable control of tumors. This Phase I trial will assess the safety and early signs of efficacy of intramuscular injection of ACM-CpG in patients with advanced malignant solid tumors.

The overall objectives of this trial are to establish the safety ACM-CpG.
Advanced Solid Tumor|Metastatic Solid Tumor
DRUG: Intramuscular ACM-CpG Monotherapy (Escalation)|DRUG: Intramuscular ACM-CpG Monotherapy (Expansion)
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Highest dose level at which less than one-third of the patients in the dose level experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) during the first cycle of treatment., 28 days (1 cycle)|Recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D), To be determined based on the MTD or the totality of the safety and efficacy data if the MTD is not reached., Up to 2 years.|Safety of ACM-CpG Monotherapy, Incidence and severity of adverse events (AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), including changes in laboratory parameters., Up to 2 years.|Tolerability of ACM-CpG Monotherapy, In terms of dose interruptions, reductions and dose intensity., Up to 2 years.|Incidence of antibody development against PEG, Up to 2 years.|Correlations of antibody development against PEG with incidence of AEs, Up to 2 years.|Correlations of antibody development against PEG with severity of AEs, Up to 2 years.|Correlations of antibody development against PEG with objective response rate (ORR), Up to 2 years.|Objective response rate (ORR), Percentage of patients with best overall response of Complete Response or Partial Response, in accordance with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 and immune RECIST (iRECIST). Summarized by dose level., Up to 2 years.|Disease control rate (DCR), Percentage of patients with best overall response of Complete Response or Partial Response or Stable Disease, in accordance with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 and immune RECIST (iRECIST). Summarized by dose level., Up to 2 years.|Duration of response (DOR), The time from the earliest date of documented Complete Response or Partial Response, in accordance with Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 and immune RECIST (iRECIST), until documented disease progression or death (by any cause, in the absence of progression), among the subset of patients who achieve Complete Response or Partial Response. In progression-free patients, DOR will be censored at the time of the last evaluable tumor assessment following the earliest date of documented Complete Response or Partial Response., Up to 2 years.|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time from first study treatment until documented disease progression or death (by any cause, in the absence of progression). In progression-free patients, PFS will be censored at the time of the last evaluable tumor assessment (RECIST v1.1 and iRECIST)., Up to 2 years.|Overall survival (OS), The time from first study treatment to death due to any cause. Patients alive or lost to follow-up will be censored at the last date known to be alive., Up to 2 years.
This is a phase 1, open-label, dose escalation and expansion study of intramuscular ACM-CpG monotherapy in patients with advanced or metastatic solid tumours. Dose escalation will be conducted and the RP2D will be determined for ACM-CpG monotherapy for intramuscular routes of administration. The study will enroll patients who have received prior immunotherapy as standard of care treatment and have had demonstrable radiological responses.

Dose escalation for ACM-CpG monotherapy administered via intramuscular injection will similarly be conducted using traditional 3+3 dose escalation. Three dose levels have been planned. If the patient experiences a DLT or two Grade ≥ 2 drug-related toxicity, the dose level will be expanded according to a 3+3 design.

The safety and tolerability of each dose level will be assessed by the study team after all patients enrolled in the dose level have been followed for at least 21 days after the first dose of the ACM-CpG (DLT observation period). Once the MTD is reached, the RP2D will be determined. The RP2D will be defined based on the observation of MTD in a dose level cohort, to include dose levels below the MTD, or intermediate between the pre-specified dose levels based on an overall assessment of all safety data, as well as all available PK and pharmacodynamic data, and documented objective response observations. RP2D will be a pharmacologically active dose, declared based on an aggregate of multiple factors including PK data evaluating the safety margin based on CpG7909 plasma concentrations across a range of dosing levels compared to prior data (https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/17696823/) and clinical results.

Dose escalation and expansion will be performed in patients that have previously responded to immune checkpoint therapy alone or in combination with chemotherapy and who have already received standard of care treatment. Following the determination of the RP2D, dose expansion will be performed.

Approximately up to 30 to 40 patients will be enrolled on study.