Evaluation of the Therapeutic Approach of Aromatherapy by Olfaction of Essential Oils in Association With Hypnosis in the Management of Patients Followed for Cancer
Patients having the following gestures (blood test, change of dressing for cancerous lesion and complete toilet in bed) will be identified by the team of the medical oncology department.

During the first contact (V0), the study will be presented to the patients in order to obtain their consent. Anxiety and well-being will be assessed before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.1). The gesture will then be performed and the patient's comfort will be evaluated after the gesture is performed in order to obtain the starting data for the study.

Patients will be reviewed in consultation according to the time recommended for each type of gesture.

During the second contact V1 (between 1 and 9 days after D0) anxiety and well-being will be assessed before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.2). Patients will then be randomized. After randomization, the first hypnosis session will be performed at the same time as gesture No. 2 and the patient's comfort will be evaluated after the gesture is performed. The patient will receive the self-hypnosis training on the same day.

A period of 7 ± 2 days will be considered for the learning time of self-hypnosis.

The third contact will take place on day D7+/-2 after V1. During this visit, anxiety and well-being will be assessed before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.3). Gesture No.3 will be carried out under the effect of self-hypnosis ± aromatherapy and the measurement of comfort will be carried out immediately afterwards
Cancer
OTHER: hypnosis|OTHER: Hypnosis with aromatherapy
difference in comfort score between the two groups: The comfort score will be evaluated by the French version of the pain scale of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System, The comfort score will be evaluated by the French version of the pain scale of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment System. The severity of each symptom was rated from 0 to 10 (0 = no symptom, 10 = worst possible intensity, betwen the baseline and day 17
Include (V0):

Patients in whom the following procedures must be performed:

* Blood samples via a central catheter with a percutaneous implantable chamber, with a Huber needle
* Peripheral venous samples
* Tumor Lesion Dressing
* Complete toilet in bed will be identified by the team of the medical oncology department. During the first contact (V0), the study will be presented to the patients in order to obtain their consent. After signing the consent and before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.1), anxiety and well-being will be assessed by the verbal administration of the ESAS scale. The gesture will then be performed and the patient's comfort will be assessed using the ESAS scale after the gesture has been performed in order to obtain the data at the start of the study. An appointment for the V1 visit (between 1 and 9 days after D0) will be set for the next procedure.

First V1 hypnosis session (between 1 and 9 days after D0):

During the second contact at visit V1 (between 1 and 9 days after D0), anxiety and well-being will be assessed before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.2). Randomization will take place immediately before performing the procedure. After randomization, the first session of hypnosis +/- aromatherapy will be performed at the same time as gesture No. 2 and the patient's comfort will be evaluated after the gesture is performed. During this hypnosis session, the patient will receive self-hypnosis training according to the group they belong to (self-hypnosis vs self-hypnosis + aromatherapy). An appointment for the realization of the next gesture (gesture No.3) will be set for D7 (+/- 2 days after V1). This period of time (7±2 days) will be considered the learning time for self-hypnosis.

Second V2 hypnosis session (D7+-/ 2 days after V1):

The third contact V2 will take place at (D7+/- 2 days after V1). During this visit, anxiety and well-being will be assessed before performing the gesture causing discomfort (gesture No.3). Gesture No.3 will be carried out under the effect of self-hypnosis ± aromatherapy and the measurement of comfort will be carried out immediately afterwards.