Monoclonal Antibody and Vaccine Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage III or Stage IV Melanoma That Has Been Removed During Surgery
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies can locate tumor cells and either kill them or deliver tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Vaccines made from a person's cancer cells may make the body build an immune response to kill tumor cells.

PURPOSE: Phase I trial to study the effectiveness of combining monoclonal antibody therapy and vaccine therapy in treating patients who have stage III or stage IV melanoma that has been removed during surgery.
Intraocular Melanoma|Melanoma (Skin)
BIOLOGICAL: MART-1 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: gp100 antigen|BIOLOGICAL: incomplete Freund's adjuvant|BIOLOGICAL: ipilimumab|BIOLOGICAL: tyrosinase peptide|PROCEDURE: adjuvant therapy
OBJECTIVES:

* Determine the safety and adverse event profile of anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 monoclonal antibody combined with tyrosinase:368-376, gp100:209-217, and MART-1:26-35 peptides emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 in patients with resected stage III or IV melanoma.
* Determine if this regimen causes antigen-specific T-cell activation in these patients.
* Determine the clearance profile of this regimen in these patients.
* Assess the development of host immune response in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 monoclonal antibody (MDX-CTLA4).

Patients receive tyrosinase:368-376, gp100:209-217, and MART-1:26-35 peptides emulsified in Montanide ISA-51 subcutaneously followed by MDX-CTLA4 IV over 90 minutes at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 11 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of at least 6 patients receive escalating doses of MDX-CTLA4 until the maximum tolerated dose is determined.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then annually thereafter until disease progression.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 18 patients will be accrued for this study.