Effect of Stress Ball Use on Anxiety Level During Endometrial Biopsy Procedure
The aim of this study is to determine the effect of stress ball application on the anxiety level during the endometrial biopsy procedure.

This research is planned as a randomised controlled study. Place and time of the research: The research is planned with patients who will undergo endometrial biopsy procedure in Zonguldak Obstetrics and Gynecology Hospital affiliated to the Ministry of Health.

While there are various experimental studies in the literature on the effect of stress ball on anxiety during many painful procedures, there is no study in the literature on the effect of stress ball on anxiety level during endometrial biopsy procedure (Akarsu, Kuş \& Akarsu 2021, Genç 2021Nurdina, Anggraini \& Novyanda 2022, Srivarsan, Sridevi \& Preetha 2021, Yanks et al. 2018,) In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the effect of stress ball application on anxiety level during endometrial biopsy procedure
Biopsy Wound|Endometrial Hyperplasia|Endometrial Neoplasms
OTHER: stress ball|OTHER: control
"State and Trait Anxiety Scale", The state and trait anxiety scale consists of two parts and contains a total of 40 questions. The first 20 questions of the scale measure state anxiety, and the last 20 questions measure trait anxiety. The results of the state anxiety section of the scale will be used in this research. The State Anxiety Scale requires the individual to describe how he or she feels at a particular moment and under certain circumstances., before and after the biopsy procedure(1-2 minutes before and 1-2 minutes after biopsy procedure)|"Visual Analogue Scale (VAS)" ( min 0- max 10), It constitutes another parameter for measuring the stress level., before and after the biopsy (1-2 minutes before and 1-2 minutes after biopsy procedure)|blood pressure ( systolic and diastolic) mm/ hg, The aim is to determine the changes caused by stress on blood pressure before and after the procedure., before and after the biopsy (1-2 minutes before and 1-2 minutes after biopsy procedure)
Endometrial biopsy is a simple, inexpensive and effective method to rule out endometrial cancer.

Endometrial biopsy is the gold standard method in the diagnosis of endometrial pathologies and is widely used in gynaecological practice. Although endometrial biopsy is a common gynaecological procedure, its psychological effects have not been emphasised. In particular, the potential stress before and during the procedure, exposure to the test and the waiting time for the biopsy result have been mostly ignored. Patients with bleeding in the postmenopausal period already present to the physician with anxiety, and when it is stated that a biopsy should be taken for diagnosis, their anxiety increases due to both the procedure itself and the possibility of an unfavourable outcome at the end of the procedure.

While there are various experimental studies in the literature on the effect of stress ball on anxiety during many painful procedures, there is no study in the literature on the effect of stress ball on anxiety level during endometrial biopsy procedure .In this study, it was aimed to evaluate the effect of stress ball application on anxiety level during endometrial biopsy procedure.