A Study of Erlotinib in Participants With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutations
This single arm, open-label study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of erlotinib (Tarceva) in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.
Non-Squamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Percentage of Participants With Objective Response (Complete Response [CR]/Partial Response [PR]) Based on Computer Tomography (CT) or Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) Version (v) 1.1, Objective response (OR) was based on criteria related to changes in size of target lesions according to modified RECIST. Target lesions were selected on the basis of their size (lesions with the longest diameter) as well as the feasibility of reproducible repeated measurements. OR was the sum of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) four at least 4 weeks during treatment. CR: disappearance of all target lesions. PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of diameters., Baseline up to 5 years (assessed at Baseline, every 8 weeks until disease progression or death or end of treatment period [up to 5 years])
Progression Free Survival (PFS) Based on CT or MRI According to RECIST v 1.1, Kaplan Meier estimate of the median PFS was defined as the time at which half of the participants have progressed (progressive disease \[PD\]) based on RECIST tumor response criteria or died from any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. Patients who had not died or progressed at the time of the final analysis were censored at the date of last contact., Baseline up to 5 years (assessed at Baseline, every 8 weeks until disease progression or death or end of treatment period [up to 5 years])|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) was defined as the time between the date of randomization and the date of death due to any cause., Baseline up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants With Adverse Events, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events., Baseline up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR) Mutation in Study Population, Mutations in the EGFR included exon 19 deletion mutations and the single-point substitution mutation L858R in exon 21., Screening (21 days prior to Day 1)|Median Time Taken From the First Response Until Disease Progression Based on RECIST v 1.1 as Determined by the Investigator, The response duration was defined as the time of initial response (complete response (CR) /partial response (PR) whichever is first recorded) until documented disease progression. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. Partial response was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. Disease progression was defined as At least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study)., Baseline up to 5 years (assessed at Baseline, every 8 weeks until disease progression or death or end of treatment period [up to 5 years])
This single arm, open-label study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of erlotinib (Tarceva) in participants with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations.