Deciphering Antitumour Response and Resistance With INtratumour Heterogeneity
DARWIN II is a multi-arm non-randomised phase II trial, Eligible patient will be those who relapse with NSCLC (clinical trials.gov ref. NCT02183883). .

The trial will investigate assess if intra-tumour heterogeneity (clonal vs subclonal actionable mutation) is associated with PFS.

Patients without an actionable mutation will receive MPDL3280A (atezolizumab), a monoclonal antibody targeting anti-PDL1, as monotherapy or in combination with chemotherapy, The options for combination therapy will vary depending on the histology of the NSCLC (i.e. non-squamous or squamous).

Patients with BRAFV600 mutations, HER2 Amplification, ALK/RET gene rearrangements will be enrolled into arms treating with vemurafenib, trastuzumab emtansine and alectinib respectively.

DARWIN II will include extensive exploratory biomarker analysis to investigate a number of genomic and immune markers that may predict response to MPDL3280A (atezolizumab) and help guide future clinical trial design.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: MPDL3280A|DRUG: Vemurafenib|DRUG: Alectinib|DRUG: Trastuzumab emtansine
Progression free survival (PFS), Defined as the period between the date of registration to the date of subsequent progression or death (whichever occurs first), From date of registration until the date of first documented progression or death (whichever occurs first), assessed up to 84 months|Overall survival, Time to event outcomes, From date of registration until death date, assessed up to 84 months
Objective response rate, Investigator-assessed according to RECISTv1.1 and irRC (Arm 1 only), From date of registration until last CT scan, assessed up to 84 months|Progression, ime to event outcomes, From date registration until progression, , assessed up to 84 months|Duration of response, Period between first complete response or partial response until the first date recurrence or progressive disease, assessed up to 84 months, Period between first complete response or partial response until the first date recurrence or progressive disease, assessed up to 84 months|Toxicity - Dose reductions, interruptions, modifications and exposure, Dose reductions, interruptions, modifications and exposure, From date of regsitration until end of treatment, assessed up to 84 months|Exploratory assessments, Interrogation of recurrence and progression biopsies to decipher the molecular basis for resistance in combination with analyses of CTCs/cfDNA as well as CT imaging heterogeneity analyses, Assessed at end of trial, at approximately 84 months
DARWIN II is an exploratory phase II study examining the role of intra-tumour heterogeneity and predicted neo-antigens on the anti-tumour activity of anti-PDL1 immunotherapy.

It will examine how clonal dominance and intratumour heterogeneity influence outcomes after treatment, offering a unique opportunity to decipher mechanisms of resistance to immunotherapy with anti-PDL1. These data will help improve future study design by developing greater understanding of patient selection for immunotherapies in patients with NSCLC. The relationship between intratumour heterogeneity and cfDNA/CTCs will also be explored in DARWIN II, which may develop tools for patient selection and monitoring to be examined further in future studies. Results from DARWIN II will help to identify a biomarker for anti-PD-L1 therapy which could be used for patient stratification in future phase III trials of molecules targeting this T-cell inhibitory checkpoint. DARWIN II will also provide preliminary data on efficacy of MPDL3280A, which could be used to design randomised studies.

This is a multicentre non-randomised phase II study based on patients with relapsed NSCLC, who have provided a biopsy sample at the time of relapse.

The study arms:

* Arm 1: Patients without an actionable mutation - MPDL3280A (atezolizumab) monotherapy or in combination with chemptherapy
* Arm 2: BRAFV600 - vemurafenib
* Arm 3: ALK/RET gene rearrangement - alectinib
* Arm 4: HER2 Amplification - trastuzumab emtansine

Arms 2-4 are closed to further recruitment as of 25th May 2021.