Management of Tobacco Treatment Intervention in Reducing Surgical Complications in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Lung Cancer Who Smoke Cigarettes
This randomized phase III trial studies how well management of a tobacco treatment intervention works in reducing surgical complications in patients with newly diagnosed lung cancer who smoke cigarettes. Management of a tobacco treatment intervention compares varenicline (a drug that reduces the craving and withdrawal symptoms that occur with abstinence from nicotine) and behavioral interventions (consisting of a brief clinician-delivered intervention and tobacco quitline \[tobacco cessation service available through a toll-free telephone number\] follow-up) with placebo (a pill with no active medication) along with similar behavioral interventions. It is not yet known whether management of a tobacco treatment intervention is more effective in reducing surgical complications than placebo.
Lung Carcinoma
DRUG: Varenicline|DRUG: Placebo|OTHER: Tobacco Cessation Counseling
Mortality, Number of patients that died within 30 days of surgery, Up to 30 days post-surgery|Re-hospitalization, Number of patients re-hospitalized within 30 days of surgery, Up to 30 days post-surgery|Number of Paticipants With Incidence of Pulmonary Complications, Surgical complication incidence rates at 24 weeks after surgery will be compared between the intervention vs. control groups using a Fisher's exact test. Logistic regression models will supplement the univariate analysis, using complication incidence as the dependent variable and will include smoking status at the time of surgery as an independent variable and also adjust for age, gender, Fagerström Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND), time between randomization and surgery, and presence of adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. We will also explore the collinear relationship between arm and smoking status to see whether they can be included together in the logistic models., Up to 24 weeks post-surgery|Number of Participants With Incidence of Intensive Care Unit Readmission, Surgical complication incidence rates at 24 weeks after surgery will be compared between the intervention vs. control groups using a Fisher's exact test. Logistic regression models will supplement the univariate analysis, using complication incidence as the dependent variable and will include smoking status at the time of surgery as an independent variable and also adjust for age, gender, FTND, time between randomization and surgery, and presence of adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. A separate logistic model will be created including treatment arm instead of smoking status. We will also explore the collinear relationship between arm and smoking status to see whether they can be included together in the logistic models., Up to 24 weeks post-surgery|Number of Participants With Incidence of Unspecified Wound Infection, Surgical complication incidence rates at 24 weeks after surgery will be compared between the intervention vs. control groups using a Fisher's exact test. Logistic regression models will supplement the univariate analysis, using complication incidence as the dependent variable and will include smoking status at the time of surgery as an independent variable and also adjust for age, gender, FTND, time between randomization and surgery, and presence of adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. A separate logistic model will be created including treatment arm instead of smoking status. We will also explore the collinear relationship between arm and smoking status to see whether they can be included together in the logistic models., Up to 24 weeks post-surgery|Number of Participants With Incidence of Anastomotic Failure, Surgical complication incidence rates at 24 weeks after surgery will be compared between the intervention vs. control groups using a Fisher's exact test. Logistic regression models will supplement the univariate analysis, using complication incidence as the dependent variable and will include smoking status at the time of surgery as an independent variable and also adjust for age, gender, FTND, time between randomization and surgery, and presence of adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy. A separate logistic model will be created including treatment arm instead of smoking status. We will also explore the collinear relationship between arm and smoking status to see whether they can be included together in the logistic models., Up to 24 weeks post-surgery
Change in QOL as Measured by the LASA-12, PHQ-9, SEQ-12, Analysis of covariance and linear mixed model repeated measures analysis will be used for each assessment domain (LASA-12, PHQ-9, SEQ12)., Baseline up to 24 weeks after surgery|Change in QOL as Measured by Was It Worth It Assessments, At 12 weeks after surgery|Change in QOL as Measured by Was It Worth It Assessments, At 24 weeks after surgery|Length of Hospital Stay, Logrank testing of Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used for length of hospital stay and supplemented by Cox models to control for concomitant covariates., The time from surgery until the patient is released from the hospital|Length of High Dependency Unit Stay, Logrank testing of Kaplan-Meier estimates will be used for length of high dependency unit stay and supplemented by Cox models to control for concomitant covariates., The time from surgery until the patient is released from the hospital|Expanded Complication Rate, Up to 1 year|Treatment Adherence Rates Related to Visits, Medication Compliance, Quitline Usage, and Surgeon Teachable Moment Delivery, Up to 12 weeks|Smoking Abstinence Rates as Measured by Self-report, Up to 12 weeks|Smoking Abstinence Rates as Measured by Salivary Cotinine Testing, Up to 12 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if varenicline plus a behavioral intervention consisting of a brief clinician-delivered intervention and tobacco quitline follow-up, decreases postsurgical complications through 24 weeks after surgery when compared to placebo plus the behavioral intervention in lung cancer patients who undergo surgery and are motivated to stop smoking.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare changes from baseline to 12 and 24 weeks after surgery in the patient quality of life (Linear Analogue Self-Assessment \[LASA\]-12) domains between the intervention (varenicline) and control group (placebo).

II. To compare changes from baseline to 6, 12 and 24 weeks after surgery in the patient quality of life related domains (LASA) for the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ)-9 and Smoking Self Efficacy Questionnaire (SEQ)12 between the intervention and control groups.

III. To compare the proportion of patients 12 weeks and 24 weeks after surgery who endorse ("Was It Worth It") each treatment (intervention versus \[vs\] control groups).

IV. To compare post-operative care (as measured by length of hospital and high dependency unit stay) between the intervention and control groups.

V. To compare treatment adherence between the intervention and control groups. VI. To compare rates of smoking abstinence between the intervention and control groups as a covariate of the primary outcome only.