Safety and Efficacy of Inhaled Synthetic THC/CBD for Improving Physical Functioning and for Modulating Cachexia Progression in Patients With Advanced Cancer and Associated Cachexia
A large number of patients with advanced cancer also suffer from cachexia. Cachexia is a syndrome characterized by loss of skeletal muscle mass (with/or without loss of fat mass) that cannot be reversed by nutritional support and progressively leads to functional impairment. Patients who suffer from anorexia and cachexia have lower survival rates. Some patients with cancer use cannabis to improve the way they feel and relieve their pain. However, there is very sparse high-quality research to prove that cannabis products are truly effective. This study will investigate patients with advanced cancer who use inhaled therapeutic cannabinoid-based medication (PPP011), in addition to palliative care management, and will assess if these patients experience improvement in functional status as a surrogate endpoint for survivalquality
Cannabis Use|Cachexia; Cancer|Advanced Cancer
DRUG: PPP011|DRUG: Placebo
physical functioning related to advanced cancer will be measured using a patient self rating questionnaire., European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 15 Palliative (EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL). items are rated on a scale of 1 (not at all) to 4 (very much). high scores on a symptom scale correlate to increased symptom burden, Change from baseline in EORTC-QLQ-C15-PAL physical functioning in multi-item scales at week 4, 8 and 12 W4 W8 W12|Cachexia grade will be measured as per Weight Loss Grading System, Downgrading cachexia grade or grade maintenance will be considered as a drug benefit., Change from baseline at week 4, 8 and 12.
pain will be recorded: VAS, using a visual analogue scale. horizontal 0-100 mm VAS assessing pain, Observed and Change from baseline in a VAS on pain AND no increase in pain medications at week 4, 8 and, 12 and 24.|Patient nutritional and functional assessment will be meseared using a patient self rating questionnaire, Patient-generated-subjective global assessment (PG-SGA) where critical need for nutrition intervention is defined as having a score ≥ 9 The higher the score the greater the risk for malnutrition, Observed and change from baseline in patient nutritional and functional assessment (PG-SGA) at baseline and week 4, 8 and, 12.
This is a 12-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel group design trial to evaluate the safety and efficacy of inhaled PPP011 on physical functioning and cachexia progression in patients with cachexia related to advanced incurable cancer.