Hepatic Arterial Infusion of Floxuridine, Gemcitabine Hydrochloride, and Radiolabeled Monoclonal Antibody Therapy in Treating Liver Metastases in Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Previously Treated With Surgery
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as floxuridine and gemcitabine hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Hepatic arterial infusion uses a catheter to carry cancer-killing substances directly into the liver. Radiolabeled monoclonal antibodies can find tumor cells and carry tumor-killing substances to them without harming normal cells. Giving hepatic arterial infusion of floxuridine together with gemcitabine hydrochloride and radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy after surgery may kill any tumor cells that remain after surgery.

PURPOSE: This phase I/II trial is studying the side effects and best dose of floxuridine when given as a hepatic arterial infusion together with gemcitabine hydrochloride and radiolabeled monoclonal antibody therapy and to see how well it works in treating liver metastases in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
Liver Metastases|Recurrent Colon Cancer|Recurrent Rectal Cancer|Stage IV Colon Cancer|Stage IV Rectal Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine hydrochloride|DRUG: floxuridine|GENETIC: proteomic profiling|OTHER: matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry|OTHER: liquid chromatography|RADIATION: yttrium Y 90 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody cT84.66|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: mass spectrometry|OTHER: pharmacological study
Number of Participants With at Least One Dose Limiting Toxicity, Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) defined as any treatment-related grade grade 3 nonhematologic toxicity not reversible to grade 2 or less within 24 hours, or any grade 4 toxicity.Up to three cycles of therapy were allowed with DLTs determined based on first cycle tolerance. Toxicity was graded using the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria version 2.0., 4 weeks from start of treatment, up to 2 years.|Recommended Phase II Dose, The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of HAI FUdR in combination with intravenous gemcitabine and 90Y-DTPA-cT84.66 is based on toxicities observed during the first cycle and is defined as the highest dose tested in which fewer than 33% of patients experience an attributable DLT to the study drug, when at least 6 patients are treated at that dose and are evaluable for toxicity. Dose escalations proceeded according to a standard 3+3 design., 4 weeks from start of treatment, up to 2 years.
Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Event defined as death due to any cause., Up to 5 years|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined as a 25% increase in the sum of products of measurable lesions over the smallest sum observed, or appearance of any lesions that had disappeared, or appearance of any new lesion/site., Up to 5 years
OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and associated toxicities of concurrent hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) fluorodeoxypyrimidine (FUdR)/Decadron and intravenous gemcitabine combined with intravenous yttrium-90 (\^90Y) chimeric T84.66 (cT84.66) in colorectal cancer patients after hepatic resection or maximum surgical debulking (to \< 3 cm) of liver metastases.

II. To study the feasibility and toxicities of such adjuvant therapy following resection and/or ablation of liver metastases.

III. To evaluate the biodistribution, clearance and metabolism of \^90Y and \^111In (indium-iii) chimeric T84.66 administered intravenously.

IV. To estimate radiation doses to whole body, normal organs, and tumor through serial nuclear imaging.

V. To correlate proteomic profiles pre and post-therapy with toxicities and anti-tumor effects.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of floxuridine followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive floxuridine as a continuous hepatic arterial infusion on days 1-14 and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 9 and 11. Patients also receive yttrium Y 90 anti-CEA monoclonal antibody cT84.66 IV over 25 minutes on day 9. Treatment repeats every 6 weeks for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients may receive an additional course of floxuridine in combination with systemic therapy at the discretion of the treating physician.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3 and 6 months.