SIRT Followed by CIS-GEM Chemotherapy Versus CIS-GEM Chemotherapy Alone as 1st Line Treatment of Patients With Unresectable Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
The study planned to evaluate the benefit of applying Selective Internal Radiation Therapy (SIRT) using SIR-Spheres Y-90 resin microspheres prior to receiving systemic chemotherapy treatment (cisplatin-gemcitabine, or CIS-GEM) in patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. Half of the patients were randomized to CIS-GEM chemotherapy plus SIRT, and half of the patients were randomized to CIS-GEM alone.
Intrahepatic Cholangiocarcinoma
DRUG: Cisplatin-gemcitabine|DEVICE: Radiation: SIRT + chemotherapy (cisplatin-gemcitabine)
Survival at 18 Months, Survival at 18 months is defined as the proportion of patients still alive 18 months from the date of randomization. The outcome was analyzed but the clinical database is not deemed to be reliable., 18 months following the date of randomization.
Liver-specific Progression Free Survival (PFS), Liver-specific PFS was defined as the number of days between randomization and the date of first tumor progression in the liver. Diagnosis of tumor progression was to be made using RECIST 1.1., From date of randomization to the first documented date of progression in the liver or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months..|Progression Free Survival (PFS) at Any Site, PFS was defined as the time interval between randomization and the date of tumor progression. Diagnosis of tumor progression was to be made using RECIST 1.1. The outcome was not analyzed due to unreliability of the clinical database., From date of randomization to the date of progression at any site until the first date of documented tumor progression at any site or date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|Objective Response Rate by RECIST 1.1 and Refined RECIST - Liver, The outcome was not analyzed due to unreliability of the clinical database., From the date of first treatment until the date of date of first documented progression in the liver, assessed up to 36 months.|Objective Response Rate by RECIST 1.1 and Refined RECIST - at Any Site, The outcome was not analyzed due to unreliability of the clinical database., From the date of first treatment until progression at any site, assessed up to 36 months.|Overall Survival, The outcome was not analyzed due to unreliability of the clinical database., From date of randomization until the date of death from any cause, assessed up to 36 months.|Liver Surgical Resection and Ablation Rate, To assess the number of patients in each arm who are downstaged by protocol therapy and can proceed to liver resection or ablation. The specific assessments will be the classification of resection as R0, R1 or R2, the presence of viable tumor or fibrosis, and the nearest resection margin. The outcome was not analyzed due to unreliability of the clinical database., 18 months following the date of randomization.|Incidence of Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability), Adverse events (AEs) as assessed by CTCAE v. 4.0. Summaries of non-serious AEs (clinical database, MedDRA 20.1) and serious adverse events (SAEs; pharmacovigilance database, MedDRA 25.1) are provided for information only in the 'Adverse Events' section - the data are deemed unreliable., Informed consent until 28 days post last dose of protocol chemotherapy.
This clinical study was a prospective, multicenter, randomized, controlled study evaluating SIR-Spheres Y-90 resin microspheres followed by cisplatin-gemcitabine (CIS-GEM) chemotherapy vs. CIS-GEM chemotherapy alone as first-line treatment of patients with unresectable intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma.

Randomized patients were to be followed until death, withdrawal of consent, or until end of study.