Arsenic Trioxide and Gemtuzumab Ozogamicin in Treating Patients With Advanced Myelodysplastic Syndromes
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as arsenic trioxide and gemtuzumab ozogamicin, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving more than one drug (combination chemotherapy) may kill more cancer cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving arsenic trioxide together with gemtuzumab ozogamicin works in treating patients with advanced myelodysplastic syndromes.
Leukemia|Myelodysplastic Syndromes
DRUG: arsenic trioxide|DRUG: gemtuzumab ozogamicin
Complete and Partial Remission Per the International Working Group (IWG) Criteria for Myelodysplastic Syndromes (MDS) or Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML), The null hypothesis to be tested was the percentage who will respond to combination arsenic trioxide (ATO) and gemtuzumab ozogamicin (GO) therapy is \<10%. A total of \>/= 9 responses observed in 30 evaluable patients was taken as evidence warranting further study of the regimen, provided the toxicity profile also appears favorable. The IWG Criteria standardizes the clinical responses in MDS and AML based upon hematologic improvement, quality of life and cytogenic improvement. These standardizations allow for the responses to be determined as either complete responses or partial responses., at 12 weeks post treatment
Overall Survival, Patient's Overall Survival from date of enrollment to a minimum of three years for survival., From date of enrollment to a minimum of three years for survival|Tolerability, Tolerability of Therapy was assessed through use of the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria (version 3.0). Treatment tolerability was determined based upon whether or not the physician determined therapy was in the patient's best interest, whether the patient wanted to continue therapy or not, whether patients discontinued treatment due to progressive disease, or whether patients discontinued treatment due to toxicity., 12 Weeks
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Determine the efficacy of arsenic trioxide and gemtuzumab ozogamicin to achieve complete and partial remissions in patients with advanced myelodysplastic syndromes.

Secondary

* Determine the efficacy of this regimen, in terms of 50% decrease in Red Blood Cell (RBC) transfusion requirements and change in hemoglobin concentration from baseline in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the platelet, neutrophil, bone marrow, and cytogenic response in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the response duration in patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.
* Determine the safety and toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label study.

Patients receive arsenic trioxide IV over 1 hour once daily on days 1-5 in week 1 and then twice weekly in weeks 2-12. They also receive gemtuzumab ozogamicin IV over 2 hours on day 8. Treatment repeats every 12 weeks for up to 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 12 weeks during study treatment, and then 4 weeks after the completion of study treatment.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 40 patients will be accrued for this study.