NMR Metabolomics Study of Follicular Fluid of Oncological Patients
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possible application of metabolomics to identify follicular fluid changes in cancer patients undergoing fertility preservation. Although metabolomics have been applied already in cancer studies, this is the first application on follicular fluid of cancer patients.

Methods: The investigators selected for the study 10 patients with breast cancer and lymphoma who resorted to oocyte cryopreservation to preserve fertility and 10 healthy women undergoing in vitro fertilization treatments. Follicular fluid was collected at the time of oocytes retrieval. Metabolomic analysis of follicular fluids was performed by 1H NMR spectroscopy in combination with multivariate analysis to interpret the spectral data. Univariate statistical analysis was applied to find correlations between patients' features and metabolites identified by NMR.
Woman With Cancer Resorting Fertility Preservation
PROCEDURE: oocytes retrieval
follicular fluid metabolites of patients with neoplasia, identification by NMR spectroscopy of the metabolites present in the follicular fluid of woman, NMR spectroscopy was performed immediately after oocyte retrieval
to define the existence of cancer-specific metabolic profiles, to study by NMR spectroscopy of the existence of cancer-specific metabolic profiles present in the follicular fluid of woman resorting to fertility preservation, NMR spectroscopy was performed immediately after oocyte retrieval
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the possible application of metabolomics to identify follicular fluid changes in cancer patients undergoing fertility preservation. Although metabolomics have been applied already in cancer studies, this is the first application on follicular fluid of cancer patients.

Methods: The investigators selected for the study 10 patients with breast cancer and lymphoma who resorted to oocyte cryopreservation to preserve fertility and 10 healthy women undergoing in vitro fertilization treatments. Follicular fluid was collected at the time of oocytes retrieval. Metabolomic analysis of follicular fluids was performed by 1H NMR spectroscopy in combination with multivariate analysis to interpret the spectral data. Univariate statistical analysis was applied to find correlations between patients' features and metabolites identified by NMR.