Expectations and Side Effects of Endocrine Therapy in Women With Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the role of patients' response expectations for nocebo side effects, quality of life and adherence during adjuvant endocrine treatment (AET). Furthermore, this study analyses the effects of a structured treatment information on patients' satisfaction with information, response expectations, knowledge and adherence.
Female Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Enhanced information about endocrine therapy
Adverse Side Effects, General Assessment of Side Effects (GASE), up to 5 years
Quality of Life, European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) with breast module (QLQ-BR23), up to 5 years|Adherence, Medication Adherence Report Scale (MARS-D); Adherence with endocrine treatment; reasons for non-adherence, up to 5 years|Knowledge, Patients' knowledge of hormone receptor status of their tumor, up to 5 years|Satisfaction with Information, Satisfaction with Information about Medicines Scale, (SIMS-D), Baseline|Expectations, General Assessment of Side Effects Scale - Expectations Module, Baseline|Coping with Side Effects, General Assessment of Side Effects Scale -Coping Module, Follow-up (3 months, 2 years, 5 years)
The majority of breast cancer patients discontinues today's standard adjuvant treatment (endocrine therapy) due to side effects and reduced quality of life. Thereby, most side effects are unspecific, suggesting a role of psychological factors as patients´ expectations (nocebo effects). Moreover, patients are not informed sufficiently about their treatment.

Using a longitudinal design, the nature and onset of adverse side effects and their association to treatment related expectations are investigated. Postoperative patients with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer are assessed before the start of adjuvant treatment. All patients receive standardized, additional information about endocrine therapy. Expectations about side effects, knowledge and satisfaction with the enhanced information are assessed before and after informing patients. Side effects, quality of life and adherence are measured three months, two and five years after start of medication intake.

It will be analyzed if patients' response expectations predict side effects and quality of life during medication intake to provide insights into pathways of clinical nocebo effects. Further, this study examines the effects of a structured treatment information on patients' satisfaction with information, response expectations, knowledge and adherence. The study findings promise significant advances in the clinical nocebo research with strong implications for clinical and research practice.