Impact of Adapted Aesthetic Onco in Patients With Upper Aerodigestive Tract Cancer During Their Management
Treatment for cancers of the pharyngolarynx is mutilating, with major consequences for patients' lives in terms of physical and functional after-effects. The psycho-social consequences are also significant, notably the metamorphosis of identity linked to the disease and its treatment, which alters the patient's self-image.

Initial feedback from patients who have been able to benefit from adapted oncoesthetics (OEA) is overwhelmingly positive.

This study will assess the feasibility of oncoesthetics and describe any obstacles.
Oncology|Aerodigestive Tract Cancer|Suportive Care
OTHER: Adapted Onco-Esthetics sessions
Evaluate, in patients treated for cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract, the impact of early treatment with Adapted Onco-Esthetics, Evaluation of the proportion of patients reporting no worsening of self-image representation, as measured by the BIS body image scale., At each session (first , second and third). An interval of one to 4 weeks between 2 sessions is permitted
The majority of patients treated for VADS cancer come from disadvantaged socio-professional and family backgrounds. Treatment for cancers of the pharyngolarynx is mutilating, with major consequences for patients' lives in terms of physical and functional after-effects. The psycho-social consequences are also significant, notably the metamorphosis of identity linked to the disease and its treatment, which alters the patient's self-image.

The French association for Oncological Support Care (SOS) defines socio-aesthetics as "the professional practice of aesthetic care adapted to people who are fragile or suffering as a result of an attack on their physical or psychological integrity, or in social distress". Priority patients for aesthetic care are those whose treatments have had an impact on body image (mutilating surgery, skin toxicities), and/or who are in a situation of social precariousness and suffer from a loss of self-esteem.

For patients suffering from VADS cancer, a population not usually in need of aesthetic care but in need of self-image restoration, an incentive program has been set up. Initial feedback from patients who have been able to benefit from adapted oncoesthetics (OEA) is overwhelmingly positive.

This study will assess the feasibility of OAS for VADS cancer patients, and describe any obstacles.