Pembrolizumab, Dabrafenib, and Trametinib Before Surgery for the Treatment of BRAF-Mutated Anaplastic Thyroid Cancer
This phase II trial studies the effect of pembrolizumab, dabrafenib, and trametinib before surgery in treating patients with BRAF V600E-mutated anaplastic thyroid cancer. BRAF V600E is a specific mutation (change) in the BRAF gene, which makes a protein that is involved in sending signals in cells and in cell growth. It may increase the growth and spread of tumor cells. Dabrafenib and trametinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Pembrolizumab, dabrafenib, and trametinib may help to control BRAF V600E-mutated anaplastic thyroid cancer when given before surgery.
Thyroid Gland Anaplastic Carcinoma|Thyroid Gland Squamous Cell Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Conventional Surgery|DRUG: Dabrafenib|RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Trametinib
Complete gross surgical resection (R0 or R1 resection), Overall R0/R1 resection rate will be defined by proportion of patients who undergo successful thyroidectomy with clear (R0) or microscopically positive (R1) surgical margins. We will test the hypothesis that the R0/R1 resection rate is greater than historical rate of 5%., Up to 5 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days) Up to 7 cycles|Overall survival (OS), OS will be measured as the time from the start of any trial treatment to death from any causes. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate the median survival time across all patients and its 95% confidence intervals (CI)., Up to 72 months
Tumor response, Objective tumor response will be assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1., Up to 42 months|Progression free survival (PFS), PFS will be measured as the time from the start of the treatment to the first occurrence of disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurs first, as determined by RECIST version 1.1., Up to 42 months|Surgical morbidity/complexity, Surgical morbidity/complexity will be measured at enrollment, prior to surgery and at surgery. The Thyroid Neck Group Morbidity Complexity Scoring and MGH/MEE-MSK-MD Anderson (MMM) Surgical Morbidity Complexity Score are incorporated, specifying on a scale with 5 levels of complexity and morbidity of the surgery \[mild (level 0), moderate (level 1), severe (level 2), very severe (level 3), and unresectable (level 4)\]., Up to 5 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days) Up to 7 cycles|Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety of neoadjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab, Frequency and severity of adverse events as a measure of safety profile for neoadjuvant concurrent administration of dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab (DTP) will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Up to 5 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days)|Number of patients with adverse events as a measure of safety of postoperative pembrolizumab plus IMRT, Frequency and severity of adverse events as a measure of safety profile for concurrent administration of postoperative pembrolizumab with IMRT will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0., Over the course of adjuvant IMRT plus 2 weeks of safety follow-up, assessed up to 2 months|Locoregional control, Locoregional control will be measured as the time from the start of any trial treatment to the first locoregional recurrence/progression event., Up to 42 months|Health related quality of life, Changes of health-related quality of life will be measured by the European Quality of Life 5 Dimension Questionnaire (EQ-5D). The EQ-5D consists of health state description and evaluation. The health state description consists of five dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression), with each dimension specifying five levels of severity \[best (1)-worst (5)\]. The health state evaluation is assessed using the visual analogue scale (\[worse (0)-best (100)\]., Up to 42 months|Patient-reported symptoms, Symptom burden experienced by patients will be measured by the M.D. Anderson Symptom Inventory for Head and Neck Cancer (MDASI-HN) instrument., Up to 42 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Demonstrate the efficacy of upfront treatment with neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination dabrafenib and trametinib by comparing the complete gross surgical resection rate (R0 or R1 surgical resection) to historical control of 5%.

II. Demonstrate the efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with dabrafenib and trametinib by comparing the overall survival (OS) to historical OS rate of 9.6 months.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the efficacy (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\]) of neoadjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab combination (Part 1) and progression-free survival (PFS) for all patients throughout their treatment course.

II. Demonstrate the extent to which neoadjuvant dabrafenib, trametinib, and pembrolizumab changes surgical morbidity/complexity.

III. Establish surgical safety for neoadjuvant pembrolizumab in combination with BRAF \& MEK inhibitors, dabrafenib and trametinib; as well as safety for concurrent administration of postoperative adjuvant pembrolizumab with intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT).

VI. Evaluate changes in patient reported outcomes: quality of life assessed by validated questionnaires at initial diagnosis, through the course of therapy, and during the adjuvant targeted therapy phase.

VII. Determine whether features of the tumor genomic landscape and tumor immune microenvironment are associated with response to dabrafenib/trametinib/pembrolizumab (DTP).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if changes of cell free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) correlate with response to treatment on DTP and overall survival.

II. Evaluate the safety of dabrafenib/trametinib/pembrolizumab plus IMRT in a subset of 15 patients.

OUTLINE:

PART 1 (NEOADJUVANT PHASE): Patients receive dabrafenib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and trametinib PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Starting in week 4, patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may receive 2 additional cycles of DTP at the discretion of the treating physicians. Patients whose disease is deemed resectable undergo surgery. Patients who are not surgically resectable after 5 cycles of DTP move to Part 3.

PART 2 (ADJUVANT PHASE): 2-4 weeks after surgery and at the discretion of the treating physicians, patients may continue to receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes every 3 weeks and concurrently undergo IMRT with or without cisplatin or carboplatin for 6 weeks. Up to 15 patients also receive dabrafenib PO BID and trametinib PO QD concurrently for 6 weeks.

PART 3: Patients receive dabrafenib PO BID, trametinib PO QD on days 1-21, and pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 17 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months during years 1-2, every 6 months during years 3-4, and then annually thereafter.