A Study of ENMD-2076 in Ovarian Clear Cell Cancers
This is a phase 2 study to see how useful, safe, and tolerable an investigational drug called ENMD-2076 is in treating patients with ovarian clear cell carcinomas.

ENMD-2076 is an oral drug that works by blocking certain enzymes called Aurora A and tyrosine kinase from working. These enzymes are needed for cells to divide including cancer cells. ENMD-2076 also works by stopping the growth of new blood vessels which would provide the tumor with nutrients for it to grow. It is believed that by blocking Aurora A and tyrosine kinase enzymes from working and stopping new blood vessels from growing, the tumors may stop growing or shrink.
Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: ENMD-2076
Six Month Progression Free Survival Rate, Progression Free Survival (PFS) is defined as the time from first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or death due to any cause or last follow up. PFS will be censored for patients who are alive and free of progression at time of last follow-up., Response will be determined based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria 1.1. Progression free survival is the time from the first day of treatment to the first observation of disease progression or Death/last F/U.|Complete or Partial Response Rate, Percentage of patients with complete or partial response as per RECIST 1.1 criteria., 2 years
Time to Disease Progression, Length of time until disease progression in patients treated with ENMD-2076, 2 years|Levels of Certain Proteins and Gene Expression Compared to Patient Outcome Following Treatment, Association of somatic mutations in PIK3CA, ARID1A and PTEN mutation status, and ARID1A and PTEN expression assessed in archival samples and tumour biopsies with tumour response and patient outcome following treatment with ENMD 2076., 2 years
During the study, participants will be asked to take ENMD-2076 once a day, everyday. Every 28 days will be called a cycle. While receiving the study drug, participants will be asked to visit the clinic for tests and procedures. During Cycle 1, participants will be asked to visit the clinic about once a week and during Cycle 2 and future cycles, participants will be asked to visit the clinic on days 1 and 15. As a part of the study, tumor tissue (archival and fresh tumor biopsy) will be taken for biomarker research. When participants stop the study drug, they will be asked to have an end of study drug visit.