Sorafenib Tosylate and Chemoembolization With Doxorubicin Hydrochloride and Mitomycin in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
RATIONALE: Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride and mitomycin, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Chemoembolization kills tumor cells by carrying drugs directly into the tumor and blocking the blood flow to the tumor. Giving sorafenib tosylate together with chemoembolization may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase I trial is studying the side effects of sorafenib tosylate when given together with chemoembolization with doxorubicin hydrochloride and mitomycin in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery.
Liver Cancer
DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: mitomycin C|DRUG: sorafenib tosylate|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Safety and toxicity as assessed by NCI CTCAE v3.0 criteria, 3 years
Overall survival, 5 years|Correlative studies, 3 years
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To determine the safety of sorafenib tosylate when given in combination with transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride and mitomycin C in patients with unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

Secondary

* To estimate the time to progression (TTP) in patients treated with this regimen.
* To estimate the overall survival (OS) of patients treated with this regimen.
* To explore correlative relationships between measures of serum VEGF in the peri-procedure TACE period and changes with TACE and sorafenib tosylate as well as patient outcomes (TTP and OS).

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily on days 1-14. Patients then undergo transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) comprising doxorubicin hydrochloride and mitomycin C on days 17-19\*. Patients then receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily beginning after recovery from TACE and continuing in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

NOTE: \*A second course of TACE may be administered within 8 weeks after the first TACE procedure.

Blood samples may be collected periodically for biomarker and pharmacokinetic analysis.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 3-4 weeks and then every 3 months for up to 3 years.