Ovarian Tissue Cryopreservation in Pre-Pubertal (OTC-Pre Pubertal)
The purpose of this study is to safely remove ovarian tissue in pre-pubertal pediatric patients, who are at risk for infertility from their medical treatment, for freezing for future restoration of fertility and hormone function.
Cancers
PROCEDURE: Laparoscopic surgery
Ovarian Tissue Freezing for Fertility Preservation in Pre-Pubertal Children Facing a Fertility Threatening Medical Diagnosis or Treatment Regimen, Most of the surgically removed tissue will be stored for the child's future use. Participants have the option of donating for research purposes a small piece of the ovarian tissue, a small amount of the child's blood and the media used to process the ovarian tissue (which is otherwise discarded, for research which evaluates optimizing ovarian cryopreservation and fertility restoration techniques, 3 months
Annual follow-up for patients who undergo ovarian tissue cyropreservation, The research study coordinator will contact families by email or telephone once per year and ask a series of questions related to ovarian function, such as beginning puberty and frequency of menstruation., yearly for up to 20 years
Participants are invited to take part in this study because they will be treated with chemotherapy, radiation and/or surgery that will likely affect the child's ovaries and cause the child to become infertile (unable to become pregnant) in the future.

The ovaries are reproductive glands found only in females. These glands are located in the pelvis (hip area). The ovaries produce eggs and female hormones. During each monthly menstrual cycle, an egg is released from one ovary. This study seeks to find out if removing an ovary in adolescents and children who have reached puberty, and who are about to undergo chemotherapy and/or radiation may preserve, or keep, their ability to have children in the future. The optional ovarian tissue that is removed for research will also be used to study better ways to store the ovarian tissue and to improve of the tissue in the future.

This study has two parts: the removal of the ovarian tissue, and the storage of the ovarian tissue. A process called Ovarian Tissue Cryopreservation will be used to store the removed ovarian tissue. This kind of freezing is a special method that is used to try to prevent the eggs from being damaged, and to keep them frozen for a long time. The frozen tissue will be available to your child to be used at a later time, of your child's choosing.

As a part of the study the investigator is asking participants to donate a 3-4mm biopsy (less than 10% of the ovary) of their ovarian tissue to future research before it is stored for their own use. We also enroll patients in a database study for yearly survey evaluation for long term outcome of ovarian tissue removal and potential restoration.

Ovarian Tissue Cryopreservation involves a surgical procedure where ovarian tissue of post pubertal patients is surgically removed and frozen, with the ultimate goal that their tissue may be used in the future to restore fertility when experimental techniques emerge from the research pipeline. Participation in the study is voluntary.