Repeated Super-selective Intraarterial Cerebral Infusion Of Bevacizumab Plus Carboplatin For Treatment Of Relapsed/Refractory GBM And Anaplastic Astrocytoma
The high-grade malignant brain tumors, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma (AA), comprise the majority of all primary brain tumors in adults. This group of tumors also exhibits the most aggressive behavior, resulting in median overall survival durations of only 9-12 months for GBM, and 3-4 years for AA. Initial therapy consists of either surgical resection, external beam radiation or both. All patients experience a recurrence after first-line therapy, so improvements in both first-line and salvage therapy are critical to enhancing quality-of-life and prolonging survival. It is unknown if currently used intravenous (IV) therapies even cross the blood brain barrier (BBB). The investigators have shown in a previous phase I trial that a single Superselective Intraarterial Cerebral Infusion (SIACI) of Bevacizumab (up to 15mg/kg) is safe and effective in the treatment of recurrent GBM. Therefore, this phase I/II clinical research trial is an extension of that trial in that the investigators seek to test the hypothesis that repeated dosing of intra-arterial Bevacizumab is safe and effective in the treatment of recurrent malignant glioma. Additionally the investigators will analyze if a combination with IA Carboplatin will further improve the treatment response. By achieving the aims of this study the investigators will also determine if IV therapy with Bevacizumab with IV Carboplatin should be combined with repeated selected intra-arterial Bevacizumab plus Carboplatin to improve progression free and overall survival. The investigators expect that this project will provide important information regarding the utility of repeated SIACI Bevacizumab therapy for malignant glioma, and may alter the way these drugs are delivered to the investigators patients in the near future.
Glioblastoma Multiforme|Anaplastic Astrocytoma
DRUG: Bevacizumab and Carboplatin|DRUG: Bevacizumab and Carboplatin
Composite overall response rate, The composite overall response rate (CORR) will be examined. The overall response proportion along with a 95% confidence interval will be estimated via binomial proportions., 6 months|Six-month progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS), PFS will be measured from the date of the first dose of SIACI Bevacizumab plus Carboplatin to the date of progression. OS will be measured from the date of the first dose of SIACI Bevacizumab plus Carboplatin to the date of death., 2 years
The safety of repeated SIACI of Mannitol, Bevacizumab plus Carboplatin at 15mg/kg and 150mg/m2 respectively., The descriptive frequency of subjects experiencing toxicities will also be tabulated. Toxicities will be assessed and graded according to the NCI Common Toxicity Criteria, version 3.0., 1 month
The high-grade malignant brain tumors, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and anaplastic astrocytoma (AA), comprise the majority of all primary brain tumors in adults. This group of tumors also exhibits the most aggressive behavior, resulting in median overall survival durations of only 9-12 months for GBM, and 3-4 years for AA. Initial therapy consists of either surgical resection, external beam radiation or both. All patients experience a recurrence after first-line therapy, so improvements in both first-line and salvage therapy are critical to enhancing quality-of-life and prolonging survival. It is unknown if currently used intravenous (IV) therapies even cross the blood brain barrier (BBB). The investigators have shown in a previous phase I trial that a single Superselective Intraarterial Cerebral Infusion (SIACI) of Bevacizumab (up to 15mg/kg) is safe and effective in the treatment of recurrent GBM. Therefore, this phase I/II clinical research trial is an extension of that trial in that the investigators seek to test the hypothesis that repeated dosing of intra-arterial Bevacizumab is safe and effective in the treatment of recurrent malignant glioma. Additionally the investigators will analyze if a combination with IA Carboplatin will further improve the treatment response. By achieving the aims of this study the investigators will also determine if IV therapy with Bevacizumab with IV Carboplatin should be combined with repeated selected intra-arterial Bevacizumab plus Carboplatin to improve progression free and overall survival. The investigators expect that this project will provide important information regarding the utility of repeated SIACI Bevacizumab therapy for malignant glioma, and may alter the way these drugs are delivered to the investigators patients in the near future.