Outcomes of Perforation After Colorectal Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection
Endoscopic resection of superficial colorectal neoplasms decrease risk of colorectal cancer. En bloc resection is necessary for large superficial lesions with risk of superficial submucosal cancer and is advised if feasible for all lesions. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) allows en bloc resection of large superficial colorectal neoplasms, increasing curative resection rate and decreasing local recurrence risk. However, the risk of perprocedural or delayed perforation is higher compared to wild field piece meal endoscopic mucosal resection. Endoscoping clipping and closing methods mostly allow conservative treatment, but some case still necessitate surgery. The aim of our study is to describe and ananalyse outcomes after perprocedural or delayed perforation in all patients undergoing ESD and analyse the need for surgical intervention.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Perforation of Rectum|Perforation Colon
PROCEDURE: Endoscopic submucosal dissection
Surgery, Rate of surgery following perforation after ESD, 30 days
Hospital stay, length of hospital stay (days), 60 days|Hospital readmission, 30 days|Curative resection rate, 60 days|Endoscopically closed perforation rate, 30 days|Risk factors for endoscopic closure failure, 30 days|30-days mortality rate, 30 days
Endoscopic resection of superficial colorectal neoplasms decrease risk of colorectal cancer. En bloc resection is necessary for large superficial lesions with risk of superficial submucosal cancer and is advised if feasible for all lesions. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) allows en bloc resection of large superficial colorectal neoplasms, increasing curative resection rate and decreasing local recurrence risk. However, the risk of perprocedural or delayed perforation is higher compared to wild field piece meal endoscopic mucosal resection. Endoscoping clipping and closing methods mostly allow conservative treatment, but some case still necessitate surgery. The aim of our study is to describe and ananalyse outcomes after perprocedural or delayed perforation in all patients undergoing ESD and analyse the need for surgical intervention.