Bortezomib, Temozolomide, and Regional Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma Multiforme or Gliosarcoma
RATIONALE: Bortezomib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth and by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Giving bortezomib together with temozolomide and radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells and allow doctors to save the part of the body where the cancer started.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying the side effects and how well bortezomib works when given together with temozolomide and regional radiation therapy in treating patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme or gliosarcoma.
Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors
DRUG: bortezomib + temozolomide+ radiation therapy
Overall Survival, Estimate the overall survival in subjects with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) treated with bortezomib/temozolomide/radiation followed by bortezomib/temozolomide for 24 cycles until progression is detected or for up to 24 cycles (\~2 years)., 2 years
Toxicity Assessed According to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 3., 2 years|Time to Progression, Median time to tumor progression. Because many newly-diagnosed patients are likely not to have evaluable disease due to gross total resections. A 7-point scale was used to guide Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) assessment to determine progression in this study. A -2 or -3 assessment will be taken as progression.

The 7-point scale is listed below. complete resolution of tumor: 3 tumor definitely smaller: 2 tumor probably smaller: 1 tumor unchanged: 0 tumor probably worse: -1 tumor definitely worse: -2 new lesion: -3, From the completion of radiation treatment to tumor progression|Survival at 1 Year, Overall Survival at 12 months from completion of radiation treatment, 1 year|Tumor Progression as Assessed by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Neurologic Exam, MRI will be done 2 weeks after completion of radiation and then every 8 weeks. Neurologic exam to be performed every 2 weeks during radiation therapy, then every every 4 weeks after radiation is completed., at 6, 12, 18 and 24 months from completion of radiation treatment.
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Estimate the overall survival at 2 years of patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme treated with bortezomib in combination with temozolomide and regional radiotherapy followed by maintenance therapy comprising bortezomib and temozolomide.

Secondary

* Investigate further the safety and tolerability of this regimen in these patients.
* Determine the molecular characterization of tumor tissue and correlate these findings with response.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

* Adjuvant chemotherapy: Patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 29, 32, 36, and 39 and oral temozolomide on days 1-42. Patients undergo external-beam fractionated regional radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Maintenance: Beginning 2-6 weeks after radiotherapy, patients receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 and oral temozolomide on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Tumor tissue samples are collected at baseline (from surgery) and periodically during study for further analysis.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up periodically.