Pediatric Chronic Kidney Disease Safety and Efficacy
The purpose of this study is to assess the safety and efficacy of adding cinacalcet to the current treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in children currently receiving dialysis compared to a treatment regimen that does not include cinacalcet.
Chronic Kidney Disease|Hyperparathyroidism|Hyperparathyroidism, Secondary|Kidney Disease|Secondary Hyperparathyroidism
DRUG: cinacalcet capsule|DRUG: placebo|DRUG: Standard of Care
Percentage of Participants Achieving ≥ 30% Reduction in Mean iPTH From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase, The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase (EAP; Weeks 25 - 30). When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available post-baseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used., From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase, Weeks 25-30
Percentage of Participants Achieving Mean iPTH ≤ 300 pg/mL (31.8 Pmol/L) During the Efficacy Assessment Phase, The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase. When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available postbaseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used., From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase (EAP), Weeks 25-30|Percent Change From Baseline in Mean Corrected Total Serum Calcium During the Efficacy Assessment Period, Serum calcium was reported as a corrected value by the central laboratory based on calcium and albumin concentrations: Corrected total calcium (mg/dL) = measured total serum calcium (mg/dL) + 0.8 (4.0 - Serum albumin (g/dL)). The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase. When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available postbaseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used.", From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase, Weeks 25-30.|Percent Change From Baseline in Mean Serum Phosphorus During the Efficacy Assessment Phase, The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase. When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available postbaseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used., From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase, Weeks 25-30.|Percent Change From Baseline in Mean Phosphorous Product (Ca x P) During the Efficacy Assessment Phase, The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase. When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available postbaseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used., From Baseline to end of Efficacy Assessment Period, assessed up to 30 weeks|Growth Velocity From Baseline to End of Double-blind Phase, Linear growth velocity (cm/year) = 52 x change in height (cm) / number of weeks between the two assessments. End of double-blind phase visit was at Week 30 by design but the last assessment in the double-blind phase was used due to the early termination of the study., From Baseline to end of Efficacy Assessment at Week 30|Growth Velocity From End of Double-blind Phase to End of Open-label Phase, Linear growth velocity (cm/year) = 52 x change in height (cm) / number of weeks between the two assessments. End of open-label phase visit was at Week 60 by design but the last assessment in the open-label phase was used due to the early termination of the study., End of double-blind phase (Week 30) until end of the open-label phase (Week 60)|Percent Change From Baseline in Mean Ionized Calcium During the Efficacy Assessment Phase, The efficacy assessment value is based on the scheduled assessment(s) taken during the efficacy assessment phase. When multiple assessments were available, the average of those was used. If an efficacy measurement during the EAP was missing, the mean of the last 2 available postbaseline values in the dose-titration phase was used. If only one post-baseline value was available, this single value was used., From Baseline to the Efficacy Assessment Phase, Weeks 25-30.
Secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) is a condition that can develop early in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), usually gets worse over time, and is known to cause problems for patients on dialysis. Children on dialysis can have a wide range of bone and growth issues, and common treatments have a chance of making these things worse by increasing serum calcium and serum phosphorus. Cinacalcet has been shown to be effective in controlling parathyroid hormone (PTH), calcium and phosphorus in adults. The purpose of this study is to show that including cinacalcet in the treatment of SHPT will lower the levels of intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) in a larger number of pediatric patients with CKD who are receiving dialysis, compared to a treatment regimen that does not include cinacalcet.