Aspirin in Preventing Colorectal Cancer in Patients at Increased Risk of Colorectal Cancer
This randomized phase II trial is studying how well aspirin works in preventing colorectal cancer in patients at increased risk of colorectal cancer. Chemoprevention is the use of certain drugs to keep cancer from forming. The use of aspirin may prevent colorectal cancer.
Colon Cancer|Precancerous Condition|Rectal Cancer
DRUG: acetylsalicylic acid|DRUG: placebo|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Change of a Spectral Biomarker for Colonic Carcinogenesis (Called Spectral Slope or SPEC) From Baseline to 3 Months., Spectral marker assessment was performed via LEBS analysis (low-coherence enhanced backscattering spectroscopy) on the uninvolved mucosal biopsies of subjects taken at baseline and after 3 months of treatment with either aspirin or placebo. SPEC characterizes the size distribution of macromolecular complexes and other intracellular structures, with a decrease of the spectral slope implying a shift of the size distribution of intracellular structures toward smaller sizes.

Spectral markers SPEC and FRAC provide a measure of the fundamental characteristics of the tissue nanoscale architecture., 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.|Change of a Spectral Biomarker for Colonic Carcinogenesis (Called Fractal Dimension or FRAC) From Baseline to 3 Months., Spectral marker assessment was performed via LEBS analysis (low-coherence enhanced backscattering spectroscopy) on the uninvolved mucosal biopsies of subjects taken at baseline and after 3 months of treatment with either aspirin or placebo. FRAC characterizes the spatial autocorrelation function of mass density distribution in tissue.

SPEC and FRAC provide a measure of the fundamental characteristics of the tissue nanoscale architecture, 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.
Colonic Epithelial Apoptosis as Measured by Immunohistochemical Detection of Cleaved Caspase 3, Evaluate the effect of aspirin on colonic epithelial apoptosis and cell proliferation as assessed by immunohistochemical detection of cleaved caspase 3 .These were performed on samples that had been previously analyzed for 4D-ELF., 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.|Changes in Colonic Cell Proliferation as Measured by Immunohistochemical Detection of Ki67, Evaluate the effect of aspirin on colonic epithelial apoptosis and cell proliferation as assessed by immunohistochemical detection of Ki-67. These were performed on samples that had been previously analyzed for 4D-ELF., 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.|Rectal Prostaglandin Levels as Measured by ELISA, Evaluate the effect of aspirin on rectal prostaglandin levels., 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.
Platelet Cyclooxygenase (COX) Activity as Measured by a Peroxidase-based COX Enzyme Activity Assay, Evaluate the effect of aspirin on platelet COX activity as measured by a peroxidase-based Cox enzyme activity assay., 3 months from baseline colonoscopy to end of intervention.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. Determine whether acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) will alter spectral markers (i.e., spectral slope and fractal dimension) in distal colonic mucosa of patients who are at increased risk for the development or recurrence of colorectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Assess the effect of this drug on colonic epithelial apoptosis and cell proliferation in these patients.

II. Assess the effect of this drug on rectal prostaglandin levels in these patients.

III. Assess the effect of this drug on platelet cyclooxygenase activity in these patients.

IV. Correlate changes in spectral markers with UGT1A6 genotype in patients treated with this drug.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study. Patients are stratified by clinical site and adenoma/carcinoma maximal size. Patients with abnormal spectral biomarkers are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

ARM I: Patients receive oral acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) once daily.

ARM II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily.

In both arms, treatment continues for 3 months in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

Patients undergo flexible sigmoidoscopy and biopsies as well as blood collection at baseline (during prestudy colonoscopy) and at completion of study treatment for comparison of spectral signatures with biomarkers of both aspirin activity (including plasma cyclooxygenase activity and rectal prostaglandin levels) as well as with biomarkers associated with antineoplastic alteration (including apoptosis and cell proliferation). UGT1A6 genotyping analysis is also performed.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 3 months.