Cetuximab in Combination With Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
In this study, the investigators assessed the effect of Cetuximab in combination with chemotherapy in the treatment of unresectable metastatic colorectal cancer.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Neoplasm Metastasis|Liver Neoplasms
DRUG: Cetuximab|DRUG: chemotherapy of mFOLFOX6 or FOLFIRI
the rate of patients converted to resection for liver metastases, To explore whether cetuximab in combination with chemotherapy as treatment could improve the resection rate in patients with KRAS wild-type, unresectable colorectal liver-limited metastases compared with chemotherapy alone., 3 years
progression free survival, PFS will be defined as the period from the first day of cetuximab treatment or chemotherapy to the date of disease progression (PD) or to death. Patients without PD who discontinued the study for any reason is censored at the last on-study tumor assessment date., 3 years|overall survival, OS and MST will be calculated from randomization to death from any cause or the date of the last follow-up, at which point the data will be censored., 3 years|tumor response, defined as partial and complete response according to RECIST 1.0 (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors)., 3 years
Patients will be eligible for inclusion if their primary tumors have been resected and if the patients have histologically confirmed wild-type-KRAS colorectal adenocarcinoma with synchronous liver-confined metastases deemed non-resectable. Eligible patients will be randomly assigned to chemotherapy plus cetuximab (arm A) or chemotherapy alone (arm B). Treatment will be planned to commence between 2 and 4 weeks after the primary surgery. Treatment will continue until tumor response indicates suitability for surgery for liver metastases or until disease progression or unacceptable toxic effects. The primary endpoint is the conversion rate to radical resection for liver metastases，which will be assessed by local multidisciplinary team (includes more than three liver surgeons and one radiologist) with the use of contrast-enhanced CT or MRI after 4 cycles and then every other 2 cycles up to 12 cycles. To provide an objective assessment of changes in resectability, radiological images will be presented by a radiologist to more than 3 liver surgeons, who are blinded to the clinical data. Patients will be considered resectable if 50% or more of surgeons vote for radical resection of LM. For patients whose liver-metastases are assessed resectable, resection should be scheduled to be performed within 2\~3 weeks of the last treatment cycle. Following resection, patients will be advised to continue the same therapeutic regimen until the treatments reach a sum of 12 cycles.