Transarterial Ethanol Ablation(TEA) for Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma(HCC)
The objective of this trial was to evaluate the clinical outcome, treatment toxicity and tumor response of TEA for unresectable HCC.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: TEA
overall survival and treatment-related toxicity, Overall survival was defined as date of treatment to date of death from any cause. Patients alive at the end of follow-up were censored.

Clinical and laboratory data were documented prospectively at baseline, during hospitalization, and at 7, 14, and 30 day, and 3, 6, 9, and 12 months. Laboratory findings were graded according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 3., Overall survival is studied from treatment to death from any cause, for an estimated period of up to 60 months. Treatment-related toxicity is studied up to 3 months after treatment
Time to progression(TTP), TTP was defined as date of treatment to date of first CT evidence of disease progression. Patient death during follow-up without CT progression was censored., Time to progression is studied from treatment to disease progression, for an estimated period of up to 60 months.|Progression free survival(PFS), PFS was defined as date of treatment to date of either first CT evidence of disease progression or death from any cause. Patients alive and free of progression at the end of follow-up were censored., Progression free survival is studied from treatment to disease progression or death from any cause, for an estimated period of up to 60 months.|Tumor response, Treatment response of individual treated tumor lesions was evaluated with CT and classified according to a system combining the recommendation of European Association for the Study of the Liver and the guidelines of World Health Organization, which was considered a preferred method of response assessment following transarterial or locoregional therapies for HCC. Tumor response was classified into 4 categories: 1) complete response (CR), 2) partial response (PR), 3) static disease (SD), or 4) intralesional progression., Tumor response is studied at 6 months after treatment
Transarterial therapy has been playing an important role in the treatment algorithm for patients with multifocal or large intrahepatic lesions not eligible for surgical resection, transplantation, or local ablative therapy. Among the various options of transarterial therapy including chemoembolization (TACE), bland embolization, radioembolization, and TEA, chemoembolization is the only one that has been proven to be of survival benefits versus best supportive care in randomized controlled trials. TEA is a hybrid of bland embolization and chemical ablation. Utilizing a liquid agent of Lipiodol-ethanol mixture consisting of 33% ethanol by volume, TEA offers complete and long lasting embolization of both the arterioles and portal venules supplying the tumor and could possibly be more effective than particulate embolic agents in tumor vessel embolization. The component of ethanol very likely offers synergistic effect to embolization and causes tumor ablation.