Neoadjuvant Chemo-hypoRT Plus PD-1 Antibody (Tislelizumab) in Resectable LA-G/GEJ
Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of death due to cancer worldwide. Although the consensus on the surgical treatment has resulted in the improvement of curative effect during the past decades, controversies remained for the perioperative therapy of gastric cancer, especially in the selection of the optimal neoadjuvant regimens. Immunotherapy with anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) antibody has demonstrated moderate efficacy in selected patients with advanced gastric adenocarcinoma. Hypofractionated radiotherapy (HypoRT) may act synergistically with immunotherapy to enhance antitumor responses. This phase II trial study want to exploit the efficacy and safety to give PD-1 antibody (Tislelizumab) with combination chemotherapy and HypoRT before surgery in treating adult patients with gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma.
Gastric or Gastroesophageal Junction Adenocarcinoma
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: neoadjuvant chemo-hypofractionated radiotherapy plus PD-1 antibody (Tislelizumab)
pathological complete remission (pCR) rate, Pathologic complete response was defined as pT0N0M0, From date of treatment allocation and during treatment period up to 1 year
Radiographic response, To assess radiographic response to neoadjuvant tislelizumab with concurrent chemoradiotherapy using RECIST 1.1., From date of treatment allocation and during treatment period up to 3 months|The R0 resection rate, Complete Resection With no Tumor Within 1 mm of the Resection Margins (R0) Rate, Up to 3 years|Safety of neoadjuvant chemo-hypofractionated radiotherapy plus PD-1 antibody (Tislelizumab) Safety of neoadjuvant therapy, Adverse events (AE) of neoadjuvant therapy will be graded and documented according to NCI-CTCAE v5.0 from the beginning of treatment to 1 month after the last date of treatment., 1 month after the last date of treatment|Postoperative complications, Using the Clavien-Dindo classification, AEs of surgery refer to complications which happen during or in 30 days after operation.|Time to Relapse (TTR), The median TTR and confidence interval will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier, Time from the date of study registration to the date of 1st documented relapse/recurrence among patients who achieve R- resection, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free Survival (PFS), The distribution of PFS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from the date of study registration to the date of death due to all causes, recurrences if R0 resections are achieved, progression disease before undergoing surgery, or R1/R2 resection at surgery, whichever comes first, assessed up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), The distribution of OS will be estimated using the method of Kaplan-Meier., Time from the date of study registration to the date of death due to all causes, assessed up to 3 years
1. This clinical trial will be conducted under Simon's optimal two-stage design. The first stage needs 9 participants, if ≥1 participants acquire remission, then the study will move on to the second stage and enroll the rest 10 participants. Taking into account a drop-out rate of about 5%, we planned to enroll 21 patients.
2. Target population: patients with resectable locally advanced resectable gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (cT1-2N+M0/T3-T4aNanyM0).
3. Trial design: This is a monocenter, single arm, phase II study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of neoadjuvant chemo-hypofractionated radiotherapy plus PD-1 antibody (Tislelizumab) in patients with locally advanced gastric or gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma.