Testing Cabozantinib With or Without Atezolizumab in Patients With Advanced Papillary Kidney Cancer, PAPMET2 Trial
This phase II trial compares the effect of atezolizumab in combination with usual treatment with cabozantinib to cabozantinib alone in patients with papillary renal cell carcinoma that has spread from where it first started (primary site) to other places in the body (metastatic). Papillary renal cell carcinoma (PRCC) is a type of kidney cancer that forms in the lining of the tiny tubes in the kidney that return filtered substances that the body needs back to the blood and remove extra fluid and waste as urine. Most papillary tumors look like long, thin finger-like growths under a microscope. It is also called papillary kidney cancer or PRCC. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the tumor and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Cabozantinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It works by blocking the action of an abnormal protein that signals tumor cells to multiply and may also prevent the growth of new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. By these actions it may help slow or stop the spread of tumor cells. Combination therapy with atezolizumab and cabozantinib may shrink the tumor and allow a longer survival time in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
Metastatic Papillary Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage IV Renal Cell Cancer AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Scan|DRUG: Cabozantinib S-malate|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Progression free survival, A proportional hazards model will be used to evaluate the experimental arm compared to the control arm, adjusted for the stratification factors as covariates in the model. A one-sided p-value =\< 0.05 will indicate statistical significance. Participants last known to be alive and progression free are censored at date of last contact., From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic deterioration, or death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival, Will be estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, and a stratified log-rank test will be used to compare the treatment arms. Participants last known to be alive are censored at date of last contact., From date of registration to date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Objective response rate, Will be estimated to within +/- 11% (95% confidence interval)., Up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events, Will be estimated to within +/- 11% (95% confidence interval). Will utilize the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0 for toxicity and serious adverse event reporting., Day 1 of each cycle
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare progression-free survival in participants with metastatic papillary renal cell carcinoma (mPRCC) randomized to cabozantinib (cabozantinib S-malate) with atezolizumab versus cabozantinib alone.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To compare overall survival in participants with mPRCC randomized to cabozantinib with atezolizumab versus cabozantinib alone.

II. To compare Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) objective response rate (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial response) in participants with mPRCC randomized to cabozantinib with atezolizumab versus cabozantinib alone.

III. To evaluate the quantitative and qualitive adverse events observed in each treatment arm.

BANKING OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank biospecimens for future correlative studies.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and blood and urine sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo bone scan throughout the trial.

ARM II: Patients receive cabozantinib S-malate PO QD on days 1-21 and atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo CT scan or MRI and blood and urine sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo bone scan throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for up to 5 years.