A Phase II Clinical Study of Multimodal Ablation Combined With Systemic Drug Therapy for Advanced Solid Tumors.
This study focuses on the treatment of liver metastases from two common cancers: triple-negative breast cancer and melanoma. Currently, there are limitations in the treatment of liver metastases of these cancers. Multimodal thermophysical ablation therapy can reshape the tumor microenvironment, release neoantigens, and act as an in-situ vaccine. On this basis, the combination of multimodal ablation with immunotherapeutic drugs such as pucotenlimab will be explored. The efficacy and safety of this combination therapy in patients with liver metastases of solid tumors will be investigated, with the expectation of breaking through the existing treatment limitations.
Triple Negative Breast Cancer Metastatic|Melanoma Metastatic
DEVICE: MTT(Multimodal Tumor Thermal Therapy System)- Triple-Negative Breast Cancer|DEVICE: MTT(Multimodal Tumor Thermal Therapy System)- Melanoma
Objective Response Rate, It refers to the proportion of patients whose tumors have reduced by a certain amount and maintained for a certain period,including cases of Complete Response(CR)and Partial Response(PR).Objective tumor responses are assessed using the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors(RECIST 1.1).Subjects must have measurable tumor lesions at baseline,and the criteria for efficacy assessment are classified according to RECIST 1.1 as Complete Response(CR),Partial Response(PR),Stable Disease(SD),and Progressive Disease(PD)., Up to 2 years.
Disease Control Rate, It includes the percentage of patients with confirmed cases of Complete Response(CR),Partial Response(PR),and Stable Disease(SD)out of those who are evaluable for efficacy.Subjects must have measurable tumor lesions at baseline,and the criteria for efficacy assessment are classified according to RECIST 1.1 as Complete Response(CR),Partial Response(PR),Stable Disease(SD),and Progressive Disease(PD)., Up to 2 years.|Duration of Response, The duration of response is defined as the time interval from the start of the response(when CR or PR is first confirmed)to the time of progression or death(whichever occurs first)., Up to 2 years.|Progression-Free Survival, It refers to the time from the date of enrollment to the date of the first recorded disease progression(PD)or death,whichever occurs first., Up to 2 years.|Overall Survival, Overall Survival(OS) refers to the time from the date of enrollment to the date of death due to any cause., Up to 2 years.|Safety and Tolerability, Safety refers to the extent to which a drug does not cause unacceptable harm or side effects when applied in the human body.Tolerability refers to the degree to which patients accept the side effects that occur after treatment,reflecting their ability to endure the side effects of the medication.All adverse events will be recorded and assessed for severity based on the NCI-CTC AE 5.0 grading criteria.During the follow-up period,all subjects will be continuously monitored,and the occurrence,duration,severity,and treatment-relatedness of adverse events will be documented., Up to 2 years.
This study focuses on the treatment of liver metastases from two common cancers: triple-negative breast cancer and melanoma. Currently, there are limitations in the treatment of liver metastases of these cancers. Multimodal thermophysical ablation therapy can reshape the tumor microenvironment, release neoantigens, and act as an in-situ vaccine. On this basis, the combination of multimodal ablation with immunotherapeutic drugs such as pucotenlimab will be explored. The efficacy and safety of this combination therapy in patients with liver metastases of solid tumors will be investigated, with the expectation of breaking through the existing treatment limitations.