Induction Treatment in SCC of the Head and Neck Region - Concomitant Chemotherapy and Low-dose Radiotherapy
Non-commercial clinical study to assess:

1. efficacy of iCHRTL in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of oral cavity, pharynx carcinoma, larynx carcinoma or paranasal sinus carcinoma.
2. tolerability of iCHRTL in patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma of oral cavity, pharynx carcinoma, larynx carcinoma or paranasal sinus carcinoma.
3. molecular and biochemical effect of low doses of ionizing radiation.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oral Cavity|Pharynx Carcinoma|Larynx Carcinoma|Paranasal Sinus Carcinoma
OTHER: Chemotherapy (carboplatin+paclitaxel) with concomitant low dose ionizing radiotherapy
Objective response rate (ORR) after induction, Complete+partial response in percent, 1 year post-induction|Objective response rate (ORR) after induction, Complete+partial response in percent, 3 years post-induction|Loco-regional control (LRC) rate, Rate of local lesions complete response (CR) +partial response (PR)+stable disease (SD), 1 year post-induction|Loco-regional control (LRC) rate, Rate of local lesions CR+PR+SD, 3 years post-induction|Distant metastasis rate, Rate of patients with distant metastases, 1 year post-induction|Distant metastasis rate, Rate of patients with distant metastases, 3 years post-induction|Overall survival time (OS), Rate of death within time from treatment start to 1 year, Date of treatment start - to 1 year|Overall survival time (OS), Rate of death within time from treatment start to 3 years, Date of treatment start - to 3 years
40 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of oral cavity, pharynx, larynx or paranasal sinuses in stage III or IV, previously not treated for this reason and eligible for induction chemotherapy.

Study treatment:

Induction phase:

Chemotherapy based on carboplatin 6 area under the curve (AUC) + paclitaxel 75 mg/m2 carboplatin 6 AUC 30-minute infusion on D: 1 (maximum carboplatin dose is 700 mg) paclitaxel 75 mg/m2 1-hour infusion on D: 1, 8, 15

Radiotherapy:

D:1 - 2 x 0,5 Gy (first dose up to one hour after the end of the carboplatin infusion, second dose 3 to 6 hours later), D:2 - 2 x 0,5 Gy (interval between doses not less than 3 hours), D:8 and D:15 - 2 x 0,5 Gy (first dose up to one hour after the end of the chemotherapeutic infusion, second dose 3 to 6 hours later).

2 cycles of induction treatment are planned. Interval between the last day of cycle I and the first day of cycle II is 7 days. After 2 weeks from second cycle Positron emission tomography (PET) and Magnetic Resonance (MR), medical case conference and qualification to further treatment: Radiotherapy (RT), Chemo-radiotherapy (CHRT) or other, depending on the medical decision.

Planned based on the optimal technique for a particular clinical case preferred: Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT). Preparation of IMRT plan will be based on computed tomography (CT) scans. Early tolerance of radiotherapy will be assessed for local reaction. At least once every 7 days.