Vinorelbine Versus Gemcitabine Plus Vinorelbine in Metastatic Breast Cancer Patients
This is a multicenter, randomized, prospective, Phase III study in which patients with advanced breast carcinoma previously treated with anthracyclines and taxanes will be randomly assigned to receive one of two treatment options: vinorelbine (Arm A) or gemcitabine plus vinorelbine (Arm B).
Breast Cancer|Neoplasm Metastasis
DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression-free survival, Progression-free survival is calculated as the time from randomization to the first observation of disease progression or date of death (whichever occurs earlier). Progression-free survival time will be censored at the time of the most recent information for patients who are still alive at the time of the last visit., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The Number of Participants Who Experienced Adverse Events (AE), Safety was assessed by standard clinical and laboratory tests. Adverse events grade were defined by the NCI CTCAE v2.0., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Objective Response Rate (ORR), Tumor response will be assessed using RECIST criteria. The best response across all treatment will be recorded. ORR is defined as the percentage of patients with a complete or partial response out of the patients who had measurable disease at baseline., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Response Duration (RD), RD is defined as the time from the date when the measurement criteria are met for complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) (whichever status is recorded first) until the date of first observation of disease progression or death occurred. For responding patients not known to have died as of the data cut-off date and who do not have progression, duration of response will be censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment. For responding patients who receive subsequent anticancer therapy (after discontinuation from the study treatment) prior to progression, duration of response will be censored at the date of last visit with adequate assessment prior to the initiation of post-discontinuation anticancer therapy., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the time elapsed from first treatment until death from any cause., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
The investigators assume that progression-free survival mean time for patients treated with vinorelbine will be 3 months, and for patients treated with gemcitabine plus vinorelbine will be 5 months. That implies a reduction in risk ratio of 40% (Hazard ratio = 1,67). Assuming a bilateral alpha error of 0.05 and beta error of 10%, and the number of events needed if 60% of patients have progressed after 1 year, the number of patients needed per treatment arm is 114. Considering a 10% post-randomization drop-out, the final number of patients is 252 (126 per arm).