Radiation and Durvalumab Immunotherapy As Neoadjuvant Treatment for MIBC
This study assesses the effect of sequential radiation and durvalumab immunotherapy given as treatment prior to surgery with radical cystectomy for bladder cancer.
Bladder Cancer
DRUG: Durvalumab|RADIATION: Immune Modulating Radiation
Pathological Complete Response (pCR) Rate, pCR rate is defined as the proportion of patients whose pathological staging was T0N0M0 as assessed using specimens obtained post radical cystectomy following the study intervention., Up to 2 years
Adverse events, Adverse events related to the study treatment will be identified and characterized using the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. A copy of the CTCAE version 5.0 can be downloaded from the Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program website (http://ctep.cancer.gov). Data will be collected from time of confirmed study entry, Up to 2 years|Rate of delay of surgery, Feasibility. Surgery is expected to occur within 90 days of radiotherapy. Any delay beyond that will be noted and the cause of the delay attributed to study intervention or otherwise, with supporting details., Up to 2 years|Rate of Pathological Downstaging, Proportion of patients who have pathological staging \<T2 as determined after radical cystectomy., Up to 2 years|Recurrence rates at 1 year and 2 years, he proportion of patients who have radiographically confirmed recurrence of their cancer at 1 and 2 years. Time to recurrence is defined from the time of study entry to the first recurrence of disease after cystectomy. A recurrence of disease includes local (pelvic) recurrence, urinary tract recurrence, or distant metastases of urothelial carcinoma. Recurrence rate will be assessed using computed tomography (CT)/magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or Positron Emission Tomography (PET)-CT (per standard local imaging practices) and pathology testing performed according to local standards and as clinically indicated., Up to 2 years|Overall survival rate at 1 and 2 years, The proportion of patients who are alive at 1 and 2 years. Overall survival is defined from the date of study entry until death of any cause., Up to 2 years
In this phase II study, patients who are either not eligible or declined to have chemotherapy prior to surgery for muscle-invasive bladder cancer may consent and enrol to study. Patients will have single 8 Gy hypofractionated radiation to bladder followed by 3 cycles of durvalumab immunotherapy prior to radical cystectomy. This study will assess the safety and tolerability, pathological and radiological response, and immune biological correlatives to understand the effect of radiation and durvalumab.