A Phase III Trial of Pertuzumab Retreatment in Previously Pertuzumab Treated Her2-Positive Advanced Breast Cancer
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of pertuzumab, trastuzumab and chemotherapy as a pertuzumab retreatment compared to trastuzumab and chemotherapy in locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer patients for previously treated with pertuzumab
HER2-positive Locally Advanced or Metastatic Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Docetaxel|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|DRUG: Vinorelbine|DRUG: Eribulin|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Gemcitabine
Progression-free survival (assessed by investigators), 4 years
Progression-free survival (assessed by independent review), 4 years|PFS in patients treated with trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) as the latest regimen, 4 years|Response rate, 4 years|Duration of response, Overall survival, 4 years|Patient-reported-outcome, Difference in terms of patient-reported outcome (PRO) between standard group and Pertuzumab treated group FACT-G, FACT-B and EQ-5D are used as assessment tools for PRO., 4 years|Safety assessed by Incidence/Grade of Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Pertuzumab-specific adverse events, laboratory abnormalities Percentage and number of subjects who discontinued for adverse event., Safety for HER2-positive locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer subjects who were previously treated with Pertuzumab, 4 years|Biomarkers, To find Prognostic and predictive biomarker markers for patients receiving anti-HER2 treatment. Changes in immunologic markers on peripheral blood mononuclear cells determined by flow cytometry after anti-HER2 treatment Changes in tumor-derived gene mutations (e.g. PIK3CA, APOBEC3, CDH1...etc.) in ctDNA after anti-HER2 therapy Changes in proteins (e.g. HER2, HER3...etc.) and micro RNAs expression in extracellular vesicle after anti-HER2 therapy Changes in glycans and proteins expression in the plasma after anti-HER2 therapy., 4 years
The American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) Clinical Practice Guidelines recommend the use of pertuzumab, trastuzumab and taxane as first-line treatment for patients with MBC. As a second-line treatment, trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1) is also recommended. After a pertuzumab-containing regimen and T-DM1, other HER2-targeted therapeutic regimens, including lapatinib-containing regimens and trastuzumab plus chemotherapy, are recommended as third-line treatments and beyond. However, continual pertuzumab use for progression after a pertuzumab-containing regimen and retreatment with pertuzumab are unclear based on evidence.

The efficacy and the safety of two distinct modalities of a trastuzumab plus pertuzumab-containing regimen after pertuzumab use should be assessed in MBC: continual treatment and retreatment. However, it is clinically difficult to examine the efficacy of continual treatment with a trastuzumab plus pertuzumab-containing regimen because of several circumstances including the results of the MARIANNE study.

In addition, it is also important to evaluate the usefulness of retreatment with a pertuzumab-containing regimen. Continual pertuzumab treatment for progression after pertuzumab treatment is not same as pertuzumab retreatment. HER2-HER3-signaling suppressed by pertuzumab-containing regimens could potentially be restored by anti-HER2 therapy without pertuzumab. Pertuzumab retreatment could potentially re-suppress HER2-HER3-signaling. Therefore, Pertuzumab retreatment can be more effective than trastuzumab-containing treatment without pertuzumab.