An Observational Study of the Mean Duration of Trastuzumab (Herceptin) Treatment in Participants With Early or Metastatic Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2 (HER2)-Positive Breast Cancer
This single arm observational study will assess the duration and safety of treatment with trastuzumab in routine clinical practice in participants with early or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. Data will be collected from female participants treated with trastuzumab according to the Summary of Product Characteristics and local protocols. Duration of observation for each participant is from therapy initiation until permanent discontinuation for any cause.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab
Treatment Duration With Trastuzumab in the Routine Clinical Practice, Baseline up to 5 years
Percentage of Participants Who Discontinued Trastuzumab Therapy According to Reasons for Discontinuation, Baseline up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants Who Received Previous Neoadjuvant Therapy, As a neoadjuvant therapy, participants received chemotherapy alone, radiotherapy alone, hormonal therapy alone or combination of these therapies. Percentage of participants who received these therapies is reported., Baseline up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants Who Had Surgical Procedure for Breast Cancer, Percentage of participants who underwent different types of surgical procedures for breast cancer are reported. Different types of surgical procedures included: breast-conserving surgery; mastectomy; and other (any other surgical procedure except breast-conserving surgery and mastectomy)., Baseline up to 5 years|Percentage of Participants Who Received Trastuzumab as Adjuvant Therapy of HER2 Positive Breast Cancer, Baseline up to 5 years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival was defined as the time from first dose of trastuzumab to disease progression as assessed by treating physician. Due to observational nature of the study, there was no specific method of assessment used to define progressive disease. Progressive disease was confirmed by treating physician, based on his/her assessment according to local practice., Baseline uo tp 5 years|Percentage of Participants by the Site of First Disease Progression, Baseline up to 5 years
This single arm observational study will assess the duration and safety of treatment with trastuzumab in routine clinical practice in participants with early or metastatic HER2-positive breast cancer. Data will be collected from female participants treated with trastuzumab according to the Summary of Product Characteristics and local protocols. Duration of observation for each participant is from therapy initiation until permanent discontinuation for any cause.