Bridging Allogeneic Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation or Not After CD19 CAR - T (S1904) Cell Therapy for r/r B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia
Traditional salvage chemotherapy has low efficacy and poor long-term prognosis for relapsed or refractory (R/R) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Targeted CD19 CAR-T cell immunotherapy is an effective means of treating R/R B-ALL. Several clinical studies have shown that its remission rate for R/R B-ALL can reach 68-93%. However, long-term follow-up found that the remission time after CD19 CAR-T treatment is short and the relapse rate is high. Therefore, how to ensure the long-term survival of R/R B-ALL patients after remission by CAR-T therapy is an urgent problem to be solved. Some studies have shown that timely bridging allo-HSCT after CAR-T treatment can overcome the risk of relapse and further improve the long-term survival of patients. However, there is currently no randomized controlled study on whether to bridge transplantation after CAR-T. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of S1904 in the treatment of relapsed or refractory CD19-positive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia with or without bridging to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after remission.
Relapsed Adult ALL|B-cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Refractory Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia|Relapsed Pediatric ALL
BIOLOGICAL: Senl_B19 autologous CAR-T (S1904) treatment
2-year event-free survival after randomization, The time from randomization to MRD positive or relapse or death due to non-relapse causes (whichever occurs first), Participants will be followed for an expected average of 2 years
2-year relapse-free survival after randomization, Time from randomization to relapse or death from any cause (whichever occurs first), Participants will be followed for an expected average of 2 years|Cumulative incidence of relapse, Time from randomization to relapse, Participants will be followed for an expected average of 2 years|2-year overall survival after randomization, Time from randomization to death from any cause, Participants will be followed for an expected average of 2 years
Traditional salvage chemotherapy has low efficacy and poor long-term prognosis for relapsed or refractory (R/R) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). Targeted CD19 CAR-T cell immunotherapy is an effective means of treating R/R B-ALL. Several clinical studies have shown that its remission rate for R/R B-ALL can reach 68-93%. However, long-term follow-up found that the remission time after CD19 CAR-T treatment is short and the relapse rate is high. Therefore, how to ensure the long-term survival of R/R B-ALL patients after remission by CAR-T therapy is an urgent problem to be solved. Some studies have shown that timely bridging allo-HSCT after CAR-T treatment can overcome the risk of relapse and further improve the long-term survival of patients. However, there is currently no randomized controlled study on whether to bridge transplantation after CAR-T. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of S1904 in the treatment of relapsed or refractory CD19-positive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia with or without bridging to allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after remission.