NIMBUS: Nivolumab Plus Ipilimumab in Metastatic Hypermutated HER2-negative Breast Cancer
This research study is studying a drug combination of nivolumab and ipilimumab as a possible treatment for hypermutated HER2 negative breast cancer.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Nivolumab (Opdivo ®)
* Ipilimumab (Yervoy ®)
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Nivolumab|DRUG: Ipilimumab
Overall Response Rate of Nivolumab in Combination With Ipilimumab, Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with complete or partial response evaluated by RECIST 1.1. Per RECIST 1.1: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., 2 years
Overall Response Rate of the Combination According to Immune-related Response Criteria, Overall Response Rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients with complete or partial response evaluated by immune-related response criteria (irRC).

Per irRC: irComplete Response (irCR): Complete disappearance of all tumor lesions (target an non-target) together with no new measurable/unmeasurable lesions for at least 4 weeks from the date of documentation of complete response.

Immune-Related Partial Response (irPR): The sum of the products of the two largest perpendicular diameters of all target lesions is measured and captured as the SPD baseline. At each subsequent tumor assessment, the SPD of the two largest perpendicular diameters of all target lesions and of new measurable lesions are added together to provide the Immune Response Sum of Product Diameters (irSPD). A decrease, relative to baseline, of the irSPD compared to the previously SPD baseline of 50% or greater is considered an irPR.; Overall Response (OR) = irCR + irPR., 2 years|Clinical Benefit Rate, Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) will be determined by looking at the number of subjects who have either a complete response, partial response, or stable disease for greater than or equal to 24 weeks, per RECIST 1.1, 2 Years|Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined from the study entry to first documented evidence of disease progression by RECIST 1.1 or death of any cause, whichever occurs first. Patients alive with no progression are censored at the last disease assessment., 2 years|Overall Survival, OS based on the Kaplan-Meier method is defined as the time from study entry to death or censored at date last known alive., Participants were followed long-term for survival every 12 weeks from the end of treatment until death or lost to follow-up. Median follow-up in this study cohort was 9.7 months.
This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety and effectiveness of an investigational drug to learn whether the drug works in treating a specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drug is being studied.

Nivolumab is called an anti- PD-1 or a checkpoint inhibitor and is an antibody (a type of human protein) designed to allow the body's own immune system to destroy tumors. Ipilimumab is called an anti-CTLA-4 and is a type of antibody that works to prevent your body's immune system from stopping to fight this specific cancer.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved nivolumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses including but not limited to non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma and renal cell carcinoma.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved ipilimumab for this specific disease but it has been approved for other uses such as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma.

The combination of nivolumab with ipilimumab may or may not increase anti-cancer activity by further boosting the immune system. At this time, the FDA has not approved nivolumab in combination with ipilimumab for this specific disease although these drugs have been approved for other uses such as melanoma and renal cell carcinoma.

The purpose of this research study is to determine how nivolumab together with ipilimumab, works in treating breast cancer that has spread to other parts of the body. The investigators are also investigating whether there are certain DNA or protein markers in the blood or tumor tissue that may indicate whether the combination will work in future patients