Meditation-Based Breathing Training in Improving Target Motion Management and Reducing Distress in Patients With Abdominal or Lung Cancer Undergoing Radiation Therapy
This randomized pilot clinical trial studies the effects of meditation-based breathing training on patients' control of their breathing patterns and breathing-related movement, as well as on their psychological distress and treatment experience during radiation therapy. Meditation-based breathing training may decrease breathing-related movement and the amount of stress by improving breathing patterns in patients with abdominal or lung cancer undergoing radiation therapy.
Anxiety|Depression|Digestive System Neoplasm|Lung Neoplasm|Pain|Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder|Psychological Impact of Cancer
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Meditation Therapy|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Change in duty cycle, defined as the fraction of the time of the breathing cycle that the beam is on, before and after breath coaching, Data will be analyzed using a mixed-model analysis of variance (ANOVA) to test for differences between the two independent groups (with a fixed effect factor of group membership)., Baseline to up to 5 weeks|Changes in gate width, Baseline to up to 5 weeks|Changes in the length of the end expiration or end inspiration defined as when the breathing trace or internal motion change direction, Data will be analyzed using a mixed-model ANOVA to test for differences between the two independent groups (with a fixed effect factor of group membership)., Baseline to up to 5 weeks
Change in patients' self-reported levels of psychological distress, physical pain and discomfort, and post-traumatic stress associated with cancer diagnosis and radiation treatment, Data will be analyzed using a mixed-model ANOVA to test for differences between the two independent groups (with a fixed effect factor of group membership)., Baseline to up to 5 weeks
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the influence of regular breathing cycles using breathing relaxation techniques on efficacy of the respiratory-gated treatment as measured by: (1) real-time position management (RPM) parameters; (2) end inspiration or expiration length; (3) changes in gate width.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of breathing relaxation techniques on: (1) psychosocial outcomes; (2) treatment compliance.

OUTLINE:

PHASE I: Patients and staff members complete structured interviews at baseline.

PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients participate in 3 50-minute breathing training sessions, including a psycho-educational component and meditation-based breathing training, over 10 days. Patients then undergo four dimensional computed tomography (4D-CT) on day 14 and undergo image-guided stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) or standard radiation therapy 5 times a week for up to 5 fractions or 25 fractions, respectively.

ARM II: Patients receive standard care over 10 days. Patients then undergo 4D-CT on day 14 and undergo image-guided SBRT or standard radiation therapy 5 times a week for up to 5 fractions or 25 fractions, respectively.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 or 5 weeks.