Tildrakizumab for Prevention of Acute Graft-Versus-Host Disease
This is a phase 2 open-label trial designed to evaluate the efficacy of tildrakizumab in improving graft-versus-host disease (GVHD)-free relapse-free survival after myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (alloHCT) for hematologic malignancy.
Hematologic Malignancies
DRUG: Tildrakizumab
GVHD-free Relapse-Free Survival, Number of subjects experiencing any of grade III-IV acute GVHD, systemic therapy-requiring chronic GVHD, relapse, or death at 12 months, 1 year
Incidence of Chronic GVHD, Number of subjects experiencing chronic GVHD defined by NIH Consensus criteria., Day +180 and Day +365|Incidence of Acute GVHD, Number of subjects experiencing grades II-IV and III-IV acute GVHD will be determined at Day +100 and Day +180 post-HCT. Acute GVHD will be graded according to NIH Consensus criteria., Day +100 and Day +180|Incidence of Acute GI GVHD, Number of subjects experiencing grades II-IV and III-IV acute GI GVHD will be determined at Day +100 and Day +180 post-HCT. This will be graded according to NIH Consensus criteria., Day +100 and Day +180|Primary graft failure., Number of subjects experiencing no neutrophil recovery to \> 500 cells/μL by Day 28 post-HCT., Day 28|Secondary graft failure, Number of subjects experiencing initial neutrophil engraftment followed by subsequent decline in absolute neutrophil counts \<500 cells/μL, unresponsive to growth factor therapy, but cannot be explained by disease relapse or drugs., Up to Day 365|Hematopoietic recovery according to neutrophil count recovery, The number of days to hematopoietic recovery will be assessed according to neutrophil count recovery after hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT). Neutrophil recovery or engraftment is defined as achieving an absolute neutrophil count (ANC) ≥500/mm\^3 for three consecutive measurements on three different days. The first of the three days will be designated the day of neutrophil engraftment., Day +28|Hematopoietic recovery according to platelet count recovery, The number of days to hematopoietic recovery will be assessed according to platelet count recovery after HSCT. Platelet recovery is defined by either the first day of a sustained platelet count \>20,000/mm\^3 for three days with no platelet transfusion in the preceding seven days. The first day of sustained platelet count above these thresholds will be designated the day of platelet engraftment., Day +28|Non-relapsed mortality., Number of subjects who die after alloHCT without experiencing a relapse., Day +100 and 1 year|Disease Relapse or Progression, The number of subjects who experience relapse. Relapse is defined by either morphological, cytogenetic or radiologic evidence of the pretransplant hematologic malignancy., Day +100 and 1 year|Progression-Free Survival., This will be measured in months. The event for this endpoint is relapse/progression or death. Patients who are alive and disease-free will be censored at last follow-up., Day +100 and 1 year|Overall Survival., The time in months from the date of transplant to date of death from any cause or for surviving patients, to last follow-up. Patients who are alive and disease-free will be censored at last follow-up., Day +100 and 1 year|Incidence of infections, Number of subjects experiencing a grade ≥3 (CTCAE v5) viral, fungal and/or bacterial infections., Day +28, Day +100 and 1 year
Study Rationale: GVHD remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality following myeloablative conditioning (MAC) alloHCT. Proinflammatory cytokines play a central role in initiation and development of acute GVHD and as such, inhibition of these cytokines has been examined for both prevention and treatment of GVHD. Interleukin (IL)-23 is a proinflammatory cytokine which the investigators' lab has shown to have a unique and selective role in induction of colonic inflammation during acute GVHD and that this cytokine serves as a critical mediator linking conditioning regimen-induced mucosal injury and endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) translocation to subsequent proinflammatory cytokine production and GVHD-associated pathological damage. Moreover, additional studies have demonstrated that blocking the IL-23 signaling pathway has not abrogated the graft-versus-tumor effect. Tildrakizumab is a commercially available anti-IL-23 antibody FDA approved for the treatment of moderate to severe psoriasis with good tolerance. The investigators hypothesize that blocking IL-23, with tildrakizumab, will reduce GVHD rates for patients undergoing MAC alloHCT without having an impact on relapse rates, thus improving GVHD-free relapse-free survival (GRFS).