Sintilimab in Combination With Chidamide in Refractory and Relapsed AITL
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) belongs to a subtype of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) and is also a distinct type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The clinical outcomes of AITL is poor and optimal treatment strategies for AITL have not been fully defined. Patients with disseminated or relapsed disease have a very poor outcome, and there is no standard management for relapsed or refractory disease. Epigenetic drugs have been widely used to treat patients with refractory/relapse AITL. Several phase II clinical trails demonstrated the ORR of 33-50% in patients with r/r AITL treated with HDAC inhibitors (including Belimastat, Romidepsin, Chidamide). HDAC inhibitors are important drugs for the current treatment of AITL, but still more than half of the patients can not benefit from it. PD1/PD-L1 blockade was a potent strategy for r/r PTCL in two small sample studies. Current studies have found that HDACi can upregulate the expression of PDL1, In vivo testing of C57BL/6 mice revealed a synergistic tumor suppression after combining HDACi and PD-1 blockade. We carried out a single, open-label, multicenter clinical trial enrolled patients with relapsed/refractory AITL to investigate the safety and efficacy of sintilimab in combination with chidamide.
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Sintilimab|DRUG: Chidamide
Objective response rate (ORR), complete response rate (CRR), partial response rate (PRR), Assessed by the RECIL 2017 Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma, Up to 24 months
Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from the treatment date to the date of disease progression per the RECIL 2017 Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma or death regardless of cause., Up to 24 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from treatment to the date of death., Up to 24 months|Duration of Response (DOR), Among participants who experience an objective response, DOR is defined as the date of their first objective response (which is subsequently confirmed) to disease progression per the RECIL 2017 Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma or death regardless of cause., Up to 24 months|Time to disease response (TTR), Among participants who experience an objective response, TTR is defined as the date of their first administration to the day of their first objective response (which is subsequently confirmed) per the RECIL 2017 Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma., Up to 24 months|Time to progression (TTP), Among all participants, TTP is defined as the date of their first administration to the day of disease progression per the RECIL 2017 Response Criteria for Malignant Lymphoma or death regardless of cause., Up to 24 months|The frequency of adverse events (adverse events, AEs) and serious adverse events (SAEs), An adverse event (AE) is any untoward medical event that occurs in a participant administered an investigational product, and it does not necessarily indicate only events with clear causal relationship with the relevant investigational product. TEAE were defined as AEs with onset during the treatment period or that are a consequence of a pre-existing condition that has worsened since baseline., Up to 24 months
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma (AITL) belongs to a subtype of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) and is also a distinct type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL). The clinical outcomes of AITL is poor and optimal treatment strategies for AITL have not been fully defined. Patients with disseminated or relapsed disease have a very poor outcome, and there is no standard management for relapsed or refractory disease. Epigenetic drugs have been widely used to treat patients with refractory/relapse AITL. Several phase II clinical trails demonstrated the ORR of 33-50% in patients with r/r AITL treated with HDAC inhibitors (including Belimastat, Romidepsin, Chidamide). HDAC inhibitors are important drugs for the current treatment of AITL, but still more than half of the patients can not benefit from it. PD1/PD-L1 blockade was a potent strategy for r/r PTCL in two small sample studies. Current studies have found that HDACi can upregulate the expression of PDL1, In vivo testing of C57BL/6 mice revealed a synergistic tumor suppression after combining HDACi and PD-1 blockade. We carried out a single, open-label, multicenter clinical trial enrolled patients with relapsed/refractory AITL to investigate the safety and efficacy of sintilimab in combination with chidamide.