Bortezomib in Treating Patients With Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This phase II trial studies how well bortezomib works in treating patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma. Bortezomib may stop the growth of cancer cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Stage I Multiple Myeloma|Stage II Multiple Myeloma|Stage III Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: bortezomib|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Response Rate on Induction, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Myeloma Response Criteria that follows the standard European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow Transplant criteria was used to evaluate patient response and progression. Patients who have complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of myeloma in the bone marrow are considered to have complete response. 42 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., participants were evaluated prior to each cycle, up to 8 cycles with a median number of 6 cycles. 1 cycle=21 days
Response Rate on Maintenance, ECOG Myeloma Response Criteria that follows the standard European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow Transplant criteria was used to evaluate patient response and progression. Patients who have complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of myeloma in the bone marrow are considered to have complete response. 15 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., participants were evaluated prior to each cycle, up to 45 cycles with a median number of 9 cycles. 1 cycle=21 days|Response Rate on Reinduction, ECOG Myeloma Response Criteria that follows the standard European Group for Blood and Bone Marrow Transplant criteria was used to evaluate patient response and progression. Patients who have complete disappearance of an M-protein and no evidence of myeloma in the bone marrow are considered to have complete response. 7 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., participants were evaluated prior to each cycle, up to 23 cycles with a median number of 3 cycles. 1 cycle=21 days|1-year Progression Free Survival Probability, Progression-free survival is defined as time from randomization to disease progression or death from any cause, whichever occurred first. Disease progression is defined using the ECOG Myeloma Response Criteria. Kaplan-Meier method is used to estimate the 1-year progression-free survival probability. 42 eligible and treated patients were included in the analysis., Every 3 months if patient is <2 years from study entry, every 6 months if patient is 2-6 years from study entry, no specific requirment if patient is more than 6 years from study entry
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate to PS-341 (bortezomib) induction in patients with high risk, newly diagnosed multiple myeloma.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate progression free survival. II. To explore the response rate of patients who relapse or progress on maintenance and then return to induction schedule.

III. To explore duration of second response.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore a possible differential response to PS-341 with previously described adverse prognostic indicators.

II. To explore specific gene expression profiles (GEP) that may predict response to therapy to an agent or combination of agents used in the treatment of newly diagnosed myeloma.

III. To explore specific post-treatment gene expression profiles (GEP) in the patients who have received 4 cycles of therapy and achieved a minimal response or better.

IV. To develop relevant information about the immune system for multiple myeloma patients treated with PS-341.

OUTLINE:

INDUCTION TREATMENT: Patients receive bortezomib intravenously (IV) on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

MAINTENANCE TREATMENT: Patients who complete induction treatment without progressive disease receive bortezomib IV on days 1 and 15. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

REINDUCTION TREATMENT: Patients who progress while on maintenance treatment receive bortezomib IV on days 1, 4, 8, and 11. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 4 years.