Atezolizumab Before Surgery for the Treatment of Regionally Metastatic Head and Neck Squamous Cell Cancer With an Unknown or Historic Primary Site
This phase II trial tests whether atezolizumab works to shrink tumors before surgery in patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer with an unknown or historic primary site that has spread to other places in the lymph nodes (regionally metastatic). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as atezolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving atezolizumab before surgery may reduce the size of the tumor.
Locally Advanced Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Resectable Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck|Stage III Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Head and Neck AJCC v8
BIOLOGICAL: Atezolizumab|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|PROCEDURE: Therapeutic Conventional Surgery
Pathologic Complete Response (pCR), pCR is defined as having no residual invasive squamous cell carcinoma within the primary tumor and all resected lymph nodes as assessed by the pathologist at the time of primary resection. The rate of pCR is defined as the proportion of patients demonstrating pCR., At time of surgery (up to 10 weeks from time of enrollment)
Major Pathologic Response (mPR), mPR is defined as having =\< 10% residual invasive squamous cell carcinoma within the primary tumor and all resected lymph nodes as assessed by the pathologist at the time of primary resection. The rate of mPR is defined as the proportion of patients demonstrating mPR., At time of surgery (up to 10 weeks from time of enrollment)|Number of Participants With Recurrence or Disease Progression, A non-parametric Kaplan-Meier (KM) method will be used to estimate the 2-year EFS curve. Participants who do not experience recurrence or disease progression at the time of their last follow-up will be censored. Recurrence, all-cause death and disease-specific death will be likewise examined using the KM method to determine estimates of 2-yr disease-free survival, overall survival and disease-specific survival., From randomization to the first day of radiographic evidence of recurrence or disease progression, clinical evidence of recurrence or disease progression, or death due to any cause, whichever occurs first, assessed at 2 years|Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) of Primary Lesion Assessed at Baseline and 3 Months After Completion of Treatment, FDG avidity of nodal sites will be quantified according to standardized uptake value (SUV). The SUV is the ratio of the image derived radioactivity concentration of the lesion of interest and the whole body concentration of the injected radioactivity. Standard of care staging positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) will be performed prior to initiation of treatment and as a post-treatment scan 3 months after completion. The association of the SUV of the regionally metastatic focus of disease to the pathologic response to neoadjuvant therapy at the time of surgery will be examined. A t-test (or nonparametric counterpart) and multiple regression will be used to compare mean SUV between patients who experience cPR to the mean SUV of those with residual disease after neoadjuvant therapy, where the latter will adjust patient characteristics and potential confounders. In addition, the mean SUV of additional sites of regionally metastatic disease will be studied., At baseline and 3 months after completion of treatment|Number of Participants With Overall Response, Measured by CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and neck per immune Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (iRECIST) criteria., Up to 3 years|Plasma Exosome Levels, Up to 3 years|Number of Adverse Events, Determined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5. Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of all relevant parameters including adverse events, laboratory tests, and vital signs. Descriptive statistics will be provided for adverse events., From study treatment initiation through 1 year post-surgery
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:I. Evaluate the rate of pathologic complete response (pCR) at the time of surgery following neo-adjuvant atezolizumab in patients with regionally metastatic head and neck cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:I. Further characterize the oncologic response to neo-adjuvant atezolizumab and adjuvant atezolizumab in combination with radiation therapy in patients with regionally metastatic HNSCCC:Ia. Determine the rate of major pathologic response (mPR) at the time of surgery.Ib. Evaluate the 2-year event free survival (EFS) after completion of adjuvant therapy.

II. Investigate the utility of conventional imaging and novel biomarkers in predicting and assessing response to neoadjuvant atezolizumab therapy.IIa. Investigate associations between pre-treatment tumor fludeoxyglucose F-18 (FDG) avidity and response to neoadjuvant immunotherapy.IIb. Evaluate the ability of fine-cut contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and neck to assess response to neoadjuvant immunotherapy prior to surgery.IIc. Evaluate the capabilities of serial liquid biopsy analysis of tumor-associated exosomes to predict neoadjuvant immunotherapy response.

III. Evaluate the safety and tolerability of anti-PD-L1 with atezolizumab neo-adjuvant therapy in resectable regional metastatic HNCSCC.IIIa. Quantify toxicity (adverse events) determined by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.

OUTLINE:Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of care surgery. Beginning 6 weeks after surgery, patients with residual disease undergo standard of care radiation therapy and receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment with atezolizumab repeats every 21 days for up to 15 cycles in the absence of disease progression and unacceptable toxicity.After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3 years.