TAS-102 and Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Rectal Cancer That Is Locally Recurrent, Metastatic, or Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 (TAS-102) when given together with radiation therapy in treating patients with rectal cancer that has come back, spread to other places in the body, or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as TAS-102, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Radiation therapy uses high-energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving TAS-102 with radiation therapy may kill more tumor cells.
Rectal Adenocarcinoma|Recurrent Rectal Carcinoma|Stage IV Rectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVA Rectal Cancer AJCC v7|Stage IVB Rectal Cancer AJCC v7
OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Trifluridine/Tipiracil Hydrochloride Combination Agent TAS-102
Maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Defined as the dose level below the lowest dose that induces dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) in at least one-third of patients., Up to 28 days
Best response as evaluated by the modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease in this patient population., Best objective status recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression/recurrence (taking as reference for progressive disease the smallest measurements recorded since the treatment started), assessed up to 6 months|Incidence and severity of adverse events graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Will be tabulated and summarized., Up to 6 months|Incidence of toxicities graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0, Overall toxicity incidence as well as toxicity profiles by dose level and patient will be explored and summarized. Frequency distributions, graphical techniques and other descriptive measures will form the basis of these analyses., Up to 6 months|Median progression free survival, Kaplan Meier curves will be utilized to estimate the median progression free survival in the expansion cohort., Up to 6 months|Number of patients that make it to surgery, Will assess rates of pathologic complete response (pCR), tumor regression grade (TRG), and rates of R0 resection., Up to 6 months|Overall survival, Kaplan Meier curves will be utilized to estimate the overall survival in the expansion cohort., Up to 6 months|Quality of life (QoL) as assessed by the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), Descriptive statistics of testing measures, including patients' pain and quality of life scores, will be calculated and correlated to treatment dose and response., Up to 6 months|Time to progression, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 6 months|Time to treatment failure, Will be summarized descriptively., From registration to documentation of progression, unacceptable toxicity, or refusal to continue participation by the patient, assessed up to 6 months|Time until any treatment related toxicity, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 6 months|Time until hematologic nadirs (absolute neutrophil count [ANC], platelets, hemoglobin), Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 6 months|Time until treatment related grade 3+ toxicity, Will be summarized descriptively., Up to 6 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose and dose-limiting toxicity of TAS-102 when administered in combination with concurrent radiation therapy in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic rectal cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) to concurrent TAS-102 and radiation therapy in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic rectal cancer.

II. To determine the progression-free survival (PFS) in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic rectal cancer who receive concurrent TAS-102 and radiation therapy.

III. To determine the overall survival (OS) in patients with locally recurrent or metastatic rectal cancer who receive combined TAS-102 and radiation therapy.

IV. To determine quality of life (QoL) among patients with locally recurrent or metastatic rectal cancer who receive concurrent TAS-102 and radiation therapy.

V. To determine the number of patients who are able to undergo surgical resection following concurrent treatment with TAS-102 and radiation therapy. Of this subset of patients, the investigators will assess rates of pathologic complete response (pCR), tumor regression grade (TRG) and rates of R0 resection.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102.

Patients receive trifluridine/tipiracil hydrochloride combination agent TAS-102 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) and undergo radiation therapy in 10 fractions on days 1-5 and 8-12 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks, and at 3 and 6 months.