Nous-209 Genetic Vaccine for the Treatment of Microsatellite Unstable Solid Tumors
Ref: Protocol v9.0, dated 7Nov2023. NOUS-209-01 is a multicenter, open-label, multiple cohorts, clinical study, designed to evaluate safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity, and to detect any preliminary evidence of anti-tumor activity of Nous-209 genetic polyvalent vaccine plus pembrolizumab combination therapy in adult subjects with unresectable or metastatic deficient mismatch repair (dMMR) or MSI-H CRC, gastric, or gastro-esophageal junction (G-E junction) tumors. Nous-209 is based on a heterologous prime/boost regimen composed of the Great Ape Adenovirus GAd20-209-FSP used for priming and Modified Vaccinia virus Ankara MVA-209-FSP used for boosting. The Phase I portion of the study is a first-in-human (FIH) clinical study with a primary objective to elucidate the safety and tolerability of Nous-209 in addition to establishing the recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D), whereas the Phase II was introduced to assess efficacy as the primary objective.
Solid Tumor, Adult
BIOLOGICAL: GAd-209-FSP low dose|BIOLOGICAL: MVA-209-FSP low dose|BIOLOGICAL: GAd-209-FSP high dose|BIOLOGICAL: MVA-209-FSP high dose|BIOLOGICAL: GAd20-209-FSP, RP2D|BIOLOGICAL: MVA-209-FSP, RP2D|DRUG: KEYTRUDA®
Toxicity (DLT assessment), in Phase I, Cohort A, Toxicity analyzed within 28-days from the administration of the prime vaccination with GAd20-209-FSP, Within 28 days|Safety and Tolerability, in Phase I, Cohort A and B., AEs as characterized by type, severity (graded by the National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] v.5.0), timing, seriousness, and relationship to study treatments., Up to 110 weeks|Overall Response Rate (ORR) at any time during the study, in Phase II (Cohort C and D)., Assessed using RECIST v1.1, 18 months
Immunogenicity (T cell responses against vaccine FSPs) in Phase I, Cohorts A and B, PBMC-derived T cell responses against vaccine FSPs, as measured by IFN-gamma ELISpot, Through study completion, an average of 2 years|Safety and tolerability (local and systemic AEs), in Phase II (Cohort C and D), AEs as characterized by type, severity (graded by the National Cancer Institute \[NCI\] Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] v.5.0), timing, seriousness, and relationship to study treatments. Assessed by standard using RECIST v1.1 criteria at 6, 12 and 18 months., Up to 18 months
Clinical: Overall Response Rate (ORR), in Phase I, Cohort A and B, Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up. Up to 110 weeks|Clinical: Disease Control Rate (DCR), in Phase I, Cohort A and B, Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up. Up to 110 weeks|Clinical: Time to Tumor Response (TTR), Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up., Assessed by the Investigator using RECIST v1.1, and Overall Survival (OS), Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up. Up to 110 weeks.|Clinical: Duration of Response (DoR), Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up, Phase II (Cohost C and D), Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Up to 110 weeks|Clinical: Progression-free survival (PFS), Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up, Phase II (Cohort C and D), Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Up to 110 weeks|Clinical: Overall Survival (OS), Phase I Main Study and Extended follow-up., Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Up to 110 weeks|Clinical: Best Overall Response (BOR), Phase II (Cohort C and D)., Assessed by tumor imaging using RECIST v1.1, Up to 18 months
Ref: Protocol v9.0, dated 7Nov2023. Both Frame Shift Peptide (FSP) neoantigen-encoding genetic vaccines are administered intramuscularly using 1 prime with the GAd20-209-FSP and 3 boosts with MVA-209-FSP in combination with Keytruda®, the licensed programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1)-blocking antibody pembrolizumab, in adult subjects with unresectable or metastatic Mismatch Repair Deficient (dMMR) or MSI-H colorectal cancer (CRC), gastric, or G-E junction tumors. In Phase I, GAd20-209-FSP prime will be administered on the day of 2nd pembrolizumab infusion (week 4); MVA-209-FSP boosts will be administered on the day of 3rd, 4th and 5th pembrolizumab infusion (weeks 7 and 10 and 13). In Phase II, GAd20-209-FSP prime will be administered on the same day as the 1st pembrolizumab infusion (day 1, week 1); MVA-209-FSP boosts will be administered in week 2 and at the time of the 2nd and 3rd pembrolizumab infusions (weeks 4 and 7).

The study is composed of a Phase I divided in two parts and a Phase II, as described below :

Phase I:

* Cohort A - Dose escalation Cohort of Nous-209 vaccine plus pembrolizumab combination therapy in adult subjects with unresectable or metastatic deficient mismatch repair (dMMR) or MSI-H CRC, gastric, or gastro-esophageal junction (G-E junction) tumors;
* Cohort B - Expansion Cohort at Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) of Nous-209 vaccine plus pembrolizumab combination therapy in adult subjects with unresectable or metastatic dMMR or MSI-H CRC, gastric, or G-E junction tumors. Part 2 - Extended Follow-up from week 27 to week 110.

Phase I (Cohorts A and B): The Sponsor estimates that the trial will require approximately 24 months from the time the first subject signs the informed consent until the last subject's last visit at week 26 (Main Study); and approximately 42 months until last subject's last visit at week 110 (Extended follow up).

Phase II:

Expansion at RP2D of Nous-209 vaccine plus Keytruda® (pembrolizumab) combination therapy in adult subjects in the following study population:

* Cohort C (Phase II) - Subjects with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic, microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or dMMR CRC who are eligible for anti-PD-1 1st line of treatment. Subjects will be randomized with an allocation ratio 2:1 to Nous-209 vaccine plus pembrolizumab combination therapy versus pembrolizumab monotherapy.
* Cohort D (Phase II) - Subjects with locally advanced unresectable or metastatic, microsatellite instability high (MSI-H) or dMMR CRC who have had radiographic progression (PD) after having a best response of stable disease (SD) or better on/after anti-PD1 treatment.

Phase II (Cohorts C and D): Participation duration per subject is expected to last up to 18 months in Cohort C and up to 12 months in Cohort D.

Subjects who do not progress might stay in extended follow-up for up to approximately 2 years (106 weeks or completion of 35 administrations of pembrolizumab).

Enrollment in Phase I and II is now terminated.