A Study of Tarceva (Erlotinib) in Patients With Locally Advanced or Metastatic Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Following 4 Cycles of Platinum-based Chemotherapy Without Disease Progression
This open-label, single-arm study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tarceva (erlotinib) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who have completed 4 cycles of standard platinum-based chemotherapy without progression. Patients will receive Tarceva at a dose of 150 mg orally daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Erlotinib
Percentage of Participants With Progression-free Survival at Week 52, A participant had progression-free survival if they did not have disease progression and were alive. Tumor assessments were done by magnetic resonance imaging according to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1. Disease progression was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 2 lesions per organ and 5 lesions in total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions at Baseline. Target lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (lesions with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements (either by imaging techniques or clinically). A sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the Baseline sum longest diameter., From the date of enrolment in the study until the date of disease progression or death from any cause (up to 2 years, 6 months).
Progression-free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as the time from the date of enrolment to the date of disease progression (PD) or death, whichever occurred first. Tumor assessments were done by magnetic resonance imaging according to RECIST v1.1. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (TL), taking as reference the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since treatment started or the unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 2 lesions per organ and 5 lesions in total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as TLs at Baseline. TLs should be selected on the basis of their size (lesions with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements (either by imaging techniques or clinically). A sum of the longest diameter for all TLs will be calculated and reported as the Baseline sum longest diameter., From the date of enrolment until the end of the study (up to 2 years, 6 months).|Overall Survival, Overall survival was defined as the time from the date of enrolment to the date of death from any cause., From the date of enrolment until the end of the study (up to 2 years, 6 months).|Percentage of Participants With a Complete Response (CR) or a Partial Response (PR), A CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. A PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as reference the Baseline sum longest diameter. All measurable lesions up to a maximum of 2 lesions per organ and 5 lesions in total, representative of all involved organs, should be identified as target lesions at Baseline. All other lesions (or sites of disease) should be identified as non-target lesions. Target lesions should be selected on the basis of their size (lesions with the longest diameter) and their suitability for accurate repeated measurements (either by imaging techniques or clinically). A sum of the longest diameter for all target lesions will be calculated and reported as the Baseline sum longest diameter. Tumor assessments were done by magnetic resonance imaging according to RECIST v1.1., From the date of enrolment until the end of the study (up to 2 years, 6 months).|Percentage of Participants With Disease Control, A participant with disease control was defined as a participant with either a complete response (CR), a partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD), as determined using RECIST v1.1. A CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions (TL). A PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of TLs taking as reference the Baseline sum longest diameter (SLD). SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for progressive disease (PD), taking as reference the smallest SLD since treatment started. For non-TLs, SD was defined as the persistence of 1 or more lesions. PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in the SLD of TLs, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded since treatment started or the unequivocal progression of existing non-TLs. A SLD for all TLs will be calculated and reported as the Baseline SLD. Tumor assessments were done by magnetic resonance imaging according to RECIST v1.1., From the date of enrolment until the end of the study (up to 2 years, 6 months).
This open-label, single-arm study will evaluate the safety and efficacy of Tarceva (erlotinib) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer who have completed 4 cycles of standard platinum-based chemotherapy without progression. Patients will receive Tarceva at a dose of 150 mg orally daily until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity occurs.