A Study Comparing Immunopheresis® Alone or In Combination With Chemotherapy Versus Chemotherapy Alone in Treatment of Advanced Breast Cancer Patients
This is a multicenter, open-label, Phase 1/ 2 study to evaluate the short-term and longer-term safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of Immunopheresis® with the LW-02 column in removal of Soluble Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptors (sTNF-Rs) from plasma of patients with advanced, refractory Breast Cancer (BC) and for disease control when employed as monotherapy, or in combination with a low dose chemotherapy. A low dose chemotherapy will serve as control.
Advanced Breast Cancer
OTHER: Plasma soluble TNF receptor pulldown|OTHER: Plasma soluble TNF receptor pulldown + chemotherapy|DRUG: Chemotherapy Drugs, Cancer
Soluble Tumor Necrosis Factor Receptor (sTNFR) concentrations in plasma (picogram per mL), Column efficiency and effectiveness in removal of sTNF-Rs from patient plasma without clinically-meaningful leaching of capture ligand (SC-TNF-α) - change in sTNF-R and TNF-α plasma levels from initiation to the end of each immunopheresis procedure, including pre- and post-column measurements, between each treatment, and from baseline to end of a treatment cycle (4 weeks - Part A and B, or 16 weeks - Part C)., 16 weeks|Safety and Tolerability Assessment, Safety and tolerability assessment based on adverse event / serious adverse event (AE / SAE) and adverse device / serious adverse device effects (ADE / SADE) reporting using CTCAE/MedDRA coding terms, 16 weeks|Safety endpoints of special interest assessment, Incidence of tumor lysis syndrome and systemic inflammatory response syndrome., 16 weeks|Clinical endpoint - overall survival, A series of secondary efficacy outcome measures will be evaluated based on overall survival from the date of the firststudy treatment and changes in objective response using RECIST (1.1) or iRECIST criteria. The assessed parameterswill be:Overall Survival (OS). Overall survival ( OS ) is defined as the time from randomization to death from any cause, is adirect measure of clinical benefit to a patient., 16 weeks|Clinical endpoint - progression free survival, A series of secondary efficacy outcome measures will be evaluated based on overall survival from the date of the firststudy treatment and changes in objective response using RECIST (1.1) or iRECIST criteria. The assessed parameterswill be:Progression Free Survival (PFS) Progression-free survival ( pfs ) is defined as time from randomization until firstevidence of tumour progression or until death from any cause, whichever comes first., 16 weeks|Clinical endpoint - disease control rate, A series of secondary efficacy outcome measures will be evaluated based on overall survival from the date of the firststudy treatment and changes in objective response using RECIST (1.1) or iRECIST criteria. The assessed parameterswill be:Disease Control Rate (DCR) Overall response rate (ORR) is defined as the proportion of patients who have a partialor complete response to therapy; it does not include stable disease and is a direct measure of drug tumoricidal activity.In contrast, disease control rate is a composite of ORR and stable disease and is useful to measure the efficacy oftherapies that have tumoristatic effects rather than tumoricidal effects., 16 weeks
Nutritional status, Nutritional status will be assessed with PG-SGA scale and via laboratory assessments of changes in serum albumin and CRP concentration. The Scored Patient-Generated Subjective Global Assessment (PG-SGA©) scale will be used. The Scored PG-SGA©includes the four patient-generated historical components (Weight History, Food Intake, Symptoms and Activities andFunction - also known as the PG-SGA Short Form©), the professional part (Diagnosis, Age, Metabolic stress, andPhysical Exam), the Global Assessment (A = well nourished, B = moderately malnourished or suspected malnutrition,C = severely malnourished) and the total numerical score, 16 weeks|Patient functioninig with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG), Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) scale describes patient's functioning in terms of ability to care forthemselves, daily activity, and physical ability (walking, working). The scale grades 0 to 5 (0=fully active while 5=dead)., 16 weeks|Quality-of-life (QoL) Assessment with EQ-5D-5L scale, EQ-5D-5L scale to assess: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimensionhas 5 levels:from no problems to extreme problems., 16 weeks|Quality-of-life (QoL) Assessment with EORTC-QLQ-C30 scale, EORTC-QLQ-C30 scale measures cancer patients' physical, psychological and social functions. The EORTC QLQ-C30 comprises 30 items (i.e. single questions), 24 of which are aggregated into nine multi-item scales, that is, fivefunctioning scales (physical, role, cognitive, emotional and social), three symptom scales (fatigue, pain and nausea/vomiting) and one global health status scale. All of the scales and single-item measures range in score from 0 to 100.Higher score for the functioning scales and global health status denote a better level of functioning (i.e. a better stateof the patient), while higher scores on the symptom and single-item scales indicate a higher level of symptoms (i.e. aworse state of the patient)., 16 weeks|Quality-of-life (QoL) Assessment with EORTC: QLQ-BR23, EORTC: QLQ-BR23 (breast) measuring the quality of life in patients with breast cancer. Each dimension in the scale has four response levels from not at all (1) to very much (4)., 16 weeks|Physical performance status assessment with 6 minute walk test (6MWT), The physical performance assessment will be measured with 6-minute walk test (6MWT). 6MWT meassures the distance patient covers when walking in a regular pace in standardized condition. The longerdistance is expected in patients who improve while the poor patient performance and capability, the shorter distancewill be measured., 16 weeks|Muscle performance assessment with a hand grip test, The muscle performance assessment will be measured hand grip test. The purpose of this test is to measurethe maximum isometric strength of the hand and forearm muscles. The participant will be asked to squeeze thedynamometer as hard as possible with each of his or her hands in a standing position. The subject squeezes thedynamometer with maximum isometric effort, which is maintained for about 5 seconds. Results for left and right handseparately are recorded in kilograms., 16 weeks
This is a multicenter, open-label, Phase 1/ 2 study to evaluate the short-term and longer-term safety, tolerability, and effectiveness of Immunopheresis® with the LW-02 column in removal of sTNF-Rs from plasma of patients with advanced, refractory BC and for disease control when employed as monotherapy, or in combination with a low dose chemotherapy. A low dose chemotherapy will serve as control.

Part A (n=10 evaluable patients): Overall safety, tolerability, and sTNF-R-removal effectiveness of LW-02 device-based immunopheresis monotherapy conducted 3 times per week for 4 weeks in patients with advanced TNBC. This part is already completed.

Part B/Part B Extension (n = up to 30 evaluable patients): Overall safety, tolerability, and sTNF-Rs-removal effectiveness of LW-02 device-based Immunopheresis® 3 times per week for up to 16 weeks combined with low dose chemotherapy in patients with advanced refractory BC..

Part C (3 treatment arms; n=50 patients per treatment arm): Randomized comparison of overall safety, tolerability, and clinical efficacy effectiveness of (i) Immunopheresis® monotherapy with the LW-02 column 3 times per week for 16 weeks, (ii) or Immunopheresis® in combination with low dose chemotherapy, and (iii) plain low dose chemotherapy.

Safety Endpoints

1. Safety and tolerability - incidence of Adverse Device Effects (ADEs), Serious Adverse Device Effects (SADEs) and Unanticipated Serious Adverse Device Effects (USADEs) related to immunopheresis procedure as well as Adverse Events (AE) and Serious Adverse Events (SAEs).
2. Safety endpoints of special interest - incidence of tumor lysis syndrome, and systemic inflammatory response syndrome.
3. Patient-Reported Outcomes to evaluate health status and Quality of Life (QoL) instruments for patients with BC:

   * Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) status
   * EQ-5D-5L index-based scale
   * EORTC: QLQ-BR23 (breast), and QLQ-C30 (general cancer questionnaire)
   * 6-minute walk test and BORG dyspnea, fatigue scale and hand grip test
   * Nutritional status will be assessed with PG-SGA scale and via laboratory assessments of changes in serum albumin and CRP

Efficacy Endpoints

1. Column efficiency and effectiveness in removal of sTNF-Rs from patient plasma without clinically-meaningful leaching of capture ligand (SC-TNF-α) - change in sTNF-R and TNF-α plasma levels from initiation to the end of each Immunopheresis® procedure, including pre- and post-column measurements, between each treatment, and from baseline to end of a treatment cycle (4 weeks - Part A and B/B-extension, or 16 weeks - Part C).
2. Clinical endpoints - response in tumor burden - progression-free survival (PFS), disease control rate (DCR), objective response rate (ORR), clinical benefit rate (CBR), duration of response (DOR), duration of clinical benefit (DOCB), time-to-progression (TTP) and overall survival (OS). Serial evaluation of tumor burden/tumor growth is assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1).