The Efficacy of the Caregiver Psychoeducational Consultation Program
Aim:

To examine the effects of the caregiver psychoeducational consultation program in reducing caregiver burdens, depression, sleep quality, and improving the experience in close relationship, positive meaning of illness and quality of life.

This is the 2-year study. The design adopts the randomized controlled trial (RCT). The caregivers of patients with spouse caregivers of resectable metastatic colorectal cancer will be randomly assigned into two groups: one group receiving usual care, another group receiving the caregiver psychoeducational consultation program (CPCP). The usual care includes providing education materials only. Measurement time-points include pre intervention, post intervention, \& then 1, and 3 months after the end of intervention for the maintenance effect.
Depression|Sleep
OTHER: caregiver psychoeducational consultation program (CPCP)
Short-form 12 health-related quality of life questionnaire, pre intervention, post intervention, 1, and 3,months after the end of the interventions
Caregiver reaction assessment, pre intervention, post intervention, 1, and 3,months after the end of the interventions|Experiences in close relationships scale, pre intervention, post intervention, 1, and 3,months after the end of the interventions|Moss sleeping scale, pre intervention, post intervention, 1, and 3,months after the end of the interventions|BDI-II depression scale, pre intervention, post intervention, 1, and 3,months after the end of the interventions
To examine the effects of the caregiver psychoeducational consultation program in reducing caregiver burdens, depression, sleep quality, and improving the experience in close relationship, positive meaning of illness and quality of life.

This is the 2-year study. The design adopts the randomized controlled trial (RCT). The caregivers of patients with spouse caregivers of resectable metastatic colorectal cancer will be randomly assigned into two groups: one group receiving usual care, another group receiving the caregiver psychoeducational consultation program (CPCP). The usual care includes providing education materials only. Measurement time-points include pre intervention, post intervention, \& then 1, and 3 months after the end of intervention for the maintenance effect.