Group-Based Lifestyle Intervention in Measuring Biomarker Levels in Participants at High Risk for Breast Cancer
This randomized clinical trial studies a group-based lifestyle intervention or usual care in measuring biomarker levels in participants at high risk for breast cancer. Studying the effects that changes to daily eating and exercise habits can have on the body's hormone levels and the body's ability to activate proteins may help doctors identify interventions for individuals at high risk for breast cancer.
Atypical Ductal Breast Hyperplasia|Atypical Lobular Breast Hyperplasia|BRCA1 Mutation Carrier|BRCA2 Mutation Carrier|Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ|Lobular Breast Carcinoma in Situ
OTHER: counseling intervention|BEHAVIORAL: behavioral dietary intervention|BEHAVIORAL: exercise intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Level of adherence to the dietary component evaluated using the 3-day food records, Descriptive statistics will be calculated. The percentage of women meeting the study's eligibility criteria, percentage of those who agree to participate, and the percentage of those who complete the study will be stratified by intervention group. This analysis will summarize data collected from the participants' into themes., Up to 9 months|Level of adherence to the exercise component evaluated using the physical activity logs, Descriptive statistics will be calculated. The percentage of women meeting the study's eligibility criteria, percentage of those who agree to participate, and the percentage of those who complete the study will be stratified by intervention group. This analysis will summarize data collected from the participants' into themes., Up to 9 months|Level of adherence to the group counseling sessions component evaluated by tracking attendance, Descriptive statistics will be calculated. The percentage of women meeting the study's eligibility criteria, percentage of those who agree to participate, and the percentage of those who complete the study will be stratified by intervention group. This analysis will summarize data collected from the participants' into themes., Up to 9 months|Inter-person variability, The variance of the EDA biomarkers will be calculated in all participants at baseline, and stratify upon study arm. In order to determine the level of variance for biomarkers that is due to between-person variation in relation to the amount of variance that is due to within-person variance, the intra-class correlation coefficient will be calculated among the controls, which is based on the analysis of variance., Up to 3 months|Change in EDA biomarker levels, Linear regression models will be used for correlated outcomes., Baseline to up to 6 months|Change in BMI, Linear regression models will be used for correlated outcomes., Baseline to up to 6 months|Change in percentage of total fat, Linear regression models will be used for correlated outcomes., Baseline to up to 6 months|Change in percentage of body fat as measured by BMI, Linear regression models will be used for correlated outcomes., Baseline to up to 6 months|Movement through the stages of change (pre-contemplation, contemplation, action, and maintenance) and data collected from quality of life questionnaires, The participant's baseline level of readiness for change modified the effect of the intervention will be investigated, with the hypothesis that the largest impact will be observed within those with the highest level of readiness for change., Up to 9 months
Differences in change of the DNA repair assay in intervention participants versus controls, Analysis of variance will be used., Baseline to up to 3 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To calculate eligibility rates, participation rates, retention, and adherence within the Diet, Exercise and Estrogen Metabolites (DEEM) study.

II. To determine inter- and intra-person variability of the estrogen-deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) adducts (EDA) biomarkers in participants of the DFS.

III. To explore the effects of the intervention on percent adiposity and the EDA ratio at the end of the 3-month intervention and 6-month follow-up.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the effects of the intervention on the DNA damage repair (DDR) biomarker at 3-months.

OUTLINE: Participants are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants take part in weekly 2-hour group counseling sessions for 6 months with taper beginning at 3 months. Group sessions include education, group process, and experiential learning on the benefits of physical activity, balanced nutrition, and mindfulness techniques. Participants set goals for changing their dietary habits with the help of a mental health counselor and are also encouraged to exercise 3-4 times per week, including experiential group activities such as brisk walking, yoga, Zumba, and group fitness.

ARM II: Participants receive their usual care and are also provided with study materials on healthy diet and exercise at the end of the study.

After completion of study, participants are followed up for 3 months.