A Study of MK4827 in Participants With Advanced Solid Tumors or Hematologic Malignancies (MK-4827-001 AM8)
This is a four-part dose-escalation and confirmation study in participants with advanced solid tumors. Part A is for dose escalation and determination of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of MK-4827. Part B is a prostate/ovarian cancer cohort expansion. Part C is for a cohort of participants with relapsed or refractory T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Part D will be for a cohort of participants with locally advanced or metastatic colorectal carcinoma (CRC), persistent or recurrent endometrial carcinoma, locally advanced or metastatic triple negative or highly proliferative estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer, or partially platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer. The study is also designed to find out whether MK-4827 causes at least 50% inhibition of poly adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase (PARP) enzyme activity.
Solid Tumors|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|T-cell-prolymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: MK-4827
Number of participants with dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), Cycle 1 (21 days)|Percent inhibition of peripheral blood mononuclear cell PARP enzyme activity (Part A, B, and C), Cycle 1 (Days 1-21)
This is a four-part dose-escalation and confirmation study in participants with advanced solid tumors. Part A is for dose escalation and determination of maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) of MK-4827. Part B is a prostate/ovarian cancer cohort expansion. Part C is for a cohort of participants with relapsed or refractory T-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (T-PLL) or chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Part D will be for a cohort of participants with locally advanced or metastatic colorectal carcinoma (CRC), persistent or recurrent endometrial carcinoma, locally advanced or metastatic triple negative or highly proliferative estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer, or partially platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer. The study is also designed to find out whether MK-4827 causes at least 50% inhibition of poly adenosine diphosphate ribose polymerase (PARP) enzyme activity.