Optimizing lymphoDepletion to Improve Outcomes In Patients Receiving Cell Therapy With Yescarta
This is a Phase 1b study of participants with Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma (DLBCL). The purpose of this study is to identify an optimized lymphodenpletion (LD) regimen by evaluating standard and intermediate doses of Fludarabine (Flu) / Cyclophosphamide (Cy) with or without a fixed dose of total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) in the setting of standard of care CAR T cell therapy.
DLBCL - Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|RADIATION: TLI
safety and tolerability of chemo rads as conditioning chemo, To assess the safety and tolerability of a combination chemo-radiation lymphodepletion (LD) regimen (Fludarabine (Flu)/Cyclophosphamide (Cy) + total lymphoid irradiation (TLI ) in patients receiving standard of care CAR T cell therapy for relapsed/refractory diffuse large B cell lymphoma (R/R DLBCL), by establishing the maximum tolerated doses (MTD) of standard (ZUMA-1) dose Flu/Cy + TLI, and of intermediate dose iCy/Flu +/- TLI, and the dose limiting toxicities (DLT) of standard dose Flu/Cy + TLI, and of intermediate dose iCy/Flu +/- TLI, baseline through Day 30
Overall response rate, The overall response rate is the proportion of patients with either a CR or PR while on study. All patients who do not meet the criteria for objective response by the analysis data cutoff date will be considered non-responders. This will be measured by CT/PET, baseline through day 365|Complete response, To assess the efficacy (complete response (CR) rate at 12 months) of a combination chemo-radiation LD regimen (standard dose Flu/Cy + TLI) in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy for R/R DLBCL. To assess the efficacy of an intermediate dose iCy/Flu +/- TLI LD regimen in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy for R/R DLBCL. All CR and PR responses may be reviewed by an expert(s) / independent radiologist as required by simultaneous review of patient files and radiologic images, baseline through day 365|Progression free survival, To assess the efficacy (progression free survival (PFS) at 12 months) of a combination chemo-radiation LD regimen (standard dose Flu/Cy + TLI) in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy for R/R DLBCL. To assess the efficacy of an intermediate dose iCy/Flu +/- TLI LD regimen in patients receiving CAR T cell therapy for R/R DLBCL. Progression free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., baseline through day 365
Patients will be enrolled in two stages: the dose escalation stage to assess the safety and tolerability of a modified LD regimen, and once the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined, a cohort expansion phase to further characterize the toxicity and efficacy profile and determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D). The study will enroll approximately 18-24 patients in the dose escalation stage (Part 1), and approximately 20 further patients at cohort expansion (Part 2). There will be four dose escalation cohorts, in two study arms. There are two dosing cohorts in each study arm. Patients in Arm 1 will receive the ZUMA-1 chemotherapy LD regimen with or without TLI, and in Arm 2, an intermediate dose of Cy with a fixed dose of Flu, with or without TLI, will be given.

The cohorts in Arm 1 will enroll concurrently, and enrollment into Arm 2 will begin after Arm 1 has enrolled all patients and data review by the Trial Steering Committee (TSC).

For accrual into Cohort 2, Arm 1, there will be a 15-day staggered enrollment for the first 2 patients. Staggered enrollment with another 15-day delay may be considered for enrollment into Cohorts 3 and 4, Arm 2, after review by the TSC. Following completion of accrual to Arm 1, a 30 day dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) window will be observed, prior to review by the TSC and commencement of enrollment into Arm 2.