Effects of Perioperative Immunonutrition in Patients With Head and Neck Cancer
A prospective randomized controlled study compared the effects of perioperative immunonutrition and standard enteral nutrition (EN) on postoperative short-term outcomes of patients with head and neck (HNC).

Five days before surgery and the postoperative day 10, immunonutrition support was given to the intervention group (n=17), and standard EN support was given to the control group (n=17). Body analyses were made, food consumption records were taken, NRS-2002 and quality of life scales were applied, and biochemical parameters were recorded.
Head and Neck Cancer|Nutrition, Healthy
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Experimental (Immunonutrition) Group|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Active Comparator Group ( Standard enteral nutrition)
Body weight, Kg, 40 days|Body weight loss, Kg, 40 days|Body mass index, kg/m2, 40 days|Resting metabolic rate, kcal, 40 days|Nutrition Risk Screening 2002, A total score of ≥3 indicates that the patient is at nutritional risk, 40 days|The EORTC Core Quality of Life questionnaire-30 (EORTC QLQ-C30), 1. Estimate the average of the items that contribute to the scale; this is the raw score.
2. Use a linear transformation to standardise the raw score, so that scores range from 0 to 100; a higher score represents a higher ("better") level of functioning, or a higher ("worse") level of symptoms., 40 days|The EORTC Quality of life - Head and Neck Cancer Module (EORTC QLQ-H & N35), The head \& neck cancer module incorporates seven multi-item scales that assess pain, swallowing, senses (taste and smell), speech, social eating, social contact and sexuality. There are also eleven single items. For all items and scales, high scores indicate more problems (i.e. there are no function scales in which high scores would mean better functioning)., 40 days|Albumin, g/dL, 40 days|C-reactive protein, mg/L, 40 days|Prealbumin, mg/dL, 40 days
Length of hospital stay, days, 40 days|Complication development status, It was evaluated as yes/no., 40 days
A prospective randomized controlled study compared the effects of perioperative immunonutrition and standard enteral nutrition (EN) on postoperative short-term outcomes of patients with head and neck (HNC).

Five days before surgery and the postoperative day 10, immunonutrition support was given to the intervention group (n=17), and standard EN support was given to the control group (n=17). Body analyses were made, food consumption records were taken, NRS-2002 and quality of life scales were applied, and biochemical parameters were recorded.