Evaluation of Acupuncture Effects for Complications After Surgery of Cerebellopontine Angle Tumor in Skull Base
Skull base tumors are a type of tumor that grow in the area of several skulls behind the cranial cavity. The incidence rate is 2 to 18 per 100,000 people per year; males and females are likely to have a proportional difference in the types of skull base tumors.

Cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors are the most common neoplasms in the posterior skull base,accounting for 5-10% of skull base tumors.Some different kinds of tumors can grow in cerebellopontine angle. The tumors are more likely to cause some symptoms when they grow large enough to put pressure on the brain.

A common traditional treatment for skull base tumors is neurosurgery-craniotomy. However, after the operation, brain may be injured with hematoma, and the instruments used are in contact with the brain. It is still inevitable that there will have complications of minor and major nerve damages, such as facial paralysis,trigeminal neuralgia, tinnitus, sports disorders (ataxia) and so on.

Acupuncture has a unique effect on the treatment of the human nervous system. Aim of the study is used acupuncture to improve the complications of the surgery of Cerebellopontine angle tumors in skull base.
Acupuncture|Tumor, Brain|Skull Base Tumor|Cerebellopontine Angle Tumor|Complication of Treatment|Quality of Life|Neuromuscular Blockade
WHOQOL-BREF Taiwan Version, Evaluate the quality of life after acupuncture treatment, use WHOQOL-BREF Taiwan Version questionnaire. Scale: 0\~100, higher scores, better life quality. Counted by each time recording and using mode conversion to get final scale., 8 weeks|Visual Analogue Scale: VAS, measurement for pain,to assess the pain degree. Scale: 0\~100 mm, higher scores, higher pain . Counted by each time recording., 8 weeks|Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy: General(FACT-G), Evaluate the quality of life for " the patients of CPA tumor in skull base " after acupuncture treatment,there are four parts,physiology,social and family, emotion,function.Scale: 0\~100, higher scores, better life quality. Counted by each time recording and using mode conversion to get final scale., 8 weeks|House-Brackmann grading scale, measurement and evaluate the level for the patients of facial paralysis after surgery of CPA tumor in skull base.Measure the upwards and outwards movement situation of eyebrows and mouth. Each reference point scores 1 point for each 0.25 cm movement, up to a maximum of 1 cm. The scores are then added together, to give a number out of 8.After that, the scale of facial paralysis corresponding to the score was divided into five levels, with the first level being the mildest and the fifth level being the most severe., 8 weeks
Skull base has clinically unique importance:it is the anatomic junction of the neural and facial viscerocranium,supports human brain and supports that contains the neurovascular structures entering or exiting the skull,it divided into anterior,middle and posterior skull base.Skull base tumors are a type of tumor that grow in the area of several skulls behind the cranial cavity ,tumors most grow inside the skull base, and a few are formed outside because the tumor may originate from the base of skull or elsewhere in the body (metastatic).The incidence rate is 2 to 18 per 100,000 people per year; males and females are likely to have a proportional difference in the types of skull base tumors.

Cerebellopontine angle (CPA) tumors are common skull base tumors in posterior skull base. CP angle located below the cerebrum, between the pons and the cerebellum and between the superior and inferior limbs of the cerebellopontine fissure, it is a V-shaped angular cleft. About 6%-10% of skull base tumors are in the cerebellopontine angle (CPA). 90% of tumors in this area(CPA) are vestibular schwannoma (acoustic neuromas), 3% are meningioma, and the rest are primary cholesteatoma (lipoma),facial nerve schwannoma ,angioma as well as arachnoid cyst etc..

At present, computed tomography (CT) and nuclear magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can be used to detect and evaluate skull base lesions. When these tumors grow enough to compress the nerves around the brain, the areas where the tumor are pressed could cause some symptoms such as blurred vision, headache, dizziness and other specific symptoms that affect normal life.

A common traditional treatment for skull base tumors is neurosurgery-craniotomy. However, after the operation, the brain may be injured with hematoma, and the instruments used are in contact with the brain. It is still inevitable that there will have complications of minor and major nerve damages, such as facial paralysis and trigeminal neuralgia, tinnitus, sports disorders (ataxia) and so on. If the damages are in serious situations, patients are also possible to be serious infected or in a vegetative state.

Acupuncture has a unique effect on the treatment of the human nervous system. Acupuncture mainly aims to improve the complications of the surgery of Cerebellopontine angle tumors in skull base by eliminating blood stasis, clearing meridians, and strengthening the body.The researchers' selections of acupoints are distributed in Large Intestine,Stomach Meridian,Small Intestine Meridian,Triple Energizer Meridian and Gallbladder Meridian in body.

In the past, some researchers used questionnaires for the quality of life of skull base tumor surgery, and also some researchers used questionnaires to evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture. The rationale of the study is to combine these three-the surgery of CP Angle tumor in skull base,acupuncture and questionnaires.Namely,the researchers use four questionnaires to evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture after surgery of Cerebellopontine Angle tumor in skull base.