18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT Impact on Predicting Clinical Outcome of 177Lu-PSMA-617 Therapy in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This a single-center, prospective, exploratory study. Patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) scheduled to undergo Lutetium labelled prostate-specific membrane antigen radioligand therapy (LuPSMA RLT) at the West Los Angeles VA (WLA-VA) will be imaged with a baseline F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography 18F-FDG PET/CT and a 18F-DCFPyL PET/CT (18F-DCFPyL (2-(3-{1-carboxy-5-\[(6-18F-fluoro-pyridine-3-carbonyl)-amino\]-pentyl}-ureido)-pentanedioic acid)positron emission tomography/computed tomography , as per standard of care in our institution. All patients further undergo eventual follow-up prostate-specific membrane antigen positron emission tomography (PSMA PET) after the 2nd, 4th, and 6th LuPSMA RLT cycle. In this prospective study, an18F-Fluciclovine positron emission tomography/computed tomography ( Axumin PET/CT )will be additionally obtained at baseline (pre-LuPSMA RLT), and after the 2nd, 4th, 6th LuPSMA RLT cycles. Axumin PET/CT will be acquired within 7 days from the PSMA PET.

This study is open to Veterans only.
Prostatic Neoplasms|Prostatic Neoplasms, Castration-Resistant|Metastatic Prostate Cancer|Male Urogenital Diseases|Prostatic Diseases|Urogenital Diseases, Male|Genital Diseases, Male|Neoplasms|Neoplasms by Site|Urogenital Neoplasms|Genital Neoplasms, Male
DRUG: 18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT Scan
18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT Impact on Predicting Clinical Outcome of 177Lu-PSMA-617 Therapy in Patients With Prostate Cancer, Whole-body and lesion-level SUVmean, SUVmax. SUVmax, or maximum standardized uptake value, is a measurement used in positron emission tomography (PET) scans to quantify how much glucose a tumor is metabolizing., From enrollment to end of treatment at 34 weeks.
Usefulness of Tumor Heterogeneity Assessment in Patients in Patients With MCRPC Undergoing Radioligand Therapy With 177LU-PSMA-617 Using Serial 18F-DCFPYL, 18F-FDG and 18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT Predicting Clinical Outcome., Tumor volume on FDG, Axumin and DCFPyL PET/CT. Tumor volume is the amount of space a tumor occupies, measured in cubic centimeters (cc)., From enrollment to end of treatment at 34 weeks
Usefulness of Tumor Heterogeneity Assessment in Patients in Patients With MCRPC Undergoing Radioligand Therapy With 177LU-PSMA-617 Using Serial 18F-DCFPYL, 18F-FDG and 18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT Predicting Clinical Outcome., Percentage change in Whole-body and lesion-level SUVmean, SUVmax and tumor volume on FDG, Axumin and DCFPyL PET/CT pre- and post LuPSMA therapy. A "percentage change" refers to the calculated percentage difference between a initial value ( pre LuPSMA ) and a later measurement ( post LuPSMA ), essentially showing how much the tumor has grown or shrunk compared to its baseline size., From enrollment to end of treatment at 34 weeks
The imaging analysis will consist in obtaining quantitative measurements of lesion uptake on the pre- and post-LuPSMA RLT (lesion and whole-body SUVmax, SUVmean and tumor volume) at each time point on all PET/CT scans. PET metrics at the lesion- and whole-body level will be compared among different PET radiopharmaceuticals at the same time point, and changes over time will be assessed.

All patients will be followed-up at our institution and clinical outcome will be correlated to the imaging analysis assessment.