Bevacizumab and Aldesleukin in Treating Patients With Metastatic Clear Cell Carcinoma of the Kidney
RATIONALE: Monoclonal antibodies, such as bevacizumab, can block tumor growth in different ways. Some block the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Others find tumor cells and help kill them or carry tumor-killing substances to them. Bevacizumab may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor. Biological therapies, such as aldesleukin, may stimulate the immune system in different ways and stop tumor cells from growing. Giving bevacizumab together with aldesleukin may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well giving bevacizumab together with aldesleukin works in treating patients with metastatic clear cell carcinoma of the kidney.
Kidney Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: aldesleukin|BIOLOGICAL: bevacizumab
Progression Free Survival, Progression free survival is defined as the time between registration and progression of disease as defined by the RECIST criteria where there is a 20% increase in the diameter of the tumor and at least a 5mm absolute increase in diameter., From baseline (day -14) to disease progression (reported at 2 years)
Objective Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Objective response rate to be assigned a status of PR or CR per RECIST criteria, with Complete Response (CR) referring to the disappearance of all target lesions, Partial Response (PR) referring to at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD.

Changes in tumor measurements must be confirmed by repeat assessments that should be performed no less than 4 weeks after the criteria for response are first met., 4 weeks after end of treatment|Percentage of Patients With Constitutional Adverse Events, Toxicity Criteria: The NCI graded common clinical toxicity scale (NCI Version 2.0) will be employed to grade observed toxicity of fatigue and fever/chills, From start of treatment to 30 days after treatment|Percentage of Patients With Neutropenia, Toxicity Criteria: The NCI graded common clinical toxicity scale (NCI Version 2.0) will be employed to grade observed toxicity of neutropenia, From start of treatment to 30 days after treatment
Peripheral Blood CD1c+ Myeloid Dendritic Cells, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), Beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)|CD303+ Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cells, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)|IL-8 Levels, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)|CD4+ Treg Cells, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)|CD25+ Treg Cells, Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)|T-helper Cells (Type 1,2), Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and plasma were separated by centrifugation. Targeted cells were isolated by a magnetic labeling system. Total RNA was isolated and then amplified by (Polymerase Chain Reactions) PCR to measure levels of the immune parameter., Baseline (day -14), beginning and end of cycle 1 (day 1, 57)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* To evaluate the effect of the combination of bevacizumab and aldesleukin on progression-free survival of patients with good- or intermediate-risk metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

Secondary

* To determine the objective response rate in patients receiving this regimen.
* To determine the time to progression in patients receiving this regimen.
* To evaluate immunomodulatory effects of this regimen in patients
* To evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

OUTLINE: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days -14, 1, 15, 29, and 42 and aldesleukin subcutaneously on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33, and 36-40. Courses repeat every 8 weeks for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients achieving complete response after completion of study therapy may receive 1 additional course of therapy.

After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.