Prostate Irreversible Electroporation Study
Conventional treatment options for localized prostate cancer include prostatectomy, radiotherapy and active surveillance. However, prostatectomy and radiotherapy carry certain degree of morbidity, including the risks of urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction and injury to the structures in the proximity. Active surveillance carries the risk of disease progression and psychological distress to the patients. Focal therapy employs the concept of only destroying the significant lesion, resulting in disease cure and improved functional outcome. Among the different options of focal therapy, Irreversible electroporation has evolved over the past decades and can be a reliable treatment option. Our study aims at assess the safety and effectiveness of such treatment in prostate cancer management.
Prostate Cancer
DEVICE: Prostate Irreversible Electroporation
6-month oncological outcome, 6-month oncological outcome after Prostate Irreversible Electroporation treatment, as defined by multiparametric MRI result of prostate, 6-month after treatment
6-month and 12-month functional and oncological outcome, 6-month and 12-month functional and oncological outcome after Prostate Irreversible Electroporation treatment by questionnaires and multiparametric MRI result of prostate, At 6-month and 12-month after treatment|30-day complications, 30-day complications after study intervention, at 30 day after treatment|Presence of histologically proven prostate cancer recurrence, Presence of histologically proven prostate cancer recurrence on biopsy in suspicious cases, At 12-month after treatment|PSA change, PSA change after treatment, At 3-month, 6-month, 9-month and 12-month after treatment
Conventional treatment options for localized prostate cancer include prostatectomy, radiotherapy and active surveillance. However, prostatectomy and radiotherapy carry certain degree of morbidity, including the risks of urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction and injury to the structures in the proximity. Active surveillance carries the risk of disease progression and psychological distress to the patients. Focal therapy employs the concept of only destroying the significant lesion, resulting in disease cure and improved functional outcome. Among the different options of focal therapy, Irreversible electroporation has evolved over the past decades and can be a reliable treatment option. Our study aims at assess the safety and effectiveness of such treatment in prostate cancer management.