Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Monitoring of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor-related Cardiotoxicity
This study is a prospective cohort clinical research that analyzes the changes in CMR parameters before and after immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) therapy in patients with gynecologic malignancies. It also evaluates the value of CMR parameters in predicting long-term outcomes. The baseline assessment will be conducted prior to ICIs treatment, followed by multiple assessments during the medication process including within one week prior to cycle 3 , within the week prior to cycle 5 , 1 year after the first dose, and 2 years after the first dose. Assessment will also be conducted after discontinuation of ICIs medication. The assessment includes clinical assessment, CMR imaging, echocardiography, serum cardiac injury biomarkers, etc. Cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD), survival, and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) will be followed up.
Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors, Cardiotoxicity
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Cardiac magnetic resonance
cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD), Any reduction of LVEF to below 50% or a \>10% reduction from baseline falling below the lower limit of normal., 2 month to 3 years
All-cause death; major adverse cardiac events (MACE), MACE were defined as a composite of cardiovascular death, cardiac arrest,cardiogenic shock, myocarditis, acute coronary syndromes (including non-ST-segment elevation and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction), congestive heart failure, nonmalignant pericardial disorders, dysrhythmias（including complete heart block，documented sustained ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation), 2 month to 3 years
This study is a prospective cohort clinical research that analyzes the changes in CMR parameters before and after immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) therapy in patients with gynecologic malignancies. It also evaluates the value of CMR parameters in predicting long-term outcomes. The baseline assessment will be conducted prior to ICIs treatment, followed by multiple assessments during the medication process including within one week prior to cycle 3 , within the week prior to cycle 5 , 1 year after the first dose, and 2 years after the first dose. Assessment will also be conducted after discontinuation of ICIs medication. The assessment includes clinical assessment, CMR imaging, echocardiography, serum cardiac injury biomarkers, etc. Cancer therapy-related cardiac dysfunction (CTRCD), survival, and major adverse cardiac events (MACE) will be followed up.