Safety, Efficacy, and Pharmacodynamics of a 60-Minute Infusion of Carfilzomib for Progressive Multiple Myeloma
This is a Phase 1/2, multicenter, open label, dose-escalation, nonrandomized study to evaluate the safety, pharmacodynamics, and efficacy of a 60-minute infusion of carfilzomib for patients with progressive multiple myeloma.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Carfilzomib and Dexamethasone
Establish maximum tolerated dose (MTD), Maximum tolerated dose will be established by the number of dose limiting toxicities and the overall safety and tolerability of the study drug.

Safety and tolerability will be determined by the following:

1. incidence and frequency of adverse events throughout the study
2. clinical laboratory test results at study visits
3. vital signs measurements at each study visits
4. medical history and physical examination findings
5. ECOG performance status at study visits
6. concomitant medication usage throughout the study, monthly, up to 24 months
Establish efficacy as assessed by the overall response rate, Response rate will be determined by the following:

1. SPEP, UPEP, and quantification of immunoglobulins and immunofixation
2. bone marrow aspirates and biopsies to confirm CR
3. roentgenographic skeletal survey

Response rate will be assessed by the following:

1. Clinical benefit response rate
2. Progression-free survival
3. Time to progression
4. Duration of response
5. Overall survival
6. Pharmacodynamics, monthly, up to 24 months
Relationship of 60-minute infusion of carflizomib with pharmacodynamic markers, weekly for 2 months
This is a Phase 1/2, multicenter, open label, dose-escalation, nonrandomized study to evaluate the safety, pharmacodynamics, and efficacy of a 60-minute infusion of carfilzomib for patients with progressive multiple myeloma.

The study will consist of a screening period, followed by a treatment period of up to eight 28-day treatment cycles, followed by a period of maintenance treatment. Subjects are to be treated until disease progression.