Propylene Glycol-Free Melphalan HCl (EVOMELA®) in Combination With Fludarabine and Total Body Irradiation Based Reduced Intensity Conditioning for Haploidentical Transplantation
This is an open-label, single-arm, phase II study to determine the safety of propylene glycol-free melphalan HCl (EVOMELA®), in combination with fludarabine and total-body irradiation-based reduced-intensity conditioning for haploidentical transplantation. In addition, the study evaluates the one-year progression-free survival of patients undergoing this treatment.
Hematological Malignancy|Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Evomela|DRUG: Fludarabine|RADIATION: Total Body Irradiation
Progression-free survival (PFS) of participants with hematological malignancies undergoing treatment., Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the length of time during and after the treatment that a participant lives with the disease but it does not get worse. This measure is the number of subjects with PFS at one year., 1 year|The safety of this trial will be evaluated with the nonrelapse mortality rate., This is the number of participants expiring unrelated to relapse of disease., 1 Year
Overall survival, The number of participants still alive at one year and 2 years., 1 Year and 2 Year|Number of subjects with relapse of disease., The number of participants who relapse following reduced-intensity conditioning haploidentical transplantation at Day 100 and 1 Year., Day 100 and 1 Year|Neutrophil recovery, The average of the number of days that it takes for neutrophil recovery from reduced-intensity conditioning haploidentical transplantation. Neutrophil recovery means absolute neutrophil count of 0.5x10\^3 cells/uL., Day 30|Platelet recovery, The average of the number of days that it takes for platelet recovery from reduced-intensity conditioning haploidentical transplantation. Platelet recovery means absolute neutrophil count of 50x10\^3 cells/uL., Day 30|Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) at day 100 and 180., The number of participants with graft-versus-host disease using the Center for International Bone Marrow Transplant Research criteria., Days 100 and 180|Rates of chronic GVHD at one-year post transplantation., The number of participants with chronic GVHD at one-year post transplantation using the Center for International Bone Marrow Transplant Research criteria., 1 Year|Primary graft failure, Number of subjects whose grafts failed to implant., Day 30
OVERVIEW:

Elderly and infirm patients with hematological malignancies often cannot undergo allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) because of high-toxicity rates and nonrelapse mortality (NRM) associated with higher-intensity conditioning allografts.

Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) transplantation has emerged as an attractive alternative for these populations.

FLUDARABINE/MELPHALAN. In RIC, fludarabine is often used as the lymphocyte-depleting component to facilitate donor-cell engraftment. This drug can be given once daily because of its plasma half-life. M.D. Anderson pioneered the use of fludarabine melphalan (FLU/MEL) conditioning, which has since gained wide usage. (1) Melphalan is convenient, has broad antitumor activity in hematologic malignancies and has immunosuppressive effects. The Flu/Mel conditioning regimen can provide long-term disease control, especially in the subset of patients with chemo sensitive disease. (1) TOTAL-BODY IRRADIATION. In a recent study, total-body irradiation (200 cGy) was used with flu/mel for advanced lymphoma treated with HCT. With a median follow-up time close to two years, the survival of these mostly advanced, relapsed/refractory patients was very encouraging with overall survival of 54% and progression-free survival of 54% for the entire group. (2) Treatment-related mortality was low at day 100 (9.1%) and two years (19%) after transplantation, with stable engraftment achieved in the great majority of patients.

PROPYLENE GLYCOL-FREE MELPHALAN HCL (EVOMELA®). In theory, intensifying the dose of melphalan in flu/mel conditioning could provide better disease control post HCT, allowing more time for curative graft-versus-leukemia effects to emerge. The use of the commercial formulation of melphalan (Alkeran®) proved somewhat problematic, however, because it must be reconstituted with propylene glycol, a substance that has been associated with toxic side effects. The substitution of Captisol® in propylene glycol-free melphalan HCl (EVOMELA®) for Injection (Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.) for the excipients found in Alkeran®, directly overcomes the formulation limitations noted with Alkeran®.

STUDY RATIONALE. The preliminary data suggest that the substitution of Captisol® in EVOMELA® for the excipients found in Alkeran® directly overcomes the formulation limitations and provides a potentially safer melphalan formulation for administration at higher doses used in HCT conditioning regimens.

Based on these observations, we now propose a phase II study of a RIC regimen consisting of EVOMELA® in combination with fludarabine and total-body irradiation for patients undergoing haplo-HCT. The study will investigate the safety and tolerability of this conditioning approach. While the FDA indication for EVOMELA® is for myeloablative conditioning prior to autologous HCT in patients with multiple myeloma, we anticipate our study will provide critical preliminary data to explore this formulation in allogeneic HCT conditioning.