Denosumab in Treating Patients With ER and/or PR Positive, HER2 Negative Metastatic Breast Cancer With Bone Metastases and Detectable Circulating Tumor Cells
The purpose of this study is to look at the amount of cancer cells in the blood of participants who are being treated with denosumab. The other purpose is to look at how long it takes for cancer to get worse when participants are being treated with denosumab. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in the blood of patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) have been associated with shorter survival than when CTCs are absent, especially in patients whose cancer has spread to their bones. In this study, we want it see if denosumab (the study drug) will decrease the number of CTCs measured in patients with MBC and cancer that has spread to their bones. We also plan to get blood from participants to study other research markers of interest.
Breast Carcinoma Metastatic in the Bone|Circulating Tumor Cell Count|Estrogen Receptor Positive|HER2/Neu Negative|Progesterone Receptor Positive|Stage IV Breast Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Denosumab|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Fraction of Patients With Reduction in CTCs, Assess the effect of denosumab in Her2/neu negative ER+ and/ or PR+ metastatic breast cancer patients who are in Partial Response (PR) or Stable Disease (SD) after starting systemic therapy with bone metastases and ≥ 5 CTCs by measuring the fraction of patients with reduction in CTCs., Up to 3 months
Percent Change in CTCs, Evaluate the effect of denosumab on CTCs enumeration by assessing the percent change from baseline., Baseline up to 3 months|Median Progression Free Survival, Assess median progression free survival (m-PFS) using statistical analysis evaluating the relationship between longitudinal CTC counts and PFS. PRS will be measured from the time of treatment up until progressive disease., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of denosumab in Her2/neu negative ER+ and/or PR+ metastatic breast cancer patients who are in partial response (PR) or stable disease (SD) after starting systemic therapy with bone metastases and \>= 5 circulating tumor cells (CTCs) by measuring the fraction of patients with reduction in CTCs after 3 cycles of denosumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the effect of denosumab on CTCs enumeration considered as a continuous variable (percent change from baseline) in this population.

II. To evaluate median progression-free survival (m-PFS).

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. CTC enumeration after enrichment. II. To assess the effect on CTC profiling and characterization of stem cell phenotype (CTC-EMT).

III. To evaluate the type of progressive disease (new site versus \[vs.\] progression of lesions in previous sites).

IV. To analyze the expression of RANKL.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive denosumab subcutaneously (SC) on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in the absence of disease progression, unexpected toxicity, or patient withdrawal or death.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 12 weeks for up to 2 years.