Acupuncture for Chemo-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy in Multiple Myeloma Patients
This randomized, controlled trial is designed to evaluate the effect of acupuncture on Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN), other symptoms, and potential opioid and concomitant medication sparing effects in comparison to standard of care management in Multiple Myeloma subjects.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy
OTHER: Acupuncture|OTHER: Standard of Care CIPN management
Change of Neuropathy in Actively Treated Multiple Myeloma Subjects Diagnosed With Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy Who Received Acupuncture vs Standard of Care Management., Neuropathy will be subject reported using an 11-point scale from 0-no neuropathy to 10-worst possible neuropathy. The outcome will be measured as a binary variable indicating whether or not a subject experienced at least a 2-point improvement in neuropathy between the baseline score and the score obtained at Week 10 +/- 1 week., Approximately 10 weeks, from baseline measure to 10 week (+/- 1 week) measure.
Specific Features of Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy From FACT-GOG-NTX, Specific features of CIPN assessed through the subscale from FACT-GOG-NTX will be determined for each subject as a composite measure, which is calculated as the sum of the responses to the subscale questions. For subjects who complete all 12 subscale questions, the composite score will range from 0 to 48. Higher scores mean worse outcome, 10 weeks|Nausea - FACT-GOG-NTX, Nausea will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GP2 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I have nausea.', approx. 10 weeks|Sadness- FACT-GOG-NTX, Sadness will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GE1 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I feel sad'., approx. 10 weeks|Nervousness- FACT-GOG-NTX, Nervousness will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GE4 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I feel nervous.', approx. 10 weeks|Sleep Quality- FACT-GOG-NTX, Sleep quality will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GF5 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I am sleeping well.', approx. 10 weeks|Lack of Energy- FACT-GOG-NTX, Lack of energy will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GP1 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I have a lack of energy.', approx. 10 weeks|Pain- FACT-GOG-NTX, Pain will be determined for each subject as 5 level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through question GP4 on the FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I have pain.', approx. 10 weeks|Constipation, Constipation will be determined for each subject as a 5-level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through additional question amended to FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. The item is to rate the statement 'I have constipation.', approx. 10 weeks|Dizziness, Dizziness will be determined for each subject as a 5- level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through additional question amended to FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. This item is to rate the statement 'I have dizziness'., approx. 10 weeks|Dry Mouth, Dry mouth will be determined for each subject as a 5- level ordinal variable from 0 = not at all to 4 = very much through additional question amended to FACT-GOG-NTX subject-reported assessment. This item is to rate the statement 'I have dry mouth.', approx. 10 weeks|General Health - CDC-HRQOL, General Health assessed through CDC-HRQOL Question 1 will be calculated for each subject as a 5- level ordinal variable from Poor to Excellent., approx. 10 weeks
Adverse Events of Special Interest, Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI) will be determined for each subject as binary variables indicating whether or not they experienced a protocol defined AESI, including bleeding, bruising, skin infection, edema, dry skin, urticaria, pruritus, rash, pain or flushing at the acupuncture site, or dizziness, syncope, fatigue, or hyperhidrosis., approx. 10 weeks|Opioid Use, Opioid use will be calculated for each subject as a quantitative value assessed through Morphine Equivalent Daily Dose (MEDD)., approx. 10 weeks|Acupuncture Administration, Acupuncture administration will be defined for each subject on the acupuncture arm as the number of attended acupuncture sessions from 0 to 12., approx. 10 weeks|Acupuncture Expectancy, The acupuncture expectancy score will be captured quantitatively for each subject as a composite score ranging from 4 to 20. Higher scores indicate higher expectancy of acupuncture., approx 10 weeks
This study aims to strengthen the care of persons with Multiple Myeloma by improving quality of life (QOL) and ability to perform daily activities through reduced Chemotherapy-Induced Peripheral Neuropathy (CIPN) symptoms. CIPN debilitates and erodes QOL by preventing individuals from pursuing their normal activities of daily living.

The features of CIPN, including physical, social/family, emotional, functional, and specific CIPN symptoms, will be measured with the validated FACT-GOG-NTX. This project brings necessary attention and scientific inquiry to supportive cancer care, which is sometimes de-prioritized behind disease treatment. The potential for nonpharmacologic acupuncture to reduce CIPN and other symptoms with minimal side effects has beneficial implications for disease treatment. Patients with controlled symptoms are better able to tolerate life-prolonging treatment and avoid chemotherapy dose reductions which result from neurotoxic side effects of chemotherapy.

Subjects who consent and are determined to be eligible will be randomized to receive either acupuncture treatment or standard of care treatment for their CIPN. Subjects' socio-demographics, medical history, opioid and concomitant medication intake information will be collected. Subjects who are randomized to the acupuncture treatment arm will receive 12 sessions of acupuncture over approximately 10 weeks. Subjects randomized to standard of care will continue with standard of care therapy per their physician for treatment of their CIPN. All subjects will complete questionnaires at Baseline, mid-point, and endpoint. Responses to questionnaires will then be analyzed towards answering the study's objectives.