Preoperative Hemogram Parameters and BRAF Molecular Test Detected by Bethesda 3 Cytology.
The main hypothesis of this study is that preoperative hemogram parameters can be used as biomarkers for malignancy in patients with thyroid nodule Bethesda 3 cytology.

The secondary hypothesis is that BRAF molecular testing has a high predictive value in predicting malignancy in patients with thyroid nodule Bethesda 3 cytology.

Primary outcome: Preoperative hemogram parameters. Secondary outcome: BRAF positivity.
Blood Platelet Disorder|BRAF V600E|Thyroid Nodule|Cytologic Atypia
Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) (fL), Mean Platelet Volume (MPV) (fL) values will be taken and recorded in the preoperative hemogram parameters of all patients., 1 week|Neutrophil/lenfosit Ratio (NLR)(103/µL), Neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio (NLR) will be calculated by taking the Neutrophil (103/µL) and Lymphocyte (103/µL) values in the preoperative hemogram parameters of all patients., 1 week|Platelet/Lenfosit Ratio (PLR)(103/µL), Platelet/lymphocyte ratio (PLR) will be calculated by taking the Platelet (103/µL) and Lymphocyte (103/µL) values in the preoperative hemogram parameters of all patients., 1 week|Lenfosit/Monosit Ratio (LMR)(103/µL), Lymphocyte/Monocyte Ratio (LMR) will be calculated by taking the Lymphocyte (103/µL) and Monocyte (103/µL) values in the preoperative hemogram parameters of all patients., 1 week
BRAF molecular test, Pathological molecular test (25 patients), 1 week
The main hypothesis of this study is that preoperative hemogram parameters can be used as biomarkers for malignancy in patients with thyroid nodule Bethesda 3 cytology.

The secondary hypothesis is that BRAF molecular testing has a high predictive value in predicting malignancy in patients with thyroid nodule Bethesda 3 cytology.

Primary outcome: Preoperative hemogram parameters. Secondary outcome: BRAF positivity. This study aims to reduce unnecessary thyroidectomies, thyroidectomy complications and treatment costs due to Bethesda 3 cytology.

The age and gender of all patients to be included in the study will be recorded. Mean Platelet Volume (MPV), Neutrophil/lymphocyte Ratio (NLR), Platelet/Lymphocyte Ratio (PLR) and Lymphocyte/Monocyte Ratio (LMR) will be recorded in preoperative hemograms. Nodule sizes detected by preoperative Bethesda III cytology will be recorded. The sizes of nodules with preoperative AUS cytology after thyroidectomy, determined as a result of pathological examination, will be recorded. Patients with malignant cytology will be divided into papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), Follicular Thyroid Carcinoma (FTC), and tumor sizes will be recorded. Among the patients included in the study, BRAF molecular testing will be performed on the preoperative cytology of 25 patients whose thyroidectomy materials were reported to be malignant.