A Study of Niraparib in Patients With Relapsed Ovarian Cancer
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in ovarian cancer patients who have received three or four previous chemotherapy regimens. Niraparib is an orally active PARP inhibitor. Niraparib will be administered once daily continuously during a 28-day cycle. Health-related quality of life will be measured by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG). Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), RECIST tumor assessments and safety laboratory values.
Ovarian Cancer
DRUG: ZL-2306(Niraparib）
Objective Response Rate（ORR）, The ORR was defined as the percentage of participants achieving complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as assessed by the Investigator per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) (version1.1)., Up to 3 years
Duration of Response (DoR), DoR was defined as the time from first documentation of CR or PR until the time of first documentation of disease progression (PD) as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version1.1)., Up to 3 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease control rate was defined as the percentage of participants achieving CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version1.1). The exact method was used to calculate 95% confidence interval., Up to 3 years|Progression Free Survival (PFS), Progression-free survival was defined as the time from the date of first dose to the earlier date of assessment of progression or death by any cause in the absence of progression as assessed by the Investigator per RECIST (version 1.1)., Up to 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was defined as the time from the date of the first dose to the date of death by any cause., Up to 3 years|Number of Participants With Any Non-serious Adverse Event (Non-SAE) or Any SAE To evaluate the safety and tolerability of niraparib, An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence that occurs in a participant or clinical investigation participant administered a pharmaceutical product, and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with study treatment. Any untoward event resulting in death, life threatening, requires hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly or birth defect or any other situation according to medical or scientific judgment was categorized as SAE., Up to 3 years
This is a Phase 2, open-label, single arm study to evaluate the safety and efficacy of niraparib in ovarian cancer patients who have received three or four previous chemotherapy regimens. Niraparib is an orally active PARP inhibitor. Niraparib will be administered once daily continuously during a 28-day cycle. Health-related quality of life will be measured by Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG). Safety and tolerability will be assessed by clinical review of adverse events (AEs), physical examinations, electrocardiograms (ECGs), RECIST tumor assessments and safety laboratory values.