Pathologic and Immunologic Response After Ablative Radiation in Lung Cancer
This is a pilot study to compare pre- and post-SABR core biopsies of stage I NSCLC tumors to identify SABR-induced immune-mediated tumor recognition based on a significant and specific expansion of T-cell clones using a novel T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing assay. This will be coupled with (1) novel genomic analysis of candidate tumor antigens that may be released from the pre-SABR tumor and (2) functional validation assays to screen post-treatment peripheral blood T-cells for reactivity to these released candidate tumor antigens. In addition, cell-based analysis will be used to identify changes in key T-cell infiltrates into the post-SABR tumor.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage I
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: Post-SABR Biopsy
Examine the T-cell Receptor Profile Changes Induced in the Tumor After SABR, T-cell receptor (TCR) profile changes in the tumor using TCR sequencing., Baseline to up to 7 days after SABR treatment
Evaluate Candidate Tumor Antigens Released From the Tumor by SABR, Candidate tumor antigens, mutation associated neo-antigens (MANAs), and tumor associated neo-antigens, (TAAs) released from the tumor by SABR, post-SABR|Semiquantitative Scoring System to Describe the Influx of Key Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes in the Tumor After SABR., Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry scoring system was used to evaluate pathological changes, immune-cell populations (CD8, FoxP3), within the tumor. Semiquantitative scoring system: 0 None, 1: 1-5, 2: 6-10, 3: 11-20, 4: 21 or more positive cells per high powered field (400x). Score for each participant is reported., 5 to 7 day post SABR|Detection of Peripheral Neoantigen-specific T-cell Responses and Dynamics After SABR., Assessed by the Mutation-Associated Neoantigen Functional Expansion of Specific T-cells (MANAFEST) assay. Number of participants where a peripheral neoantigen-specific T-cell responses and dynamics was detected is reported., Within one year after SABR|Dual-energy (DE) CT Imaging Characteristics After SABR, Dual-energy (DE) CT imaging characteristics after SABR. Evaluate relationship between dual-energy (DE) CT imaging characteristics, radiation dose, and early post-SABR pathologic outcomes after treatment with SABR., 1 year|Number of Participants With Grade 2+ Toxicity Events, Patients with grade 2+ toxicity measured by NCIs Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE 4.0), due to post-SABR biopsy., Pre-SABR, Post-SABR, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.|Semiquantitative Scoring System to Describe the Influx of Key Tumor Infiltrating Lymphocytes Within the Peritumoral Stoma After SABR., Semiquantitative immunohistochemistry scoring system was used to evaluate pathological changes, (CD8, FoxP3, PD-L1/PD-1) expression within the peritumoral stoma after SABR. Semiquantitative scoring system: 0 None, 1: 1-5, 2: 6-10, 3: 11-20, 4: 21 or more positive cells per high powered field (400x). Score for each participant is reported., 5 to 7 day post SABR
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States. While stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) is delivered as standard treatment in patients with medically inoperable stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), an alarming 30-40% of these patients still develop disease recurrence just outside of the radiation field and deadly distant metastases in their lifetime. Furthermore, since the abscopal response was reported in advanced NSCLC where a systemic cancer response was induced in areas away from the irradiated site when radiation was combined with immunotherapy, multiple clinical trials are currently investigating the role of combining these two modalities. Significantly, how SABR alone increases immunogenicity of a tumor is unknown. There is a critical need to elucidate the mechanism by which SABR alone incites the immune system to better develop future rational combinations of immunotherapy with SABR.

SABR induced cell death will ultimately activate downstream cytotoxic T-cells and cause T-cell influx into the tumor to enhance immunogenic tumor cell kill. This is accomplished with SABR-induced tumor antigen-both mutation-associated neoantigen and tumor-associated antigen- release, priming of downstream cytotoxic T-cells, leading to specific T-cell clonal expansion, and resultant influx of these activated cytotoxic T-cells into the tumor and blood to enhance immune-mediated tumor cell kill.

Herein the investigator proposes a pilot study to compare pre- and post-SABR core biopsies of stage I NSCLC tumors to identify SABR-induced immune-mediated tumor recognition based on a significant and specific expansion of T-cell clones using a novel T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing assay. This will be coupled with (1) novel genomic analysis of candidate tumor antigens that may be released from the pre-SABR tumor and (2) functional validation assays to screen post-treatment peripheral blood T-cells for reactivity to these released candidate tumor antigens. In addition, cell-based analysis will be used to identify changes in key T-cell infiltrates into the post-SABR tumor.

The results of this pilot study may have the potential to translate into improved systemic outcomes for patients with NSCLC through future integrated trials of immune checkpoint blockade antibodies that specifically relieve the immunosuppression on the T-cell population found to be activated by SABR. Clarifying SABR-induced immune changes in the tumor and blood will identify pathways that may be exploited to enhance systemic immunity to kill micro-metastatic disease and mitigate relapse in the next generation of clinical trials.

Additional corollary imaging studies using dual-energy (DE) computed tomography (CT), a novel imaging modality that improves the material decomposition ability of CTs, may identify new imaging markers for post-SABR treatment response by comparing DE-CT imaging characteristics with SABR fields and pathologic response.