Olanzapine for the Treatment of Chronic Nausea and/or Vomiting in Advanced Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the use of olanzapine for the treatment of cancer patients with chronic nausea and/or vomiting unrelated to chemotherapy or radiation in a randomized placebo-controlled pilot trial.
Advanced Cancer
DRUG: Olanzapine|OTHER: Placebo
Mean Nausea Scores, Daily nausea scores (the primary objective) on day 1 to 7 of treatment for each patient from the Olanzapine and Placebo group will be measured using the Visual Analogue Scale rankings from 0-10 where 0 is no nausea and 10 is the maximum nausea experienced by a patient. A Visual Analogue Scale is a psychometric response scale which can be used in questionnaires. It is a measurement instrument for subjective characteristics or attitudes that can't be directly measured.

Patients will be asked to record the average nausea score for each day in a diary and a study nurse will call the patient at the same time each day to remind the patient to record the nausea score and to inquire about any toxicities. The difference in the nausea scores for the patients in each group (Olanzapine and Placebo) will be compared., Nausea score from the Visual Analogue Scale will be recorded each day daily for 7 days. An average value calculated will be reported for the 7 day period.
Number of Emetic Episodes, The number of emetic episodes (a secondary outcome) by each patient in each group, Olanzapine \& Placebo, on each day of treatment will be recorded by each patient on each day of treatment in a diary. A study nurse will contact each patient at the same time of each day of the study to ask the patient to record the number of emetic episodes and report any toxicities.The number of emetic episodes for the patients in each Group for each day of the treatment will be compared., Number of emetic episodes for each patient on each day of the seven day treatment.|Number of Treatment-related Adverse Events as Assessed by CTCAE v4.0"., Adverse events will be measured by patient-reported outcomes questionnaires and the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v4.0). A study nurse will contact each patient each day of the seven days of treatment to inquire about any toxicities, specifically sedation and appetite. Sedation and appetite will be reported by the patient in each Group on a Visual Analogue Scale of 0 to 10 with 0 being no sedation or no appetite to 10 indicating maximum sedation or maximum appetite., Daily assessment for 7 days for each patient in Olanzapine & Placebo Groups.
Patients with advanced cancer experience a variety of physical and psychosocial symptoms that significantly affect the patients' quality of life. Chronic nausea is a particularly distressing symptom present in \>60% of patients with advanced cancer. A number of palliative care studies have evaluated treatments of nausea with limited success. Olanzapine with its unique formulation and decreased drug interactions compared to many other drugs appears to be a reasonable candidate for further evaluation. Olanzapine has significant potential for use in the prevention and treatment of nausea in a palliative care setting with a once-daily dosing.