Cancer Diagnosis by Multiparametric UltraSound of the Prostate
In men who require a prostate biopsy does a multi-parametric ultrasound based diagnostic strategy compared to a multi-parametric MRI based diagnostic strategy lead to similar detection of clinically significant prostate cancer?
Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: multiparametric MRI. Multi-parametric ultrasound
To determine the overall agreement in identifying lesions to biopsy between mp-USS and mp-MRI in men who require a prostate biopsy. Then compare agreement in proportion of men diagnosed with clinically significant prostate cancer on biopsy., Clinically significant for the purpose will be defined by UCL/Ahmed definition 1:Gleason ≥4+3 and/or maximum cancer core length of ≥ 6mm, at time of surgery
To compare the overall agreement in proportion of men diagnosed with other thresholds of clinically significant prostate cancer on biopsy, Thresholds for clinical significance namely UCL/Ahmed definition 2 (a) Gleason ≥ 3+4 and/or Maximum cancer core length ≥ 4mm, (b) Gleason ≥ 3+4 and or MCCL ≥ 6mm (c) Any length of Gleason ≥ 3+4 (d) Any length of Gleason ≥4+3, at time of surgery|To determine the detection of clinically significant cancer (using all of the pre-specified definitions based on histology) by using the combination of these two imaging techniques versus either modality alone, at time of surgery|To determine whether the order in which the targeted biopsies are carried out, either to the same target (present on both scans) or different targets impacts on detection of clinically significant cancer, clinically significant cancer (using all of the pre-specified definitions based on histology), at time of surgery|To compare, in those men who go on to radical prostatectomy, the mp-MRI, mp-USS and histology from targeted biopsy with the whole mount specimen obtained at surgery., at time of surgery|To create an inception cohort of men, consented for long-term follow-up and linkage, providing the potential for further translational and clinical studies, at time of surgery|To determine rates of adverse events, resource utilization and impact of each test on health-related quality-of-life (using EQ-5D-5L questionnaire) which would allow modelling of overall cost-effectiveness of one strategy compared to the other., at time of surgery
Men who require prostate biopsy will be approached and consented to enter this study. Participants will all undergo pre-biopsy mp-MRI and mp-USS of the prostate. Only men with positive scans will undergo prostate biopsy. The order in which lesions discovered on mp-MRI or on mp-USS are sampled will be randomised. All biopsies will be taken via the transperineal route in a single procedure. Comparison will be drawn between biopsy results of lesions detected by mp-USS with those lesions detected by mp-MRI. Consideration will be given as to whether a lesion detected by one imaging modality is the same abnormality as one detected by the other imaging modality, in the same patient. Analysis will be carried out at both the level of the lesion and the whole prostate. Men without suspicious lesions on either imaging modality will not proceed to biopsy.