Fluciclovine F18 PET/CT Imaging in Assessing Hormone-Naive Men With Prostate Cancer That Has Spread to the Bone
This trial studies how well fluciclovine 18F PET/CT imaging works in assessing hormone-naive men with prostate cancer that has spread to the bone. Fluciclovine 18F is a radioactive drug used to measure tumor growth. PET/CT uses x-rays to take pictures inside the body. Comparing results of fluciclovine 18F PET/CT imaging may help doctors predict a patient's response to treatment and help plan the best treatment.
Metastatic Prostate Carcinoma|Prostate Carcinoma Metastatic in the Bone|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|DRUG: Fluciclovine F18|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography
Mean Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmean) by Lesion Type, Mean SUV values are reported according to the type of bone lesion (osteoblastic dense, osteoblastic ground glass, osteoblastic mixed, and osteolytic)., Participants were assessed using [18F]Fluciclovine-PET/CT at baseline, prior to initiating radium-223 therapy|Maximum Standardized Uptake Value (SUVmax) by Lesion Type, Maximum SUV values are reported according to the type of bone lesion (osteoblastic dense, osteoblastic ground glass, osteoblastic mixed, and osteolytic)., Participants were assessed using [18F]Fluciclovine-PET/CT at baseline, prior to initiating radium-223 therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Abnormal fluciclovine F18 (\[18F\] fluciclovine) uptake on visual assessment will differ by the type of metastatic lesion present (blastic, lytic, marrow, mixed).

II. Maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) and mean standardized uptake value (SUVmean) on (18F) fluciclovine-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) imaging will differ by the type of metastatic lesion present (blastic, lytic, marrow, mixed).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine if a 25% or greater reduction in average (ave) SUVmax or ave SUVmean on (18F) fluciclovine-PET/CT imaging after completion of all radiation therapy will be predictive of increased time to biochemical failure.

II. Determine the correlation between the number of lesions, their visual uptake, and semi-quantitative uptake on technetium tc-99m medronate (99mTc-MDP) bone scintigraphy and (18F) fluciclovine- PET/CT at baseline.

III. Determine the correlation between the number of lesions, their visual uptake, and semi-quantitative uptake on 99mTc-MDP bone scintigraphy and (18F) fluciclovine- PET/CT after 3 and 6 cycles of treatment.

OUTLINE: This is a companion imaging study to Institutional Review Board (IRB) #102312 (A Phase 2 Study of Radium-223 and Radiotherapy in Hormone-Naive Men with Oligometastatic Prostate Cancer to Bone).

Patients receive fluciclovine F18 intravenously (IV) over 30 seconds and undergo PET/CT scan over 60 minutes at baseline, 3 months and at approximately 6 months of radium-223 therapy.

After completion of diagnostic testing, patients are followed for 2 years.