Chemotherapy and Atezolizumab for Patients With Extensive Stage Small Cell Lung Cancer (SCLC) With Untreated, Asymptomatic Brain Metastases
This is a single arm, multicenter phase II trial for 60 patients with untreated extensive stage (ES) small cell lung cancer (SCLC) with asymptomatic brain metastases. Subjects will receive 4 cycles of induction treatment with Atezolizumab (1200 mg on Day 1) combined with carboplatin (5-6 AUC on Day 1) and etoposide (80-100 mg/m2 on Days 1-3). Each cycle equals 21 days. After 4 cycles of induction treatment, subjects will receive atezolizumab maintenance 1200 mg on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. Subjects will receive treatment until disease progression, unacceptable drug-related toxicity, or withdrawal from study for any reason.
Small-cell Lung Cancer|Brain Metastases
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Atezolizumab
Intracranial Progression Free Survival (iPFS), Intracranial PFS is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until the criteria for intracranial disease progression is met as defined by RANO-BM or death as a result of any cause, whichever comes first. Progression disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 6 months
Overall Response Rate (ORR), ORR will include complete response (CR) + partial response (PR) as determined by RECIST 1.1. Complete response is defined as disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm.Partial response is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters., From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 6 months|Extracranial Progression Free Survival (PFS), Extracranial PFS is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until the criteria for extracranial disease progression is met as defined by RECIST 1.1 or death as a result of any cause, whichever comes first.Progression disease is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 6 months|Overall Survival (OS), OS is defined as the time from Day 1 of treatment until death as a result of any cause., From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 9 months|Toxicity of Atezolizumab Plus Carboplatin and Etoposide, Toxicity of atezolizumab has been evaluated when administered with carboplatin and etoposide in subjects with untreated SCLC brain metastases.Toxicity will be graded by Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE V5)., From C1D1 until death or up to a maximum of 9 months
This is a single arm, multicenter phase II trial for 60 patients with untreated extensive stage (ES) small cell lung cancer (SCLC) with asymptomatic brain metastases. Subjects will receive 4 cycles of induction treatment with Atezolizumab (1200 mg on Day 1) combined with carboplatin (5-6 AUC on Day 1) and etoposide (80-100 mg/m2 on Days 1-3). Each cycle equals 21 days. After 4 cycles of induction treatment, subjects will receive atezolizumab maintenance 1200 mg on Day 1 of each 3-week cycle. Subjects will receive treatment until disease progression, unacceptable drug-related toxicity, or withdrawal from study for any reason.