M7824 With cCRT in Unresectable Stage III Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)
The main purpose of this study was to evaluate safety and efficacy in participants treated with concomitant chemoradiation therapy (cCRT) plus M7824 followed by M7824 compared to cCRT plus placebo followed by durvalumab.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: M7824|DRUG: Placebo|DRUG: Durvalumab|DRUG: Etoposide|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cisplatin|RADIATION: Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT)
Progression-Free Survival (PFS) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST Version 1.1) Assessed by Investigator, PFS was defined as the time from randomization to the date of first documentation of disease progression (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the sum of the longest diameter (SLD) taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. PFS was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from randomization to the date of first documentation of PD or death, assessed approximately up to 27 months
Number of Participants With Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs) and Treatment-Related Adverse Events, Adverse Event (AE) was defined any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered with a study drug, which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. Serious AE was defined AE that resulted in any of the following outcomes: death; life threatening; persistent/significant disability/incapacity; initial/prolonged inpatient hospitalization; congenital anomaly/birth defect. TEAEs: TEAEs was defined as events with onset date or worsening during the on-treatment period. TEAEs included serious AEs and non-serious AEs. Treatment-related TEAEs: reasonably related to the study intervention., Time from randomization up to data cut off (assessed up to 27 months)|Overall Survival (OS), Overall Survival was defined as the time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause. The overall survival was analyzed by using the Kaplan-Meier method., Time from randomization to the date of death due to any cause, assessed up to 27 months|Objective Response Rate (ORR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Investigator, ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who had achieved complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as the best overall response according to RECIST v1.1as adjudicated by the Investigator. CR: Complete Response (CR) defined as disappearance of all target and non-target lesions and any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \< 10 mm. Partial response (PR) defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions., Time from randomization up to data cut off (assessed up to 27 months)|Duration of Response (DOR) According to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1) as Assessed by Investigator, DOR was defined as the time from first documentation of objective response (Complete Response \[CR\] or Partial Response \[PR\]) to the date of first documentation of progression disease (PD) or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. CR: Disappearance of all evidence of target and non-target lesions. PR: At least 30% reduction from baseline in the SLD of all lesions. PD: At least a 20 percent (%) increase in the SLD, taking as reference the smallest SLD recorded from baseline or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. DOR was determined according to RECIST v1.1 and assessed by IRC. Results were calculated based on Kaplan-Meier estimates., Time from first documentation of objective response to the date of first documentation of PD or death due to any cause, assessed approximately up to 27 months|Immediate Observed Serum Concentration at End of Infusion (Ceoi) of M7824, Ceoi is the serum concentration observed immediately at the end of infusion. This was taken directly from the observed M7824 concentration-time data., Pre-dose, 30 minutes after end of infusion on Day 1, 15, 29, 57, 85, 127, 157, 343|Serum Concentration Immediately Before Next Dosing (Ctrough) of M7824, Ctrough was the serum concentration observed immediately before next dosing., Pre-dose, 30 minutes after end of infusion on Day 1, 15, 29, 57, 85, 127, 157, 343|Number of Participants With Positive Antidrug Antibodies (ADA), Serum samples were analyzed by a validated assay method to detect the presence of antidrug antibodies (ADA). Number of participants with positive ADA were reported., Time from randomization up to data cut off (assessed up to 27 months)
The main purpose of this study was to evaluate safety and efficacy in participants treated with concomitant chemoradiation therapy (cCRT) plus M7824 followed by M7824 compared to cCRT plus placebo followed by durvalumab.