Phase 2 Study of Plamotamab Combined With Tafasitamab Plus Lenalidomide Versus Tafasitamab Plus Lenalidomide in Relapsed or Refractory (R/R) Diffuse Large-cell B-cell Lymphoma (DLBCL)
The purpose of this study is to investigate the safety and effectiveness of plamotamab when it is given with tafasitamab and lenalidomide in participants with relapsed or refractory DLBCL.
Diffuse Large-cell B-cell Lymphoma
BIOLOGICAL: Plamotamab|BIOLOGICAL: Tafasitamab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Part 1 A: Number of Participants With Treatment Emergent Adverse Events (TEAEs), An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant. The AE did not necessarily have a causal relationship with this treatment. An AE could therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including a clinically significant abnormal laboratory finding), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a study drug. AEs may have included the onset of new illness and the exacerbation of preexisting conditions. TEAEs were defined as events with onset dates on or after the start of study treatment or events that were present before the first infusion of study treatment and subsequently worsened in severity. A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., From first dose of study drug up to end of treatment (maximum treatment exposure: 303 days)|Part 1 A: Number of Participants With Cytokine Release Syndrome, Cytokine release syndrome was defined as "a supraphysiologic response following any immune therapy that results in the activation or engagement of endogenous or infused T cells and/or other immune effector cells". A summary of serious and all other non-serious adverse events regardless of causality is located in the Reported Adverse Events module., From first dose of study drug up to end of treatment (maximum treatment exposure: 303 days)
This is a randomized, multicenter, open-label, Phase 2 study of plamotamab combined with tafasitamab plus lenalidomide versus tafasitamab plus lenalidomide in adult participants with DLBCL who have relapsed after or are refractory to at least 1 prior line of therapy, which must have included multi-agent chemoimmunotherapy inclusive of an anti-cluster of differentiation (CD) 20 monoclonal antibody, and who are not candidates for autologous stem-cell transplantation (ASCT), refuse ASCT, or relapse after ASCT.

The study was planned to be performed sequentially, with Part 1A (Safety run-in, with a lower plamotamab dose), Part 1B (Safety run-in, with the target plamotamab dose) and Part 2 (Open-Label, randomized). The study was terminated by the Sponsor during Part 1A of the study. No participants were enrolled in Part 1B or Part 2.