Nemtabrutinib and Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Richter Transformation, Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma Subtype
NOT YET RECRUITING - This phase II trial tests how well nemtabrutinib in combination with pembrolizumab works in treating patients with Richter transformation, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtype (RT-DLBCL). Nemtabrutinib is in a class of medications called kinase inhibitors. It blocks a protein called BTK, which is present on B-cells (a type of white blood cell) in cancers such as Richter transformation at abnormal levels. This may help keep cancer cells from growing and spreading. Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving nemtabrutinib in combination with pembrolizumab may kill more cancer cells in patients with RT-DLBCL.
Richter Syndrome|Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma|Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|DRUG: Nemtabrutinib|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration
Overall response rate, Will be defined as having either a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per Cheson et al., 2014. Will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies., After 6 cycles (approximately 18 weeks) (1 cycle = 21 days)|Quality of life, Tolerability and patient-reported outcomes (PROs) assessed using the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire-Core 30 (version 3) . EORTC-C 30 is measure from nat at all (better) to very much (worse), Up to 3 years after completion of study treatment|Quality of life -PRO CTCAE, Will be evaluated using the patient reported outcome PRO CTCAE measurement system. Responses are scored on a 0-5 point scale where higher outcomes indicate worse, Up to 3 years after completion of study treatment
Response outcomes, CR, PR, stable disease (SD), CR+PR, and CR+PR+SD will be summarized using frequencies and relative frequencies, with response rates estimated using 90% credible regions obtained by Jeffrey's prior method., Up to 3 years after completion of study treatment|Duration of response, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the median will be estimated with a 90% confidence interval., From first PR (or greater) until disease progression or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 years after completion of study treatment|Overall survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the medians will be estimated with 90% confidence intervals., From treatment initiation until death due to any cause or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 years after completion of study treatment|Progression-free survival, Will be summarized using standard Kaplan-Meier methods, where the medians will be estimated with 90% confidence intervals., From treatment initiation until disease progression, death due to any cause, subsequent treatment, or last follow-up, assessed up to 3 years|Incidence of adverse events, Toxicities and adverse events will be reported using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0. Will be summarized by attribution and grade using frequencies and relative frequencies., Up to 30 days after the last dose of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the preliminary efficacy of nemtabrutinib and pembrolizumab as measured by the overall response rate (ORR) after 6 cycles for enrolled patients with Richter transformation, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma subtype (RT-DLBCL).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To further evaluate preliminary efficacy as measured by complete response rate (CRR), duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) for enrolled patients.

II. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of nemtabrutinib and pembrolizumab combination treatment for RT-DLBCL.

III. Evaluate patient-reported outcomes on quality of life and disease-related symptoms and side-effects.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To investigate the effects of nemtabrutinib and pembrolizumab exposure on peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) composition, particularly T-regulatory and cytotoxic T/natural killer (NK)-cell populations and correlate with clinical outcome/response.

II. To investigate the impact of nemtabrutinib and pembrolizumab on the fitness, function, and "stem-like" properties of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cells manufactured from specimens both pre- and post-treatment.

III. To evaluate the potential late effects of this novel combination treatment on CAR T-cell therapy and/or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant treated patients.

IV. To evaluate molecular subtypes of RT-DLBCL using multiomic and probabilistic classification approaches, as well as tumor characteristics (e.g. mutational profile and total mutational burden, PD-L1 expression, etc.), and correlate with clinical outcomes for enrolled subjects.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive nemtabrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 of each cycle and pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 35 cycles (2 years) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) during screening, positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) or CT and blood sample collection throughout the trial. Patients may also undergo bone marrow biopsy throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days then every 6 months for 3 years after completion of therapy or until death, whichever comes first, for a total of up to 5 years.