Efficiency and Safety of Microwave Ablation Plus Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor for Patients With Multiple Primary Lung Cancer: A Open, Multi-center, Phase II Clinical Trial
Prospective, multi-center, phase II clinical trial. The study plans to enroll 146 patients with multiple lung cancers. After signing the informed consent, they were screened to meet the admission and discharge criteria, and received microwave ablation treatment. Electromagnetic navigation bronchoscope-guided intrapulmonary microwave ablation or percutaneous microwave ablation was selected according to the patient's wishes and the evaluation of the surgeon. After the operation, they were randomized and the experimental group accepted PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment (microwave ablation combined with Camrelizumab treatment does not exceed 16 cycles, or disease progression/worsening or confirmed imaging disease progression, or withdrawal for any reason), the control group does not After receiving any treatment, the two groups were followed up closely (36 months after the last treatment, including safety follow-up and survival follow-up).
Multiple Primary Lung Cancer
COMBINATION_PRODUCT: Microwave ablation plus Camrelizumab|DEVICE: Microwave ablation
1 Year Recurrence-free survival, 1 year|3 Year Recurrence-free survival, 3 years|Progression-free rate of remaining lesions, 5 years
2 Year Recurrence-free survival, 2 years|5 Year Recurrence-free survival, 5 years|3 year overall survival, 3 years|5 year overall survival, 5 years|Complication rate, 3 years|Quality of life score, 4 years
Prospective, multi-center, phase II clinical trial. The study plans to enroll 146 patients with multiple lung cancers. After signing the informed consent, they were screened to meet the admission and discharge criteria, and received microwave ablation treatment. Electromagnetic navigation bronchoscope-guided intrapulmonary microwave ablation or percutaneous microwave ablation was selected according to the patient's wishes and the evaluation of the surgeon. After the operation, they were randomized and the experimental group accepted PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor treatment (microwave ablation combined with Camrelizumab treatment does not exceed 16 cycles, or disease progression/worsening or confirmed imaging disease progression, or withdrawal for any reason), the control group does not After receiving any treatment, the two groups were followed up closely (36 months after the last treatment, including safety follow-up and survival follow-up).