Feasibility of ExAblate MRI Guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Tx of Soft Tissue Tumors
The goal of this project is to evaluate the safety and preliminary efficacy of ExAblate magnetic resonance-guided high-intensity focused ultrasound (MRgHIFU) surgery in the treatment of soft tissue tumors of the extremities.
Soft Tissue Neoplasms
DEVICE: MRgHIFU|DRUG: Aspirin|DRUG: Enoxaparin
Overall Safety - Incidence of Any Device-related Adverse Events, Safety determined by evaluating for the incidence of any device-related adverse events. Patients will be assessed for pain and limb function, and by clinical examination before and after treatment to collect adverse events related to the treatment. Safety is reported as the total incidence of device-related adverse events., 1 week
Adverse Event Severity, Safety is further assessed by an evaluation of severity for the treatment-related adverse events, reported as the number of adverse events for each of the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 grades.

CTCAE Severity:

1. mild
2. moderate
3. severe
4. life-threatening
5. fatal, 6 months|Percent Successful Tumor Ablation, In the resected tumor specimen, the volume of the ablated area will be determined by obtaining a digital photograph of each pathology slice. The region of interest corresponding to the ablated area will be traced, and the ablated area will be calculated for each slice and summed. Accuracy is assessed as the percent ablated volume relative to pre-treatment tumor volume., Up to 1 week
Given that the incidence of cancer increases with age, the number of elderly patients diagnosed and treated for soft tissue sarcomas (STS) will increase. The dilemma is that surgeons and medical oncologists may be hesitant to treat elderly patients in a comparably intensive manner as is used in the treatment of younger patients; factors such as decreased performance status, significant comorbidities, and disease natural history may erode enthusiasm for aggressive STS resection. To this end, a less invasive way of treating soft tissue tumors would be helpful in younger patients to minimize morbidity and in the elderly to provide less aggressive treatment options. The InSightec ExAblate 2000 magnetic resonance-guided high-intensity focused ultrasound (MRgHIFU) system is a non-invasive thermal ablation device fully integrated with an MR imaging system and used for the ablation of soft tissue (5-10). The ExAblate combines a focused ultrasound surgery (FUS) delivery system and a conventional diagnostic 1.5 T or 3 T MRI scanner. It provides a real-time therapy planning algorithm, thermal dosimetry, and closed-loop therapy control.