Evaluation of Safety and Efficacy of Electrochemotherapy in the Treatment of Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
The purpose of this study is to see how well electrochemotherapy works at treating people with Stage III pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Electrochemotherapy is a treatment that combines electroporation and chemotherapy administration. Electroporation uses an electric current to produce holes in pancreatic tumor, which causes the tumor cells to die or take up a higher concentration of administered chemotherapy agent. This study will test the safety and look at the effect of electrochemotherapy in the treatment of stage III pancreatic adenocarcinoma. This study will also help to find the safest and most effective amount of electroporation voltage to apply to this type of tumor.
Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma
DEVICE: Electroporation|DRUG: gemcitabine|DRUG: nab-paclitaxel
Number of participants who experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLTs), A dose limiting toxicity (DLT) is any Grade 3 or 4 adverse event (AE) using the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE 4.0) that is possibly related to the electrochemotherapy treatment. CTCAE 4.0 Grade 3 is a severe AE and Grade 4 is a life-threatening or disabling AE. DLTs are collected to determine the Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD), which is defined as as one field strength level less than the field strength at which two or more patients out of six total patients experience a DLT., 4 weeks
Number of participants who demonstrated no clinical change or clinical improvement in pancreatic adenocarcinoma outcome as assessed by time to progression, Time to progression is the time after treatment until tumor enlargement or metastatic disease is identified., 1 year|Number of participants who demonstrated no clinical change or clinical improvement in pancreatic adenocarcinoma outcome as assessed by one year survival, One year survival is the number of patients who are alive one year after treatment., 1 year|Number of participants who demonstrated no clinical change or clinical improvement in pancreatic adenocarcinoma outcome as assessed by tumor imaging, We will assess tumor size changes and tumor staging through magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)., 1 year|Number of participants who demonstrated diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) changes, 1 year|Number of participants who demonstrated magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) changes, 1 year|Number of groups of patients who have similar pancreatic tumor gene expression characteristics and associated imaging characteristics after electrochemotherapy, Gene expression characteristics are identified by biopsy specimen evaluation. Imaging characteristics are evaluated by MRI and MRS., 1 year|Number of groups of patients who have similar pancreatic tumor gene expression characteristics and associated clinical outcomes after electrochemotherapy, Gene expression characteristics are identified by biopsy specimen evaluation. Clinical outcomes are evaluated by time to progression and 1 year survival. Time to progression is the time after treatment until tumor enlargement or metastatic disease is identified. One year survival is the number of patients who are alive one year after treatment., 1 year
This is a phase I dose escalation trial using a 3 + 3 dose escalation scheme to evaluate the maximum tolerated field strength dose of administered irreversible electroporation in combination with chemotherapy. During the first cycle of chemotherapy, patients will receive electroporation of the primary pancreatic tumor prior to administration of chemotherapy with gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel. The schedule of administration of gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel will be administered as per standard of care. The investigators will use non-invasive dynamic magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance spectroscopy to detect and describe changes within the tumor. Safety will be determined by assessing the number of class three or higher toxicity events in cohorts of 6 patients at progressively higher electroporation voltages. The maximum tolerated dose (MTD) will be defined as one voltage level less than the voltage at which two or more patients out of six total patients have a class three or higher toxicity event.