A Trial to Evaluate Safety and Tolerability of TST001 in Advanced or Metastatic Solid Tumors
This is an open label Phase I/IIa, First in Human trial of TST001, a recombinant humanized anti-Claudin 18.2 (CLDN18.2) IgG1 monoclonal antibody as monotherapy or in combination with nivolumab or standard of care. It is being tested against advanced and/or metastatic solid tumors including gastric, gastroesophageal junction, pancreatic cancers.
Advanced Cancer|Gastric Cancer|Gastroesophageal-junction Cancer|Pancreatic Cancer
DRUG: TST001|DRUG: Nivolumab Injection [Opdivo]|DRUG: mFOLFOX6|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Albumin-Bound Paclitaxel
Participant Safety as characterized by frequency and severity of adverse events, Characterization of TST001 safety profile including frequency and severity of adverse events that are related to treatment., up to 100 days following last dose|Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD or Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D), As measured by number of participants experiencing dose related toxicity (DLT) in each escalating cohort, up to 100 days following last dose|Participant Safety and Tolerability of TST001 in combination with Nivolumab as characterized by frequency and severity of adverse events, Characterization of TST001 + Nivolumab safety profile including frequency and severity of adverse events that are related to treatment., Up to 100 days following last dose|Participant Safety and Tolerability of TST001 in combination with Nivolumab and mFOLFOX6 as characterized by frequency and severity of adverse events, Characterization of TST001 + Nivolumab + mFOLFOX6 safety profile including frequency and severity of adverse events that are related to treatment., Up to 100 days following last dose|Participant Safety and Tolerability of TST001 in combination with gemcitabine and albumin-bound paclitaxel as characterized by frequency and severity of adverse events, Characterization of TST001 + Gemcitabine + albumin-bound paclitaxel safety profile including frequency and severity of adverse events that are related to treatment., Up to 100 days following last dose
Immunogenicity, by measurement of Incidence of anti-drug antibodies (ADA), up to 30 days following last dose|Objective response rate (ORR), as measured by RECIST 1.1, up to 24 months, until disease progression or start of another anti-cancer therapy|Duration of Response (DOR), duration of response (DOR), up to 24 months, until disease progression or start of another anti-cancer therapy|Progression free survival (PFS), as measured by RECIST v1.1, up to 24 months, until disease progression or start of another anti-cancer therapy|PK parameters, Maximum serum concentration (Cmax), Up to 30 days following last dose|PK, time to reach maximum serum concentration (Tmax), Up to 30 days following last dose|PK, Area Under the Curve, Up to 30 days following last dose
Part A of the trial will consist of two cohorts, one dosed every 2 weeks and one dosed every 3 weeks in a standard 3+3 design. Part A is the dose finding portion of the trial.

18 to 36 participants will be enrolled.

Part B consists of 3 cohorts:

Cohort A is for patients with previously untreated, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic GC/GEJ adenocarcinoma. Patients will receive TST001 at 2mg/kg or 4mg/kg Q2W plus Nivolumab and mFOLFOX6. Alternative allocation of patients between the 2 doses will be performed. The first 6 patients at each dose level as the lead-in phase will not be selected on the basis of their tumor's CLDN18.2 expression. Approximately 12-42 patients will be enrolled in Cohort A.

Cohort B is for patients with GC/GEJ adenocarcinoma who have radiologically progressed following one or two prior systemic therapies. Patient will receive TST001 plus Nivolumab. No selection based on CLDN18.2 expression will be required for the safety run-in (3-6 patients). Patients with CLDN18.2 expression in tumor tissue tested by the central laboratory will be enrolled in the expansion phase. Safety run-in phase will follow 3+3 rule with two dose levels, TST001 3mg/kg and 6mg/kg Q3W combined with nivolumab. Approximately 30 patients will be enrolled in Cohort B including the patients in the safety run-in phase.

Cohort C is for patients with previously untreated, unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic histologically confirmed pancreatic adenocarcinoma; Patients will receive TST001 at 2mg/kg or 4mg/kg Q2W plus gemcitabine and albumin-bound paclitaxel. Alternative allocation of patients between the 2 doses will be performed. The first 6 patients at each dose level as the lead-in phase will not be selected on the basis of their tumor's CLDN18.2 expression. Approximately 12-42 patients will be enrolled in Cohort C.