Testing the Addition of an Anti-cancer Drug, DT2216, to the Usual Chemotherapy Treatment for Relapsed or Refractory Solid Tumors and Fibrolamellar Carcinoma
This phase I/II trial tests the safety, side effects and best dose of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan and how well it works in treating children, adolescents and young adults with solid tumors and fibrolamellar cancer that has come back after a period of improvement (relapsed) or that has not responded to previous treatment (refractory). DT2216 is an anti-apoptotic protein B-cell lymphoma-extra large targeted protein degrader. It may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking Bcl-xL, a protein needed for tumor cell survival. Irinotecan is in a class of antineoplastic medications called topoisomerase I inhibitors. It blocks a certain enzyme needed for cell division and deoxyribonucleic acid repair and may kill tumor cells. Giving DT2216 in combination with irinotecan may be safe, tolerable, and/or effective in treating children, adolescents and young adults with relapsed or refractory solid tumors or fibrolamellar cancer.
Childhood Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Recurrent Childhood Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Recurrent Childhood Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Childhood Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Refractory Childhood Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Fibrolamellar Carcinoma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm
BIOLOGICAL: Bcl-XL Proteolysis Targeting Chimera DT2216|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|DRUG: Irinotecan
Incidence of adverse events (AEs), AEs will be assessed and graded using National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v)5.0. A descriptive summary of all toxicities will be reported., Up to 30 days after last dose of study drug|Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT), AEs will be assessed and graded using NCI CTCAE v5.0. A descriptive summary of all toxicities will be reported., Up to 21 days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD)/ recommended phase 2 dose, MTD will be defined as the maximum dose at which fewer than one-third of patients experience DLT during cycle 1 of therapy., Up to 21 days|Area under the dose concentration curve of DT2216, Median (minimum \[min\], maximum \[max\]) area under the dose concentration curve of DT2216 during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Clearance of DT2216, Median (min, max) clearance of DT2216 during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Half-life of DT2216, Median (min, max) Half-life of DT2216 during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Area under the dose concentration curve of irinotecan, Median (min, max) area under the dose concentration curve of irinotecan during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Clearance of irinotecan, Median (min, max) clearance of irinotecan during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Half-life of irinotecan, Median (min, max) Half-life of irinotecan during cycle 1 assessed pre-dose, 5, 30, 60, 180, and 420 minutes post-dose., Up to 7 hours|Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be recorded from the start of the treatment until disease progression or recurrence. ORR of partial response, complete response or stable disease will be assessed according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Criteria and will be reported descriptively., At start of treatment until disease progression or recurrence up to 60 months
Pharmacodynamic activity, Western blotting will be performed to assess the pharmacodynamic activity by measuring peripheral mononuclear cell Bcl-xL levels., Up to end of cycle 5 (105 days)
Correlation of peripheral blood levels of the DNAJB1-PRKACA chimera, A descriptive analysis of biomarkers will assess associations with disease response. The parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to 60 months|Vitamin B12 levels, A descriptive analysis of biomarkers will assess associations with disease response. The parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to 60 months|Genomic markers panel, Median (interquartile range) ratio of mutant droplet count to total droplet count stratified by study time point., Up to 60 months|Intratumoral patterns of infiltrating immune cells, A descriptive analysis of biomarkers will assess associations with disease response. The parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations., Up to 60 months|Identification of tumor involved lymph nodes using cross-sectional imaging, Agreement between central pathologic review and central radiology review for relevant resected lymph nodes will be reported using a kappa statistic with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 60 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of Bcl-xL proteolysis targeting chimera DT2216 (DT2216) in combination with intravenous irinotecan in patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors.

II. To define and describe the toxicities of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan administered on this schedule in patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors and patients with fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC).

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan in patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors and patients with fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC).

IV. To preliminarily define antitumor activity of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan in patients with recurrent/refractory solid tumors (within the confines of a phase 1 study) and in patients with recurrent/refractory FLC.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To assess the pharmacodynamic activity of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan when administered intravenously in combination to children, adolescents, and young adults with recurrent/refractory cancer (solid tumors and FLC) by measuring peripheral mononuclear cell Bcl-xL levels and, where available, paired pre-treatment and on-(or recently off) treatment tumor samples using immunohistochemistry for TUNEL, Bcl-xL, Bcl2, Mcl1, and Ki67.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To explore the correlation of peripheral blood levels of the DNAJB1-PRKACA chimera, vitamin B12 levels and/or a panel of specific genomic markers, as well as intratumoral patterns of infiltrating immune cells as assessed by multiplex immunohistochemistry with disease characteristics of radiographic response in FLC patients.

II. To assess the ability of cross-sectional imaging to identify tumor involved pathological involved (positive) lymph nodes in FLC patients who undergo surgical resection including lymph node sampling or dissection.

OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of DT2216 in combination with irinotecan, followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive DT2216 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, and 18 of each cycle and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 2-6 of cycle 1, and on days 1-5 of remaining cycles. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 35 cycles (24 months) in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection throughout the trial.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months.