A Phase I/II Study of Cediranib (AZD2171) in Japanese Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients in Combination With FOLFOX
This Study is in two parts, the first part is to make sure that combining a potential new treatment, cediranib (AZD2171), with a standard treatment (FOLFOX) for metastatic colorectal cancer is safe. Once this part is complete and it is decided that it is safe to continue the Study will the go on to look at the efficacy of the two drugs together. This will be done by studying two treatment options. One will be the standard treatment alone (FOLFOX) + dummy cediranib (AZD2171) tablets and the other will be the standard treatment (FOLFOX) + real cediranib (AZD2171) tablets. Using dummy tablets means the study is 'blinded' and that non-one can tell the difference between the two treatment groups. This kind of study design is done to try to avoid the chance that the results might be biased in some way. The overall aim of the second part of the study is to see if adding cediranib (AZD2171) to a standard treatment for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (mCRC), in this case FOLFOX, gives better results. That is, it's better than giving standard treatment alone in helping to prevent progression of mCRC.
Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: AZD2171|DRUG: FOLFOX (5-fluorouracil, Leucovorin, Oxaliplatin)|DRUG: Placebo Cediranib
Progression Free Survival, Number of months from randomisation until progressive disease based on RECIST (progression of target lesions, clear progression of existing non-target lesions or the appearance of one or more new lesions) or death in the absence of progression., RECIST at Baseline, Weeks 6, 12, 18, 24 and then every 12 weeks until progression through to a cut-off date of 13th Oct 2009 (based on approx 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)
Objective Tumour Response Rate, Number of patients with complete (CR) /partial response (PR) (based on RECIST). CR is defined as Disappearance of all target lesions. PR is defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of Longest Diameter (LD) of target lesions taking as reference the baseline sum LD., RECIST at Baseline, Weeks 6, 12, 18, 24 and then every 12 weeks until progression through to a cut-off date of 13th Oct 2009 (based on approx 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)|Best Percentage Change in Tumour Size, Best percentage change in tumour size from baseline, based on the sum of the longest diameters of the target lesions, Randomisation until cut-off date 13OCT2009 (based on approximately 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)|Duration of Response, Number of months from Complete/Partial response until progression up to cut-off date 13OCT2009 (based on approximately 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)., RECIST at Baseline, Weeks 6, 12, 18, 24 and then every 12 weeks until progression through to a cut-off date of 13th Oct 2009 (based on approx 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)|Overall Survival, Number of months until death (censored if still alive at date cut-off). Median non-estimable if \>50% of subjects within a group are censored., Randomisation until cut-off date 13OCT2009 (based on approximately 105 progression events observed across the 3 groups)
This Study is in two parts, the first part is to make sure that combining a potential new treatment, cediranib (AZD2171), with a standard treatment (FOLFOX) for metastatic colorectal cancer is safe. Once this part is complete and it is decided that it is safe to continue the Study will the go on to look at the efficacy of the two drugs together. This will be done by studying two treatment options. One will be the standard treatment alone (FOLFOX) + dummy cediranib (AZD2171) tablets and the other will be the standard treatment (FOLFOX) + real cediranib (AZD2171) tablets. Using dummy tablets means the study is 'blinded' and that non-one can tell the difference between the two treatment groups. This kind of study design is done to try to avoid the chance that the results might be biased in some way. The overall aim of the second part of the study is to see if adding cediranib (AZD2171) to a standard treatment for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer (mCRC), in this case FOLFOX, gives better results. That is, it's better than giving standard treatment alone in helping to prevent progression of mCRC.