Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy or Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy in Treating Patients With Stage IIA-B Prostate Cancer
This randomized phase III trial studies how well stereotactic body radiation therapy works compared to intensity-modulated radiation therapy in treating patients with stage IIA-B prostate cancer. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that sends x-rays directly to the tumor using smaller doses over several days and may cause less damage to normal tissue. Stereotactic body radiation therapy may work better in treating patients with prostate cancer.
Stage II Prostate Adenocarcinoma
RADIATION: Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT)|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)
Incidence of Patients-Reported Gastrointestinal and Genitourinary Toxicity, Will be measured by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite-(EPIC) 26 bowel and urinary irritation domains. Will be compared between treatment arms using a test of proportions with two-sided significance level of 0.05., Up to 2 years|Disease Free Survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and treatment arms compared using the stratified log-rank test., Time to biochemical failure (Phoenix definition), local failure, regional failure, distant metastasis, or death from any cause, assessed up to 2 years
Biochemical Failure, Will be assessed by Phoenix definition., yearsFrom the date of randomization to the date of biochemical failure, date of precluding death, or last known follow-up, assessed up to 5 years.|Distant Metastasis, Will be assessed., From the time of randomization to the date of distant metastasis, date of precluding death, or last known follow-up date , assessed for up to 5 years|Health Related Quality of Life, Will be measured by EPIC-26 urinary incontinence, sexual, and hormonal domains., Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Will be assessed by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4. Counts of all AEs by grade will be provided by treatment arm. Counts and frequencies will be provided for the worst grade AE experienced by the patient by treatment arm. The number of patients with at least 1 grade 3 or higher AE will be compared between the treatment arms. A comparison between treatment arms of grade 3 and higher genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) events related to treatment (separately) will also be tested. There are 5 pre-specified AEs, dysuria, hematuria, incontinence, rectal bleeding,, Up to 2 years|Local Failure, Will be assessed., From the time of randomization to the date of local failure, date of precluding death, or last known follow-up date, assessed for up to 5 years|Overall Survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and treatment arms compared using the stratified log-rank test., From the date of randomization to the date of death or last known follow-up date, assessed up to 5 years|Presence of Prostate Imaging-Reporting and Data System version (PIRADSv) 2 = 4/5 disease, Will be assessed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)., Baseline|Prostate Cancer Specific Survival, Will be assessed., yearsFrom the date of randomization to the date of prostate cancer death, date of precluding death, or last known follow-up date, assessed up to 5 years|Regional Failure, Will be assessed., From the time of randomization to the date of local failure, date of precluding death, or last known follow-up date, assessed for up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) can be shown to be superior to hypofractionated intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) in terms of genitourinary (GU) and gastrointestinal (GI) toxicity by having fewer patients that experience a minimal important decline (MID) in urinary irritation/obstructive and bowel Health Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) as measured by Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC)-26 at 24 months post completion of therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine if SBRT (5 fractions of 7.25 Gy) is superior to hypofractionated IMRT (28 fractions of 2.5 Gy) as measured by disease free survival (DFS).

II. To determine whether SBRT can be shown to be superior to hypofractionated IMRT at 12 and 24 months post completion of therapy in terms of HRQOL by having fewer patients that experience a minimal important decline (MID) bowel (12 months only) sexual, hormonal, urinary irritation/obstructive (12 months only) and in urinary incontinence HRQOL as measured by EPIC-26.

III. To determine if SBRT (5 fractions of 7.25 Gy) is superior to hypofractionated IMRT (28 fractions of 2.5 Gy) as measured by biochemical failure, overall survival, local failure, prostate cancer specific survival, and distant metastases.

IV. To determine if prostate imaging-reporting and data system (PIRADS)version (v)2 = 4/5 disease is predictive for biochemical failure.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine whether a potentially more expensive therapy, SBRT, would be cost-effective than standard hypofractionated IMRT as measured by the European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level Scale Questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L).

II. To determine if disease characteristics captured on MRI can be used to predict which patients will respond to SBRT versus hypofractionated IMRT.

III. Collect specimens for future translational research analyses.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized into 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Patients undergo IMRT once daily for 5 fractions per week for 28 fractions over less than 32 business days.

ARM II: Patients undergo SBRT at least every other day for 2-3 fractions per week for 5 fractions over less than 12 business days.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6-12 months until death or study termination.