PCI-32765 (Ibrutinib) in Treating Patients With Relapsed or Refractory Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma, or B-cell Prolymphocytic Leukemia
This is a Phase II, single institution open-label, non-randomized monotherapy study to evaluate the clinical efficacy and durable disease control of PCI-32765 administered to patients with relapsed/refractory CLL/SLL/PLL of all risk categories with patients having deletion 17p13 independently evaluated.
Prolymphocytic Leukemia|Recurrent Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Refractory/Relapsed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia
DRUG: ibrutinib|OTHER: Correlative laboratory samples|OTHER: quality of life assessment
Determine the 2 Year Progression-free Survival (PFS) of Single Agent PCI-32765 in Patients With Relapsed and Refractory CLL., We will summarize our findings for this endpoint independently as well within each cohort (del17p vs other cytogenetic groups). We will evaluate the proportion of patients who are progression-free and alive at two years or have gone on to transplant (treatment successes) over the total number of evaluable patients; eligible patients who received at least one dose of therapy are considered evaluable. Assuming that the number of treatment successes as defined above is binomially distributed, we will also include 95% binomial confidence intervals for the estimates corresponding to each cohort., up to 2 years
Best Overall Response Rate Using the Revised International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) Working Group Guidelines, Responders were subjects who achieved a complete response (CR), partial response (PR) or PR with persistent lymphocytosis. Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR., up to 2 years|Number of Patients With 6 Month ORR of Single Agent Ibrutinib in Relapsed and Refractory CLL Patients, The 6 month overall response rates overall response rate (ORR). Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 6 months|Percentage of Patients With Overall Survival (OS), Time from date of first treatment with ibrutinib until the date of death from any cause or the date of last contact for those alive., 2 years|2-year Kaplan-Meier Estimate of OS for Relapsed and Refractory CLL Patients Treated With Single Agent PCI-32765, Time from date of first treatment with ibrutinib until the date of progression or death from any cause. Those alive and progression free are censored at the date of last clinical assessment., 2 years|Number of Patients With Adverse Events, Graded According to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0, Adverse events grade 3 or higher using the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0 with the attribution of either definite, possible or probable related., Up to 2 years post treatment|Resistance Studies of Ibrutinib, Percentage of patients with BTK C481S mutation or PLCG2 mutation, Up to 4 years|Decrease in Immune Suppression of CLL Cells, up to 3 months|Effectiveness of Ibrutinib Bridging Patients to Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplant and Outcome of Patients Following This Intervention, The number of participants with successful Allogenic Stem Cell Transplant, Up to 2 years|Cancer-Specific Stress as Measured by the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R), Cancer-Specific Stress was measured by the Impact of Event Scale-Revised Participants rated the intensity of these feelings using a five-point Likert scale ranging from 0=not at all to 4=extremely. Patients rated the frequency of their feelings or events for the previous week before treatment. The items were summed for a total score that ranged from 0 to 64, Up to 2 years|Cognitive-Affective Depressive Symptoms as Measured by the Beck Depression Inventory-2nd Edition (BDI-II), The Beck Depression Inventory-2nd edition is a 21-item measure of depressive symptoms. Scores were calculated representing the cognitive-affective and the somatic symptoms associated with depression (e.g. sadness, pessimism, loss of pleasure) during past month on scale from 0 to 3. Items were summed, with higher scores indicating more depressive symptoms. The scores on the scale from range from 0 to 42., at 5 months|Negative Mood Quality of Life Measured by a 37-item Questionnaire, The Profile of Mood States-Short Form (POMS-SF) yields six subscales, Tension, Depression, Anger, Vigor, Fatigue, and Confusion. A total mood disturbance score is found by summing the six subscales. Total Mood Disturbance (TMD) scores range from -24 to 124 with higher scores indicating greater mood disturbance., at 5 months|Mental Health Quality of Life Was Measured by the Mental Component Summary Score of the Medical Outcomes Study, SF-12 assesses aspects of quality of life including physical functioning, role functioning-physical, bodily pain, general health perceptions, vitality, social functioning, role functioning-emotional, and mental health. Subscale raw scores are transformed to put each subscale on a 0-100 range with higher scores indicative of greater functioning. Subscale scores are standardized based on US General Population norms and aggregated based on factor score coefficients into two component scores: the Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). Component scores are norm-based t-scores meaning scores above 50 indicate better functioning than average functioning while scores below 50 indicate worse functioning., at 5 months|Fatigue Symptom Inventory (FSI) Interference Quality of Life as Measured by a 11-item Total Disruption Index Sub Scale of Fatigue Symptoms Inventory, The Fatigue Interference quality of life measures is a 11-item self reported questionnaire used to measure frequency, severity and daily pattern of fatigue Symptoms as well as impact of QOL in the past week. The Total Disruption Index (TDI) an 7 item subset of FSI was used. Items were rated on a 11-point Likert scale from 0=no interference to 10=extreme interference. Total scores could range from 0 to 70, with higher scores indicating greater fatigue interference., at 5 months|Sleep Through Quality of Life as Measured by a Medical Outcomes Study-Sleep Scale, Sleep problems quality of life measures is a six-item sleep problems index I of the Medical Outcomes Study-Sleep Scale used to assess sleep problems. Participants reported how often they experience six specific difficulties with sleep on a 6-point Likert scale (1=All of the time to 6=None of the time). Scores transformed into a 0-100 scale with higher scores indicating greater sleep problems., at 5 months|Physical Health Quality of Life as Measured by a 12 Item Short-Form Health Survey, Physical Health Quality of life measures were administered during screening and on Days 1 (±3), of Cycle 1, Day 1 (±3), of Cycle 2 and on day 1 (±7) of Cycles 3, 6, and then every 3 months thru Cycle 24 and at time of progression and /or end of treatment. SF-12 assesses aspects of quality of life including physical functioning, role functioning-physical, bodily pain, general health perceptions, vitality, social functioning, role functioning-emotional, and mental health. Subscale raw scores are transformed to put each subscale on a 0-100 range with higher scores indicative of greater functioning. Subscale scores are standardized based on US General Population norms and aggregated based on factor score coefficients into two component scores: the Physical Component Summary (PCS) and the Mental Component Summary (MCS). Component scores are norm-based t-scores meaning scores above 50 indicate better functioning than average functioning while scores below 50 indicate worse functioning., up to 5 months
This is a clinical trial, a type of research study, involving treatment with an investigational (experimental) drug called PCI-32765 (Ibrutinib), a "kinase inhibitor". "Kinases" are proteins that are inside of cells and help them to live and grow. The specific kinase inhibited or blocked by this study drug is believed to help blood cancer cells grow and live. By inhibiting or "blocking" the activity of this kinase, it is possible that the study drug may be able to kill the cancer cells or stop them from growing. This study will involve treating patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL), or B-cell prolymphocytic leukemia (B-PLL) that has not responded to or has relapsed after standard treatment. This trial is studying how effective PCI-32765 is at treating CLL, SLL, or B-PLL and all the effects, good and/or bad, treatment with this drug has on patients and their cancers.