Evaluation of C-Scan System in Providing Structural Information and Detection of Polypoid Lesions in High Risk Subjects
The purpose of this study is to establish the efficacy of Check-Cap's C-Scan System in providing structural information on colonic polypoid lesions and masses, as an adjacent tool to Feacal Immunochemical Test \[FIT\] in high risk subjects
High Risk (Above Average) Subjects|Non Compliant Patients for Colo Rectal Cancer [CRC] Screening|Counterindicated Patients for Colonoscopy
DEVICE: C-Scan System
Sensitivity and specificity of C-Scan Capsule System in detecting per segment polypoid lesions 10 mm and up as compared with Colonoscopy, Number of polyps detected by the capsule system in various segments of the colon as compared with the results indicated in the report of the follow-up colonoscopy, One year
Sensitivity and specificity of C-Scan Capsule System in detecting patients with polypoid lesions 6≤x≤9 mm, compared with Optical Colonoscopy, Number of polyp specificity of C-Scan Capsule System in detecting patients with polypoid lesions 6≤x≤9 mm detected by the capsule system in various segments of the colon as, One year|Calculation of the score of the C-Scan system to generate a 3D model of the colon, Using the C-Scan View work station, the review will determine the score, on a scale of 1-10, the completeness of the colon model in each case. The average and Standard Deviation \[SD\] of all results will be calculated, One year|Quantify the variance of the Interpretation of the data from the C-Scan System between the reviewers, Each case will be reviewed by 3 independent reviewers who are blinded to the results of the FIT and colonoscopy. Calculate the variance between the results of each reviewer, One year
The subject will be invited to come to the clinic to sign the Informed Consent Form \[ICF\] and other related .

The subjects will be connected to the C-Scan Track and following system's activation the subject will be asked to ingest the C-Scan Capsule with some water and contrast media, in the presence of a physician.

Post ingestion, the subject will be discharged home with clear instructions on the procedure. The subject should avoid intensive physical exercise during procedure or any extreme activities. The subject should make an effort to stay at home or other familiar surroundings, and may continue daily activities such mobile/computer/Television use, shower, sleep or eat. Details on allowed and restricted activities are listed in app. 4 The subject will be required to ingest daily dose (3 X 15-17ml) of contrast media, to be consumed three times per day with normal diet. Also on a need based the subject would be provided with laxadine (5 mg tablets) to be ingested according to the doctor recommendation.

During capsule procedure the subjects will be contacted by phone several times daily by the site clinical study team (or by dedicated external trained medical personnel), to assure the subjects well-being and to monitor for any change or discomfort and for procedure progress. Subjects may be also monitored by the technical team (either at home or at the clinic), who may need to examine the system or inquire the subjects about the system visual/auditory indicators.

The subjects will be provided with a dedicated capsule collection kit, to assist the subjects in collecting the capsule. Subjects will be instructed to retrieve the capsule upon excretion.

Capsule procedure is completed upon capsule excretion or system vibro/auditory indication of 'End of Procedure'.

Once the procedure is completed, The C-Scan Capsule and C-Scan Track will be collected from the subject and returned to the sponsor's lab for preliminary analysis.

All subjects will be scheduled for optical colonoscopy to be performed within one month following capsule procedure.

C-Scan Procedure Analysis:

Several (3-6) licensed gastroenterologist physicians, will be trained with reviewing and analyzing C-Scan System scans, to serve as independent reviewers. Each case will be reviewed by 3 independant reviewers. The reviewing forum will be blinded to the FIT and colonoscopy results of the examined patients. Analysis will be performed on a per patient basis for the existence or non-existence of a finding that may be a polyp. This per patient finding will be compared with the FIT, and a colonoscopy will be performed for verification.