A Safety and Efficacy Study of CNTO 328 in Patients With B-Cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Multiple Myeloma, or Castleman's Disease
The purpose of this study is to evaluate of the study of different CNTO 328 doses and schedules and to see if CNTO 328 has any effect on Non-hodgkin's Lymphoma, Multiple Myeloma or Castleman's disease.
Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin|Multiple Myeloma|Giant Lymph Node Hyperplasia
DRUG: CNTO 328
Number of Patients With Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, Number of Patients with adverse events will be reported., Up to 3 years after the last administration of study medication|Serum Concentration of CNTO 328, Serum Concentration of CNTO 328 will be reported., Up to Day 71
Pharmacodynamics of CNTO 328, Pharmacodynamic parameters C-reactive protein, interleukin-6 (IL-6), soluble IL-6 receptor \[GP80\], soluble GP130, TNFα, ΙL-8, IL-10, soluble IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R), IFNγ, serum amyloid A (SAA), N-telopeptide (NTx), C-telopeptide (CTx), hepcidin-25, VEGF, and fibroblast growth factor will be assessed., Up to Day 71|Plasma antibodies to CNTO 328, Plasma antibodies to CNTO 328 will be used to evaluate the immunogenicity of CNTO 328., Up to Week 24|Number of participants with Castleman's disease who achieved tumor response, Evaluation of tumor response for subjects with Castleman's disease were performed by central review according to the standard criteria, developed by an NCI-sponsored international working group (Cheson et al, 1999)., Screening phase (4 weeks before administration of study medication), Day 36, and Day 57|Number of participants with multiple myeloma who achieved disease response, Evaluation of disease response for subjects with Multiple Myeloma were performed by the investigators according to the response criteria developed by an international group of multiple myeloma and bone marrow transplant experts (Blade et al, 1998)., Screening phase (4 weeks before administration of study medication), Day 36, and Day 57|Number of participants with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and multiple myeloma who achieved clinical benefit (CB), CB will assess pain (by Pain intensity \[PI\] and 7-items assessing how much pain interfered with daily activities), performance status (by Karnofsky performance status which quantifies participant's well-being and activities of daily life), and weight change. PI score will be assessed by 4 questions (Q) rated on 11-point numerical rating scale ranging from "0=no pain" to "10=higher severity of pain". Each participant will be classified as either CB responder (i.e., if +ve for at least 1 of 3 primary CB measures and stable for other 2) or Non-responder (If a participant is stable on all 3 primary measures OR if -ve for any 1 of 3 primary measures)., Up to Day 71|Number of participants with Castleman's disease who achieved clinical benefit, CB assessments for participant with Castleman's disease consist of the following 6 measures: hemoglobin, fatigue, anorexia, fever, weight, and size of largest lymph node. Each participant will be classified as either improved, stable, or worsening for each of the measures. If a participant has improved for at least 1 of the 6 measures and is at least stable for the remaining measures, participant will be considered to be a responder for CB. If a participant has worsening for at least 1 of the 6 measures, participant will be considered as having progression for CB. Any other participant will be considered to be stable for CB. Any "improved" or "stable" assessment of the lymph node parameter for CB must be confirmed by radiographic imaging. If a participant shows progression for CB at 2 consecutive assessments the participant must discontinue study treatment., Up to Day 71|Number of participants with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma who achieved disease response, Evaluation of disease response for subjects with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma were performed by the investigators according to the standard criteria, developed by an NCI-sponsored international working group (Cheson et al, 1999)., Screening phase (4 weeks before administration of study medication), Day 36, and Day 57
This research study will use a type of drug called anti-IL-6 antibody, also known as CNTO 328. An antibody is a substance in the body that fights infection. CNTO 328 is an investigational drug that has been shown to slow down tumor growth or shrink tumors when tested in animals. In a previous clinical trial in patients with multiple myeloma (blood cancer), CNTO 328 appeared to be a potent inhibitor of IL-6 . One study has been completed for kidney cancer. There are studies ongoing in humans with multiple myeloma and prostate cancer to see if CNTO 328 is safe and to see what effects it has on these types of cancer. This is an open-label, nonrandomized, dose-finding phase 1 study with CNTO 328 in patients with B- cell non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Multiple Myeloma, or Castleman's disease. The purpose of this study is to evaluate different doses and schedules of CNTO 328 to see which dose/schedule is safe. CNTO 328 will be given through a small tube that goes directly into your vein, called an intravenous (IV) infusion. Depending on when the patient enters the study, the patient will be assigned to receive one course of CNTO 328 in one of the following groups: Group 1: 3 mg/kg 2 hr IV infusion every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Group 2: 6 mg/kg 2 hr IV infusion every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Group 3: 12 mg/kg 2 hr IV infusion every 3 weeks for 3 doses. Group 4: 6 mg/kg 2 hr IV infusion every week for 7 doses. Group 5: 12 mg/kg 2 hr IV infusion every 2 weeks for 4 doses. Group 6: 12 mg/kg 1 hr IV infusion every 3 weeks for 3 doses. Group 7a: 9 mg/kg 1 hr IV infusion every 3 weeks. Group 7b: 12 mg/kg 1hr IV infusion every 3 weeks for Castleman's patients only. In Groups 1-5, the overall amount of study drug that will be given increases with each higher group. Group 1 will be filled before Group 2 starts and Group 2 will be filled before Group 3 starts, etc. In this way, CNTO 328 can be tested more safely. Both the patient and the study doctor will know to which group the patient is assigned. Patients will remain in the group that they are assigned to for the entire time of participation in the study. Up to 70 patients may take part in this study. Patients in Groups 1-6 will be in the study for up to 34 weeks prior to Post Study Follow-Up. Screening: up to 4 weeks before the first dose schedule of CNTO 328. Treatment: up to 6 weeks of treatment with CNTO 328. Extended Dosing: Patients assigned to Groups 1-6, and their cancer or disease has become stable or better while receiving CNTO 328, may be able to receive additional courses of study drug. Patients in Group 7 will be in the study until their disease gets worse, they can no longer tolerate CNTO 328, the study doctor feels it is in their best interest to stop CNTO 328 or they longer wish to participate in the study. Long Term Follow-Up: Patients will be contacted by telephone every six months after the last infusion of study drug to assess the patient's disease status and survival. Dose (6-12 mg/kg) and frequency (weekly or 2 or 3 week intervals) of dosing depends upon Group assignment. CNTO 328 will be given through a small tube that goes directly into your vein, called an intravenous (IV) infusion. The infusion will take about 2 hours to complete for groups 1-5 and 1 hour for Groups 6 and 7. In Groups 1-6, CNTO 328 will be given once every 1, 2 or 3 weeks from days 1 to 43 depending on treatment assignment. In Group 7a and Group 7b, CNTO 328 will be given on day 1 of each 21 day cycle.