Expression and Sequence of Calcium Channels in Non-small Cell Lung Carcinoma (NSCLC)
Calcium is an extremely important ion used in our body for many processes. One of its tasks is to control gene expression. Cells intake calcium from their surroundings though special calcium channels located on the surface membranes of the cells.

The great many studies on such calcium channels were performed on excitable cells such as muscle, heart or neuronal cells, where the calcium ions are controlled by voltage. Surprisingly, not much is known about the identity of calcium subunits in non-excitable cells like epithelial cells (which compose most of the connective tissue in the body), liver cells, lung cells, immune system cells, etc.

Recently, the investigators have shown that calcium channels from muscles are, in fact, expressed in T cells of the immune system, where they are used for proliferation. The investigators postulated that probably other cell types, especially cancerous cell types, might be using these subunits similarly.

The aim of this study is to determine the identity and sequence of calcium subunits expressed in non-small cell Lung Carcinoma (NSCLC), which accounts for 80% of the worldwide lung cancer deaths.
NSCLC
OTHER: A biopsy sample
mRNA expression and sequence of calcium channel subunits in NSCLC, mRNA will be extracted from each sample biopsy followed by real time PCR analysis. If any calcium subunit is detected, semi quantitative PCR will be performed, PCR bands will be cloned and sequenced., up to 1 month per patient
Initial examination of NSCLC cell lines determined that they express the mRNA of voltage gated calcium subunits, found normally in neurons. Furthermore sequence analysis of these subunits has shown that modifications have occurred.

The aim of the study in NSCLC patients is to sequence and clone the calcium channel subunits expressed in their tumor. Expression and Sequence will be compared between the normal and cancerous lung tissue for each patient.