HPV Educational Intervention to Increase Acceptance and Completion of Free HPV Vaccination Among Underserved Adults
This phase IV trial examines the impact of an education program on the human papilloma virus (HPV) and its effects on the acceptance and completion rates of a free HPV vaccination program in underserved adult patients. Participating in the HPV educational program may increase the HPV vaccination rates among low income uninsured adult patients and ultimately prevent HPV related cancers.
Human Papillomavirus Infection|Human Papillomavirus-Related Carcinoma
OTHER: Educational Intervention|OTHER: Survey Administration
Acceptance and completion rates of free HPV vaccination, Up to 2 years
Differences in acceptance and completion rates of HPV vaccination, among patients of different sex, ethnic or race, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the acceptability and completion rates of free HPV vaccination among the underserved adult patients at the Volunteer in Medicine Clinic (VIM) in Jacksonville, Florida.

II. Determine if an education program on HPV vaccination increases the acceptability of free HPV vaccination among the underserved adult patients at the Volunteer in Medicine Clinic (VIM) in Jacksonville, Florida.

III. Determine the baseline prevalence of HPV vaccination completion rates among VIM patients age 18-45.

IV. Determine if there are differences in acceptance and completion rates of HPV vaccination, among VIM patients of different sex, age (18-26 versus \[vs\] 27-45), ethnicity or race, following an education program on HPV as part of this protocol participation.

VI. Assessing possible barriers for vaccine series completion. VII. Determine if follow up intervention increases completion rate of free HPV vaccine series within 9 months.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive educational materials on HPV and are asked of their willingness to proceed with the first HPV vaccination. Patients who express interest in receiving the HPV vaccination, then receive the first dose of the HPV vaccine and the next 2 doses approximately 2 months and 6 months following the initial vaccine.