Copanlisib and Avelumab as a Maintenance Therapy for Advanced Bladder Cancer
Patients with metastatic bladder cancer are usually treated with chemotherapy. If their cancers do not progress after chemotherapy, they can be enrolled into this study and receive a standard-of-care immunotherapy medication named avelumab plus a study drug named copanlisib.
Advanced Urothelial Carcinoma
DRUG: copanlisib|DRUG: Avelumab
Progression-free survival (PFS), The primary endpoint is PFS. PFS is defined as the time between initiation of the avelumab/copanlisib combination and tumor progression or death from any cause, with censoring of patients who are lost to follow-up., 6 months into the trial
Overall Survival, Overall survival is defined as the length of time from the start of this trial treatment to the time of death from any cause, 24 months|Objective response rate, Objective response rate is defined as the percentage of patients who have a partial or complete response at any time during this treatment of this trial, 2 months|Disease-control rate, Disease-control rate is defined as the percentage of patients who have a partial or complete response or stable disease at any time during this treatment of this trial, 2-8 months|Adverse events, Adverse events are defined as any untoward medical occurrence of subjects which does not necessarily have a causal relationship with the treatment, up to 2 years into the study
Molecular Correlative Studies, Immune cell infiltration, immune cell activation/exhaustion status, cytokine production and signaling transduction pathways will be studied., up to 2 years into the study
Patients with advanced urothelial cancer will be treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. After chemotherapy, an imaging study will be performed to determine cancer response. If there is no disease progression, patients will be eligible for this study. After informed consent is obtained, patients are enrolled. The treatment include immunotherapy avelumab as the standard of care plus a study medication copanlisib. Both medications are administrated through intravenous infusion. Avelumab wil be given once every two weeks while copanlisib will be administrated on Day 1, 8 and 15 of every 4-week cycle. Patient will be followed up for disease progression.