Prophylactic Radiotherapy of MInimally Symptomatic Spinal Disease
Early palliative care has been shown to improve the quality of life and even survival for patients with metastatic cancer. More and more supportive oncology teams in cancer centers now advocate for early integration of radiation therapy (RT) in a patient's palliative management course. While multiple randomized studies have evaluated the efficacy of different RT regimens in the treatment of symptomatic bone lesions, few studies have examined the impact of early, upfront RT for asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic (non- opioid dependent) spine metastases and its efficacy in preventing skeletal-related events (SREs). Since the pathophysiology of spinal metastatic disease is distinct from other bony metastatic disease, the proposed trial seeks to understand whether it is beneficial to patients with minimally symptomatic disease to undergo upfront RT to reduce the risks of SREs and their sequelae, including hospitalizations.
Spine Metastases
RADIATION: Prophylactic Radiotherapy|DRUG: Standard of care systemic therapy
Number of patients who have skeletal-related events (SREs), Number of skeletal related events (SREs), which will be defined as pathological fractures, spinal cord compression, or interventions (palliative RT, interventional procedures, or spine surgery), 1 year
Number of skeletal-related event (SRE) hospitalizations, Number of hospitalizations attributed to skeletal-related events (SREs), 1 year|Pain-related quality of life, Pain-related quality of life using the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI) form. The BPI is a 17-item patient self-rating scale assessing demographic data, use of medications, as well as the sensory and reactive components of pain. The scale is from 0-10, and there are breakpoints between scores of 4 and 5 and between 6 and 7, indicating that mild pain correlates with scores of 1-4, moderate pain with 5-6, and severe pain with scores of 7-10., 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months, optionally within 1 week of a skeletal-related event (SRE)|Health care utilities and quality of life, Health care utilities and quality of life using the EuroQol Group EQ-5D-5L form. It has been developed to generate a generic cardinal index of health, thus giving it considerable potential for future use in economic evaluation. The EQ-5D-5L is a two-part, patient-completed questionnaire. The first part consists of 5 items covering 5 dimensions including: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Each dimension can be graded on 3 levels including: 1=no problems; 2= moderate problems; and 3=extreme problems. The second component is the visual analog scale, where the participant rates their own overall health on a scale of 0 (worst health) to 100 (best health)., 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months, optionally within 1 week of a skeletal-related event (SRE)|Pain-free survival (PFS), Pain-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from study entry to until the start of opioid use or until death., Until 1 year|Overall survival (OS), Overall survival (OS) is defined as the time from study entry until death., Until 1 year|Adverse event frequency and severity, Evaluate CTCAE v5 toxicity events in the upfront RT arm by tabulating all toxicities and summarizing the CTCAE v5 scores., 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months
Early palliative care has been shown to improve the quality of life and even survival for patients with metastatic cancer. More and more supportive oncology teams in cancer centers now advocate for early integration of radiation therapy (RT) in a patient's palliative management course. While multiple randomized studies have evaluated the efficacy of different RT regimens in the treatment of symptomatic bone lesions, few studies have examined the impact of early, upfront RT for asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic (non- opioid dependent) spine metastases and its efficacy in preventing skeletal-related events (SREs). Since the pathophysiology of spinal metastatic disease is distinct from other bony metastatic disease, the proposed trial seeks to understand whether it is beneficial to patients with minimally symptomatic disease to undergo upfront RT to reduce the risks of SREs and their sequelae, including hospitalizations.