Continuous Intraventricular Methotrexate in Treating Patients With Leptomeningeal Disease
This pilot clinical trial studies continuous intraventricular methotrexate in treating patients with leptomeningeal disease. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as methotrexate, work in different ways to stop the growth of cancer cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving drugs directly into the ventricles may be an effective treatment for patients with leptomeningeal disease
Leptomeningeal Metastases
OTHER: pharmacological study|DRUG: methotrexate
Efficacy of continuously delivered intraventricular methotrexate, The concentration of methotrexate in the brain parenchyma will be determined with microdialysis probe placed next to the ventricle., Day 3 after start of treatment|Pharmacokinetics of continuous intraventricular infusion of methotrexate, Determined by measuring brain interstitial levels of methotrexate using microdialysis catheters, lumbar cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) levels (a distant site) of methotrexate via a lumbar drain during the inpatients phase, ventricular CSF levels of methotrexate using the Ommaya reservoir, and systemic levels of methotrexate in the blood., Day 14 after start of treatment
Response rate of continuous intraventricular methotrexate infusion, Day 42 after start of treatment|Toxicities of continuous intraventricular methotrexate infusion, Day 3 after start of treatment|Pharmacodynamics of continuously delivered intraventricular methotrexate, Day 42 after start of treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the pharmacokinetics and efficacy of continuous intraventricular methotrexate infusion in the treatment of leptomeningeal disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Describe the dose limiting toxicities. II. Describe the pharmacodynamics of continuously delivered intraventricular methotrexate.

III. Assess for response.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive intraventricular methotrexate continuously on days 1-14. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.