Suberoylanilide Hydroxamic Acid in Treating Patients With Progressive Stage IV Breast Cancer
This phase II trial is studying how well suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid works in treating patients with progressive stage IV breast cancer. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid may also stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth
Male Breast Cancer|Recurrent Breast Cancer|Stage IV Breast Cancer
DRUG: vorinostat|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis
Objective Tumor Response Rate, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR) = CR + PR, Up to 8 weeks
Overall Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., From the initial date of treatment to time of death, up to 5 years.|Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions, or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., From start of treatment to the time of documented progression, assessed up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the response rate in patients receiving SAHA for stage IV breast cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Time to progression. II. Overall survival. III. Toxicity profile. IV. Assessment of potential biological correlates.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients receive oral suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid twice daily on days 1-14. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 8 weeks.