Osimertinib Combined With Anlotinib in EGFR T790M Mutated NSCLC Patients With Progression on Osimertinib Treatment
EGFR T790M gatekeeper mutation accounts for approximately 60% of acquired resistance to the first- or second-generation EGFR-TKI treatment. Osimertinib, a third-generation EGFR TKI, has become the standard therapy for NSCLC patients with acquired EGFR T790M mutation. However, acquired resistance to osimertinib is still inevitable and there is no established targetable agent currently. Thus, treatment strategy for patients with acquire resistance to osimertinib remains an urgent issue. In this study, we aimed to evaluate the efficacy of osimertinib combined with anlotinib in acquired EGFR T790M mutated NSCLC patients with gradual progression on osimertinib treatment.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: osimertinib mesylate tablets and anlotinib hydrochloride capsules
progression-free survival (PFS), PFS is defined as the time from beginning of osimertinib to disease progression on combination treatment of osimertinib and anlotinib., from the date of first dose of osimertinib until the date of disease progression，assessed up to 12 months.
Objective Response Rate (ORR), Objective Response Rate (ORR), is defined as the percentage of patients with complete response or partial response by investigator assessment as recorded in the CRF, which usually refer to Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumours (RECIST) v1.1 in clinical practice., from the date of combination of osimertinib and anlotinib, assessed up to 6 weeks.|Disease Control Rate (DCR), Disease Control Rate (DCR), is defined as the percentage of patients with complete response or partial response or stable disease by investigator assessment as recorded in the CRF, which usually refer to RECIST v1.1 in clinical practice., from the date of combination of osimertinib and anlotinib, assessed up to 6 weeks.|Adverse events/Serious adverse events, Incidence of Adverse Events (AEs): Incidence, severity and seriousness of adverse events, incidence of serious adverse events (SAEs), which usually be graded by CTCAE v5.0 based on current clinical practice., From signing ICF to 30 days after the end of treatment.
In current clinical practice, acquired resistance to osimertinib can be divided into three clinical modes: dramatic progression, gradual progression and local progression. For patients with gradual progression,there are various clinical explorations，including the continuation of osimertinib with chemotherapy or radiotherapy, osimertinib combined with antiangiogenic agents. In preclinical studies, an overactive vascular endothelial growth factor/vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGF/VEGFR) pathway and tumour angiogenesis plays a crucial role in the resistance to EGFR-TKIs, and the dual targeting of both the VEGF and EGFR pathways may prevent resistance.

Anlotinib (AL3818) is an inhibitor targeting multiple receptor tyrosine kinases involved in tumour progression, especially VEGFR 2/3, PDGFRα/β and c-Kit. We suppose that the combination treatment of osimertinib and anlotinib may ameliorate acquired resistance to osimertinib.This is a multi-center, open, single-arm, exploratory phase 2 trial evaluating osimertinib combined with anlotinib in acquired EGFR T790M mutated NSCLC patients with gradual progression on osimertinib treatment.