Sorafenib Monotherapy vs. TACE-sorafenib Sequential Therapy for HCC With Metastasis
Sorafenib is the standard therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with extrahepatic metastasis (EHM). However, addition of transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) may be beneficial for controlling intrahepatic tumour. The investigators aimed to compare the efficacy between the sorafenib monotherapy and TACE-sorafenib sequential therapy in HCC patients with EHM.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Metastasis
PROCEDURE: transarterial chemoembolization (TACE)|DRUG: Sorafenib
Overall survival, Survival rate during the study period, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to Feb 28, 2020 (maxium duration: up to 8 years)
Time to progression (TTP), Time form the enrollment to the event of progression, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to Feb 28, 2020 (maxium duration: up to 8 years)|Progression free survival (PFS), Survival rate without progression of HCC, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to Feb 28, 2020 (maxium duration: up to 8 years)|Median survival time (MST), Median time of the patient survival, From date of randomization until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to Feb 28, 2020 (maxium duration: up to 8 years)
Sorafenib is the standard therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with extrahepatic metastasis (EHM). However, transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) which is a standard therapy for intermediate stage may be beneficial for controlling intrahepatic tumour, thereby providing chance of improving survival in HCC patients with EHM.

The investigators aimed to compare the efficacy between the sorafenib monotherapy and TACE-sorafenib sequential therapy in HCC patients with EHM.

This study is a prospective randomized controlled study being conducted at 6 tertiary hospitals in South Korea. HCC patients with EHM are being enrolled and randomized into sorafenib monotherapy or TACE-sorafenib sequential therapy group. Patients with main portal vein invasion, Child-Pugh class B or C, and history of TACE or previous systemic therapy are being excluded. The sorafenib monotherapy group receives sorafenib immediately after randomization while the TACE-sorafenib group receives 2\~4 times of TACE before starting sorafenib. Response evaluation are performed every 2 months, and time to progression (TTP), progression free survival (PFS), median survival time (MST), and overall survival (OS) which is the primary outcome measure will be compared.