Micro Needle Array-Doxorubicin (MNA-D) in Patients With Cutaneous T-cell Lymphoma (CTCL)
The study hypothesis is that in situ MNA-directed chemo-immunotherapy using doxorubicin will kill tumor cells locally and alter the tumor microenvironment to induce durable systemic tumor-specific immunity.

The purpose of this study is to test a new method of experimental treatment for CTCL, using small adhesive-like patches (a micro-needle applicator or MNA for short), which have dozens of very small micro-needles loaded with extremely low doses of doxorubicin, a chemotherapy agent. The overall goal of this study is to test the safety and effectiveness of these patches. We also want to determine which micro-dose of the drug is the best to achieve the best response. To make sure that we observe the effects of the very low dose of the drug and not the MNA patch itself, we will also use a placebo (a patch without drug in some patients) in addition to the doxorubicin coated patches. We will thoroughly evaluate the skin where the patches are applied. Once the best dose is determined for use in the patch, we will also begin to look at how well the patches work in clearing the skin.
Cutaneous T Cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Micro needle array-Doxorubicin (MNA-D)
Evaluate the safety of the micro array needle doxorubicin (MNA-D) system confirmed by vital signs, hematology, comprehensive metabolic panel, assessment for skin toxicity, and adverse event evaluation., A traditional 3 + 3 dose escalation design will be used in 4 dosage cohorts (25 ug, 50 ug, 100 ug, and 200 ug)., 9 weeks
Evaluate the clinical responses (i.e., effectiveness) by the MNA-D, We will evaluate local, locoregional, and distant tumor regression; characterize and compare treated skin and the tumor microenvironment before, during, and after therapy, 12 months
Evaluate the tumor immunity induced by the MNA-D, Generalized skin changes, tissue and blood will be analyzed for immunologic response to the MNA-D in treated and control control cutaneous T-cell lymphoma lesions, 12 months
This study will evaluate a novel approach to the treatment of patches and plaques in the skin of patients diagnosed with cutaneous t-cell lymphoma utilizing a dissolvable microneedle array (MNA) delivery device that is used to directly and specifically deliver a drug to the tumor microenvironment for skin cancer therapy. We will utilize MNAs to deliver a well-characterized, potent chemotherapeutic agent (doxorubicin) to kill topically accessible, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma cells. In addition to directly killing cancer cells, doxorubicin is known to induce an immunologic cell death with the potential to simultaneously convert a cutaneous neoplasm into a highly potent patient specific immunogen capable of inducing innate, adaptive, and tumor specific effector and memory immune responses. Importantly, doxorubicin is currently in clinical use with a well-established safety profile. It is anticipated that use of the MNA-Doxorubicin (MNA-D) delivery system will enable direct and specific delivery of chemotherapy to the tumor, thereby avoiding any potential for systemic toxicity. The study will be conducted in two phases, with the first being a safety dose-finding phase and the second phase for efficacy and safety evaluation. The first phase is now completed.