Efficacy and Safety of Duloxetine in Chinese Solid Tumor Patients with Taxanes-induced Painful Peripheral Neuropathy
The study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of duloxetine in Chinese solid tumor patients with taxanes-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Duloxetine will be given to patients who have grade 1 or higher sensory neuropathy according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and at least 4 on a scale of 0 to 10 points, representing average chemotherapy-induced pain, after taxanes treatment. Patient-reported pain severity, functional interference, emotion condition and quality of Life will be assessed weekly using corresponding scales. Blood samples will be collected from each enrolled subjects before the start of treatment, and the potential biomarkers in predicting duloxetine efficacy or safety will be explored by genomic profiling.
Chemotherapy-induced Peripheral Neuropathy|Pain|Solid Tumor
DRUG: Duloxetine
Pain Score, Scale title: Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF). Description: Pain severity items are scored using an 11-point numeric rating scale (0, no pain; 10, pain as bad as you can imagine)., Once every 7 days after treatment initiation.
Quality of Life Score, Scale title: Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity (FACT/GOG-Ntx) Description: Items in FACT/GOG-Ntx are scored using an 5-point numeric rating scale (0, not at all; 4, very much)., Once every 7 days after treatment initiation.|Function Score, Scale title: Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI-SF). Description: Degree of pain-related functional interference is based on partial items in the BPI-SF and scored using an 11-point numeric rating scale, (0, does not interfere; 10, completely interferes)., Once every 7 days after treatment initiation.|Anxiety and depression Score, Scale 1 title: Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A) Description: Each item is scored on a scale of 0 (not present) to 4 (severe), with a total score range of 0-56, where \<17 indicates mild severity, 18-24 mild to moderate severity and 25-30 moderate to severe.

Scale 2 title: Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS17) Description: HDRS17 uses a 5-point scale of 0 to 4 for most items and a 3-point scale of 0 to 2 for a few items, and higher scores mean a worse symptom. The total scores less than 7 or 7 are indicative of the absence of depression or being normal, 8-16 consider mild depression, 17-23 suggest moderate depression and scores 24 or over are indicative of severe depression., Once every 7 days after treatment initiation.
The study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of duloxetine in Chinese solid tumor patients with taxanes-induced painful peripheral neuropathy. Duloxetine will be given to patients who have grade 1 or higher sensory neuropathy according to the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 5.0 and at least 4 on a scale of 0 to 10 points, representing average chemotherapy-induced pain, after taxanes treatment. Patient-reported pain severity, functional interference, emotion condition and quality of Life will be assessed weekly using corresponding scales. Blood samples will be collected from each enrolled subjects before the start of treatment, and the potential biomarkers in predicting duloxetine efficacy or safety will be explored by genomic profiling.