Combining Immunotherapy Salvage Surgery & IORT Tx Persistent/Recurrent Head & Neck Cancer
This phase I trial is to find out the possible side effects of pembrolizumab and radiation therapy before and during surgery in treating patients with head and neck squamous cell cancer that remains despite treatment (persistent) or has come back (recurrent). Immunotherapy with monoclonal antibodies, such as pembrolizumab, may help the body's immune system attack the cancer, and may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays or protons to kill tumor cells and shrink tumors. Giving pembrolizumab and radiation therapy before and during surgery may kill more tumor cells.
Head and Neck Carcinoma of Unknown Primary|Locally Recurrent Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Laryngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Recurrent Pharyngeal Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Resectable Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma
RADIATION: External Beam Radiation Therapy|RADIATION: Intraoperative Radiation Therapy|BIOLOGICAL: Pembrolizumab|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|PROCEDURE: Salvage Surgery
Incidence of adverse events, Evaluated using National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.0. Summarized by treatment group. All on-study adverse events (AEs), treatment-related AEs, serious (S)AEs, and treatment-related SAEs will be tabulated using worst grade per NCI CTCAE version 4.0 criteria by system organ class and preferred term. On-study lab parameters including hematology, chemistry, liver function, and renal function will also be summarized using worst grade NCI CTCAE v 4.0 criteria. Toxicity will be measured as the rate of grade 3 and 4 adverse events and will be calculated through using the exact binomial distribution method with a 2- sided 95% confidence interval., Up to 100 days after last dose of study drug|Health related quality of life, Assessed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30. Analysis will be performed in all randomized participants who have an assessment at baseline and at least one follow-up assessment using linear mixed model for repeated measures to model the changes overtime for each arm., Up to 5 years
Objective-response rate (ORR), ORR including complete response rate, partial response rate, and stable disease rate will be calculated using the exact binomial distribution method with a 2- sided 95% confidence interval among patients who obtain a least one dose of study drug., Up to 5 years|Local control rate, Analyses will be conducted using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm. The hazard ratio and corresponding two-sided 95% CI will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model, with treatment group as a single covariate., From the first day of therapy to the occurrence of a local and/or regional recurrence (whichever comes first), and death from any cause other than distant metastasis, assessed up to 24 months|Overall survival, Analyses will be conducted using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm. The hazard ratio and corresponding two-sided 95% CI will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model, with treatment group as a single covariate., Up to 5 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Analyses will be conducted using Kaplan-Meier method for each arm. The PFS medians with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and PFS at 6, 12, and 24 months with 95% CIs will be estimated a two-sided log-rank test. The hazard ratio and corresponding two-sided 95% CI will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model, with treatment group as a single covariate, stratified by the above factors., From the first day of the therapy to the appearance of local or regional recurrence, distant metastases, secondary primary cancer or death from any cause, assessed up to 24 months|PD-L1 expression, A Cox proportional hazards model will be used to test the interaction between PD-L1 expression (positive vs negative) and treatment arm., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the potential toxicity of immunotherapy and preoperative radiation combined with intra-operative radiation in patients with recurrent or persistent head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the clinical efficacy, measured as a locoregional control rate (LCR) and progression-free survival (PFS), of immunotherapy and preoperative radiation combined with intra-operative radiation in patients with recurrent or persistent HNSCC.

II. To evaluate the pre-operative radiation dose effect (0 Gy, 2 Gy X 2, 8 Gy X 2) on anti-tumor immune response in the setting of immunotherapy in patients with recurrent or persistent HNSCC.

III. To evaluate the radiation dose effect (0 Gy, 2 Gy X 2, 8 Gy X 2) on the expression of the deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) exonuclease Trex1.

IV. To compare the overall survival (OS) of pembrolizumab and pre and post-operative external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) plus intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) in subjects with recurrent or persistent HNSCC.

V. To assess the overall safety and tolerability of pre-operative pembrolizumab and pre-operative EBRT and IORT plus post-operative pembrolizumab versus pre-operative pembrolizumab plus IORT and post-operative pembrolizumab in subjects with with recurrent or persistent HNSCC.

VI. To evaluate whether PD-L1 expression is a predictive biomarker for LCR and PFS.

VII. To evaluate whether TNF-alpha expression is a predictive biomarker for LCR and PFS.

VIII. To evaluate whether NFkappaB expression is a predictive biomarker for LCR and PFS.

IX. To evaluate whether tumor mutational burden is predictive of immunotherapy response.

X. To evaluate the Health Related Quality of Life (HRQoL) as assessed by European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire - Core 30 (QLQ-C30) and QLQ-HN35.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate associations between gene expression status of tumor samples and clinical efficacy (LRC, PFS and overall survival \[OS\]).

II. To evaluate whether mutational burden is a predictive biomarker for LCR and PFS.

III. To explore potential biomarkers associated with clinical efficacy (LRC, PFS, and OS) by analyzing circulating tumor DNA quantitative load with polymerase chain reaction (PCR), chemokines/cytokines and immune cells (e.g. CD8+ T cells, regulatory T cells \[Tregs\], myeloid derived suppressor cells \[MDSCs\]) with FACS in blood, tumor tissue and correlating those with clinical outcomes.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 of week 1, and undergo salvage surgery during week 4. Beginning week 8, patients receive pembrolizumab IV every 3 weeks for up to 18 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) for 1 fraction during week 9. Treatment with pembrolizumab may continue beyond initial progression per investigator-assessed clinical benefit and if the patient is tolerating pembrolizumab.

ARM B: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV on day 1 of week 1, and undergo low dose EBRT for 2 fractions on 2 consecutive days during week 4. Patients also undergo salvage surgery during week 8. Beginning week 11, patients receive pembrolizumab IV every 3 weeks for up to 18 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo IORT for 1 fraction during week 11. Treatment with pembrolizumab may continue beyond initial progression per investigator-assessed clinical benefit and if the patient is tolerating pembrolizumab.

ARM C: Patients receive pembrolizumab IV on day 1 of week 1, and undergo high dose EBRT for 2 fractions on 2 consecutive days during week 4. Patients also undergo salvage surgery during week 8. Beginning week 11, patients receive pembrolizumab IV every 3 weeks for up to 18 doses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo IORT for 1 fraction during week 11. Treatment with pembrolizumab may continue beyond initial progression per investigator-assessed clinical benefit and if the patient is tolerating pembrolizumab.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 and 180 days, then every 90 weeks for 24 months, and then every 6 months up to year 5.