Study of Efficacy and Safety of Sunitinib Given on an Individualized Schedule
This prospective single arm study will evaluate the efficacy and safety of sunitinib given on an individualized dosing schedule as first-line therapy in subjects with metastatic clear cell renal cell cancer. The treatment schedule intent is to maximize dose intensity of sunitinib and minimize time off therapy based on individual tolerability using protocol directed dose modification criteria. A total of 110 subjects will be enrolled. All subjects will continue to receive study treatment until disease progression or withdrawal of consent. The primary outcome for this study is progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the duration from the date a patient first receives Sunitinib until the date of death or confirmed progression according to the RECIST criteria.
Clear Cell, Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: Sunitinib
Progression free survival for sunitinib given on an individualized dose/schedule, Primary objective is to characterize the progression free survival for sunitinib given on an individualized dose/schedule in patients on first-line treatment for metastatic renal cell cancer. Subjects will continue therapy until progression according to RECIST criteria version 1.1. Tumour measurements using physical exam, spiral CT scan and/or MRI or other appropriate techniques deemed suitable by the investigator will be performed at screening and repeated at the end of every 2 cycles until disease progression., 3.5 years
Patient tolerability and safety of an individualized dose/schedule, To evaluate the tolerability and safety of individualized dose/schedule changes and dose escalation and schedule modification in patients with minimal toxicity after treatment with sunitinib 50 mg for 28 days. The adverse effects of the drug will be assessed from adverse events, vital signs and by clinically significant changes in the lab evaluations and ECG's. Categorical endpoints, will be summarized using proportions and frequencies., 3.5 years|Dose intensity of sunitinib given on an individualized dose/schedule., The intent is to maximize dose intensity of sunitinib and minimize time off therapy based on individual tolerability using the dose modification criteria outlined in the protocol. Dose and schedule changes are done if toxicity (hematological, fatigue, skin, GI) is \> NCI CTCAE (version 3) grade 2. Patients that tolerate the standard 50 mg 28 days on/14 days off schedule with minimal toxicity (grade 1) will be dose escalated in 12.5 mg increments as outlined in the protocol on a schedule of 14 days on and 7 days off to a maximum of 75 mg., 3.5 years|Overall survival and patient quality of life, To characterize the overall survival and study the quality of life in subjects given sunitinib on an individualized dose/schedule. Quality of life questionnaires (ie. FACT-G and FKSI-DRS) will be completed at baseline and every 2 months thereafter until disease progression. Summary scores for QOL outcomes will be reported as the raw value at each time point evaluated, as well as the change in score from baseline. Overall survival will be calculated from the date of registration and estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., 3.5 years
This is a single-arm, single-stage phase II study investigating the use of an individualized dosing regimen of Sunitinib on patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma. The intent is to maximize dose intensity of sunitinib and minimize time off therapy based on individual tolerability using protocol directed dose modification criteria. Dose and schedule changes are done if toxicity (hematological, fatigue, skin, GI) is \> grade 2. There will be no dosing or schedule changes for hypertension, hypothyroidism, skin color changes, heartburn, etc. unless clinically indicated. Subjects will continue therapy until progression according to RECIST 1.1 criteria. All subjects will be followed for progression free survival until progression but after 2 years on therapy, only grade 3/4 drug related adverse events will be recorded.

Fact-G and FKSI-DRS will be used to evaluate PRO/QOL at baseline and every 2 months timepoints. A more detailed pharmacokinetic blood sampling will be done in a subset of patients in an effort to understand if Sunitinib blood concentration has a tendency to go down during treatment, as has been shown to be the case for Sorafenib. Biomarker and genomics blood sampling for correlation with progression free survival, toxicity and pharmacokinetics will be collected at baseline and stored.