A Study of Xeloda (Capecitabine) Plus Oxaliplatin in Patients With Colon Cancer
This 2 arm study will compare the efficacy and safety of intermittent oral Xeloda plus Eloxatin (oxaliplatin) with that of fluorouracil/leucovorin in patients who have had surgery for colon cancer and no previous chemotherapy. Patients will be randomized to receive either 1) XELOX (Xeloda 1000mg/m2 po bid on days 1-15 + oxaliplatin) in 3 week cycles or 2)5-fluorouracil + leucovorin in 4 or 8 week cycles. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Leucovorin (LV)|DRUG: 5-Fluorouracil (5-FU)
Disease-Free Survival (DFS) [Number of Events], Determination of an event was based on tumor assessments and survival follow-up assessments. A disease-free survival (DFS) event was defined as any recurrence of the original colon cancer or appearance of a new colon or rectal cancer (proven by cytology or histology, when possible) or death due to any cause, whichever was earliest. Participants who had not had any such event at the time of data analysis were censored at the last date they were known to be event-free. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline were censored at Day 1. An isolated event of increased CEA, or unexplained clinical deterioration were not considered to be evidence of relapse without support of other objective measurements. The date of relapse was defined as the date of the definitive assessment by objective measurements., Time from randomization date to date of first DFS event/date last known to be event-free. Median observation time for DFS was 74 months (range: 0-95 months).|Disease-Free Survival (DFS) [Time to Event], Determination of an event was based on tumor assessments and survival follow-up assessments. A disease-free survival (DFS) event was defined as any recurrence of the original colon cancer or appearance of a new colon or rectal cancer (proven by cytology or histology, when possible) or death due to any cause, whichever was earliest. Participants who had not had any such event at the time of data analysis were censored at the last date they were known to be event-free. Participants with no tumor assessments after baseline were censored at Day 1. An isolated event of increased CEA, or unexplained clinical deterioration were not considered to be evidence of relapse without support of other objective measurements. The date of relapse was defined as the date of the definitive assessment by objective measurements. The median was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The full range values include censored observations., Time from randomization date to date of first DFS event/date last known to be event-free. Median observation time for DFS was 74 months (range: 0-95 months).
Relapse-Free Survival (RFS) [Number of Events], A relapse-free survival (RFS) event included recurrence of the original colon cancer, development of a new colon or rectal cancer, and deaths related to any of the following: treatment, recurrence of the original colon cancer, or development of a new colon or rectal cancer. Participants who had not had any such event at the time of data analysis were censored at the last date they were known to be event-free. Participants whose cause of death was unrelated to treatment or disease recurrence were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment., Time from randomization date to date of first RFS event/date last known to be event-free. Median observation time for RFS was 74 months (range: 0-95 months).|Relapse-Free Survival (RFS) [Time to Event], A relapse-free survival (RFS) event included recurrence of the original colon cancer, development of a new colon or rectal cancer, and deaths related to any of the following: treatment, recurrence of the original colon cancer, or development of a new colon or rectal cancer. Participants who had not had any such event at the time of data analysis were censored at the last date they were known to be event-free. Participants whose cause of death was unrelated to treatment or disease recurrence were censored at the time of the last tumor assessment. The median was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The full range values include censored observations., Time from randomization date to date of first RFS event/date last known to be event-free. Median observation time for RFS was 74 months (range: 0-95 months).|Overall Survival [Number of Events], Overall survival was measured as the time from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Participants who were not reported as having died at the time of the analysis were censored using the date they were last known to be alive., Time from randomization date to date of death/date last known to be alive. Median observation time was 83 months (range: 0-95 months).|Overall Survival [Time to Event], Overall survival was measured as the time from randomization to the date of death, irrespective of the cause of death. Participants who were not reported as having died at the time of the analysis were censored using the date they were last known to be alive. The median was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method. The full range values include censored observations., Time from randomization date to date of death/date last known to be alive. Median observation time was 83 months (range: 0-95 months).|Number of Participants With at Least One Adverse Event by Most Severe Intensity, The intensity of all adverse events (AEs) was categorized according to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) (version 3.0) grading system. If an AE had occurred which was not contained in the NCI-CTC, a four-point scale (mild, moderate, severe, life-threatening) was used. The terms "severe" and "serious" are not synonymous and are independently assessed for each AE. Only the most severe intensity was counted for multiple occurrences of an AE in one individual. See the AEs results table for details., From time of very first drug intake to 28 days after very last drug intake (median [full range] duration of study treatment per arm: 5-FU/LV MAYO CLINIC: 145 [4-208] days; 5-FU/LV ROSWELL PARK: 204 [1-239] days; XELOX: 163 [1-275] days).
This 2 arm study will compare the efficacy and safety of intermittent oral Xeloda plus Eloxatin (oxaliplatin) with that of fluorouracil/leucovorin in patients who have had surgery for colon cancer and no previous chemotherapy. Patients will be randomized to receive either 1) XELOX (Xeloda 1000mg/m2 po bid on days 1-15 + oxaliplatin) in 3 week cycles or 2)5-fluorouracil + leucovorin in 4 or 8 week cycles. The anticipated time on study treatment is until disease progression and the target sample size is 500+ individuals.