Itacitinib for the Treatment Steroid Refractory Immune Related Adverse Events Arising From Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors
This phase II trial tests how well itacitinib works in in patients with immune related adverse events (irAEs) arising from immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) that do not respond to steroids (steroid refractory). Steroids are the usual treatment for these side effects. However, sometimes steroids do not improve or fix the side effects. Giving itacitinib may be effective in treating patients with known or suspected problems coming from ICIs, that do not resolve or improve with steroids, by reducing the patients immune system response that can cause the irAEs.
Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Cell Neoplasm|Malignant Solid Neoplasm
DRUG: Itacitinib|DRUG: Corticosteroid|PROCEDURE: Endoscopic Procedure|PROCEDURE: Skin biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection
Incidence of immune related adverse events (irAE), Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib
Objective response rate, Will be measured by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 as best response reported by the investigator at scans subsequent to itacitinib therapy and will be obtained descriptively by chart review., Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib|Progression-free survival, Will be obtained using RECIST 1.1 and obtained descriptively by chart review., Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib|Hospitalization presence, Need for hospitalization will be recorded., Days 14 and 28|Need for therapy escalation and presence of steroids, The presence of additional immunosuppression added after starting itacitinib or escalation of steroid dose will be recorded., From start of itacitinib to 60 days after stopping itacitinib|Need for therapy escalation and absence of steroids, The absence of additional immunosuppression added after starting itacitinib or escalation of steroid dose will be recorded., From start of itacitinib to 60 days after stopping itacitinib|The rate of delayed relapses will be followed., Rate of irAEs, Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib|The rate of improvement at earlier timepoints will be followed., Rate of irAEs, Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib|Rate of irAEs, The rate of ability to resume ICI (in select patients, per study investigator decision) will be followed., Baseline up to 60 days post last dose of itacitinib
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To define the rate of improvement of steroid-refractory immune related adverse events (irAEs) in patients treated with ICI at 28 days.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To define whether anti-tumor activity is preserved (response rate, progression free survival \[PFS\], T cell populations and function in the tumor).

II. To assess freedom from hospitalization and any grade improvement at 14 and 28 days.

III. To assess rate of therapy escalation (increased dose of steroids, other immunosuppressant) by day 60 follow up.

IV. To define cancer-specific and toxicity-specific survival at 6 months. V. To define the rate of improvement of steroid-refractory irAEs in patients treated with ICI at any time, and at 60 days (defined as improvement to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events \[CTCAE\] Grade 0-1).

VI. To define the proportion of patients able to be tapered off steroids at Day 29 and at Day 30 follow up.

VII. To define the safety of itacitinib in patients with steroid-refractory irAEs.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive itacitinib orally (PO) and corticosteroids PO or intravenously (IV) on study. Patients may undergo endoscopy and skin biopsy throughout the study. Patients also undergo blood collection throughout the study.