Lenalidomide in Treating Patients With AIDS-Associated Kaposi's Sarcoma
This phase I/II trial studies the side effects and best dose of lenalidomide and to see how well it works in treating patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)-related Kaposi sarcoma (KS). Lenalidomide may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking blood flow to the tumor.
AIDS-Related Kaposi Sarcoma|Recurrent Kaposi Sarcoma
DRUG: Lenalidomide
Maximum Tolerated Dose of Lenalidomide Defined as the Dose Level at Which 0/6 or 1/6 Subjects Experience Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) With the Next Higher Dose Having at Least 2/3 or 2/6 Subjects Encountering DLT (Phase I), Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of lenalidomide defined as the dose level at which 0/6 or 1/6 subjects experience dose limiting toxicity (DLT) with the next higher dose having at least 2/3 or 2/6 subjects encountering DLT (Phase I). Toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) Version 4.0. Using a 3+3 design, the MTD is defined as the level at which 0/6 or 1/6 patients experiences at dose-limiting toxicity in the first cycle., 28 days|Tumor Response Rate, Percentage of patients who achieve a partial or complete response Complete response was defined as the absence of any detectable residual disease, including tumor-associated edema, that persisted for at least 4 weeks.

Partial response was defined as no new lesions (skin or oral), or new visceral sites of involvement (or the appearance or worsening of tumor-associated edema or effusions), and a 50% or greater decrease in the number of all previously existing lesions that lasted for at least 4 weeks, or complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised lesions, or a 50% or greater decrease in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the marker lesions., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
Time to Death, Percentage of patients who died, Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Time to Relapse, Percentage of participants who relapsed, Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment|Time to Response, time from enrollment to first response (complete or partial) as defined below: Complete response is defined as the absence of any detectable residual disease, including tumor-associated edema, persisting for at least 4 weeks.

Partial response is defined as no new lesions (skin or oral), or new visceral sites of involvement (or the appearance or worsening of tumor-associated edema or effusions), and a 50% or greater decrease in the number of all previously existing lesions lasting for at least 4 weeks, or complete flattening of at least 50% of all previously raised lesions, or a 50% or greater decrease in the sum of the products of the largest perpendicular diameters of the marker lesions., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
Relationship Between Clinical Response and Quantitative Measures of Kaposi's Sarcoma-associated Herpesvirus (KSHV)/HHV-8 and HIV Viral Load, Spearman rank correlation analysis will be used to evaluate the relationship between the qualification of baseline KSHV/HHV-8, HIV viral load and time to progression, and response duration., Up to 30 days after completion of study treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of single agent lenalidomide in subjects with AIDS-related KS. (Phase I) II. Evaluate the overall clinical response of KS tumors to lenalidomide with subset assessments of partial response (PR) and complete response (CR). (Phase II)

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the effect of lenalidomide on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) plasma viral loads.

II. Determine the effects of lenalidomide on T-lymphocyte subsets, including natural killer (NK) cells.

III. Evaluation of time to response, time to relapse, and time to death amongst subjects receiving lenalidomide.

IV. Determine the effect of lenalidomide on human herpesvirus (HHV)-8. V. Assess lenalidomide effects on HHV-8 copy number in peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC), and plasma and whether changes in viral copy number measured in PBMC or plasma are associated with clinical response of KS tumors.

VI. Monitor HHV-8 gene expression in KS biopsy specimens and PBMC pre- and post-lenalidomide and assess whether changes in viral gene expression in tumor biopsy are associated with clinical response.

VII. Assess whether changes in viral copy number in the compartments assayed occur in concert or independently with changes in viral antigen expression in biopsy specimens.

VIII. Assess effects of lenalidomide on growth factors relevant to tumor proliferation (i.e., interleukin \[IL\]-1beta, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-10, IL-15, IL-12p70, tumour necrosis factor \[TNF\]alpha, and interferon gamma \[IFN\]gamma).

IX. Characterize the effects of lenalidomide on viral and cellular gene in KS tumor biopsies.

X. Assess changes in NK cell number (PBMC and tumor) and function pre- and post-lenalidomide.

XI. Assess the sensitivity and specificity of dermal adhesive strip samples to detect KS and the effects of lenalidomide on the lesions.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of lenalidomide followed by a phase II study.

Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.