Effect of Premedication With Pronase on Mucosal Cleanliness During EGD
Gastric cancer and esophageal cancer are common malignant tumors that threaten people's life and health. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is an important tool for screening upper gastrointestinal tumors, especially early tumors, and an effective method for detecting other upper gastrointestinal lesions, including ulcers and polyps. However, during EGD examination, mucus and foam can reduce the cleanliness of the mucosa and limit the operator's visual field, resulting in missed lesions and misdiagnosis. Previous studies have shown that preoperative medication with pronase and dimeticone is correlated with the improvement of upper gastrointestinal mucosal cleanliness. However, the number of samples in such studies is limited, and the artificial judgment is not objective enough to evaluate the cleanliness of upper digestive tract mucosa. And, whether a postural exercise is necessary for premedication with pronase or dimeticone remains unclear. Our team design this experiment to examine the efficacy of using premedication of dimeticone/pronase with a postural exercise on visualization of the mucosa before painless EGD. The investigators aim to provide new evidence to optimize the use of premedication with EGD.
Esophageal Cancer|Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Dimethicone+Pronase|DRUG: Dimethicone|BEHAVIORAL: with Postural Exercise|BEHAVIORAL: without Postural Exercise.
Mucosal Cleanliness Scores, The upper digestive tract is divided into 9 anatomical parts, including esophagus, squamocolumnar junction, middle-upper gastric body, lower gastric body, gastric antrum, duodenal bulb, duodenal descending, gastric angulus and gastric fundus.

The mucosal cleanliness score of each segment is classified as 0-3. Score0: any solid food, blood or blood clots, or other content that could not be suctioned or washed, or an obstruction that prevented adequate visualization of the majority of an anatomical area.

Score 1: mucus, bubbles, liquid content, and blood that required suctioning AND/OR washing.

Score 2: nonadherent liquid content or blood that required ONLY suctioning but NOT washing.

Score 3: entire mucosa well seen without the need for suctioning or washing. The sum of the mucosal cleanliness scores for the above mentioned 9 locations ranges from 0 to 27., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Procedure Time, The procedure time of EGD is defined as the time taken from the entry of EGD into the esophagus to the withdrawal of the EGD., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|The Detection Rate of Diminutive Lesions, The detection rate of diminutive lesions means the proportion of patients with diminutive lesions \&lt;5 mm., Through study completion, an average of 1 year|Safety of antifoam/mucus agents, Any adverse event including gag reflex and hypoxemia during EGD examination need to be recorded., Through study completion, an average of 1 year
Gastric cancer and esophageal cancer are common malignant tumors that threaten people's life and health. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) is an important tool for screening upper gastrointestinal tumors, especially early tumors, and an effective method for detecting other upper gastrointestinal lesions, including ulcers and polyps. However, during EGD examination, mucus and foam can reduce the cleanliness of the mucosa and limit the operator's visual field, resulting in missed lesions and misdiagnosis. Previous studies have shown that preoperative medication with pronase and dimeticone is correlated with the improvement of upper gastrointestinal mucosal cleanliness. However, the number of samples in such studies is limited, and the artificial judgment is not objective enough to evaluate the cleanliness of upper digestive tract mucosa. And, whether a postural exercise is necessary for premedication with pronase or dimeticone remains unclear. Our team design this experiment to examine the efficacy of using premedication of dimeticone/pronase with a postural exercise on visualization of the mucosa before painless EGD. The investigators aim to provide new evidence to optimize the use of premedication with EGD.