Zanubrutinib in Combination With Odronextamab for the Treatment of Patients With Richter's Transformation
This phase I trial tests the safety and side effects of zanubrutinib in combination with odronextamab and how well it works in treating patients with Richter's transformation. Zanubrutinib, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocks a protein called Bruton tyrosine kinase (BTK), which may help keep cancer cells from growing. Odronextamab is a bispecific monoclonal antibody that can bind to two different antigens at the same time. Odronextamab binds to CD20 found on B-cells (a type of white blood cell) and on many B-cell cancers and to CD3 on T-cells (also a type of white blood cell) and may interfere with the ability of cancer cells to grow and spread. Giving zanubrutinib in combination with odronextamab may be safe, tolerable and/or effective in treating patients with Richter's transformation.
Recurrent Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Refractory Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Richter Syndrome|Transformed Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia to Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Bone Marrow Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Echocardiography|PROCEDURE: Multigated Acquisition Scan|BIOLOGICAL: Odronextamab|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography|PROCEDURE: Ultrasound Imaging|DRUG: Zanubrutinib
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), All non-hematologic toxicities will be coded and graded according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version (v) 5.0. Hematologic toxicities will be assessed per International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) 2018. Cytokine release syndrome (CRS)/immune effector cell associated neurotoxicity syndrome (ICANS) will be coded by American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (ASTCT) grading for CRS/ICANS. DLTs will be summarized by type, severity, and attribution. DLTs will be individually described., During the first 2 cycles of protocol therapy (cycle length = 21 days)|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), All non-hematologic toxicities will be coded and graded according to the NCI CTCAE v 5.0. Hematologic toxicities will be assessed per IWCLL 2018. CRS/ICANS will be coded by ASTCT grading for CRS/ICANS. AEs will be summarized by type, severity, and attribution., Up to 28 days after last dose of study treatment
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be defined as the proportion of response evaluable patients who achieve a best response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Lugano 2014 guidelines on study before any documented disease progression or any subsequent non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) treatment. ORR will be estimated by the binary proportion, along with the 95% exact binomial confidence intervals (CIs)., Up to 3 years|CR rate, Will be defined as the proportion of response evaluable patients who achieve a best response of complete response according to Lugano 2014 guidelines on study before any documented disease progression or any subsequent NHL treatment. CR rate will be estimated by the binary proportion, along with the 95% exact binomial CIs., Up to 3 years|Duration of response (DOR), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% CI will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median DOR will be estimated when available., From the first achievement of CR or PR to disease progression/relapse or death due to any cause, whichever is earlier, assessed up to 3 years|Progression-free survival (PFS), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% CI will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median PFS will be estimated when available., From start of protocol treatment to disease relapse/progression or death due to any cause, whichever is earlier, assessed up to 3 years|Overall survival (OS), Will be estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier along with the Greenwood estimator of standard error; 95% CI will be constructed based on log-log transformation. Median OS will be estimated when available., From start of protocol treatment to death due to any cause, assessed up to 3 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate safety and tolerability of zanubrutinib administered in combination with odronextamab in patients with Richter's transformation (RT).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate efficacy of zanubrutinib administered in combination with odronextamab, based on overall response rate (ORR), complete response (CR) rate, duration of response (DOR), progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To characterize the T-cell population balance in patients treated with zanubrutinib and odronextamab.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive odronextamab intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 2, 8, 9, 15 and 16 of cycle 1 and over 1-4 hours on days 1, 8 and 15 of cycles 2-4 and then on days 1 and 15 of remaining cycles. Patients with CR at cycle 9 may receive odronextamab on day 1 of remaining cycles. Starting with cycle 2, patients also receive zanubrutinib orally (PO) once daily (QD) or twice daily (BID) of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for cycles 1-4 in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity then repeat every 28 days for up to cycle 12. After 12 cycles, patients may continue zanubrutinib at investigator's discretion. Patients also undergo echocardiography (ECHO) or multigated acquisition scan (MUGA) and optional bone marrow biopsy at screening and ultrasound guided biopsy of lymph node at screening and during days 2-12 of cycle 2. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection and positron emission tomography (PET), or computed tomography (CT) throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 and 12 weeks then every 6 months for up to 3 years.