Long-acting G-CSF for Febrile Neutropenia
This study aims to analyze the effects of long-acting granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) on the prevention febrile neutropenia (FN) in epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients are randomized into study group and control group. In study group, patients accept long-acting G-CSF 48 hours from the chemotherapy. While the control group accept regular treatment rather than long-acting G-CSF. The primary end is the incidence of FN in every course of chemotherapy. The secondary ends include: the incidences of myelosuppression, doses of G-CSF and its expenses, visits to outpatient and emergency clinics, adverse events related to G-CSF.
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer|Colony Stimulating Factors|Febrile Neutropenia|Myelosuppression Adult|Adverse Event|Cost-effectiveness
DRUG: long-acting granulocyte colony stimulating factor|DRUG: Short-term granulocyte colony stimulating factor
febrile neutropenia, the incidence of febrile neutropenia happened during each course of chemotherapy, One year
myelosuppression, the incidence of the incidence of febrile neutropenia happened during each course of chemotherapy happened during each course of chemotherapy, One year|doses of granulocyte colony stimulating factor, total doses of all granulocyte colony stimulating factor, One year|expenses of granulocyte colony stimulating factor, total expenses of all granulocyte colony stimulating factor, One year|visits to the hospital, visits to outpatient and emergency clinics, One years|adverse events, adverse events related to G-CSF according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03, One year|progression-free survival, progression-free survival after the primary treatment of ovarian cancer, Five years
This study aims to analyze the effects of long-acting granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) on the prevention febrile neutropenia (FN) in epithelial ovarian cancer. Patients are randomized into study group and control group. In study group, patients accept long-acting G-CSF 48 hours from the chemotherapy. While the control group accept regular treatment rather than long-acting G-CSF. The primary end is the incidence of FN in every course of chemotherapy. The secondary ends include: the incidences of myelosuppression, doses of G-CSF and its expenses, visits to outpatient and emergency clinics, adverse events related to G-CSF.