Acute Effects of Exercise on the Cortical Silent Period in Prostate Cancer Patients
In Canadian men, prostate cancer (PCa) is the most prevalent form of cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Unfortunately, PCa survivors are often burdened with feelings of anxiety and depression associated with the disease and associated treatments. Short-term exercise interventions (8-24 weeks) have improved psychosocial well-being in this population, but the impact of single bouts of exercise and related psychological or neurological changes have never been studied. The primary objective of the proposed study is to examine the effect of an acute bout of exercise on neurophysiological and psychological indicators of well-being in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 36 men with PCa. Participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention (60 min exercise) or control (60 min of television) and will undergo a brief neurological test (cortical silent period) and psychological questionnaires before and after their group assignment.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Exercise
Change From Baseline in Cortical Silent Period (CSP) Will be Determined Using Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) of the Motor Cortex., CSP is a measure of cortical inhibition that is negatively related to anxiety, stress, and depression., 10-15 minutes prior to the control/exercise condition ('pre-test') and 10-15 minutes after the control/exercise condition ('post-test').
Profile of Mood States Questionnaire(PoMS), Correlations will be assessed between cortical silent period and acute mood state., 10-15 minutes prior to the control/exercise condition ('pre-test') and 10-15 minutes after the control/exercise condition ('post-test').|State-Trait Anxiety Inventory - Questionnaire(STAI), Correlations will be assessed between cortical silent period and acute anxiety., 10-15 minutes prior to the control/exercise condition ('pre-test') and 10-15 minutes after the control/exercise condition ('post-test').|Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale - Questionnaire(HADS), Correlations will be assessed between cortical silent period and acute anxiety and depression., 10-15 minutes prior to the control/exercise condition ('pre-test') and 10-15 minutes after the control/exercise condition ('post-test').|Exercise-Induced Feelings Inventory - Questionnaire (EIFI), Correlations will be assessed between cortical silent period and exercise-induced feelings., 10-15 minutes prior to the control/exercise condition ('pre-test') and 10-15 minutes after the control/exercise condition ('post-test').
In Canadian men, prostate cancer (PCa) is the most prevalent form of cancer and the third leading cause of cancer-related death. Unfortunately, PCa survivors are often burdened with feelings of anxiety and depression associated with the disease and associated treatments. Short-term exercise interventions (8-24 weeks) have improved psychosocial well-being in this population, but the impact of single bouts of exercise and related psychological or neurological changes have never been studied. The primary objective of the proposed study is to examine the effect of an acute bout of exercise on neurophysiological and psychological indicators of well-being in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 36 men with PCa. Participants will be randomly assigned to the intervention (60 min exercise) or control (60 min of television) and will undergo a brief neurological test (cortical silent period) and psychological questionnaires before and after their group assignment.