INCB039110 in Combination With Dabrafenib and Trametinib in Patients With BRAF-mutant Melanoma and Other Solid Tumors.
This research study is studying a combination of drugs as a possible treatment for BRAF-mutant melanoma.

The drugs involved in this study are:

* Itacitinib (INCB039110)
* Dabrafenib
* Trametinib
Melanoma
DRUG: Trametinib|DRUG: Dabrafenib|DRUG: INCB039110
Maximum Tolerated Dose, Maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is defined as the highest dose of the treatment that does not cause unacceptable side effects in at least two-thirds of participants., Approximately 2 months
Objective Response Rate, Objective response rate is defined as the proportion of patients with complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST v1.1 criteria as their best response to therapy., Approximately 7 months|Number of Participants With Progression-Free Survival at 6 Months, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the duration of time from start of treatment to time of progression or death, whichever occurs first., 6 Months|Overall Survival, Overall Survival (OS) is defined as the time from the first treatment date to death due to any cause, or censored at date last known alive., approximately 7 months
This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of the investigational drugs and also tries to define the appropriate doses of the investigational drugs to use for further studies. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

The FDA (the U.S. Food and Drug Administration) has not approved itacitinib as a treatment for any disease.

The FDA has approved dabrafenib and trametinib as a treatment option for Melanoma.

In this research study, the investigators are studying the combination of itacitinib, dabrafenib, and trametinib. The investigators believe this combination of study drugs may stop the participant's cancer cells from growing and spreading. All three of the study drugs are inhibitors. Trametinib may work by binding to the participant's cancer cells to inhibit the cancer cells' signals to decrease cell growth, dabrafenib may work by stopping the participant's cancer cells from duplicating, and itacitinib may work by stopping the participant's tumor cells from living and growing.