Decipher Lethal Prostate Cancer Biology - Urine Metabolomics
Through a better understanding of the biology of significant (lethal) prostate cancer, we hope to develop new markers/targets from urine metabolomics for more effective screening and prevention of significant prostate cancer. In the meantime, with these new markers we may substantially reduce overtreatment of insignificant PC.
Significant Prostate Cancer
DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Multi-Carotenoids
Change of urine metabolomics, Observe the change of metabolomics in urine samples collected before and upon the completeness of MCS supplementation, 8 weeks
Prostate cancer (PC) afflicts millions of men worldwide. In Taiwan, around 5,000 men are diagnosed as PC while 1,200 men die of the disease each year. However, thousands of Taiwanese men may have been over-treated for their insignificant PCs. The above situations signify the unmet clinical need where effective measures of stratifying risk of PC are lacking. The study is to identify new markers/targets with which to better screen and prevent significant (sPC) or lethal PC (lePC).

This is a prospective, observational and investigational study investigating the role of urine omics studies (metabolomics and proteomics) in subjects who will undergo prostate biopsy or have completed biopsy and/or subsequent MCS supplementation. MCS (or Botreso) is a new patented botanic agent, composed of primarily multi-carotenoids, including lycopene, phytoene, phytofluene, etc. The expected subject number to be enrolled is 620 men and 20 women from NTUH. There will be 3 cohorts: Cohort A (N=990), Cohort B (N=990) and Cohort C (N=40). Cohort A will be the training cohort used to generate the predictive model. Cohort B will be the validation cohort used to validate the newly developed predictive model. Cohort C is the control cohort, including 20 women and 20 men without any signs of cancers.

By risk stratification after biopsy pathology results are available, there will be 5 groups of subjects, including patients with Group 1. mPC: Metastatic prostate cancer Group 2. sPC: Non-metastatic significant prostate cancer (sPC) Group 3. isPC: Non-metastatic insignificant PC (isPC) Group 4. Pre-cancerous lesions: atypical small acinar proliferation (ASAP) or prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia (PIN) Group 5. Non-cancer benign pathology

Based on NCCN risk classification, sPC is defined as the followings: unfavorable intermediate-risk, high/very high-risk, or presence of metastasis. The patients with favorable intermediate-risk prostate cancer will be considered as sPC in the prediction model in the population with long life expectancy.

Biopsy pathology report and clinicopathological parameters will be recorded. In addition, transcriptomics study will be performed. Group specific urine omics profiles will be constructed by comparing the outstanding metabolites between groups. These urine omics profiles are constructed so as to efficiently separate groups of graded risk stratification, especially to predict subjects with mPC (Group 1) or sPC (Group 2). The newly constructed urine omics profiles from Cohort A will be validated against Cohort B of subjects who will undergo biopsy to determine the predictive efficiency of the constructed profiles.

In Cohort A, sPC (Group 2), isPC (Group 3), ASAP/PIN (Group 4) and benign pathology patients (Group 5) will further be invited to take MCS supplementation for 8 weeks after the pathology confirmation. The expected enrollment number is 30 for each of the 4 groups (in total 120). Urine samples will be collected before and after 8 weeks of MCS supplementation for metabolomics and proteomics analysis. The effect of MCS supplementation in modifying urine metabolites will be investigated to determine the potential use of MCS in prostate cancer chemoprevention.

Through a better understanding of the biology of significant (lethal) PC, we hope to develop new markers/targets for more effective screening and prevention of sPC. In the meantime, with these new markers we may substantially reduce overtreatment of insignificant PC.