A Trial of Irinotecan and BKM120 in Previously Treated Advanced Colorectal Cancer
This phase I trial will use the combination of irinotecan and BKM120 in patients with advanced colorectal cancer who have failed on or have become intolerant of at least one line of therapy for advanced colorectal cancer and who are candidates for irinotecan therapy.
Colorectal Cancer
DRUG: Irinotecan|DRUG: BKM120
Maximum tolerated dose, The maximum tolerated dose will be defined as the dose level prior to the dose level in which dose-escalation was stopped based on dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs). DLTs are based on specific adverse events specified in the study protocol. DLTs will be assessed during the first two cycles of treatment (28 days total)., 28 days
area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of irinotecan, Blood samples will be collected at cycle 1/day 1 and cycle 2/day 1 to determine the AUC of irinotecan in the presence and absence of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post dose of irinotecan|Change in tumor size, Disease will be assessed at baseline and then every four cycles (8 weeks) by CT or MRI. Response will be assessed following RECIST criteria. Patients will be categorized as complete response, partial response, progressive disease, stable disease, or unknown., baseline, and every 8 weeks|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of irinotecan, Blood samples will be collected at cycle 1/day 1 and cycle 2/day 1 to determine the AUC of irinotecan in the presence and absence of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post-dose of irinotecan|biological half-life of irinotecan, Blood samples will be collected at cycle 1/day 1 and cycle 2/day 1 to determine the AUC of irinotecan in the presence and absence of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post dose of irinotecan|Peak Plasma Concentration (Cmax) of BKM120, The Cmax of BKM120 will be measured at Cycle 2/Day 1 for pharmacokinetic characterization of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post-dose of irinotecan|area under the plasma concentration versus time curve (AUC) of BKM120, The AUC of BKM120 will be measured at Cycle 2/Day 1 for pharmacokinetic characterization of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post dose of irinotecan|Biological half life of BKM120, The biological half life of BKM120 will be measured at Cycle 2/Day 1 for pharmacokinetic characterization of BKM120., up to 25.5 hours post dose of irinotecan
Although survival of patients with advanced colorectal cancer has improved in the last two decades, the overwhelming majority of these patients will still succumb from this disease. It is the third most commonly diagnosed malignancy in the United States. We have witnessed significant leaps in understanding colorectal cancer carcinogenesis as well as in identification of a number of prognostic and predictive factors associated with this malignancy. With the use of combination chemotherapy and the addition of targeted agents, the median survival of patients with advanced colorectal cancer has improved from 4-6 months with supportive care to over 2 years.

Molecularly directed therapy for cancer holds promise to a more personalized approach to treating cancer. Increase understanding of tumorigenesis has resulted in the identification of promising targets of therapy for more strategic approach to treatment of this malignancy. However, even with the development of molecularly directed treatment, the therapy for advanced colorectal cancer remains to be primarily palliative in nature to majority of patients. There is definite need for a more effective therapy, agents with more acceptable toxicity profiles, and drugs that could be administered without significant demand on time and activity for individual patients receiving these drugs.

This is a phase I trial of the combination of irinotecan and BKM120 in patients with advanced colorectal cancer who have failed on or have become intolerant of at least one line of therapy for advanced colorectal cancer and who are candidates for irinotecan therapy. This study will attempt to estimate the Maximum Tolerated Dose of the combination of irinotecan and BKM120.