Sintilimab Plus Rituximab Followed by R-CHOP Regimen in Untreated PMBL
The goal of this clinical study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen in treatment-naïve patients with primary mediastinal diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The main questions it aims to answer are:

1. Objective response rate of sintilimab combined with rituximab
2. Objective response rate after R-CHOP regimen
Primary Mediastinal Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma
DRUG: Sintlimab+Rituximab follwed by R-CHOP(Cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone)
Complete response rate of Sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen, Investigator-assessed complete response rate of Sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen. Complete response ratewas determined on the basis of investigator assessments according to the Lymphoma response to immunomodulatory therapy criteria (LYRIC) for Malignant Lymphoma, 2016. Tumor assessments were performed with CT/MRI with or without PET.Complete response was defined as the disappearance of all evidence of disease, regression of measurable disease, and no new sites., 36 months
Objective response rate of Sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen, Investigator-assessed objective response rate of Sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen. The overall response rate (ORR) including complete response (CR), and partial response (PR) was determined on the basis of investigator assessments according to the Lymphoma response to immunomodulatory therapy criteria (LYRIC) for Malignant Lymphoma, 2016. Tumor assessments were performed with CT/MRI with or without PET., 36 months|Progression-free survival of whole cohort, Progression-free survival time assessed by investigator for sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen. Statistical analysis will entail descriptive statistics, and survival analysis including Kaplan-Meier estimates, log-rank testing of univariate prognostic factors, Cox proportional hazards analysis, as well as T-testing and regression analysis for comparing continuous variables in correlative study data. PFS was defined as time from diagnosis until relapse or progression, non-protocol re-treatment of lymphoma, or death as a result of any cause., 72 months|Duration of response in responding patients, Duration of response to sequential R-CHOP regimen with sintilimab plus rituximab as assessed by the investigator. Duration of response is defined as the time from the date of first occurrence of CR or PR to the date of the first documented PD or death due to any cause., 72 months|Overall survival of whole cohort, Overall survival is defined as the time from the treatment date to the death from any cause., 72 months|Incidence of Adverse event, Safety of sintilimab combined with rituximab followed by R-CHOP regimen. An adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence in a participant administered a pharmaceutical product and which does not necessarily have to have a causal relationship with the treatment. An adverse event can therefore be any unfavorable and unintended sign (including an abnormal laboratory finding, for example), symptom, or disease temporally associated with the use of a pharmaceutical product, whether or not considered related to the pharmaceutical product. Preexisting conditions which worsen during a study are also considered as adverse events.Adverse events will be graded by the investigator according to the NCI-CTCAE Version 5.0, 72 months
Participants will first receive sintilimab plus rituximab for 2 cycles, followed by interim PET-CT assessments. If patients achieve CR or CMR, they will continue to receive 2 courses of sintilimab plus rituximab, followed by 4 cycles of R-CHOP. Patients will receive 6 courses of R-CHOP if they do not achieve CR or CMR after 2 cycles of sintilimab plus rituximab. Patients will undergo PET-CT assessment and will receive 6 cycles of maintenance treatment with nintedanib if CR/CMR/PR is achieved and will be withdrawn from the study if SD/PD occurs. Total treatment cycles will not exceed 14 cycles