Phase 3 Study of BGJ398 (Oral Infigratinib) in First Line Cholangiocarcinoma With FGFR2 Gene Fusions/Translocations
Infigratinib is an oral drug which selectively binds to fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2 and is being developed to treat participants with FGFR2 mutated cholangiocarcinoma. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the investigational agent oral infigratinib vs standard of care chemotherapy (gemcitabine plus cisplatin) in first-line treatment of participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 fusion/rearrangement. Subjects will be randomized 2:1 to receive infigratinib or gemcitabine plus cisplatin.
Advanced Cholangiocarcinoma|FGFR2 Gene Mutation
DRUG: BGJ398|DRUG: Gemcitabine|DRUG: Cisplatin
Progression-free Survival (Central Imaging Assessment), Defined as the time from randomization until date of disease progression by blinded independent central imaging assessment (Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors \[RECIST\] v. 1.1) or death, whichever occurs first., From the time of randomization to end of treatment due to confirmed disease progression or death. Note: PFS is an event driven endpoint. Subjects without confirmed disease progression at the end of study were censored at their last valid tumor assessment.
Overall Survival (OS) in Participants Treated With Infigratinib Versus Gemcitabine With Cisplatin, OS by investigator assessment, defined as time from date of randomization until death due to any cause, From the time of randomization to time of death. Note: OS is an event driven endpoint. Subjects who had not died (no record of death) or were lost to follow-up were censored at the date of last known to be alive.|Investigator Assessed Progression Free Survival in Participants Treated With Infigratinib Compared to Gemcitabine and Cisplatin, Defined as the time from randomization until date of disease progression by site investigator (RECIST v1.1) or death, whichever occurs first., From the time of randomization to end of treatment due to confirmed disease progression or death. Note: PFS is an event driven endpoint. Subjects without confirmed disease progression at the end of study were censored at their last valid tumor assessment.|Overall Response Rate (ORR) Determined by Blinded Independent Central (BICR) and Investigator Assessment, ORR is defined as the proportion of subjects with a best overall response (BOR) of either confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) as assessed by BICR and the investigator according to RECIST v1.1 among patients with measurable disease at baseline, From the time of randomization to end of study treatment (an average of approx.6.5 months [max: 23 months] for the infigratinib arm and approx. 4 months [max: 11-13 months] for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm up to the time of termination of the study).|Best Overall Response (BOR) Determined by Blinded Independent Central Assessment and the Investigator., BOR was defined as the best response a subject ever achieved after study treatment prior to crossover and any subsequent anticancer therapy, complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) were claimed only if the criteria for each were met at a subsequent time point at least 4 weeks apart. In the case of stable disease (SD), measurements must have met the SD criteria at least once post-baseline no less than 6 weeks from the randomization date., From the time of randomization to end of study treatment (an average of approx.6.5 months [max: 23 months] for the infigratinib arm and approx. 4 months [max: 11-13 months] for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm up to the time of termination of the study).|Duration of Response (DOR) Determined by Blinded Independent Central Assessment and the Investigator., DOR is defined as the time from initiation of confirmed partial response (PR) or confirmed complete response (CR) to the time of confirmed progressive disease (PD) or death. If subjects do not reach PD or death before crossover, the DOR is censored at the last valid tumor assessment before crossover., From the time of randomization to end of study treatment (an average of approx.6.5 months [max: 23 months] for the infigratinib arm and approx. 4 months [max: 11-13 months] for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm up to the time of termination of the study).|Disease Control Rate (DCR=PR+CR+SD) Determined by Blinded Independent Central Assessment and the Investigator., DCR is defined as the proportion of subjects with a best overall response (BOR) of either confirmed partial response (PR), confirmed complete response (CR) or stable disease (SD) or non-CR/non-PD before crossover., From the time of randomization to end of study treatment (an average of approx.6.5 months [max: 23 months] for the infigratinib arm and approx. 4 months [max: 11-13 months] for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm up to the time of termination of the study).|Number of Participants With Adverse Events (AEs), Safety analyses were performed for subjects in the safety analysis population for each group. Unless otherwise specified, summaries were provided only for the on-treatment safety assessments, which are the assessments occurring or taken during the on-treatment period, From baseline to last dose date of study treatment + 30 days (an average of 7.5 months for the infigratinib arm and 5 months for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm).|Number of Participants With Serious Adverse Events (SAEs), Safety analyses were performed for subjects in the safety analysis population for each group. Unless otherwise specified, summaries were provided only for the on-treatment safety assessments, which are the assessments occurring or taken during the on-treatment period, From baseline to last dose date of study treatment + 30 days (an average of 7.5 months for the infigratinib arm and 5 months for the gemcitabine + cisplatin arm).
Infigratinib is an oral drug which selectively binds to fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 2 and is being developed to treat participants with FGFR2 mutated cholangiocarcinoma. The purpose of the study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the investigational agent oral infigratinib vs standard of care chemotherapy (gemcitabine plus cisplatin) in first-line treatment of participants with unresectable locally advanced or metastatic cholangiocarcinoma with FGFR2 fusion/rearrangement. Subjects will be randomized 2:1 to receive infigratinib or gemcitabine plus cisplatin.