Effect of SMS Use on Postoperative Respiratory and Cough Exercise Compliance
Aim: This randomized controlled trial study aimed to evaluate the effect of SMS use on compliance with postoperative breathing and coughing exercises and patient satisfaction in patients undergoing pulmonary lobectomy for lung cancer surgery.

Material and methods: In the study, 62 patients who underwent lobectomy in a university hospital's thoracic surgery clinic between 01.02.2022 and 03.04.2023. The intervention group was chosen to be the group that received SMS messages.
Pulmonary Cancer|Surgery
PROCEDURE: SMS
primary outcome measure, The primary point of the study was defined as evaluating the effect of sending SMSs, on compliance with postoperative breathing and coughing exercises undergoing pulmonary lobectomy surgery.A postoperative exercise follow-up chart includes the breathing, coughing, triflow exercises performed by the patients on the 1st and 4th postoperative days and the hours of the exercises. The mean number of breathing and coughing exercises on the first and fourth postoperative days was recorded., change from after implamentation 1st and 4rd days of operation.
secondary outcome measure, The second point of the study was defined as evaluating the effect of sending SMSs, on patient satisfaction undergoing pulmonary lobectomy surgery. "Patient satisfaction form" were used for data collection.The patient satisfaction form" consisted of two questions. The first question questioned the satisfaction with SMS reminders. Satisfaction levels were categorized in 4 ways. Level of "very satisfied" and "satisfied" were accepted as high satisfaction level, "was not satisfied" and "was not satisfied at all" were accepted as low level., change from after implamentation 4rd days of operation.
Background: Patients undergoing lung resection should be encouraged to cough, take deep breaths for pulmonary rehabilitation within the scope of enhanced recovery after surgery protocols. The success of protocols is related to patient compliance. SMS-based interventions increase compliance with medications and protocols in surgical patients and reduce hospital readmission rates, while improving patients' clinical participation and satisfaction.

Aim: This randomized controlled trial study aimed to evaluate the effect of SMS use on compliance with postoperative breathing and coughing exercises and patient satisfaction in patients undergoing pulmonary lobectomy for lung cancer surgery.

Material and methods: In the study, 62 patients who underwent lobectomy in a university hospital's thoracic surgery clinic between 01.02.2022 and 03.04.2023. The intervention group was chosen to be the group that received SMS messages.

"The Information Form", "Postoperative exercise follow-up chart", "Postoperative patient evaluation form" and "Patient satisfaction form were used in data collection. Independent sample t-test, Pearson chi- square and Mann Whitney U test were conducted for statistical analyses.