Combination Chemotherapy in Treating Patients With Advanced Cancer That is Metastatic or Cannot Be Removed By Surgery
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of capecitabine when given together with oxaliplatin, leucovorin calcium, and fluorouracil in treating patients with advanced cancer that is metastatic or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy use different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. Combining more than one drug may kill more tumor cells.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: oxaliplatin|DRUG: leucovorin calcium|DRUG: fluorouracil|DRUG: capecitabine|OTHER: pharmacological study
MTD, defined as the highest dose level which results in DLT in fewer than 2/6 patients, graded according to the NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 28 days
Incidence of adverse events, graded according to NCI CTC version 2.0, Up to 6 years|Overall survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 6 years|Time to progression, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 6 years|Duration of response, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier., Up to 6 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To establish the MTD and toxicity profile of oral capecitabine in combination with q 2 weekly intravenous oxaliplatin in patients with advanced malignancies.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize the pharmacokinetic parameters of capecitabine at the recommended phase II dose for combinations of capecitabine, oxaliplatin, 5-fluorouracil, and leucovorin, as well as for the combination of capecitabine and oxaliplatin.

II. To observe for and record any antitumor activity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of capecitabine.

Patients receive oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours, leucovorin calcium IV, and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 15. Patients also receive oral capecitabine every 8 hours on days 1-2 and 15-16. Leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil administration is held at dose level 4 and above. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.