MEDICO-ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF SURGERY GUIDED BY FLUORESCENCE FOR THE OPTIMIZATION OF RESECTION OF GLIOBLASTOMAS
Glioblastoma is the most frequent primary malignant brain tumor in adults (3,000 new cases per year) and is characterized by a poor prognosis (median survival 12 months). Treatment is based mainly on surgical excision as complete as possible followed by an additional radiochemotherapy. The prognosis depends mainly on the quality of resection when it is macroscopically complete. Different techniques to support the surgical resection have been developed over the past 20 years. The reference technique is currently the intraoperative neuronavigation for guiding excision by matching the intraoperative tumor boundaries with those of the preoperative MRI. Its main drawback is the loss of precision during the resection related to changes in anatomical limits of the tumor.

The per-operative fluorescence-guided surgery (FGS) is an innovative alternative technique to support the surgical resection. The 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA), a molecule absorbed by the patient before surgery is captured specifically by the tumor cells and transformed into a fluorochrome revealed intraoperatively by a light source length adapted wave with a set of lenses included in the microscope. Resection is thus guided by this fluorescence whose disappearance translates complete tumor resection.

Its interest is twofold:

* Increase the percentage of complete tumor resection.
* Improve disease-free survival and overall survival. The objective of the study is to compare the FGS to the intraoperative neuronavigation for the resection of glioblastoma, on a medical and economical level through a randomized, prospective, multicenter trial.

The annual number of patients likely to benefit of this technique in France is estimated at 2200 new cases.
Glioblastoma
DRUG: 5-aminolévulinique acid (5-ALA)|DRUG: Placebo
Comparison of complete tumor resection between the 2 arms, Evidenced of complete resection (absence of residual tumor on early postoperative MRI (within 48 hours)) will be assessed by a central independent committee with qualitative analysis of contrast enhancement replay on a console for diagnostic use., 48 hours
Comparison of complete tumor resection between the 2 arms, Evidenced of complete resection (absence of residual tumor on early postoperative MRI (within 48 hours)) will be assessed by the neurosurgeon who conducted the surgery and the neuro-radiologist who conducted the RMI with qualitative analysis of contrast enhancement replay during the initial clinical analysis, less than 48 hours after surgery
Diagnostic value of the two intraoperative techniques, Evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value and negative by correlating the results of pathological analysis of resection edge with intraoperative findings of the surgeon at the end of resection., 60 months|Quantification of residual tumor (contrast enhancement) on MRI post-opératre early (before 48 hours), It will be performed by three study investigators (Dr. Pallud, Department of Neurosurgery, Centre Hospitalier Sainte-Anne, Paris; Dr. Guyotat, D department of Neurosurgery, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Lyon, Dr. Metellus, neurosurgery department, Assistance Publique - Hôpitaux de Marseille) and read separately. The volume analysis will be done by segmentation using the OsiriX software on postoperative MRI and MRI pre-operative, before 48 hours|Progression Free survival rate at 6 months, Progression is defined by the appearance of a new tumor lesion which minimum volume will be set to 0.175 cm3, by the increase of the residual tumor volume of 25% or more, or by the need to increase corticosteroid therapy. The period of progression free survival is defined as the time from the date of tumor resection and date of diagnosis of tumor progression or the date last news or date of endpoint. Progression Free survival rate at 6 months will be analyzed according to surgical approach used, according to the completeness or incompleteness of resection and by centers, 6 months|Overall survival at 24 months, It will be estimated from the number of patients who died of whatever cause. The overall survival time is defined as the time between the date of tumor resection and date of death from any cause or date of last news or the date of endpoint. The overall survival at 24 months will be analyzed according to surgical approach used, according to the completeness or incompleteness of resection and by centers., 24 months|Overall survival at 60 months, It will be estimated from the number of patients who died of whatever cause. The overall survival time is defined as the time between the date of tumor resection and date of death from any cause or date of last news or the date of endpoint. The overall survival at 60 months will be analyzed according to surgical approach used, according to the completeness or incompleteness of resection and by centers., 60 months|Quality of life, Evaluation of quality of life every 3 months using the EORTC questionnaire QLQ-C30 with the specific brain tumors module BN20., every 3 months|Evaluation of early and late morbidity, Evaluation of early morbidity in 8 days and late morbidity at 3 months (neurological deficit, surgical site infection, secondary epilepsy, Karnofsky score, performance status WHO)., in 8 days and late morbidity at 3 months|Comparison of surgical procedure duration between the 2 arms, 60 months|Medico-economic evaluation of the 2 procedure, Comparison of the differential cost effectiveness ratio between the 2 strategies, 60 months
Main Outcome Measure: Percentage of patients with surgical resection of the tumor is complete, objectified by the absence of residual tumor on MRI early postoperative (within 48 hours) by a central committee of independent reading with qualitative analysis taking a contrast replay console for diagnostic use