Efficacy and Safety of Low-dose Chemotherapy Plus Immuno-targeted Drugs in Newly Diagnosed Elderly/Unfit Ph- B-ALL
In the treatment of Ph-negative (Ph-) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), despite the achievements of chemotherapy and immunotherapy, the therapeutic outcomes are unsatisfactory in elderly or unfit patients. In recent years, tumor immunotherapy has demonstrated a high safety and efficacy profile in refractory Ph- B-ALL patients. These findings suggest that the advancement of immunotherapy application may be an important approach to improve patient survival. In this study, we propose a treatment approach that combines immuno-targeted drugs with low-dose chemotherapy for newly diagnosed elderly or unfit patients with Ph- B-ALL, aiming to enhance the measurable residual disease (MRD)-negative complete remission (CR) rate measured through flow cytometry following induction therapy, reduce the risk of relapse, and ultimately improve patients' overall survival.
Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma
DRUG: Vincristine|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Dexamethasone|DRUG: Venetoclax|DRUG: Inotuzumab ozogamicin|DRUG: Blinatumomab|DRUG: 6-mercaptopurine|DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Cytarabine|DRUG: Prednisone
MRD-negative complete remission rate measured by flow cytometry., No immature cells were detected by flow cytometry when CR criteria were met after induction therapy., After induction (4 week)
Complete remission (CR) rate, an expected average of 3 months|Overall survival (OS), From the date of registration to the date of death resulting from any cause., Up to 5 years post-registration|Relapse free survival (RFS), From the date of complete remission (CR) until the date of documented relapse or death due to any cause or last follow-up., Up to 5 years post-registration|Disease-free Survival (DFS), From CR1 to relapse, death from any cause or last follow-up., Up to 5 years post-registration|Mortality, Day 30 and Day 60 of induction therapy initiation
In this open-label, single-arm, Phase II study, prospective clinical trial, a total of 53 Ph-negative (Ph-) B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) patients will be enrolled. The primary endpoint is measurable residual disease (MRD)-negative complete remission (CR) rate after induction therapy.

The first cycle of induction therapy is administered with Inotuzumab ozogamicin (INO), Venetoclax (VEN), and a combination of low-dose chemotherapy. The second cycle of induction therapy is Blinatumomab (Blino) plus VEN regimen. Alternatively, the first cycle of induction therapy is a combination of VEN and low-dose chemotherapy, and the second cycle of induction therapy is methotrexate (MTX) plus cytarabine (Ara-C) plus VEN regimen. Subsequent consolidation and maintenance therapy consist of low-dose chemotherapy, Blino, and VEN. Patients can receive chimeric antigen receptor T-Cell (CAR-T) Immunotherapy or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) or receive autologous HSCT whenever possible during their first CR. Otherwise, they will finish the consolidation chemotherapy. Study patients are scheduled for follow-up for at least 5 years after the end of maintenance therapy.

The purpose of current study is to determine the efficacy and safety of low-dose chemotherapy combined with immuno-targeted drugs in newly diagnosed elderly or unfit patients with Ph- B-ALL.