Vaccination of High Risk Breast Cancer Patients
The purpose of this study is to evaluate a new investigational cancer vaccine, P10s-PADRE in combination with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery in patients with clinical stage I, II or III estrogen-receptor (ER)-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.
Breast Cancer|Breast Neoplasms
BIOLOGICAL: P10s-PADRE/ MONTANIDE™ ISA 51 VG|DRUG: Doxorubicin|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Docetaxel
Identify a Feasible Schedule of Vaccination Relative to SoC Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy When the Chemovax Are Administered Concurrently., Number of participants with sufficiently high anti-P10s immunoglobulin-G response Feasibility will be evaluated in terms of

1. Generation of a sufficiently high anti-P10s immunoglobulin-G response
2. Safety and tolerability of the combination of vaccine and chemotherapy, At the time of definitive surgery (4-8 weeks after chemo, which is between Week 22 and Week 25)|Determine the pCR Rate, The patient-level primary outcome for this objective is pathological Complete Response (pCR), which is binary yes/no, and the study-level endpoint for this outcome is the rate of pCR, i.e. the percentage of patients that achieved pCR=yes. The patient is assessed at the time of surgery for whether they achieved pCR=yes. They have to do the surgery in order to obtain the tissue samples on which they do their pCR assessment. Pathological Complete Response is defined as the absence of any residual invasive cancer on hematoxylin and eosin evaluation of the resected breast specimen and all sampled ipsilateral lymph nodes following completion of neoadjuvant systemic therapy (i.e., ypT0N0 or ypTisN0 in the AJCC staging system for staging solid tumors in the neoadjuvant setting that was described in a 2014 FDA Guidance for Industry)., At the time of definitive surgery (4-8 weeks after chemo, which is between Week 22 and Week 25)
P10s-MAP-Reactive Immunoglobulin Titers, The anti-P10s binding level was measured via ELISA method after incubation with a subject's serum or plasma sample. Data was collected at multiple timepoints throughout the study. Values were averaged for each group., Week 1 through Week 70|Activation Profiles of NK Cells: Pre-Immune and Post-Immune CD16, Activated-NK-cell profiles will be determined via flow cytometry as the expression levels of different activation markers on NK cells in the subject's blood sample. Data was collected at multiple timepoints throughout the study. Values were averaged for each group. For some participants, CD16 was not assessable., Week 1 through Week 70|Activation Profiles of NK Cells: Pre-Immune and Post-Immune CD69, Activated-NK-cell profiles will be determined via flow cytometry as the expression levels of different activation markers on NK cells in the subject's blood sample. Data was collected at multiple timepoints throughout the study. Values were averaged for each group. For some participants, CD69 was not assessable., Week 1 through Week 70|Activation Profiles of NK Cells: Pre-Immune and Post-Immune NKp46, Activated-NK-cell profiles will be determined via flow cytometry as the expression levels of different activation markers on NK cells in the subject's blood sample. Data was collected at multiple timepoints throughout the study. Values were averaged for each group. For some participants, NKp46 was not assessable., Week 1 through Week 70
The purpose of this study is to evaluate an investigational agent, P10s-PADRE, a peptide mimotope-based vaccine, in combination with standard neoadjuvant chemotherapy in patients with clinical stage I, II or III estrogen-receptor (ER)-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.

This is a single-arm, multi-site Phase I/II study designed with the two goals being (1) to evaluate the feasibility of combining vaccination with the P10s-PADRE formulation with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and (2) to determine if the polymerase chain reaction (pCR) rate among ER-positive, HER2-negativebreast-cancer patients treated with the combination is significantly higher than the 8% rate observed among ER-positive breast-cancer subjects in a pooled analysis of seven randomized clinical trials. P10s-PADRE vaccine with MONTANIDE™ ISA 51 VG as adjuvant will be given in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy in female patients with clinical stage I, II or III ER-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer.

This combined Phase I/II feasibility-and-efficacy study will have three parts. Its first part will be a Phase I evaluation of the safety, tolerability, and feasibility of eliciting adequate IgG response with P10s-PADRE when administered in combination with SoC neoadjuvant chemotherapy. The study's second and third parts will respectively constitute Stages 1 and 2 of the Phase II primary-efficacy evaluation of Chemovax using a Simon optimal two-stage design

To evaluate the feasibility of eliciting adequate immune response with P10s-PADRE when it is administered in combination with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, we will sequentially evaluate different schedules of vaccination relative to chemotherapy, and stop evaluating as soon as we have identified a feasible schedule. To this end, we have defined five different Chemovax schedules, and named them A, B, C, D, and E;