SBRT With Immunotherapy in Early Stage Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: Tolerability and Lung Effects
This is a single arm, multi-centre, phase II open label study of nivolumab with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for early stage non-small cell lung cancer.

SBRT will be delivered in either 3 or 5 fractions for peripheral disease or 8 fractions in central disease. A flat dose of 240 mg nivolumab infusion will begin after the final fraction of SBRT, within 24 hours and typically on the same day. Nivolumab will subsequently be given every 2 weeks at a flat dose of 240 mg for a further 13 cycles followed by Nivolumab 480mg Q4W for 7 cycles until 20 cycles in total are complete, unless any study drug discontinuation criteria are met. Treatment (20 cycles) will take a minimum of 1 year to complete but may exceed this timeframe if treatment delays are encountered.

(Patients who have enrolled on Nivolumab Q2W 240mg regimen for 26 cycles and are beyond cycle 14 will receive 26 cycles Q2W in total to complete treatment).

Assessment of toxicities will be performed at each clinic visit during treatment, at 30 days after the final nivolumab infusion and until 100 days after the final nivolumab infusion. Changes in spirometry values and PFTs will be assessed throughout the trial.

Relapse rates will be assessed with staging CT scans at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post SBRT.

An exploratory assessment will be made of the effect pre-treatment pulmonary function tests (PFTs) have on outcome measures.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage II|Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Stage I
RADIATION: Stereotactic body radiotherapy|DRUG: Nivolumab
Assessment of lung toxicity (pneumonitis) from treatment with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC, Rate of grade ≥ 3 pneumonitis with nivolumab after stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) within 6 months of the final fraction of SBRT. A rate that exceeds 20% will be deemed unacceptable and will lead to a rejection of the null hypothesis., Six months from final dose of SBRT administered for each patient
Adverse events (toxicity) assessment using CTCAE v.4, Frequency of treatment related adverse events of all grades and grade ≥ 3 as per CTCAE v. 4 after treatment with Nivolumab following SBRT, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|Number of doses of Nivolumab received by patients within 16 weeks of commencing adjuvant nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC, The proportion of patients receiving at least 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 doses of Nivolumab within 16 weeks of commencing treatment with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC, Within 16 weeks of each patient commencing treatment with Nivolumab after SBRT|Disease relapse, To assess local, local-regional and distant disease relapse rates, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|Relapse at specified timepoints, Local, loco-regional and distant rates of relapse at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months, 3, 6, 12 and 24 months from the date of first fraction of SBRT for each patient|Overall survival, Overall survival rate (OS) of the 31 patients at 6, 12 and 24 months (and up to 5 years at 36, 48 and 60 months if data mature and available), Overall survival rate (OS) at 6, 12 and 24 months|Disease free survival, Disease Free Survival (DFS) rate of the 31 patients at 6, 12 and 24 months (and up to 5 years at 36, 48 and 60 months if data mature and available), Disease Free Survival (DFS) at 6, 12 and 24 months|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment in patients treated with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC, Estimation of HRQoL using the Patient Generated Subjective Global Assessment in patients treated with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC., 24 months from last dose of SBRT|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) using European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30) in patients treated with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC, Estimation of HRQoL using the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30)., 24 months from last dose of SBRT|HRQoL using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer 13 (EORTC QLQ-LC13) in patients treated with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC., Estimation of HRQoL in patients treated with Nivolumab after SBRT for early stage NSCLC using the Eurpoean Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Ouality of Life Questionnaire Lung Cancer 13 (EORTC QLQ-LC13)., 24 months from last dose of SBRT
Impact on lung function, Assessment of rates of toxicity within percentage of predicted FEV1 bands \& DLCO bands, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|OS rates in PD-L1 expressers (≥ 1%) and non-expressers (< 1%), OS rates at 6, 12 \& 24 months will be described according to PD-L1 expression, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|DFS rates in PD-L1 expressers (≥ 1%) and non-expressers (< 1%), DFS at 6, 12 \& 24 months will be described according to PD-L1 expression, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|OS rates (squamous and non-squamous), OS rates at 6, 12 \& 24 months will be described according to squamous and non-squamous subgroups, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|DFS rates (squamous and non-squamous), DFS rates at 6, 12 \& 24 months will be described according to squamous and non-squamous subgroups, 24 months from last dose of SBRT|Measuring immune cell responses with treatment, Measuring change in T cell receptor sub-types during treatment, 4 years from recruitment of first patient
This is a single arm, multi-centre, phase II open label study of nivolumab with stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for early stage non-small cell lung cancer.

Current United Kingdom (UK) guidelines for SBRT do not specify exclusion pulmonary function criteria. Severely reduced Forced Expiratory Volume in 1 second (FEV1) and diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO) (\<40% predicted) are common reasons for medical inoperability leading to the choice of SBRT. In a large prospective study of patients undergoing SBRT, poor baseline PFT was not predictive of toxicity including pneumonitis. At the 2 year follow up, the mean decline in percentage of predicted forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide (DLCO) were only 5.8% and 6.3% respectively. Focal SBRT is a well-tolerated procedure and acute complications are generally transient. Symptomatic radiation pneumonitis has been reported at rates of 4-25% of patients.

Drug induced pneumonitis is reported at 6% in lung cancer patients receiving nivolumab and at 2% with grade 3-4 toxicity. Of note, such rates are similar or lower to other drugs used in NSCLC including docetaxel for which no PFT restrictions occur. In this study, frequent assessment of spirometry values may help to predict patients that are developing subclinical pneumonitis and prompt for early intervention.

SBRT will be delivered in either 3 or 5 fractions for peripheral disease or 8 fractions in central disease. A flat dose of 240 mg nivolumab infusion will begin after the final fraction of SBRT, within 24 hours and typically on the same day. Nivolumab will subsequently be given every 2 weeks at a flat dose of 240 mg for a further 13 cycles followed by Nivolumab 480mg Q4W for 7 cycles until 20 cycles in total are complete, unless any study drug discontinuation criteria are met. The study will recruit 31 patients. We anticipate it will take approximately 18 months to recruit 31 patients.

The study will include subjects with histologically verified NSCLC deemed by a local multidisciplinary team (MDT) to have anatomical stage T1-3 \[≤6cm\] N0 M0 by means of computed tomography (CT) and fludeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) , amenable to radical treatment with SBRT and inoperable due to medical co-morbidity, being technically unresectable or patient declining surgery after offer of surgical assessment.

Subjects will receive nivolumab as per the treatment schedule unless any withdrawal criteria are met. The first nivolumab infusion will be given after the final fraction of SBRT, within 24 hours and generally on the same day. Clinical follow up and investigations are as detailed in the schedule of assessment.

The first 5 patients to enroll must have Eastern Co-operative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) \< 2 at the time of first dose of investigational medical product (IMP). An Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) will meet when the first 5 patients have reached 3 months follow up from their 1st dose of nivolumab or have withdrawn consent to follow-up. Patients that have enrolled but did not receive IMP will be replaced. The IDMC, if satisfied with the safety data from the initial 5 patients, may recommend escalation to include recruitment of patients with ECOG performance status of 2. Further patients of PS \<2 may enroll while awaiting the outcome of the IDMC meeting.

The IDMC will perform a further safety review when the first 5 patients enrolled with ECOG performance status 2 have reached 3 months follow up from their final fraction of radiotherapy or have withdrawn consent to follow-up. Patients that have enrolled but did not receive IMP will be replaced. Further patients with ECOG performance status 2 will not be able to enroll unless recommendation is given by the IDMC. In the event that 5 PS 2 patients have not enrolled by the point that the 15th recruited patient has reached 3 months follow up, then there will be a further mandated IDMC meeting to assess safety data from the study. Patients may continue to enroll while awaiting the outcome of this IDMC meeting.

Assessment of toxicities will be performed at each clinic visit during treatment, at 30 days after the final nivolumab infusion and until 100 days after the final nivolumab infusion. Changes in spirometry values and PFTs will be assessed throughout the trial.

Relapse rates will be assessed with staging CT scans at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months post SBRT.

An exploratory assessment will be made of the effect pre-treatment pulmonary function tests (PFTs) have on outcome measures.