Ommaya Reservoir Placement at the Time of Biopsy for Longitudinal Biomarker Collection in Patients With Brain Tumors
This observational trial evaluates the use of Ommaya reservoir placed during a biopsy to collect biomarkers longitudinally in patients with brain tumor. A biomarker is a measurable indicator of the severity or presence of the disease state. An Ommaya reservoir is a small device that's implanted under the scalp. It allows the doctor to take samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the future without doing a spinal tap. The identification of biomarkers in CSF is rapidly emerging as a promising minimally invasive approach for monitoring tumor growth and response to therapy. In the future, these biomarkers may be used to help determine what treatments could be most effective and how well a tumor has responded to prior therapy. Currently, limited long-term access to CSF has made it difficult for studies to learn if collecting CSF at different points in the treatment process is useful. Having an Ommaya reservoir placed during a biopsy may allow for longitudinal biomarker collection in patients with brain tumor.
Brain Neoplasms
PROCEDURE: Intracranial Catheter Placement|PROCEDURE: Lumbar Puncture|PROCEDURE: Biopsy|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography
Feasibility of Ommaya reservoir placement, Will be assessed based on the percent of patients for whom an Ommaya reservoir is successfully placed at the time of tissue biopsy without attributable complication., Up to 5 years
Utility of Ommaya reservoir, Will be assessed based on the percent of patients for whom multiple (2 or more) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples are successfully obtained as a result of their participation in this protocol., Up to 5 years
This observational trial evaluates the use of Ommaya reservoir placed during a biopsy to collect biomarkers longitudinally in patients with brain tumor. A biomarker is a measurable indicator of the severity or presence of the disease state. An Ommaya reservoir is a small device that's implanted under the scalp. It allows the doctor to take samples of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the future without doing a spinal tap. The identification of biomarkers in CSF is rapidly emerging as a promising minimally invasive approach for monitoring tumor growth and response to therapy. In the future, these biomarkers may be used to help determine what treatments could be most effective and how well a tumor has responded to prior therapy. Currently, limited long-term access to CSF has made it difficult for studies to learn if collecting CSF at different points in the treatment process is useful. Having an Ommaya reservoir placed during a biopsy may allow for longitudinal biomarker collection in patients with brain tumor.