Botensilimab Plus Balstilimab and Fasting Mimicking Diet Plus Vitamin C for Patients with KRAS-Mutant Metastatic Colorectal Cancer
This phase Ib trial tests the safety, side effects, and effectiveness of botensilimab, and balstilimab in combination with a fasting mimicking diet and high dose vitamin C in treating patients with KRAS-mutant metastatic colorectal cancer. Botensilimab and balstilimab are monoclonal antibodies that may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. KRAS is protein found on some tumor cells that is involved in the growth of tumor cells. KRAS mutant cells have been found to be more sensitive to vitamin C induced growth suppression in the presence of low-sugar (glucose). A fasting mimicking diet, a plant-based, calorie reduced, low-sugar diet alternating with refeeding periods, may positively change the way the body responds to cancer treatment. Vitamin C is a nutrient that the body needs in small amounts to function and stay healthy. It is an antioxidant that that can help prevent cell damage and may block growth and spread of tumor cells. Botensilimab and balstilimab in combination with a fasting mimicking diet and high dose vitamin C may be safe, tolerable and effective in treating patients with KRAS-mutant metastatic colorectal cancer.
Metastatic Colorectal Adenocarcinoma|Stage IV Colorectal Cancer AJCC V8
BIOLOGICAL: Balstilimab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|BIOLOGICAL: Botensilimab|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|OTHER: Dietary Intervention|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DIETARY_SUPPLEMENT: Vitamin C
Proportion of patients who adhere to the fast mimicking diet, Adherence will be defined as the percentage of patients who adhere to the fasting-mimicking diet ≥ 75% of the designated days and receive all doses of study drugs for at least any 2 cycles of therapy during the course of the study. Adherence will be reported overall and by cycle started., Up to 30 months|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), The frequency and severity of treatment-related events will be assessed using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize AEs including counts for categorical measures and means for continuous measures. Incidence of AEs will be reported overall and by cycle started., Up to 30 months
Overall response rate (ORR), ORR will be evaluated using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1. Complete Response (CR): Disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm; Partial Response (PR): At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters; Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions); Stable Disease (SD): Neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study., Up to 30 months|Progression-free survival (PFS), Measured from start of treatment to the date of event defined as the first documented progression or death due to any cause. PFS Progression will be evaluated using RECIST v1.1. Progressive Disease (PD): At least a 20% increase in the sum of the diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes the baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note: the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progressions)., Up to 30 months|Overall survival (OS), Measured from start of treatment until death from any cause. Patients who are still alive at the time of the analysis, or who have become lost to follow-up or withdrawn consent will be censored at their last date known to be alive., Up to 30 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the feasibility of the fasting mimicking diet (FMD) when combined with vitamin C and botensilimab plus balstilimab by determining the proportion of patients who adhere to the FMD ≥ 75% of the designated days and receive all doses of botensilimab, balstilimab and Vitamin C for at least any two cycles of therapy.

II. To characterize the safety and tolerability of FMD and vitamin C when combined with botensilimab and balstilimab by assessing any grade toxicities per Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) 5.0.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To obtain a preliminary assessment of anti-tumor activity of botensilimab plus balstilimab and FMD plus vitamin C by determining the overall response rate using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1.

II. To estimate the progression-free and overall survival in patients with KRAS-mutant colorectal cancer (CRC) receiving botensilimab plus balstilimab and FMD plus vitamin C.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To characterize circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) and ctDNA methylation (TET, Wnt, JAK/STAT, PI3K/AKT, CXCR, ALDH, AMPK) profiles at baseline, on treatment and at disease progression.

II. To examine metabolomic markers (IGF-1, GAPDH, DHA, GLUT-1, iron signaling) at baseline, on treatment and at disease progression.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive botensilimab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 of each cycle for up to 4 cycles. Patients receive balstilimab IV over 30 minutes and vitamin C IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 15 and 29 of each cycle. Patients undergo a FMD on days -4 to -1 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 42 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Additionally, patients undergo blood sample collection, computed tomography (CT) scans and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 30 days and every 3 months for up to 6 months.