Managing Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy in Individuals Diagnosed With a Primary Brain Tumor
Background:

Psychological distress affects many people diagnosed with a primary central nervous system tumor (CNST). Distress can include negative feelings such as anger, fear, or sadness. Researchers want to see if a type of therapy called Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) can help. It promotes well-being in people who have cancer that cannot be cured.

Objective:

To find out if the CALM therapy can help people with a CNST suffering from distress.

Eligibility:

English-speaking adults ages 18 and older who have a CNST and are taking part in NIH protocol #16C0151.

Design:

This study will not take place in person. It will be done by smartphone, computer, or tablet.

Participants will fill out 7 surveys. The surveys will take 40 to 60 minutes to complete. They are all electronic. They will ask about physical and emotional symptoms, depression, feelings about death and dying, feelings about close relationships, and general well-being.

Participants will be assigned to a CALM therapist. They will have 3 to 6 individual therapy sessions in 6 months. Each session will last 45 to 60 minutes. Sessions may be audio recorded. If needed, participants may have extra sessions.

CALM includes symptom management and discussions of meaning, purpose, and mortality.

Participants may have a family member take part in at least one CALM session with them.

After the third CALM session, participants will be asked questions about CALM.

After 3 and 6 months, participants will complete the 7 surveys again.

Participation will last about 6 months.
Depression
BEHAVIORAL: Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy
Mean Difference in Change of Depressive Symptoms Using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) -Depression Scale in Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Participants, To demonstrate the effects of the Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy intervention in change of depressive symptoms using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) -Depression scale in primary central nervous system tumor (PCNST) participants, from baseline to 6 months using a paired t-test from baseline to 6 months at a 5% significance level. PROMIS is an 8-item assessment that measures depressive symptoms within the past 7 days and participants rank symptoms on a scale that includes never, rarely, sometimes, often and always. T-scores range from 0 to 100 with T-score greater than 60 indicating moderate-severe depression., Baseline to 6 months
Mean Difference in Change of Depressive Symptoms Using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Depression Scale in Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Participants, To demonstrate the short-term effects of the Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy intervention in change of depressive symptoms using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Depression scale in primary central nervous system tumor (PCNST) participants from baseline to 3 months using a paired t-test from baseline to 6 months at a 5% significance level. PROMIS is an 8-item assessment that measures depressive symptoms within the past 7 days and participants rank symptoms on a scale that includes never, rarely, sometimes, often and always. T-scores range from 0 to 100 with T-score greater than 60 indicating moderate-severe depression., Baseline compared at 3 months|Change of Anxiety Score Using the Death and Dying Distress Scale (DADDS), To determine the effects of the Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy intervention on death anxiety at both 3 and 6 months, compared to baseline. Total scores, subscale scores, and/or t-scores (if applicable) were completed at baseline, month 3 and month 6 and summarized, using a paired t-test from baseline to 6 months at a 5% significance level. The DADDS uses a 15-item scale to measure death anxiety. Scores range from 0-75 and higher scores mean greater distress., 3 and 6 months compared to baseline|Number of Participants in a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Population Eligible for Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy, Here are the number of participants with a primary central nervous system tumor (PCNST) eligible for remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy., Baseline to 6 months|Mean Accrual Rate for a Proportion of Participants With a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Participants Per Month Using Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy, Mean accrual rate was assessed from baseline to 6 months., Baseline to 6 months|Proportion of Participants Diagnosed With a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Who Are Compliant Assessed by Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy, Compliance is defined as at least 80% of participants completing the outcome measures (e.g., depression, distress, quality of life) at all time points - baseline to 6 months., Baseline to 6 months|Serious and/or Non-serious Adverse Events in a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Population Using Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy, Here is the number of participants with a primary central nervous system tumor (PCNST) who experienced serious and/or non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0) assessed from baseline to 6 months. A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence. A serious adverse event is an adverse event or suspected adverse reaction that results in death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience, hospitalization, disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, congenital anomaly/birth defect or important medical events that jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the previous outcomes mentioned., Baseline to 6 months|Proportion of Participants With a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Who Participated in Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy and Completed the Study, Here is the proportion of participants who participated in the Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy and completed the study, Baseline to 6 months|Participant Satisfaction in a Primary Central Nervous System Tumor (PCNST) Population Using Remote Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) Therapy, Participant satisfaction was measured using the Was It Worth It (WIWI) questionnaire, which is designed to measure a participant's opinion of their participation. WIWI questions are dichotomous (yes/no) and are tailored to be specific to the intervention involved in the study. For the purposes of this study, there were four yes/no questions that ascertain the participants' satisfaction with the CALM intervention., Baseline to 6 months
Number of Participants With Serious and/or Non-serious Adverse Events Assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0)., Here is the number of participants with serious and/or non-serious adverse events assessed by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE v5.0). A non-serious adverse event is any untoward medical occurrence. A serious adverse event is an adverse event or suspected adverse reaction that results in death, a life-threatening adverse drug experience, hospitalization, disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions, congenital anomaly/birth defect or important medical events that jeopardize the patient or subject and may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the previous outcomes mentioned., From the first study intervention, baseline evaluations through study participation, up to 6 months
Background:

* Psychological distress is an emotional state experienced by primary central nervous system tumor (PCNST) patients throughout the illness trajectory. It can often be under identified in this patient population.
* Limited therapeutic interventions in managing distress symptoms can allow symptoms to linger without tailored mechanisms to manage the emotional challenges experienced with a tumor diagnosis. Individualized therapy in advanced cancer patients is a preferred method over pharmacological interventions when managing psychological distress, but more evidence-based research is needed to address the benefits.
* The Cancer and Living Meaningfully (CALM) intervention is a brief, individualized psychotherapeutic intervention established to meet an unmet need to address psychological distress and promote well-being in advanced cancer patients. Previous studies implementing the CALM intervention have focused on metastatic and advanced cancer patients and have reported positive effects. Implementing the CALM intervention in a sample of PCNST patients will be one of the first studies to identify the preliminary effectiveness.

Objective:

-To demonstrate the effects of the CALM intervention in reduction of depressive symptoms using the Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) - Depression scale in PCNST participants, from baseline to 6 months.

Eligibility:

* Adult participants greater than or equal to 18 years of age with a PCNST diagnosis who are undergoing standard of care or experimental treatment.
* The ability of the subject to speak English
* Subjects who have a life expectancy of at least 3 months from time of study entry to allow for participation in the 3 required sessions.
* The ability of the subject to understand and willing to sign a written informed consent document as determined by the assessment of the clinical team.

Design:

* A total of 100 participants will be enrolled
* Neuro-Oncology participants being seen in the clinical center or receiving telehealth services will be screened to participate. Participants will be assigned a CALM therapist, and all sessions will be completed remotely.

Data from standardized measures will be collected at 3 timepoints (Baseline, 3 months, 6 months) and qualitative interviews will be completed after the 3rd CALM session for a select number of participants until data saturation is reached (estimated to be 15-30).

-Approximate time for sessions is 45-60 minutes.