Comorbidities And Reducing inEquitieS
Black cancer patients tend to have worse outcomes than White cancer patients. Some of this disparity may be due to comorbidities. The purpose of this study is to improve management of co-morbidities among cancer patients in order to improve cancer outcomes and improve health equity.

Comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension can complicate cancer treatment or can make it difficult to reach optimal health after treatment. This study will offer additional support and tools to manage cancer patient's health needs. First, the study will use a mobile health application, managed by a company called Welldoc, to monitor patient progress in real time and to provide ongoing guidance. Second, the study will connect patients with a Community Health Worker who will speak with them weekly to discuss self-care information, including medical scheduling or appointment needs, and assist with daily self-monitoring of blood pressure and/or blood glucose monitoring. Lastly, an oncology nurse will monitor reported health and triage any medical needs and whether additional medical care is needed.
Cancer, Breast|Diabetes Mellitus|Hypertension|Cancer Prostate
BEHAVIORAL: Support
Feasibility of study protocol, Accrual of \>50 patients into the study, Study recruitment period will be approximately 12 months|Feasibility of an active management strategy for comorbidities, \>80% recording blood pressure and/or blood glucose 3+ times per week, Study duration will be 6 months for prostate cancer patients and duration of treatment plus one month for breast cancer patients (approximately 7 months)|Feasibility of an active management strategy for comorbidities, \>80% completion of weekly phone calls with community health workers, Study duration will be 6 months for prostate cancer patients and duration of treatment plus one month for breast cancer patients (approximately 7 months)
Provider perspectives on acceptability of active management of comorbidities, \>80% reporting agree to completely agree on the scale: Acceptability of Intervention Measure (FIM) measure., Beginning and end of study (approximately 18 months)
Preliminary changes in self-efficacy, PROMIS Self-Efficacy for Managing Chronic Conditions, To be assess at baseline and end of study; approximately 6-7 months per participant|Preliminary changes in social support, PROMIS Social Support, To be assess at baseline and end of study; approximately 6-7 months per participant
Black cancer patients tend to have worse outcomes than White cancer patients. Some of this disparity may be due to comorbidities. The purpose of this study is to improve management of co-morbidities among cancer patients in order to improve cancer outcomes and improve health equity.

Comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension can complicate cancer treatment or can make it difficult to reach optimal health after treatment. This study will offer additional support and tools to manage cancer patient's health needs. First, the study will use a mobile health application, managed by a company called Welldoc, to monitor patient progress in real time and to provide ongoing guidance. Second, the study will connect patients with a Community Health Worker who will speak with them weekly to discuss self-care information, including medical scheduling or appointment needs, and assist with daily self-monitoring of blood pressure and/or blood glucose monitoring. Lastly, an oncology nurse will monitor reported health and triage any medical needs and whether additional medical care is needed.