Rectal Cancer And Pre-operative Induction Therapy Followed by Dedicated Operation. The RAPIDO Trial
Currently the 3-year disease free survival of patients with locally advanced rectal cancer is about 50%. Current standard treatment for patients at high risk of failing locally and/or systemically includes pre-operative long course radiotherapy (5 weeks) in combination with chemotherapy (so called neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy). The neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy has been demonstrated to improve local control, but had no effect on the overall survival. Different studies in patients with rectal cancer studying the effect of adjuvant post operative chemotherapy did not result in an improved survival. This may be due the fact that rectal cancer surgery (TME) is associated with a high complication rate so substantial proportion of patients cannot receive chemotherapy postoperatively. An alternative approach is to administer the systemic therapy preoperative. To guarantee control of the rectum tumor short-course radiotherapy (5 days) is given, as different studies showed local control of the tumor for a long time. During this waiting period the patient is in a good condition to receive an optimal dose of chemotherapy. The investigators hypothesize that with this proposed protocol both the local tumour and possible micrometastases are effectively treated and that this will result in an increased survival. The investigators will compare this with the standard treatment of neoadjuvant chemoradiation followed by TME surgery and optional adjuvant chemotherapy.
Rectal Cancer
OTHER: M1 scheme|OTHER: standard long course chemoradiotherapy
Disease related Treatment Failure (DrTF), DrTF = Either local or distant relapse or death caused by the rectal carcinoma whichever comes first. In case of nonrectal cancer related death patients will be censored at date of death. In case of a second primary tumour patients will be censored at the date of diagnosis of the second primary tumour. In case of local regrowth after wait \& watch strategy, followed by no resection or R2 resection, diagnosis local regrowth is taken. Patients lost to follow-up will be censored the last date of patient visit. Survival curves for Disease related Treatment Failure after 3 years of follow-up will be constructed using the method of Kaplan and Meier., 3 year follow-up after surgery
Overall survival, Overall survival will be computed as the time between randomization and colorectal cancer or treatment related death. Patients lost to follow-up will be censored the last date of patient visit.

In case of a second primary tumour patients will be censored at the date of diagnosis of the second primary tumour., 10 year|CRM negative rate, Circumferential resection margin \> 1 mm, within 30 days|pCR rate, Pathological complete response after neo-adjuvant treatment, within 30 days|Short and long-term toxicity, Treatment associated toxicity, 3 year follow-up|Surgical complications, Wound rupture, bleeding, infection, rectal anastomotic leak, 3 year follow-up|Quality of life QLQ-C30, Quality of life QLQ-C30, 3 year after surgery|Quality of life QLQ-CR-29+, Quality of life QLQ-CR-29+, 3 year after surgery|Quality of life QLQ-CIPN20, Quality of life QLQ-CIPN20, 3 year after surgery|Quality of life LARS, LARS, 3 year after surgery
Patients will be randomized between an experimental group (arm B) in which short course 5 x 5 Gy radiation scheme is followed by six cycles of combination chemotherapy (capecitabine/5FU and oxaliplatin) and surgery and a control group (arm A) with long course chemoradiotherapy followed by surgery. In arm A adjuvant chemotherapy is allowed according to the local protocol of the institution. In both groups the rectal tumour will be removed by TME surgery or more extensive surgery if required because of tumour extent.