Characterization of 18F-Fluciclovine PET Amino Acid Radiotracer in Resected Brain Metastasis
This study is for patients who have had surgery to remove brain metastasis and are planned to have stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) after their brain surgery. It will be optional for patients to have a pre-surgery 18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT scan. The goal of the study is to determine whether a specific imaging agent, known as 18F-Fluciclovine, will help physicians evaluate the extent of surgery and determine if there is any visible tumor above what MRI alone can identify as well as improve the physicians' ability to detect recurring disease. This agent (18F-Fluciclovine) is investigational for the imaging of brain metastases.
Brain Metastases|Brain Cancer
DRUG: 18F-Fluciclovine
Change in conformality index of tumor target volume delineation, The tumor target volume (post-operative cavity and any residual or recurrent disease) will be delineated by post-operative MRI only. A second target volume will be generated using the 18F-Fluciclovine PET-defined volume. The conformality index is calculated by comparing the PET-defined tumor volume with MRI-defined tumor volume. Non-overlapping and overlapping regions regions of PET tumor volume and MRI tumor volume will be used to calculate conformality indices., 3 weeks, 6 and 12 months|Change in PET scan standardized uptake value (SUV) parameters, The standardized uptake value (SUV) parameters of SUVpeak, SUVmean, and SUVmax will be measured to determine if they correlate tumor volume and can predict risk of recurrence., 3 weeks, 6 and 12 months
Time to local failure, Each lesion will be followed from pre-treatment PET to local failure or re-retreatment; death; 12 months from pre-treatment PET; lost-to follow-up, discontinuation, or withdrawal; or end of study. In the event that a patient has more than one study eligible lesion, the patient will discontinue follow up after all lesions progress, or will be censored as above. Death will be treated as a competing event., 1 year
This study is for patients who have had surgery to remove brain metastasis and are planned to have stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) after their brain surgery. It will be optional for patients to have a pre-surgery 18F-Fluciclovine PET/CT scan. The goal of the study is to determine whether a specific imaging agent, known as 18F-Fluciclovine, will help physicians evaluate the extent of surgery and determine if there is any visible tumor above what MRI alone can identify as well as improve the physicians' ability to detect recurring disease. This agent (18F-Fluciclovine) is investigational for the imaging of brain metastases.