Mindfulness Online for Symptom Alleviation and Improvement in Cancer of the Prostate
In this study, the researchers will examine the effects of a 4-week online mindfulness intervention, compared to a face-to-face mindfulness intervention, to reduce self-reported symptoms of fatigue, anxiety, depression, sleep disturbance, and pain interference in a sample of patients with metastatic prostate cancer.
Prostate Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Mindfulness Program
Change in pain interference using the PROMIS Pain Interference questionnaire, Participants were administered the PROMIS Pain Interference questionnaire. The PROMIS Pain Interference measures the self-reported consequences of pain on relevant aspects of one's life. This includes the extent to which pain hinders engagement with social, cognitive, emotional, physical, and recreational activities. PROMIS Pain interference also incorporates items probing sleep and enjoyment in life, though it only contains one sleep item. The PROMIS Pain Interference is generic rather than disease-specific. It assesses pain interference over the past seven days. Each question has five response options ranging in value from one to five (1=not at all; 2=a little bit; 3=somewhat; 4=quite a bit; 5=very much). To find the total raw score, sum the values of the response to each question. The lowest possible raw score is 8; the highest possible raw score is 40. A higher score represents more of the concept being measured., baseline, week 4|Change in sleep using the PROMIS Sleep Disturbance questionnaire, Participants were administered the PROMIS Sleep Disturbance questionnaire. The PROMIS Sleep Disturbance assesses self-reported perceptions of sleep quality, sleep depth, and restoration associated with sleep. This includes perceived difficulties and concerns with getting to sleep or staying asleep, as well as perceptions of the adequacy of and satisfaction with sleep. It does not focus on symptoms of specific sleep disorders, nor does it provide subjective estimates of sleep quantities. The PROMIS Sleep Disturbance is universal rather than disease-specific. It assesses sleep disturbance over the past seven days. Each question has five response options ranging in value from one to five (1=not at all; 2=a little bit; 3=somewhat; 4=quite a bit; 5=very much). To find the total raw score, sum the values of the response to each question. The lowest possible raw score is 8; the highest possible raw score is 40. A higher score represents more of the concept being measured., baseline, week 4|Change in depression using the PROMIS Depression questionnaire, Participants were administered the PROMIS Depression questionnaire. The PROMIS Depression assesses self-reported negative mood (sadness, guilt), views of self (self-criticism, worthlessness), and social cognition (loneliness, interpersonal alienation), as well as decreased positive affect and engagement (loss of interest, meaning, and purpose). Somatic symptoms are not included, which eliminates consideration of these items' confounding effects when assessing patients with co-morbid physical conditions. The PROMIS Depression is universal rather than disease-specific. It assesses depression over the past seven days. Each question has five response options ranging in value from one to five (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; 5=always). To find the total raw score, sum the values of the response to each question. The lowest possible raw score is 8; the highest possible raw score is 40. A higher score represents more of the concept being measured., baseline, week 4|Change in anxiety using the PROMIS Anxiety questionnaire, Participants were administered the PROMIS Anxiety questionnaire. The PROMIS Anxiety measures self-reported fear (fearfulness, panic), anxious misery (worry, dread), hyperarousal (tension, nervousness, restlessness), and somatic symptoms related to arousal (racing heart, dizziness). Anxiety is best differentiated by symptoms that reflect autonomic arousal and experience of threat. Only one behavioral avoidance item is included; therefore, behavioral fear avoidance is not fully evaluated. The PROMIS Anxiety is universal rather than disease-specific. It assesses anxiety over the past seven days. Each question has five response options ranging in value from one to five (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; 5=always). To find the total raw score, sum the values of the response to each question. The lowest possible raw score is 8; the highest possible raw score is 40. A higher score represents more of the concept being measured., baseline, week 4|Change in fatigue using the PROMIS Fatigue questionnaire, Participants were administered the PROMIS Fatigue questionnaire. The PROMIS Fatigue evaluates a range of self-reported symptoms, from mild subjective feelings of tiredness to an overwhelming, debilitating, and sustained sense of exhaustion that likely decreases one's ability to execute daily activities and function normally in family or social roles. Fatigue is divided into the experience of fatigue (frequency, duration, and intensity) and the impact of fatigue on physical, mental, and social activities.The PROMIS Fatigue is universal rather than disease-specific. It assesses fatigue over the past seven days. Each question has five response options ranging in value from one to five (1=never; 2=rarely; 3=sometimes; 4=often; 5=always). To find the total raw score, sum the values of the response to each question. The lowest possible raw score is 8; the highest possible raw score is 40. A higher score represents more of the concept being measured., baseline, week 4
Participants will be recruited from multiple locations, including NorthShore University Health System's Kellogg Cancer Center (KCC) and local community organizations (e.g., UsToo meetings, Cancer Wellness Center). Participating physician researchers will identify their eligible patients from the electronic medical record and will mail them a letter of invitation to learn more about the study and consider enrolling. Each participant will be e-mailed a link to the baseline questionnaire. After baseline completion, participants will be randomized, using an online random number generator, to the online course or face-to-face course. Course orientation for both groups will be held on the same night, but at different times. The separate orientations will be scheduled with a thirty minute break in between, in order to prevent intermixing of the groups and potential dissatisfaction among participants about their assigned group. In the orientation for the online class, participants will become familiar with the online video conferencing program Zoom, be introduced to other group participants, and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week mindfulness course. In the orientation for the face-to-face class, participants will be introduced to other group participants and receive a clear overview of what to expect for the 4-week mindfulness course. Participants will meet for approximately 2.5 hours each week for 4 weeks online or face-to-face. In addition, a face to face half day retreat will occur after the third class, in which participants from both face to face and online courses may attend. In the event that a participant unexpectedly misses a class, the instructor will follow-up with them and review the material covered in class. The class instructor may contact participants up to 3 times to review class expectations and teachings prior to or during the 4-week program. Participants will once again be asked to complete the online assessment.