Sorafenib Tosylate and Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres in Treating Patients With Liver Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This phase II trial studies how well sorafenib tosylate and yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres work in treating patients with liver cancer that cannot be removed by surgery. Sorafenib tosylate may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres use glass beads to carry radiation directly to tumor cells without harming normal cells. Giving sorafenib tosylate with yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres may be an effective treatment for liver cancer.
Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|BCLC Stage C Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Recurrent Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Stage III Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IIIC Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IV Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVA Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Stage IVB Hepatocellular Carcinoma AJCC v7|Unresectable Hepatocellular Carcinoma
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Sorafenib|DRUG: Sorafenib Tosylate|RADIATION: Yttrium Y 90 Glass Microspheres
Median Progression Free Survival (PFS), Will be monitored using the method of Thall et al. Kaplan-Meier method will be used to estimate median progression free survival (PFS) and the 95% confidence interval. Log rank test, univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models will be used to identify prognostic factors for progression free survival (PFS)., From the start of therapy until failure to disease progression or death, assessed up to 4 years
Median Time to Progression (TTP), 95% credible interval will be estimated. This will be analyzed using Kaplan-Meier method, Log rank test and Cox proportional hazards regression modeling., Up to 4 years|Incidence of Adverse Events, Graded According to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) Version 4.0, To evaluate the safety of the combination of sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) and Yttrium-90; adverse events (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 \[NCI-CTAE v 4.0\]) ., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Median progression-free survival (PFS).

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS). II. Time to radiographic progression (TTRP). III. To evaluate the safety of the combination of sorafenib (sorafenib tosylate) and Yttrium-90; adverse events (National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 4.0 \[NCI-CTAE v 4.0\]).

OTHER OBJECTIVES:

I. Predictive biomarkers of response to therapy and survival: will assess pre-treatment plasma level of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) as above, and assess its predictive ability of time to progression (TTP) and OS.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive sorafenib tosylate orally (PO) twice daily (BID). After 4 weeks, patients receive yttrium Y 90 glass microspheres intra-arterially (IA). Courses of sorafenib tosylate repeat every 4 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.