Celecoxib/Oxaliplatin/Capecitabine for Gastric/Gastroesophageal Junction Carcinoma
Gastric cancer is the second most common neoplasm in the world. Early diagnosis and surgical resection improve the survival and the chance of cure. Unfortunately, majority of cases are diagnosed at advanced stage, with only 20% of the patients presenting with localized disease. The five-year survival for gastric cancer of all stages remains at a dismal 8%. Chemotherapy has been used for advanced gastric cancer but with unsatisfactory results. Therefore, new approaches are needed for these patients. Among the newer chemotherapy regimens for advanced gastric cancer include a combination of oral 5-Fluoro-Uracil (FU)-based compound called Capecitabine(Xeloda) and Oxaliplatin. A few phase II studies suggest that the combination regimen is active with overall response rates ranging 30-40%. Several preclinical and clinical studies have shown that the expression of cyclooxygenase enzyme II(COX-2) is upregulated in many pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lesions. Furthermore, there appears to be an association with the overexpression of Cox-2 and the invasiveness of cancer and prognosis. Finally, preclinical and clinical studies suggest selective Cox-2 inhibitors can induce apoptosis in gastric cancer cells and retard tumor progression. Therefore, there is a strong rationale for the combination of a selective Cox-2 inhibitor, Celecoxib, with Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin in a therapeutic phase II trial for patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.
Gastric Carcinoma|Gastroesophageal Junction Carcinoma
DRUG: Oxaliplatin|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Celecoxib
Response rate of patients with gastric/gastroesophageal carcinoma when treated with celecoxib, oxaliplatin, and capcetabine combination therapy, Complete Response (CR) Complete disappearance of all measurable and evaluable disease. No new lesions. No disease related symptoms. No evidence of non evaluable disease, including normalization of markers and other abnormal lab values. All measurable, evaluable and non evaluable lesions and sites must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline.

Partial Response (PR): Applies only to patients with at least one measurable lesion. Greater than or equal to 50% decrease under baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. No progression of evaluable disease. No new lesions. All measurable and evaluable lesions and sites must be assessed using the same techniques as baseline.

A response rate (RR) is defined as a complete or partial response. RR=CR+PR, 18 weeks|Determine time to progression, Progression: 50% increase or an increase of 10 CM2 (whichever is smaller) in the sum of products of all measurable lesions over smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease) using the same techniques as baseline, or clear worsening of any evaluable disease, or reappearance of any lesion which had disappeared, or appearance of any new lesion/site, or failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer). For "scan only" bone disease, increased uptake does not constitute clear worsening. Worsening of existing non evaluable disease does not constitute progression., 18 weeks
Incidence of treatment-related study adverse events and toxicity according to NCI Common Toxicity Criteria v2.X, Toxicity and adverse events are graded on CTC (NCI Common Toxicity Criteria) version 2.X., 18 weeks|Evaluate the expression of the Cox-2 on paraffin-embedded tumor sections from patients enrolled on the study and correlate expression with clinical response, 18 weeks
Gastric cancer is the second most common neoplasm in the world. Early diagnosis and surgical resection improve the survival and the chance of cure. Unfortunately, majority of cases are diagnosed at advanced stage, with only 20% of the patients presenting with localized disease. The five-year survival for gastric cancer of all stages remains at a dismal 8%. Chemotherapy has been used for advanced gastric cancer but with unsatisfactory results. Therefore, new approaches are needed for these patients. Among the newer chemotherapy regimens for advanced gastric cancer include a combination of oral 5-Fluoro-Uracil (FU)-based compound called Capecitabine(Xeloda) and Oxaliplatin. A few phase II studies suggest that the combination regimen is active with overall response rates ranging 30-40%. Several preclinical and clinical studies have shown that the expression of cyclooxygenase enzyme II(COX-2) is upregulated in many pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lesions. Furthermore, there appears to be an association with the overexpression of Cox-2 and the invasiveness of cancer and prognosis. Finally, preclinical and clinical studies suggest selective Cox-2 inhibitors can induce apoptosis in gastric cancer cells and retard tumor progression. Therefore, there is a strong rationale for the combination of a selective Cox-2 inhibitor, Celecoxib, with Capecitabine and Oxaliplatin in a therapeutic phase II trial for patients with advanced or recurrent gastric cancer.