Perioperative Immunotherpay Versus Adjuvant Immunotherapy for Resectable Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
For resectable non-small cell lung cancer, neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy plus adjuvant immunotherapy or adjuvant immunochemotherapy is usually used in clinical practice. However, it is unclear whether therapeutic strategy is superior. This trial aims to compare the efficacy and safety of these two strategies.
Stage II-IIIB(N2) Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: TQB2450|DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Pemetrexed|DRUG: Nab-paclitaxel|PROCEDURE: Surgery
3-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:

the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 48 months
Objective response rate (ORR), It refers to the proportion of patients who have had a complete response or partial response (according to RECIST1.1) as confirmed by CT evaluation after 3 weeks in all patients who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy. Only patients with measurable lesions at baseline will be analyzed., Up to 6 months|Pathological complete response (pCR), pCR is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved complete pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no viable tumor cells) in all participants who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy before surgery., Up to 8 months|Major pathologic response (MPR), MPR is defined as the proportion of participants who have achieved major pathologic response (on routine hematoxylin and eosin staining, tumors with no more than 10% viable tumor cells) in all participants who have completed the neoadjuvant therapy before surgery., Up to 8 months|Event-free survival (EFS), Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:

the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 72 months|Overall survival (OS), It is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., Up to 72 months|5-year event-free survival (EFS) rate, Event-free survival (EFS) is defined as the length of time (months) from randomization to any of the following events: any progression of disease precluding surgery, progression or recurrence disease based on response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) 1.1 after surgery, or death due to any cause. Participants who don't undergo surgery for reason other than progression will be considered to have an event at progression or death. Progression is defined as at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. (Note:

the appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered progression)., Up to 72 months|5-year overall survival (OS), OS is defined as the time (months) from enrollment to death of participant due to any cause. In the case of a patient who still survives at the time of analysis, the date of last contact will be taken as the censoring date., Up to 72 months|Adverse event rate, It is defined as the frequency of severe adverse events from the participants enrolling to 30 days after the last drug administration or 30 days after surgery or new anti-cancer therapy, which comes first., Up to 36 months|Health related quality of life (HRQol), The assessment is made according to the Quality of Life Scale for Lung Cancer Patients (EORTC-QLQ-C30 \& LC13, Version 3). EORTC's QLQ-C30 \& LC13 (V3.0) is a core scale for lung cancer patients, with a total of 43 items. Among them, Item 29 and 30 are divided into seven grades, which are assigned with 1 to 7 scores according to the answer options. The other items are divided into 4 grades: Not at All, A Little, Quite a Bit, and Very Much, assigned with 1 to 4 scores respectively. The higher score, the worse quality., Up to 36 months
For resectable non-small cell lung cancer, neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy plus adjuvant immunotherapy or adjuvant immunochemotherapy is usually used in clinical practice. However, it is unclear whether therapeutic strategy is superior. This trial aims to compare the efficacy and safety of these two strategies.