Carboplatin and Paclitaxel With or Without Ramucirumab in Treating Patients With Locally Advanced, Recurrent, or Metastatic Thymic Cancer That Cannot Be Removed by Surgery
This randomized phase II trial studies how well carboplatin and paclitaxel with or without ramucirumab work in treating patients with thymic cancer that has spread to other places in the body, has come back, or cannot be removed by surgery. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as carboplatin and paclitaxel, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ramucirumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. It is not yet known if giving carboplatin and paclitaxel with or without ramucirumab will work better in treating patients with thymic cancer.
Locally Advanced Thymic Carcinoma|Metastatic Thymic Carcinoma|Recurrent Thymic Carcinoma|Unresectable Thymic Carcinoma
DRUG: Carboplatin|DRUG: Paclitaxel|BIOLOGICAL: Ramucirumab
Progression-free survival, From date of registration to date of first documentation of progression or symptomatic, assessed up to 2 years
Incidence of adverse events, Binary proportions will be compared between the arms using either a Fisher's exact or Chi-squared test at the 1-sided 0.10 level., Up to 2 years|Response rate (complete response, partial response, confirmed and unconfirmed), Binary proportions will be compared between the arms using either a Fisher's exact or Chi-squared test at the 1-sided 0.10 level., Up to 2 years|Disease control rate (complete response, partial response, confirmed or unconfirmed, stable disease), Binary proportions will be compared between the arms using either a Fisher's exact or Chi-squared test at the 1-sided 0.10 level., Up to 2 years|Overall survival, Binary proportions will be compared between the arms using either a Fisher's exact or Chi-squared test at the 1-sided 0.10 level., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To compare progression-free survival between patients with incurable unresectable locally advanced, or recurrent, or metastatic thymic carcinoma randomized to carboplatin-paclitaxel with or without ramucirumab.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity of carboplatin-paclitaxel with or without ramucirumab in this patient population.

II. To compare the response rate (complete response, partial response, confirmed and unconfirmed) between treatment arms.

III. To compare disease control rate (complete response, partial response, confirmed or unconfirmed, stable disease) between treatment arms.

IV. To compare overall survival between treatment arms.

ADDITIONAL OBJECTIVE:

I. To bank specimens for future research.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM A: Patients receive ramucirumab intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes, carboplatin IV, and paclitaxel IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who have not progressed may continue to receive ramucirumab for up to 1 year.

ARM B: Patients receive carboplatin IV and paclitaxel IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and then every 6 months for 1 year.