Randomized Carbon Ions vs Standard Radiotherapy for Radioresistant Tumors
This is a transnational prospective randomized trial comparing definitive carbon ion therapy versus photon or combined photon and protontherapy as standard treatment for unresectable or macroscopically uncompleted resected radioresistant tumors. Eligible tumors are axial chordoma (except of base of skull), adenoid cystic carcinoma of head and neck (except of trachea) and sarcomas of any site (except chondrosarcoma of the skull base), non previously irradiated and without pre-planned surgery or chemotherapy after the clinical trial procedure. Randomization is balanced 1 for 1. Patients of the experimental arm are treated in carbon ions centers in Europe and patients of the standard arm are treated in France in their closest participating radiotherapy center. An accrual of 250 patients is needed and an absolute difference of 20% of relapse free survival at five years is awaited. The main endpoint is the progression free survival at five years. The trial is supported by the French program of clinical research and the national health insurance. Two associated studies are carried out: a radiobiological one looking for radioresistance markers in the sarcomas biopsies, and the second one is about medico economics.
Malignant Tumors as Chordoma, Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma and Sarcoma
RADIATION: Carbon ions therapy|RADIATION: Advanced external radiotherapy by Xrays or protons
Progression free survival (PFS), Starting point for PFS measurement is the randomization date, up to 5 years or loss of follow-up
Grades of the CTCAE-V4.02 classification, Tolerance, up to 5 years or loss of follow-up|EQ-5D questionnaire, Quality of life, up to 5 years or loss of follow-up|Local progression free survival, takes account of the local progression of the tumor in the planning target volume (PTV), up to 5 years or loss of follow-up|Metastases free survival, takes account of any site of relapse outside of the PTV, up to 5 years or loss of follow-up|Overall survival, delay of death of any cause accounted starting from randomization, up to 5 years or loss of follow-up
This is a transnational prospective randomized trial comparing definitive carbon ion therapy versus photon or combined photon and protontherapy as standard treatment for unresectable or macroscopically uncompleted resected radioresistant tumors. Eligible tumors are axial chordoma (except of base of skull), adenoid cystic carcinoma of head and neck (except of trachea) and sarcomas of any site (except chondrosarcoma of the skull base), non previously irradiated and without pre-planned surgery or chemotherapy after the clinical trial procedure. Randomization is balanced 1 for 1. Patients of the experimental arm are treated in carbon ions centers in Europe and patients of the standard arm are treated in France in their closest participating radiotherapy center. An accrual of 250 patients is needed and an absolute difference of 20% of relapse free survival at five years is awaited. The main endpoint is the progression free survival at five years. The trial is supported by the French program of clinical research and the national health insurance. Two associated studies are carried out: a radiobiological one looking for radioresistance markers in the sarcomas biopsies, and the second one is about medico economics.