Dendritic Cell/Myeloma Fusion Vaccine for Multiple Myeloma (BMT CTN 1401)
The study is designed as a Phase II, multicenter trial of vaccination with Dendritic cell/myeloma fusions with granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) adjuvant plus lenalidomide maintenance therapy versus maintenance therapy alone or with GM-CSF following autologous transplant as part of upfront treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). It is hypothesized that the dendritic cell myeloma vaccine will result in improved response in patients with multiple myeloma after autologous Hematopoietic Cell Transplant (HCT).
Multiple Myeloma
PROCEDURE: Tumor Cell Collection|PROCEDURE: Autologous Stem Cell Transplant|DRUG: Melphalan|PROCEDURE: Leukapheresis|BIOLOGICAL: Myeloma vaccine|DRUG: GM-CSF|DRUG: Lenalidomide
Percentage of Participants With 1-year Response Rate of CR/sCR, The primary objective of this randomized trial is to compare the proportion of patients alive and in complete response (CR or sCR) at one year post transplant between patients receiving DC/myeloma vaccine/GM-CSF with lenalidomide maintenance therapy to those receiving lenalidomide maintenance therapy with or without GM-CSF. Complete Response (CR) is defined to require all the followings: Absence of the original monoclonal paraprotein in serum and urine by routine electrophoresis and by immunofixation; Less than 5% plasma cells in a bone marrow aspirate and also on trephine bone biopsy, if biopsy is performed; No increase in size or number of lytic bone lesions on radiological investigations; Disappearance of soft tissue plasmacytomas. Stringent Complete Response (sCR) is defined to require all the followings in addition to CR: Normal free light chain ratio (FLC); Absence of clonal cells in bone marrow by immunohistochemistry or immunofluorescence., 1 year
Participants Response to Treatment, A participant's disease status is evaluated based on the International Uniform Response Criteria per protocol. Before disease progression (PD), all disease classifications including stringent complete response (sCR), complete response (CR), very good partial remission (VGPR), partial response (PR), stable disease (SD) are relative to participant's disease status at study entry. Disease status is 'Not Evaluable' when disease assessment is not required, or disease status is missing., 6 months, 1 year, and 2 years post-transplant and at Cycles 3(Day 57), 6(Day 141), 9(Day 225), 12(Day 309), 15 (Day 393), 18(Day 477), 21(Day 561) and 24(Day 654) of maintenance therapy|Percentage of Participants With Myeloma Progression of Vaccine and Non-vaccine Arms, The event for this endpoint is defined as disease progression from CR/sCR or progressive disease for participants not in CR/sCR, or initiation of off protocol antimyeloma therapy. The cumulative incidence of myeloma progression will be compared between the vaccine arm and the combined non-vaccine arms using Gray's test and treating death (without documentation of disease progression) as a competing risk. Participants alive without disease progression at last observation will be censored at the date of last contact., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Myeloma Progression in Pairwise Analysis, This is the pairwise comparison for percentage of participants with Myeloma Progression. The event for this endpoint is defined as disease progression from CR/sCR or progressive disease for participants not in CR/sCR, or initiation of off protocol antimyeloma therapy. The cumulative incidence of myeloma progression will be compared between the vaccine arm, lenalidomide/GM-CSF arm and lenalidomide alone arm using Gray's test and treating death (without documentation of disease progression) as a competing risk. Participants alive without disease progression at last observation will be censored at the date of last contact., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Treatment-related Mortality (TRM), TRM is defined as death occurring in a patient from causes other than disease relapse or progression. Disease progression is the competing event for TRM. Patients alive without disease progression at last contact are considered censored for this event. TRM from time of randomization will be compared between vaccine and no-vaccine arms combined starting at time of randomization., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Progression-Free Survival, Death or disease progression will be considered as events for this endpoint. The time to event will be calculated as time from randomization to disease progression, death, initiation of non-protocol anti-myeloma therapy, loss to follow-up or the end of the study, whichever comes first. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be constructed for each treatment arm. Progression-free survival was compared between the vaccine and the combined non-vaccine arms using the log-rank test., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Progression-Free Survival in Pairwise Analysis, This is the pairwise comparison for percentage of participants with Progression-Free Survival. Death or disease progression will be considered as events for this endpoint. The time to event will be calculated as time from randomization to disease progression, death, initiation of non-protocol anti-myeloma therapy, loss to follow-up or the end of the study, whichever comes first. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be constructed for each treatment arm. Progression-free survival was compared between the vaccine arm, lenalidomide/GM-CSF arm and lenalidomide alone arm., 2 year|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival, Death from any cause is considered as events for this endpoint. The time to event is calculated as time from randomization to death, loss to follow-up or the end of the study, whichever comes first. Patients alive at the time of last observation are considered censored. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be constructed for each treatment arm. Overall survival are compared between the vaccine and the combined non-vaccine arms from time of randomization., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Overall Survival in Pairwise Analysis, This is the pairwise comparison for percentage of participants with Overall Survival. Death from any cause is considered as events for this endpoint. The time to event is calculated as time from randomization to death, loss to follow-up or the end of the study, whichever comes first. Patients alive at the time of last observation are considered censored. The Kaplan-Meier estimator will be constructed for each treatment arm. Overall survival are compared between the vaccine arm, lenalidomide/GM-CSF arm and lenalidomide alone arm from time of randomization., 2 years|Number of Grade ≥ 3 Toxicities, Toxicities are evaluated using NCI CTCAE version 4.0 at pre-maintenance initiation and during maintenance therapy monthly for the first 4 cycles and then at cycles 6, 9, 15, 21, 24, which correspond to Day 1, 29, 57, 85, 141, 225, 393, 561, and 645 post maintenance initiation. All Grade ≥ 3 toxicities will be tabulated for treatment arms. Toxicities are categorized by organ system according to the CTCAE. Toxicities that involve multiple questions per organ system are combined in one category., 2 years|Participants With Grade ≥ 3 Toxicities, Toxicities are evaluated using NCI CTCAE version 4.0 at pre-maintenance initiation and during maintenance therapy monthly for the first 4 cycles and then at cycles 6, 9, 15, 21, 24, which correspond to Day 1, 29, 57, 85, 141, 225, 393, 561, and 645 post maintenance initiation. The number of participants experiencing Grade ≥ 3 toxicity are displayed for the vaccine and non-vaccine arms separately. The proportion of participants experiencing Grade ≥ 3 toxicity are compared between the vaccine and non-vaccine arms combined., 2 years|Number of Grade 2 and 3 Infections, Grade 2 and 3 infections, as defined by the BMT CTN Technical MOP, occurring after randomization will be reported. The incidence of definite and probable viral, fungal and bacterial infections will be tabulated for each patient., 2years|Percentage of Participants With Grade 2 and 3 Infections, Grade 2 and 3 infections, as defined by the BMT CTN Technical MOP, are reported on the study. The cumulative incidence of infections post randomization, treating death as a competing risk, were compared between the vaccine and the combined non-vaccine groups using the Gray's test., 2 years|Percentage of Participants With Grade 2 and 3 Infections in Pairwise Analysis, This is the pairwise comparison for percentage of participants with Grade 2 and 3 infections. Grade 2 and 3 infections, as defined by the BMT CTN Technical MOP, are reported on the study. The cumulative incidence of infections post randomization, treating death as a competing risk, were compared between the vaccine arm, lenalidomide/GM-CSF arm and lenalidomide alone arm using the Gray's test., 2 years|Number of Participants With Minimal Residual Disease (MRD), Minimal residual disease (MRD) is defined as the presence of malignant plasma cells detected by multicolor flow cytometry among patients who are in complete remission. Multichannel flow cytometry will be used to establish MRD based on the presence of malignant plasma cells that are CD45 (-/dim), CD38+, CD138+, CD19-, CD56+ kappa or lambda restricted. The number of patients with MRD negative (MRD-) are described using frequencies at pre-randomization and 9th cycle post-randomization and compared between the vaccine arm with the no-vaccine arms combined., Pre-randomization, Post-randomization at Cycle 9
The study is a three-arm, phase II randomized, open-labeled clinical trial that randomizes patients to vaccination with Dendritic Cell (DC)/myeloma fusions/GM-CSF plus lenalidomide maintenance therapy or lenalidomide maintenance therapy with or without GM-CSF following autologous transplant as part of upfront treatment for patients diagnosed with multiple myeloma. Patients are randomized approximately 2 months post transplant and will begin maintenance lenalidomide between day 90 and 100. The primary objective of this randomized trial is to compare the proportion of patients alive and in complete response (defined as CR or sCR) at one year post transplant between patients receiving DC/myeloma vaccine/GM-CSF with lenalidomide maintenance therapy to those receiving lenalidomide maintenance therapy with or without GM-CSF.