Temozolomide or Selumetinib in Treating Patients With Metastatic Melanoma of the Eye
This randomized phase II trial studies temozolomide to see how well it works compared to selumetinib in treating patients with melanoma of the eye that has spread to other places in the body. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Selumetinib may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. It is not yet known whether temozolomide is more effective than selumetinib in treating melanoma of the eye.
Iris Melanoma|Medium/Large Size Posterior Uveal Melanoma|Ocular Melanoma With Extraocular Extension|Recurrent Uveal Melanoma|Small Size Posterior Uveal Melanoma|Stage IV Uveal Melanoma
DRUG: Dacarbazine|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Quality-of-Life Assessment|DRUG: Selumetinib|DRUG: Temozolomide
Progression-free Survival (PFS) (Evaluable Randomized Patients), The primary analysis will be performed among the Gnaq/Gna11 mutant patients. A stratified logrank test will be performed stratified by mutation status, M stage, and number of prior systemic therapies for metastatic disease. Due to the potential for a large number of strata and small strata sizes, the standard asymptotic stratified logrank test will be verified for robustness utilizing a permutation reference distribution., The time from randomization to the earlier date of objective disease progression per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria or death due to any cause in the absence of progression, assessed up to 5 years
Median Overall Survival (Evaluable Randomized Patients), The primary analysis will be performed among the Gnaq/Gna11 mutant patients. A stratified logrank test will be performed stratified by mutation status, M stage, and number of prior systemic therapies for metastatic disease. Due to the potential for a large number of strata and small strata sizes, the standard asymptotic stratified logrank test will be verified for robustness utilizing a permutation reference distribution., The time from randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years
Objective Disease Progression, per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST) criteria or death due to any cause in the absence of progression, assessed up to 5 years|Overall Survival, The primary analysis will be performed among the Gnaq/Gna11 mutant patients. A stratified logrank test will be performed stratified by mutation status, M stage, and number of prior systemic therapies for metastatic disease. Due to the potential for a large number of strata and small strata sizes, the standard asymptotic stratified logrank test will be verified for robustness utilizing a permutation reference distribution., The time from randomization to death due to any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Response Rate (Complete and Partial Response), Calculated along with a 95% confidence interval., Up to 5 years|Toxicity According to the National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria, Toxicity will be reported by type, frequency, and severity. Please see adverse events., Up to 5 years|PFS (Group 3), Evaluated using a Simon mini-max design. Curves will be generated using Kaplan-Meier methodology., 4 months|Apoptosis in the Paired Samples, Performed by Caspase 3 Cleavage, Changes will be assessed by a Wilcoxon test, Up to 5 years|Change in Ki67, Correlated with disease status using Fishers exact test., Baseline up to 4 months|Change in p-AKT, Correlated with disease status using Fishers exact test., Baseline up to 4 months|Change in p-ERK, Decrease in p-ERK will be correlated with disease status using Fishers exact test., Baseline up to 4 months|Change in PTEN, Correlated with disease status using Fishers exact test., Baseline up to 4 months|Changes in Maximum Standardized Uptake Value on FLT-PET Scans, A paired student's t-test will be performed. Analysis of variance will also be performed to obtain the significance of FLT-PET uptake on each lesion between patients., Baseline up to 60 minutes post injection|FACT-M Total Score, Summarized using descriptive statistics for each assessment time and by treatment group. The scores will be compared between treatment groups using a mixed effect model for repeated measures analysis method. Treatment difference will be estimated from the model for each assessment time., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the progression-free survival (PFS) in three separate patient populations with uveal melanoma: Patients on COHORT 1 (guanine nucleotide binding protein \[G protein\], q polypeptide \[Gnaq\]/G protein, alpha 11 \[Gna11\] mutant uveal melanoma; temozolomide \[TMZ\]/dacarbazine \[DTIC\] naive) treated with AZD6244 (selumetinib) or TMZ (or DTIC); patients on both COHORT 1 and COHORT 2 (Gnaq/Gna11 mutant and Gnaq/Gna11 wild-type uveal melanoma; TMZ/DTIC naive) treated with AZD6244 or TMZ (or DTIC); and patients on COHORT 3 (Gnaq/Gna11 mutant or wild-type uveal melanoma; previously treated with TMZ/DTIC) treated with AZD6244.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Overall survival (OS). II. Overall response rate (RR). III. To determine the tolerability of AZD6244 in patients with advanced uveal melanoma.

IV. To correlate PFS, OS, and overall RR with Gnaq and Gna11 mutational status.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To correlate clinical outcome with baseline phosphorylated (p)-extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERK), p-v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT), and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) expression by immunohistochemistry.

II. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in p-ERK, p-AKT, and PTEN expression by immunohistochemistry.

III. To correlate clinical outcome with changes in Ki67 and cleaved caspase 3. IV. To explore the overall quality of life (QoL) of the treatment groups as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Melanoma (FACT-M) questionnaire.

V. To explore the radiographic effects of treatment with AZD6244 as assessed by 18F fluorothymidine (FLT)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging.

OUTLINE: Patients in groups 1 and 2 are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms. Patients in group 3 are assigned to arm II.

ARM I: Patients receive temozolomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who are unable to be treated with temozolomide may be treated with dacarbazine intravenously (IV) every 3 weeks (with approval from the Principal Investigator). Patients who experience disease progression may crossover to arm II.

ARM II: Patients receive selumetinib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.