Treatment De-Intensification for Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Oropharynx
This research is being done to try to reduce radiation side effects that happen with the standard radiation methods. Generally surgery, radiation therapy, and sometimes chemotherapy are standard treatment for people with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx.

The study will look at giving a slightly smaller dose of radiation (de-intensification) to see if regularly expected late toxicities (two years after receiving treatment) can be reduced. This study will also try to see if the smaller dose of radiation is equally effective at treating the cancer and to see if it improves quality of life. Along with this radiation treatment plan some participants in this study will have surgery on their tumor and or receive chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin). The possible surgery and or chemotherapy will be up to the participant's doctor.

Study participants will be tested for the Human Papillomavirus (HPV). This tissue test is required for this study. Some studies have suggested that HPV-related cancer is biologically and clinically different as compared to non-HPV-related cancer. Some studies have found that patients with HPV-related oropharynx cancer have a better response to treatment. This test will help researchers learn more about HPV-related cancer.
Squamous Cell Carcinoma of Oropharynx
RADIATION: IMRT|DRUG: Cisplatin|DRUG: Carboplatin
Percentage of Patients Free of Grade 3+ Late Toxicity, The goal is to achieve a prevalence of \< 15% grade 3+ late toxicity at 2 years; reported as percentage of patients who were free of grade 3+ adverse events (AEs) as measured by Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 4.0 (CTCAE v4.0) between 6 months and 24 months. The outcome is reported as percentage of patients who were free of grade 3+ adverse events., 2 years|Percentage of Patients With Locoregional Tumor Control, Locoregional tumor control \> 85 + or - 7% at 2 years; measured through progression-free survival (the time from assignment in a clinical trial to disease progression or death from any cause). Locoregional tumor control is reported as percentage of patients meeting this criteria., 2 years|Adverse Events and Their Cause, To determine the nature and prevalence of side effects at different time intervals and describe their relationship to pretreatment function and local dose and treated volume., Pretreatment, 3 months, then every 3 months for the first 2 years, then every 6 months for years 3-5|Quality of Life Measured Through Patient-reported Outcome Measures on Assessments: M.D. Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), Determine quality of life of surviving patients measured by patient reported outcomes:

-MDADI-Self-administered assessment on patient swallowing ability. There are 19 questions specific to swallowing that study patients completed. Composite score is the average of the 19 questions. The scale is 20 (extremely low functioning) to 100 (high functioning).

Composite score is reported., Baseline, 6-8 weeks, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4-5 year visit|Quality of Life Measured Through Patient-reported Outcome Measures on Assessments: MD Anderson Symptom Inventory-head and Neck Cancer (MDASI-HN), Determine quality of life of surviving patients measured by patient reported outcomes:

MDASI-HN-Self-reported assessment. Measures symptom severity in previous day. Study patients answered 9 specific questions specific to head and neck cancer. Symptom severity scores, from 0 (not present) to 10 (worst possible). Composite score calculated average of individual scores.

Mean module (head and neck) symptom severity is reported., Baseline, 6-8 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4-5 year visit|Quality of Life Measured Through Patient-reported Outcome Measures on Assessments: Xerostomia Questionnaire (XQ), Determine quality of life of surviving patients measured by patient reported outcomes:

XQ measures severity of radiation-induced xerostomia and patient reported quality of life. 8 question total:4 on dryness while eating/chewing, 4 on dryness when not eating/chewing. 0-10 (higher scores=severe dryness/discomfort). Composite Scores range from 0 (no xerostomia) -100 (highest level of xerostomia)., Baseline, 6-8 weeks, 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4-5 year visit
This research is being done to try to reduce radiation side effects that happen with the standard radiation methods. Generally surgery, radiation therapy, and sometimes chemotherapy are standard treatment for people with squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx.

The study will look at giving a slightly smaller dose of radiation (de-intensification) to see if regularly expected late toxicities (two years after receiving treatment) can be reduced. This study will also try to see if the smaller dose of radiation is equally effective at treating the cancer and to see if it improves quality of life. Along with this radiation treatment plan some participants in this study will have surgery on their tumor and or receive chemotherapy (cisplatin or carboplatin). The possible surgery and or chemotherapy will be up to the participant's doctor.

Study participants will be tested for the Human Papillomavirus (HPV). This tissue test is required for this study. Some studies have suggested that HPV-related cancer is biologically and clinically different as compared to non-HPV-related cancer. Some studies have found that patients with HPV-related oropharynx cancer have a better response to treatment. This test will help researchers learn more about HPV-related cancer.