Safety and Efficacy Study of Single Weekly Bortezomib in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma
This is a research study to see if a new drug called bortezomib is useful to treat multiple myeloma in people who are newly diagnosed, and have not yet received treatment for their disease. VELCADE® (bortezomib) for Injection is a drug under development by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
Multiple Myeloma
DRUG: Bortezomib
Number of Participants at Each Response Category (Stable Disease, Minimal Response, Partial Response, Very Good Partial Response, Near Complete Response/Complete Resonse), To evaluate the response rate for weekly administered bortezomib + dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for transplant or who are eligible but wish to postpone autologous stem cell transplant., Data was collected for each subject for the duration of the participation in the study, which was an average of 4.8 cycles.
Number of Participants With Dose Reductions in Bortezomib, Dexamethasone or Both, To evaluate the toxicity (safety and tolerability) of weekly bortezomib + dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma who are ineligible for transplant or who are eligible but wish to postpone autologous stem cell transplant., Data was collected for each subject for the duration of the participation in the study, which was an average of 4.8 cycles.
This study is a multi-site study which will enroll up to 50 patients with multiple myeloma who have not had prior treatment.

Prior to starting treatment individuals will be evaluated to determine if they are eligible to participate in the study. There are certain prestudy test that are required: physical exam, blood tests, ECG, chest x-ray, skeletal survey, bone marrow aspirate and biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of multiple myeloma and to determine baseline health status.

Before beginning each treatment cycle and at the end of the study, patients will have protein studies (including blood and urine) to see if they are responding to the treatment. Before each weekly treatment cycle patients will also have blood tests for red and white blood cells and platelets, and blood chemistry tests for electrolytes, kidney and liver function, calcium and blood sugar.

Patients may receive up to 6 cycles of treatment. At the end of the study, individuals who have responded to treatment will be seen every two months to check for disease progression.