Totally Neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI + Short-course Radiation + XELOX in Patients With Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of totally neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy (irinotecan, oxaliplatin and fluorouracil) followed by short-course radiation therapy and XELOX chemotherapy in the patients with locally advanced rectal cancer.
Rectal Neoplasms|Drug Therapy|Radiation
DRUG: FOLFOXIRI|RADIATION: Short-Course Radiation Therapy(5Gy*5)|DRUG: XELOX
The ratio of tumor downstaging to stage 0 and stage I, Tumor downstaging from stage II or III to pathologic complete response (stage 0) and stage I, 2 years
Tumor regression grade (TRG), The level of tumor regression under pathological examination, 2 years|Disease free survival, Estimated from the date of surgery to the date of recurrence., 3 years|Overall survival time, Estimated from the date of enrollment to death from any cause., 3 years|Incidence of Treatment-Emergent Adverse Events [Safety and Tolerability], The grade of toxicity will be assessed using the NCI-CTCAE version 4.0., 3 years|ctDNA change, The relationship between ctDNA and survival will be evaluated., 3 years|SUVmax changes, Tumor metabolic response through FDG-PET examination before and after 4 cycles of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy, At the beginning of Cycle 1 and the end of Cycle 4 (each cycle is 14 days)|Quality of life (QLQ C30), Scores according to EORTC QLQ-C30 scoring manual, Every 2 weeks after the first treatment until 3 years
Neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy with double cytotoxic agents is the standard treatment for the patients with locally advanced rectal cancer. Conventional treatment reduced the local recurrence but did not prolong the long-term survival. Furthermore, the patients with pathological complete response (pCR) did not benefit from double cytotoxic chemotherapy. Therefore, we chose triple cytotoxic agents FOLFOXIRI as the neoadjuvant chemotherapy. We will evaluate the efficacy and safety of totally neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy (irinotecan, oxaliplatin and fluorouracil) followed by short-course radiation and XELOX chemotherapy in the patients with locally advanced rectal cancer to achieve more pCR and longer survival.

In this prospective study, 30 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer will be recruited. Firstly, 4 cycles of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy were administered. Subsequently, a short-course radiation therapy (5Gy\*5) will be performed. After that, 4 cycles of XELOX chemotherapy will be administered followed by TME surgery. PET-CT examination will be performed before and after the 4 cycles of neoadjuvant FOLFOXIRI chemotherapy to assess the SUVmax changes. In addition, the dynamic changes of ctDNA in peripheral blood will be monitored at the PET-CT examination. In the course of treatment, safety evaluation will be carried out according to the standard of adverse reaction classification (CTCAE) 4.0.