Pazopanib Hydrochloride Before Surgery in Treating Patients With Kidney Cancer
RATIONALE: Pazopanib hydrochloride may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Giving pazopanib hydrochloride before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.

PURPOSE: This phase II trial is studying how well pazopanib hydrochloride works when given before surgery in treating patients with kidney cancer.
Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma|Stage I Renal Cell Cancer|Stage II Renal Cell Cancer|Stage III Renal Cell Cancer
DRUG: pazopanib hydrochloride|PROCEDURE: therapeutic conventional surgery
Number of Participants Who Could Undergo Partial Nephrectomy After Pazopanib Therapy, The primary end point was the percentage of patients who could undergo partial nephrectomy after pazopanib therapy. A reduction in tumor size, with pazopanib treatment, may permit the use of a partial nephrectomy, as opposed to a radical nephrectomy. This would help preserve additional vascularized parenchyma., Partial nephrectomy performed after 8 to 16-weeks of pazopanib prescription. The median interval from treatment start to surgery was 10.6 weeks.
Residual Vascularized Parenchyma After Pazopanib Therapy and Subsequent Surgery Relative to Pre-therapy Assessment., Measurement of total parenchymal tissue that could be saved with pazopanib therapy and subsequent surgery, which was performed via a volumetric analysis of CT images., After 8 to 16-weeks of pazopanib therapy and 7 day washout prior to surgery.|Change in Tumor Diameter, Median (cm) tumor size reduction after pazopanib treatment, relative to baseline (i.e., before treatment)., At the conclusion of 8 to 16-week treatment with pazopanib therapy.|Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.0) for Target Lesions: Complete Response, Partial Response, Overall Response (OR)=CR+PR, Efficacy of pazopanib was evaluated via the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, version 1.1. Assessed by MRI. Definitions of response include Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Overall Response (OR)=CR+PR, At the end of 8 to 16-weeks of treatment|Surgical Morbidity, Conversion of tumor post therapy so that there is \< 10% risk that a partial nephrectomy would be associated with a high risk of significant postoperative morbidity (e.g. conversion of tumor post therapy to ≥ 3 mm away from renal hilum (main renal artery, renal vein, or primary branches), post-surgery|Reduction in Tumor Volume After Treatment, Median (cm\^3) tumor size reduction after pazopanib treatment, relative to baseline (i.e., before treatment)., After 8 to 16-weeks of pazopanib treatment
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the rate of partial nephrectomy in patients with primary renal tumors otherwise requiring radical nephrectomy after neoadjuvant pazopanib treatment.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety, tumor diameter/volume change, conversion of hilar to non-hilar tumors and surgical morbidity of neoadjuvant pazopanib for renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral pazopanib hydrochloride once daily for up to 18 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients undergo either partial or radical nephrectomy at least 7 days after completion of pazopanib hydrochloride.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 1 year.