A Trial To Find Out If Vidutolimod Together With Cemiplimab Is Safe And If It Works In Adult Participants With Advanced Cancer Or Metastatic Cancer
The goal of this study is to learn if giving cemiplimab and vidutolimod together could be effective in treating advanced cancer. The main questions it aims to answer are:

* How many participants' cancers respond to vidutolimod together with cemiplimab?
* Is vidutolimod together with cemiplimab safe and well-tolerated?
* How well does vidutolimod together with cemiplimab treat participants' cancer?

Participants will receive trial treatment for up to 2 years. 30 days after stopping treatment, participants will have a follow-up visit. After that visit, the trial staff will continue to follow up with participants about every 3 months, until the trial ends.
Merkel Cell Carcinoma|Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Basal Cell Carcinoma|Triple Negative Breast Cancer|Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer|Oropharynx Squamous Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: vidutolimod|DRUG: cemiplimab
Objective response rate (ORR) with vidutolimod in combination with cemiplimab in study participants with metastatic or advanced/unresectable CSCC, MCC, BCC, NSCLC,TNBC or OPSCC, CSCC is defined as cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma, MCC is defined as Merkel cell carcinoma, BCC is defined as Basal cell carcinoma, NSCLC is defined as Non-small cell lung cancer, TNBC is defined as triple negative breast cancer and OPSCC is defined as oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma. ORR is further defined as the proportion of participants with a confirmed objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version 1.1 (RECIST v1.1.), Up to 42 Months
Safety and tolerability of vidutolimod administered by IT injection in combination with cemiplimab in the study participants, Safety and tolerability is defined as the presence of Adverse events (AEs), serious adverse events (SAEs), and AEs leading to discontinuation or death, and severity of AEs as assessed by the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events Version 5.0 (CTCAE v5.0), Up to 42 Months|Efficacy of vidutolimod in combination with cemiplimab in the study participants, Efficacy is measured by: Duration of response (DOR), defined as the time from date of first documented response (CR or PR) to date of documented progressive disease (PD), based on RECIST v1.1 Response in injected and noninjected target lesions per RECIST v1.1. Progression-free survival (PFS), defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment to date of documented PD based on RECIST v1.1 or death, whichever occurs first. Overall survival (OS), defined as the time from date of first dose of study treatment to date of death, Up to 42 Months
Former Sponsor Checkmate Pharmaceuticals Note: Early termination planned on 31Oct2024 due to study drug supply