Trial to Evaluate the Safety & Tolerability of JBZ-001 in Pts With Advanced Solid and Hematological Malignancies
This will be a phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion, FIH trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary efficacy of JBZ-001, a DHODH inhibitor, in patients with refractory solid and hematological malignancies. The study design includes two independent parts: dose escalation in solid tumors and NHL (Part 1), and up to four indication expansions in selected solid tumor types and NHL (Part 2). The dose escalation will enroll patients with solid tumors and NHL following a standard "3+3" design enrolling a minimum of 3 and up to 6 patients per dose level.
Solid Tumor
DRUG: JBZ-001
Occurrence of all adverse events, Evaluation of adverse events, 28 Days|Maximum tolerated dose (MTD）, MTD will be defined as the maximum dose level at which no more than 1 of 3 participants experience a dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) within the first 33days of multiple dosing., 28 days|Phase II dose (RP2D), The number and proportion of patients experiencing at least 1 dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) will be used as the primary measure to evaluate the RP2D, 28 days
Maximum plasma concentration (Cmax）, Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters after a single oral dose \& multiple doses, 28 days|Time to Cmax (tmax), Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters after a single oral dose \& multiple doses, 28 days|Area under the serum concentration-time curve (AUC[0-t], Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters after a single oral dose \& multiple doses, 28 days|Area under the serum concentration-infinity curve AUC[0-infinity], Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters after a single oral dose \& multiple doses, 28 days|Apparent terminal phase half-life (t1/2), Pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters after a single oral dose, 28 days|Overall Response Rate (ORR), The proportion of patients with complete response (CR) and partial response (PR), up to 1 year(anticipated)|Duration of response (DoR), The time from the date when the measurement criteria were met for complete or partial response (whichever occurred first) until the date of the first observed Progression Disease or death as a result of any cause., up to 1 year(anticipated)|Progression-free survival (PFS), The time the patient is enrolled to the date of any recorded disease progression or the death of any cause., up to 1 year(anticipated)|Time to Progression (TTP), The time from clinical remission to disease progression., up to 1 year(anticipated)
This will be a phase 1, open-label, dose-escalation and expansion, FIH trial to evaluate the safety, tolerability, PK, PD, and preliminary efficacy of JBZ-001, a DHODH inhibitor, in patients with refractory solid and hematological malignancies. The study will enroll patients with solid tumors and NHL. The study design includes two independent parts: dose escalation in solid tumors and NHL (Part 1), and up to four indication expansions in selected solid tumor types and NHL (Part 2). The dose escalation will enroll patients with solid tumors and NHL following a standard "3+3" design enrolling a minimum of 3 and up to 6 patients per dose level. Single-patient efficacy signals (i.e. CR or PR) may be followed in an efficacy-signal dose expansion cohort of up to 10 patients on any given dose level with the same tumor type. In addition to dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) evaluation during dose escalation, a Bayesian safety monitoring rule will be used to evaluate the rate of DLTs during cohort expansions. The study includes subgroup-specific eligibility criteria, DLTs, safety and efficacy monitoring, and other indication-relevant aspects. Patients with clinical benefit may be treated until disease progression or toxicity.

The primary objective is to evaluate the safety and tolerability and establish an OBD of single agent JBZ-001 in patients with solid tumors and NHL. Secondary objectives include efficacy endpoints and the PK of single agent JBZ-001. To characterize the JBZ-001 single dose PK profile, the patients enrolled in the first dose level will first receive a single dose of JBZ-001 followed by one-week off-drug (Cycle 0). Exploratory objectives include correlative studies of plasma cell expression of CD38, CD47, and other markers.