Radiation Therapy, Temozolomide, and Lomustine in Treating Young Patients With Newly Diagnosed Gliomas
This phase II trial is studying how well giving radiation therapy together with temozolomide and lomustine works in treating young patients with newly diagnosed gliomas. Radiation therapy uses high energy x-rays to kill tumor cells. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as temozolomide and lomustine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving radiation therapy together with temozolomide and lomustine after surgery may kill any remaining tumor cells.
Anaplastic Astrocytoma|Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Glioblastoma|Gliosarcoma|Spinal Cord Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|DRUG: Lomustine|RADIATION: Radiation Therapy|DRUG: Temozolomide
One Year Overall Survival, Estimated one year survival using the Kaplan-Meier methodology., One year|Occurrence of Death Attributable to Complications of Protocol Therapy, Number of deaths due to complications of protocol therapy., While receiving protocol therapy (up to 301 days excluding delays) or within 30 days of Termination of Protocol Therapy
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Compare event-free survival of pediatric patients with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas treated with adjuvant radiotherapy and temozolomide followed by temozolomide and lomustine with historical controls.

II. Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients. III. Correlate MGMT and p53 expression in tumor tissue with outcome in patients treated with this regimen.

IV. Correlate polymorphisms in GSTP1, GSTM1 and GSTT1 genes and GSTP1 protein expression in tumors with survival in patients treated with this regimen.

OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study.

CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-42. Patients also undergo concurrent radiotherapy once daily on days 1-5, 8-12, 15-19, 22-26, 29-33 and 36-40. Patients who did not undergo prior gross total resection also undergo boost radiotherapy once daily on days 43-47.

MAINTENANCE CHEMOTHERAPY: Four weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients receive oral temozolomide once daily on days 1-5 and oral lomustine on day 1. Treatment repeats every 42 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years and then annually thereafter.