ARISTOCRAT: Blinded Trial of Temozolomide +/- Cannabinoids
ARISTOCRAT is a phase II, multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial to compare the cannabinoid Nabiximols with placebo in patients with recurrent MGMT methylated glioblastoma (GBM) treated with temozolomide (TMZ).
Glioblastoma|Brain Tumor|Cannabis|Brain Tumor, Recurrent
DRUG: Nabiximols|DRUG: Temozolomide|DRUG: Nabiximols-matched placebo
Overall survival time (OS), To establish whether the addition of cannabinoids (Nabiximols) to standard TMZ treatment improves overall survival time (OS) in MGMT methylated recurrent GBM compared to the addition of placebo to TMZ., Time in whole days from date of randomisation to the date of death from any cause, assessed at a minimum of 12 months..
Overall survival at 12 months (OS12) (and 6 and 24 months), Of particular clinical relevance is the overall survival at 12 months from date of randomisation, i.e. whether the participant is alive or not at that time point. Overall survival at 6 months and 24 months will also be of interest., 6, 12 and 24 months|Progression-free survival time (PFS), Measured using Response Assessment for Neuro-Oncology (RANO) criteria at screening, weeks 10, 22, 30 then 3 monthly (as per standard of care) for up to a minimum of 52 weeks from the start of trial treatment. PFS includes radiological progression assessed in accordance with RANO criteria and clinical progression where radiological progression is not possible., Time in whole days from the date of randomisation to the date of the first documented evidence of disease progression or death (from any cause), whichever came first, assessed at a minimum of 12 months.|Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as assessed by EORTC QLQ-C30, Generic Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) will be assessed with the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) consisting of function, symptom and global health status scales, scored 1-4 with lower scores indicating better outcomes.., Baseline (Week 0), Week 8, Week 16, End of Treatment (Week 24)|Adverse events, Assessment of AEs according to the current NCI-CTCAE v5.0 criteria. Acute AE will be defined as those occurring up to 12 weeks post-end of treatment. Late AE will be defined as those occurring after 12 weeks post-end of treatment. The end of treatment will be the date of the final chemotherapy cycle., Baseline (Week 0), Week 4, Week 8, Week 12, Week 16, Week 20, End of Treatment (Week 24)
This is a phase II, multi-centre, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomised trial to compare the cannabinoid Nabiximols (Sativex®) with placebo in patients with recurrent MGMT methylated glioblastoma treated with temozolomide (TMZ). The trial will randomise a target number of 234 patients on a 2:1 basis to receive either Nabiximols or Nabiximols-matched placebo, in combination with standard TMZ.

Patients will be followed up at 4-weekly assessments for a minimum of 52 weeks from the start of trial treatment or until death, whichever is sooner. MRI scanning will be performed at screening, week 10, week 22, week 30, then 3-monthly after commencing trial treatment as per standard practice.

The trial includes an initial feasibility study of 40 patients to confirm safety, compliance and achievability of planned target recruitment. There are no formal criteria for evaluation of feasibility but once 40 patients have been recruited, the independent Data Monitoring Committee will review the adverse event data, details on protocol treatment received, monthly recruitment rates and projected recruitment in order to make recommendations on trial continuation.

The current phase II trial design will enable potential expansion of recruitment into a phase III trial, should the emerging phase II results warrant this development.

The trial will be linked to the Tessa Jowell BRAIN MATRIX (TJBM) programme; utilising TJBM infrastructure, opening the same participating sites, and aligning the data collection and Quality of Life assessments already embedded in TJBM. This collaboration will allow data sharing within the platform thereby streamlining patient entry and provide additional oversight through TJBM. Patients recruited to TJBM who are potentially eligible for ARISTOCRAT may be identified and suggested to sites for consideration to the trial.