Dance Study for Post-surgical Pain in Breast Cancer Survivors
The purpose of this study is to examine how a 12-week, virtual dance program may improve pain and quality of life in participants with persistent post-surgical pain, or PPSP, following mastectomy or lumpectomy.
Breast Cancer|Survivorship|Pain, Postoperative
BEHAVIORAL: Dance Program
Change in the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Breast Symptom Index (FACT-B+4) Total Score from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Breast Symptom Index (FACT-B+4), a 42-item measure of physical, emotional, social and functional well-being, as well as breast cancer specific symptomology associated with upper extremity dysfunction during the 7 days prior to questionnaire administration. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert-type scale with answers ranging from 0 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much." A total scores range is 0 to 168 with a higher score indicating better quality of life., Baseline and 12 weeks
Change in the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI SF) Score from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Assessed by the Brief Pain Inventory Short Form (BPI SF), a 9-item measure of the severity of pain and pain interference in the 24 hour prior to questionnaire administrations. A simple numeric rating scale from 0 to 10 is used for item rating, and a total score is the mean of the item ratings. Higher scores indicate greater pain intensity and greater interference with function., Baseline and 12 weeks|Change in the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue Scale (FACIT-F) Total Score from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Assessed by the Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy - Fatigue Scale (FACIT-F), a 13-item measure of the intensity of fatigue experienced during the 7 days prior to questionnaire administration. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert-type scale with answers ranging from 0 "Not at all" to 4 "very much" and items 7 and 8 being reversed score. A total scores range is 0 to 52 with a higher score indicating better quality of life., Baseline and 12 weeks|Change in the Cancer Rehabilitation Evaluation Scale (CARES) Score from Baseline to 12 Weeks, Assessed by the Cancer Rehabilitation Evaluation Scale (CARES), a 6-item measure of body image and self-esteem by measuring negative feelings about the body and self-perception in the month prior to questionnaire administration. Items are rated on a 5-point Likert-type scale with answers ranging from 0 "Not at all" to 4 "Very much." A total scores range is 0 to 24 with a higher score indicating greater negative body image and self-esteem., Baseline and 12 weeks
This is a single-arm, Phase 1 study is to assess how a 12-week, virtual dance program may improve persistent post-surgical pain (PPSP) and other participant-reported outcomes of quality of life, fatigue, and body image for breast cancer survivors following mastectomy or lumpectomy.

The study procedures including screening for eligibility and surveys.

Participation in this research study is expected to last up to 16 weeks.

It is expected that about 30 people will take part in this research study.