Exercise Program in Cancer and Cognition
This randomized control trial will examine whether a well-controlled and monitored exercise intervention improves cognitive function in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer and will explore whether neuroimaging metrics of brain health, pro-inflammatory biomarkers and symptoms (fatigue, sleep problems, depression, anxiety) mediate the effects of exercise on cognitive function. Furthermore, the study will explore whether the magnitude of the improvements in cognitive function are modified by estradiol levels.
Breast Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Moderate-Intensity Aerobic Exercise Intervention
Change in Cognitive Function, Cognitive function was assessed with a battery of 14 measures. A data reduction technique, exploratory factor analysis with principal component extraction and varimax (orthogonal) rotation, was used to create summary factors. The cognitive factors identified included processing speed, attention, mental flexibility, working memory, learning and memory, verbal memory, and executive function were derived via this factor analysis. Individual measures with the highest loadings were included in each factor. All measures had factor loadings \>0.400. Scores from the individual measures for each factor were normed based on healthy controls of similar age and education to yield a z-score and these were summed to yield an average z-score for each factor. Z-scores range from -4 to +4, where higher z-scores indicate better performance for each factor., Baseline to 6 months
Total Brain Size, High-resolution anatomical MPRAGE (1mm3 voxels, 256 slices) images will be used for volumetric analyses. The FreeSurfer pipeline using its longitudinal option will be employed to compute cortical volumes., Baseline and 6 months|Pro-inflammatory Cytokines, Cytokine levels for interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) were determined using high-sensitivity, quantitative sandwich enzyme immunoassay run according to manufacturer's directions. Greater pgs/ML indicate higher levels of both IL-6 and TNF-aplha., Baseline to 6 months|Peak VO2, Fitness will be measured by submaximal VO2 test. The submaximal test is similar to the full test, but stops at 85% of the age-predicted heart rate. The protocol involves walking at a self-selected pace between 2.0-4.0 mph with increasing grade increments of 2% every two minutes. The test is terminated when the subject reaches 85% of their age-predicted heart rate or at volitional exhaustion. Higher levels (ml/kg/minute) indicate better peak VO2., Baseline and 6 months|Estradiol (E2) Levels, E2 was determined by a competitive binding immunoassay, according to manufacturer's directions. Greater pgs/ML indicate higher levels of estradiol., Baseline to 6 months|Fatigue, The Fatigue 8a Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) short form was used to measure fatigue. It consists of 8 items on which participants respond using a 5-point Likert scale. The scores range from 0 to 24 with higher scores indicating greater fatigue., Baseline and 6 months|Anxiety, The eight-item Anxiety 8a PROMIS short form was used to measure anxiety. Participants rate each item on a scale from 1 to 5. The score is the total of the responses with higher scores indicating greater anxiety. The range of scores is 5 to 40., Baseline to 6 months|Sleep Problems, Sleep problems were measured using global score of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI). The PSQI is a self-report measure that consists of 19 items. Each item is weighted on a 0-3 interval scale. The PSQI global score ranges from 0 to 21, where lower scores indicate better sleep quality, and higher scores indicate poorer sleep quality., Baseline to 6 months|Depressive Symptoms, Depressive symptoms will be measured using the Beck Depression Inventory II (BDI II). The 21-item BDI II is a self-report measure on which participants rate depressive symptoms on a four-point scale. The BDI II score ranges from 0 to 63 with higher scores indicating greater depressive symptomatology., Baseline to 6 months
Change in White Matter Microstructure, Baseline and 6 months|Changes in Prefrontal Cortex, Baseline and 6 months|Changes in Task-evoked Functional MRI Outcomes, Baseline and 6 months|Changes in Resting State Network, Baseline and 6 months
The specific aims include:

1. Compared to usual care, examine whether the 6-month exercise intervention improves cognitive function in postmenopausal women with early stage breast cancer.

   Hypothesis 1. Exercise will improve cognitive function in women in a domain specific fashion such that attention, executive and memory functions will be influenced more than other domains.
2. Compared to usual care, examine the direct effects of exercise on neuroimaging metrics of brain health including regional gray matter volume, white matter architecture and functional dynamics of the brain and the pro-inflammatory biomarkers (IL-6 as primary outcomes; TNF-α as secondary), and explore the direct effects of exercise on symptoms (fatigue, sleep problems, depression, anxiety).

   Hypothesis 2. Exercise will improve neuroimaging metrics of brain health and pro-inflammatory biomarkers.
3. Compared to usual care, explore whether the effects of exercise on cognitive function are mediated by a) neuroimaging metrics of cognitive function, b) IL-6 and TNF-α levels and c) symptoms (fatigue, sleep problems, depression, anxiety), and moderated by E2 levels.