WaKING: Wnt and checKpoint INhibition in Gastric Cancer
This is a multicentre open-label non-randomised, Single Stage Ahern Design (with a 3+3 design for the safety run-in) phase II clinical trial of DKN-01 plus atezolizumab in patients with advanced unresectable or metastatic OGA who have progressed following chemotherapy.
Metastatic Esophageal Cancer|Metastatic Gastric Cancer
DRUG: Atezolizumab
Safety run-in phase: To recommend a safe and tolerable dose of combination DKN-01 and atezolizumab for use in the main (Phase IIB efficacy) phase of this trial., Progression through dose levels will be determined by the occurence of dose limiting toxicities in the study population, The DLT period is 28 days from the start of the combination of DKN-01 and atezolizumab for any given patient (i.e. from C2 D1)|Main phase IIB (efficacy) phase: Best objective response rate (ORR) using RECIST 1.1 criteria, ORR will be defined in the mITT population as the proportion of patients who have achieved CR or PR (as assessed according to RECIST 1.1 criteria) as their best overall response during treatment. The rate will be presented as a proportion with an exact 95% confidence interval., 24 months
The safety of DKN-01 plus atezolizumab will be assessed in the Safety Population (SFP) according to the National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI-CTCAE) version 5.0, Up to 135 days after the last dose|Progression free survival (PFS) according to RECIST 1.1, PFS will be estimated in the mITT population using the Kaplan Meier method and presenting median survival with 95% confidence intervals. 6 month and 1 year PFS will also be reported. PFS will be defined as time from first drug administration (C1D1) to clinical/radiological progression or death from any cause., Up to 24 months|Overall survival, OS will be estimated in the mITT population using the Kaplan Meier method and presenting median survival with 95% confidence intervals. 6 month and 1 year OS will also be reported. PFS will be defined as time from first drug administration (C1D1) to clinical/radiological progression or death from any cause and OS will be defined time from first drug administration (C1D1) to date of death from any cause., Up to 24 months
A multi-centre phase II open label non-randomised trial of DKN-01 plus atezolizumab in patients with advanced inoperable or metastatic mismatch repair proficient gastroesophageal cancer (GC) who have progressed following chemotherapy. This trial is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of administering DKN-01, a DKK1 inhibitor plus atezolizumab, an anti-PD-L1 monoclonal antibody in this patient cohort. This trial is in 2 stages: the first stage (Phase IIA, 3+3 safety run-in) will establish a safe and tolerated dose of DKN-01 in combination with atezolizumab and the second stage (Phase IIB, Single Stage A'hern design for efficacy/ anti-tumour activity) will assess the efficacy of this combination therapy in achieving tumour response according to RECIST 1.1 criteria (additional iRECIST criteria will be used in a sensitivity analysis).