GW786034 In Subjects With Locally Recurrent Or Metastatic Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma
Phase II, multi-center, two-stage study utilising a randomised discontinuation design to evaluate the safety and efficacy of GW786034 (pazopanib) in adult subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic clear-cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC). After the interim analysis, the design was changed to an open label, single arm study with all subjects receiving pazopanib.
Carcinoma, Renal Cell
DRUG: GW786034|DRUG: Placebo
Overall Response by RECIST Criteria, The overall response is the number of participants who experience a confirmed complete (CR) or partial response (PR) of the total analysis population. Per the Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors (RECIST): CR = all detectable tumor has disappeared, PR = a \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest dimensions of the target lesions taking as a reference the baseline sum, Progressive disease (PD) = a \>=20% increase in target lesions, Stable Disease = small changes that do not meet previously given criteria., Baseline to Response (up to 2.40 years). Assessments occurred at Week 12 and every 8 weeks thereafter.|Stable Disease at 12 Weeks - Interim Analysis of First 60 Participants, The protocol called for an interim analysis of the first 60 participants to determine their status at Week 12, and to determine the number of participants with stable disease, although all categories were reported. Stable disease is defined as a disease that has not grown enough to be called progressive disease and has not shrunk enough to be called partial/complete response., Week 12
Duration of Response, Using RECIST criteria: date of first confirmed tumor response (CR or PR) to date of tumor progression or to death. Participants who did not progress or die were censored at their last radiologic assessment. Only participants who had a response were analyzed., First response until progression of disease (up to 2.40 years). Assessments occurred at Week 12 and every 8 weeks thereafter.|Progression-free Survival, Progression-free Survival is defined as the interval between the first day of treatment and the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. Progressive disease is defined as a \>=20% increase in target lesions., From the first day of treatment to the earliest date of disease progression or death due to any cause (up to 2.40 years)
Phase II, multi-center, two-stage study utilising a randomised discontinuation design to evaluate the safety and efficacy of GW786034 (pazopanib) in adult subjects with locally recurrent or metastatic clear-cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC). After the interim analysis, the design was changed to an open label, single arm study with all subjects receiving pazopanib.