Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy With REGN2810 and/or Ipilimumab Before Surgery in Treating Participants With Progressive Advanced or Oligometastatic Prostate Cancer
This phase I trial studies the side effects of anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody REGN2810 (REGN2810) and/or ipilimumab when given together with stereotactic body radiation therapy before surgery in treating participants with prostate cancer that is growing, spreading, or getting worse, and has spread to other places in the body, or formed a small number of new tumors in one or two other parts of the body. Monoclonal antibodies, such as anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody REGN2810 and ipilimumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Stereotactic body radiation therapy is a specialized radiation therapy that sends x-rays directly to the tumor using smaller doses over several days and may cause less damage to normal tissue. Giving anti-PD-1 monoclonal antibody REGN2810 and ipilimumab with stereotactic body radiation therapy before surgery may make the tumor smaller and reduce the amount of normal tissue that needs to be removed.
Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IIIA Prostate Cancer|Stage IIIB Prostate Cancer|Stage IIIC Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer|Stage IVA Prostate Cancer|Stage IVB Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab|RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT)|PROCEDURE: Radical Prostatectomy|BIOLOGICAL: Anti-PD-1 Monoclonal Antibody REGN2810
Incidence of adverse events as defined by National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03 criteria, Will be assessed by quantifying the toxicities and grades 3 and 4 experienced by subjects who have received REGN2810 + ipilimumab in combination with radiation therapy, including serious adverse events (SAEs) and events of clinical interest (ECIs). Time-to-event continual reassessment (TITE-CRM) design will be used to confirm the safety of the treatments based on toxicities., Up to 70 days
Overall pathologic response rate, Will be presented with appropriate confidence intervals (95%, unless otherwise specified)., Up to 2 years|Prostate specific antigen (PSA) progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years|Radiographic progression free survival, Will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine the safety and tolerability for an established effective dose of systemic REGN2810 and intraprostatic ipilimumab with stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer with or without oligometastatic disease.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To determine overall pathologic response rate after radical prostatectomy. II. To determine prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression free survival in men treated with REGN2810 and intraprostatic ipilimumab with SBRT.

III. To determine radiographic progression free survival in men treated with REGN2810 and intraprostatic ipilimumab with SBRT.

IV. Acute and chronic adverse events (AEs).