Buparlisib (BKM120) In Patients With Recurrent/Refractory Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma (PCNSL) and Recurrent/Refractory Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma (SCNSL)
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, Buparlisib (also known as BKM120) has on lymphoma and the central nervous system.
Lymphoma|Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma|Recurrent/Refractory Secondary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Buparlisib (BKM120)
Progression Free Survival, Progression-free survival (PFS) is defined as the time from the date of treatment start to the date of the first documented PD or death due to any cause. PFS will be based on the investigator's assessment of MRI, CSF studies and clinical presentation., 2 years
Number of Participants With Adverse Events, Adverse events be summarized based on the Common Toxicity Criteria version 4.0., 2 years|Overall Survival, Overall survival time is defined as the time from treatment start to the date of death due to any cause., 2 years|Overall Response Rate, This study will use the Macdonald criteria. Specific lesions must be evaluated serially, and comparative analysis of changes in the area of contrast enhancement, as well as the non-enhancing component, should be performed. Complete Response: Complete disappearance of all measurable and non-measurable disease. No new lesions. Partial Response: Great than or equal to 50% decrease over the baseline in the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable lesions. no progression of non-measurable disease. No new lesions. Stable/No Response: Does not qualify for CT, PR, or progression. Progressive Disease: 25% increase in the sum of products of all measureable lesions over smallest sum observes (or baseline if no decrease), OR clear clinical worsening of any non-measurable disease, OR appearance of any new lesion/site, OR clear clinical worsening or failure to return for evaluation due to death or deteriorating condition (unless clearly unrelated to this cancer)., 2 years
The purpose of this study is to find out what effects, good and/or bad, Buparlisib (also known as BKM120) has on lymphoma and the central nervous system.