International Study of High-Risk Patients for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Using Liquid Biopsy
This study has two purposes. One is to conduct a phase IV biomarker validation study in which the investigators will prospectively survey a cohort of patients at risk for liver cancer using semi-annual abdominal ultrasound and GALAD Score for 5 years. The GALAD score is a serum biomarker-based panel that can aid in early detection among patients with a high risk for liver cancer. One is to establish a bio-repository of longitudinally collected bio-specimens from patients with fibrosis/cirrhosis as a reference set for future research.
Liver Cancer|Liver Cirrhosis|Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Early Stage Liver Cancer
OTHER: GALAD Score
GALAD performance for liver cancer early detection, Performance of GALAD score determined in association with liver cancer detection by LiRADS criteria in a cohort with compensated cirrhosis undergoing prospective surveillance every 6 months for 5 years., 5 years
Establishment of a bio-repository of longitudinally collected from patients with cirrhosis to be used for future studies, Proportion of study participants agrees to consent for bio-specimen when invited, 5 years
Vietnam and Saudi Arabia have some of the highest disease burdens of liver cancer globally. Early detection in asymptomatic patients who are at risk for liver is a strategy to improve survival outcomes in liver cancer management. GALAD score (gender, age, alpha-feto protein (AFP)-L%, AFP and DCP) is a serum biomarker-based panel that can improve HCC early detection in patients with liver fibrosis and cirrhosis. In case-control studies and studies with the design of prospective specimen collection, and retrospective blinded evaluation, GALAD has demonstrated promising clinical utility. However, in order to ascertain its potential role in the surveillance of liver cancer early detection, GALAD needs to be validated prospectively for clinical surveillance of liver cancer (i.e. phase IV biomarker validation study). Thus, the investigators propose to conduct a phase IV biomarker validation study to prospectively survey a cohort of patients at risk for HCC (i.e. patients with compensated cirrhosis and irrespective of cirrhosis etiologies), using semi-annual abdominal ultrasound and GALAD Score for 5 years. In doing so, the investigators aim to validate the potential role of GALAD Score for clinical surveillance and early detection of HCC in Vietnam and Saudi Arabia. Additionally, the investigators will collect and archive biospecimens to develop a bio-repository for liver disease. The biorepository will encourage the sharing of biospecimens and collaboration among physicians or physician-researchers between the US, Vietnam, and Saudi Arabia.