Prexasertib in Treating Pediatric Patients With Recurrent or Refractory Solid Tumors
This phase I trial studies the side effects and best dose of prexasertib in treating pediatric patients with solid tumors that have come back after a period of time during which the tumor could not be detected or does not respond to treatment. Checkpoint kinase 1 inhibitor LY2606368 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Childhood Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Primary Central Nervous System Neoplasm
OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis|OTHER: Pharmacokinetic (PK) study|DRUG: Prexasertib
Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) of Prexasertib, Maximum tolerated dose or recommended phase 2 dose of prexasertib assessed by national Cancer Institute (NCI) CTCAE version 4.0 defined as the maximum dose at which fewer that one-third of patients experience a dose limiting toxicity in cycle 1, Up to 28 days|Number of Patients With Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) to Prexasertib, Number of patients with DLT to Prexasertib by dose level and study part., Up to 28 days|Area Under the Concentration Time Curve for Prexasertib, Median (min, max) area under the concentration by time curve for prexasertib assessed at 1, 1.5, 2, 4, and 8 hours on day 1 post infusion by dose level and study part, Up to 8 hours
Antitumor Activity of Prexasertib, Number of response evaluable patients with response (CR/PR) using the RECIST guideline version 1.1 including CR: disappearance of all target and non-target lesions; PR: at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of target lesions by dose level and study part, Up to 2 years|CHK1/2 Expression Status, Number of patients with CHK1/2 expression by percent of tumor cells with CHK1/2 expression defined by quartiles., Up to 2 years|TP53 Deletion and/or Mutation in Tumor Tissue as a Potential Biomarker of Chk1 Inhibition, Number of patients with TP53 deletion and/or mutation of Trp53 by percent of tumor cells with TP53 deletion and/or mutation of Trp53 defined by quartiles., Up to 2 years|Autophosphorylation of CHK1 and H2AX, Median (min, max) autophosphorylation of CHK1 and H2AX in peripheral blood mononuclear cells by dose level and study part., Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and/or recommended phase 2 dose of prexasertib (LY2606368) administered as an intravenous (IV) infusion over 60 minutes, every 14 days of a 28-day cycle to children with recurrent or refractory solid tumors.

II. To define and describe the toxicities of LY2606368 administered on this schedule.

III. To characterize the pharmacokinetics of LY2606368 in children with recurrent or refractory cancer.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To preliminarily define the antitumor activity of LY2606368 within the confines of a phase 1 study.

II. To examine checkpoint kinase (CHK)1/2 expression status in archival tumor tissue from solid tumor pediatric patients using immunohistochemistry.

III. To evaluate tumor tissue for deletion and/or mutation of tumor protein 53 (TP53) as a potential biomarker of Chk1 inhibition.

IV. To evaluate autophosphorylation of Chk1 and H2A histone family, member x (H2AX) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells as a potential pharmacodynamic marker of LY2606368 activity.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study.

Patients receive prexasertib IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 13 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.