A Single-center, Prospective Cohort Study on the Differentiation of Benign and Malignant Bile Duct Stenosis Based on Bile and Peripheral Blood cfDNA Methylation Profiles
The goal of this observational study is to detect the methylation characteristics of cfDNA in the bile and plasma of patients with bile duct stricture. The main question it aims to answer is: Can the developed model, using peripheral blood and bile cell-free DNA sequencing, work well in screening and classifying unknown biliary stricture? Participants will collect approximately 10ml of peripheral blood and 5ml of bile from the patient.
Bile Duct Neoplasms|Jaundice, Obstructive|Bile Duct Diseases
DIAGNOSTIC_TEST: cfDNA methylation detection
Diagnostic accuracy, This refers to the ability of the test (cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly classify individuals into the categories of having or not having the disease. It is a measure of the test's overall effectiveness. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion|Sensitivity, This is the ability of the test (cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly identify those with the disease. It is the proportion of true positive results (those with the disease who test positive) to the total number of individuals who actually have the disease. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion|Specificity, This is the ability of the test (cell-free DNA sequencing) to correctly identify those without disease. It is the proportion of true negative results (those without the disease who test negative) to the total number of individuals who actually do not have the disease. The reference test is histological test for cancers or one-year follow-up for non-cancers., Immediately after test completion
The goal of this observational study is to detect the methylation characteristics of cfDNA in the bile and plasma of patients with bile duct stricture. The main question it aims to answer is: Can the developed model, using peripheral blood and bile cell-free DNA sequencing, work well in screening and classifying unknown biliary stricture? Participants will collect approximately 10ml of peripheral blood and 5ml of bile from the patient.