Outreach for Patients With Uncompleted Colorectal Cancer Screening Orders
The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether patient outreach is effective at increasing compliance with preventive screenings ordered by their physician. We hypothesize that educational outreach may increase completion rates.
Colorectal Cancer Screening|Prevention & Control
BEHAVIORAL: Educational outreach
Colorectal Cancer Screening Completion., We reviewed electronic health records of participants 3 months post randomization to ascertain outcome. We looked for one or both of the following (1) note in free text MD note documenting receipt of one form of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening during study period (2)lab results from fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy.

Participants were categorized as completing CRC screening if there was a lab result or physician note located in chart during study period. If no note or lab result was found in chart, then the participant was categorized as not completing CRC screening., 3 months post randomization
Colorectal Cancer Screening Completion, We reviewed electronic health records of participants 6 months post randomization to ascertain outcome. We looked for one or both of the following (1) note in free text MD note documenting receipt of one form of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening during study period (2)lab results from fecal occult blood test, sigmoidoscopy, or colonoscopy.

Participants were categorized as completing CRC screening if there was a lab result or physician note located in chart during study period. If no note or lab result was found in chart, then the participant was categorized as not completing CRC screening., 6 months post randomization
We designed an intervention to focus on patients who have received and accepted a referral for colonoscopy, yet have exhibited some barriers to screening as demonstrated by a lack of screening completion. We conducted a randomized controlled trial to assess the effects of a multicomponent intervention (patient reminder, print and multimedia materials) on colorectal screening completion among this target population.