Actinic Keratosis Study
The main purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a new combination therapy for actinic keratosis. This study investigates a new indication for an FDA-approved topical medication, calcipotriol, for treatment of actinic keratosis, including how well it works and how safe it is when used in combination with the standard of care medication (5-fluorouracil) for the skin condition.
Actinic Keratosis
DRUG: 5-fluorouracil 5% cream|DRUG: Calcipotriol 0.005% ointment|DRUG: Vaseline
percentage of change in the number of actinic keratoses from baseline, To compare the efficacy of topical 5-fluorouracil+calcipotriol vs. 5-fluorouracil alone in treatment of actinic keratosis in patients with multiple actinic keratoses at each of the four anatomical sites (scalp, face, right upper extremity and left upper extremity). The outcome of interest is percentage change from baseline number of actinic keratoses in the target treatment area on scalp, face, right upper extremity and left upper extremity at 8 weeks after treatment., 8 weeks
complete and partial (>75%) clearance of actinic keratoses, o To determine complete and partial (\>75%) clearance of actinic keratoses at 8 weeks after treatment., 8wks|Composite score of erythema, itching and skin pain after topical 5-fluorouracil+calcipotriol vs. 5-fluorouracil alone treatment of actinic keratoses, To determine the composite scores of erythema, itching and pain (determined using standardized scales) following topical application of 5-fluorouracil+calcipotriol vs. 5-fluorouracil alone at the end of the 4-day treatment period., 4days|Induction of TSLP expression in keratinocytes by calcipotriol, To examine the induction of TSLP expression in keratinocytes by calcipotriol at the site of the actinic keratoses at the end of 4-day treatment of course., 4 days|differences in response to topical 5-fluorouracil+calcipotriol vs. 5-fluorouracil alone between the four anatomical sites, To determine any differences in response to topical 5-fluorouracil+calcipotriol vs. 5-fluorouracil alone between the four anatomical sites at 8 weeks after treatment., 8wks
The main purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of a new combination therapy for actinic keratosis. This study investigates a new indication for an FDA-approved topical medication, calcipotriol, for treatment of actinic keratosis, including how well it works and how safe it is when used in combination with the standard of care medication (5-fluorouracil) for the skin condition.