"Thymalfasin Immunotherapy Study with Triple Regimen in Advanced MSS/pMMR Colorectal Cancer"
This is a multicenter, open-label, prospective, randomized controlled Phase II clinical study. All eligible subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to either the triple therapy group or the double therapy group.

Triple therapy group: Subjects will receive Thymalfasin in combination with Regorafenib and Tislelizumab until iCPD is achieved per iRECIST (progressive disease (PD) per iRECIST), or until an intolerable toxicity occurs; Double therapy group: Subjects will receive Regorafenib and Tislelizumab until iCPD is achieved per iRECIST (PD per iRECIST), or until an intolerable toxicity occurs.
MCRC
DRUG: Thymalfasin (Thymosin alpha 1, Ta1)|DRUG: Regorafenib (BAY 73-4506)|DRUG: Tislelizumab (BGB-A317)
Progression-free survival (PFS), Time from day of randomization to the date of documented tumor progression or death due to any cause, 48 WEEKS
18-week PFS rate, Proportion of patients without disease progression or death at 18 weeks after starting the study treatment., 18 weeks|Objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of patients with tumor size reduction of a predefined amount and maintaining for a certain time period, ORR = CR + PR, 48 WEEKS|Disease control rate (DCR), Proportion of patients with tumor control with tumor size reduction of a predefined amount and maintaining for a certain time period, DCR = CR + PR + SD, 48 WEEKS|Overall survival (OS), Time from day of randomization to death due to any cause., 3 Years|1-year OS rate, Proportion of patients alive at 1 year after starting the study treatment., 48 WEEKS
Assuming the following hypotheses:

H0: The mPFS of the test group minus the mPFS of the control group equals 0 H1: The mPFS of the test group minus the mPFS of the control group does not equal 0 Assuming an mPFS of 5.0 months for the test group and 1.8 months for the control group, with a two-sided alpha level of 0.05 and 80% power, at least 32 events need to be observed. Within a 9-month enrollment period and a total study duration of 15 months, 44 subjects need to be enrolled to achieve this. Considering an additional dropout rate of 15%, 26 subjects per group are required, totaling 52 subjects (using PASS 2023 Log-rank procedure).

Enrollment sites: Beijing Friendship Hospital, Capital Medical University, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking University People's Hospital.

Allocation of enrollment across sites: Each site will compete for enrollment, with each site enrolling no less than 14 subjects.

1. Regorafenib: Start at 80 mg once daily, orally, taken at a fixed time for 2 consecutive weeks and then stopped for 1 week. If the patient tolerates it well, increase to 120 mg/d in Cycle 2.
2. Tislelizumab: 200 mg, iv.gtt, single infusion, 21 days as a cycle, Day 1.
3. Thymalfasin: 4.8 mg, administered subcutaneously twice weekly. Treatment will continue until disease progression or until an intolerable adverse reaction occurs that does not resolve despite dose modification.