Multicentric Study for External Validation of a Deep Learning Model for Mammographic Breast Density Categorization
The correct categorization of breast density is essential to adapt the diagnostic examination to the needs of each patient. Assessment of breast density is performed visually by radiologists. Some authors have detected that this method involves considerable intra and interobserver variability. On the other hand, automated systems for measuring breast density are becoming more and more frequent. Machine learning is a domain of Artificial Intelligence, which comprises the process of developing systems with the ability to learn and make predictions using data. These systems are designed to aid healthcare professional decision making. In the present work, the multicenter study of external validation of a tool based on deep learning for the categorization of mammographic breast density is proposed.
Breast Cancer
Agreement between the majority report and Artemisia´s categorization of dense breasts/non-dense breasts, The agreement between the CNN and the total of the professionals' categorizations will be calculated with the linear weighted kappa. To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by Artemisia for the same set of images., 2 months|Agreement between the majority report and Artemisia in each one of the four breast density categories, For each one of the professionals involved in the study, the agreement with the CNN will be calculated with the linear weighted kappa coefficient. To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by Artemisia for the same set of images., 2 months
Agreement between each observer and Artemisia´s categorization of dense breasts/non-dense breasts, To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by Artemisia for the same set of images., 2 months|Agreement between each observer and Artemisia in each one of the four breast density categories, For each one of the professionals involved in the study, the agreement with the CNN will be calculated with the linear weighted kappa coefficient. To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by Artemisia for the same set of images., 2 months|Agreement between each observer and the majority report in the categorization of dense breasts/non-dense breasts, For each one of the professionals involved in the study, the agreement with the majority report will be calculated with the linear weighted kappa coefficient. To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by the majority report for the same set of images., 2 months|Agreement between each observer and the majority report in each one of the four breast density categories, For each one of the professionals involved in the study, the agreement with the majority report will be calculated with the linear weighted kappa coefficient. To this end, the categories assigned by the professionals will be considered as only one observer in each one of the studies and they will be compared to those assigned by the majority report for the same set of images., 2 months
The correct categorization of breast density is essential to adapt the diagnostic examination to the needs of each patient. Assessment of breast density is performed visually by radiologists. Some authors have detected that this method involves considerable intra and interobserver variability. On the other hand, automated systems for measuring breast density are becoming more and more frequent. Consequently, in clinical practice, breast density is reported from the assessment carried out by specialists with the support of these systems. But there are few studies about the use, concordance and perception of usefulness of professionals on these tools. A study carried out at the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires reported a moderate to almost perfect inter- and intra-observer agreement among radiologists and a moderate concordance between the categorization carried out by experts and that carried out by commercial software of a digital mammography machine. Machine learning is a domain of Artificial Intelligence, which comprises the process of developing systems with the ability to learn and make predictions using data. Once a system designed to aid healthcare professional decision making is developed, it must be validated. In 2019, an internal validation of a tool based on deep learning techniques was carried out for the automatic categorization of mammographic breast density. The tool reached a very good interobserver agreement, kappa = 0.64 (95% CI 0.58-0.69), when compared with the performance of the professionals. It reached a sensitivity of 83.2 (CI: 76.9-88.3) and a specificity of 88.4 (83.9-92.0.) In the present work, the multicenter study of external validation of a tool based on deep learning for the categorization of mammographic breast density is proposed. The evaluation of this tool will be carried out in two external institutions: Hospital Alemán and Fundación Científica del Sur.