A Study of Several Radiation Doses for Patients With Progression on Immunotherapy/Checkpoint Inhibitors
Drugs called checkpoint inhibitors help the immune system fight cancer. When the effectiveness of these drugs wears off, it may be possible to renew their effectiveness by combining it with a special type of radiation therapy called stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). SBRT is a commonly used type of radiation therapy that gives high dose radiation with high precision to tumors in 1-5 treatments. Radiation therapy, such as SBRT can also treat sites of metastases. The use of checkpoint inhibitors in combination with SBRT has been suggested to improve the immune response against cancer but has not been tested in a formal clinical trial. Up to three lesions can be treated with SBRT. This study only allows checkpoint inhibitors that are already approved by the Federal Drug Agency (FDA) for the treatment of your disease. All radiation therapy will be done on machines which are FDA approved.
Metastatic Cancer|Melanoma Cancer|Lung Cancer|Bladder Cancer|Renal Cancer|Head/Neck Cancers
RADIATION: Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy|BIOLOGICAL: Ipilimumab, Nivolumab, Pembrolizumab or Atezolizumab
evaluate overall response rate (ORR), in non-irradiated lesions during the first 24 weeks after treatment initiation as determined by the investigator using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 criteria in patients with limited progression receiving hypofractionated radiotherapy. ORR rate is defined as the number of patients treated to a given arm with a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) divided by the total number of patients., 24 weeks
Drugs called checkpoint inhibitors help the immune system fight cancer. When the effectiveness of these drugs wears off, it may be possible to renew their effectiveness by combining it with a special type of radiation therapy called stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). SBRT is a commonly used type of radiation therapy that gives high dose radiation with high precision to tumors in 1-5 treatments. Radiation therapy, such as SBRT can also treat sites of metastases. The use of checkpoint inhibitors in combination with SBRT has been suggested to improve the immune response against cancer but has not been tested in a formal clinical trial. Up to three lesions can be treated with SBRT. This study only allows checkpoint inhibitors that are already approved by the Federal Drug Agency (FDA) for the treatment of your disease. All radiation therapy will be done on machines which are FDA approved.