Study of Genes and Environment in Patients With Cancer in East Anglia, Trent, or West Midlands Regions of the United Kingdom
RATIONALE: Studying samples of blood from patients with cancer in the laboratory may help doctors learn more about changes that occur in DNA and identify biomarkers related to cancer.

PURPOSE: This study is looking at genetic susceptibility to cancer and interactions between genes and the environment in patients with cancer in East Anglia, Trent, or West Midlands of the United Kingdom.
Bladder Cancer|Brain and Central Nervous System Tumors|Esophageal Cancer|Intraocular Melanoma|Kidney Cancer|Lymphoma|Melanoma (Skin)|Pancreatic Cancer|Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter
GENETIC: DNA analysis|GENETIC: polymorphism analysis|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Acquisition of epidemiological information and biological material|Identification of novel cancer susceptibility genes|Estimation of the age and sex-specific risks associated with variants in predisposition genes|Evaluation of interactions between polymorphisms in predisposition genes and potential lifestyle risk factors
OBJECTIVES:

* To obtain epidemiological information and biological material on a population-based series of cancer cases, including malignant melanoma, lymphoma, bladder, kidney, esophageal, and pancreatic cancer, and brain tumors.
* Identify novel cancer susceptibility genes, by comparison of genotype frequencies in cases with the corresponding frequencies in large control series.
* To estimate the age and sex-specific risks associated with variants in predisposition genes.
* To evaluate interactions between polymorphisms in predisposition genes and potential lifestyle risk factors.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

Patients complete a detailed epidemiological questionnaire that includes information on education, occupation, smoking habits, alcohol consumption, height, weight, reproductive history (age at menarche, age at pregnancies, parity, and age at menopause), oral contraceptive use, hormone replacement therapy use, family history of cancer, and past medical history.

Blood samples are collected from patients. DNA is extracted from these blood samples, from samples collected from cancer-free control participants in MREC-SEARCH-CONTROL, and from additional controls through the European Prospective Investigation of Cancer (EPIC) study (a population-based study of diet and health based in Norfolk, East Anglia). DNA samples are analyzed for polymorphisms of low penetrance cancer susceptibility genes.

In addition to the cancer patients recruited for this study, patients with breast, ovarian, endometrial, colorectal, and prostate cancer are recruited for the following related clinical trials: MREC-SEARCH-BREAST, MREC-SEARCH-OVARIAN, MREC-SEARCH-ENDOMETRIAL, MREC-SEARCH-COLORECTAL, and MREC-SEARCH-PROSTATE.