Gemcitabine-based Induction Chemotherapy Combined With Concurrent Chemoradiotherapy in Locally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
Researchers conduct the clinical trial (gemcitabine combined with cisplatin induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemoradiotherapy with gemcitabine for locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma) to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of gemcitabine in patients with locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma.
Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma
DRUG: Gemcitabine combined with cisplatin induction chemotherapy|DRUG: concurrent chemoradiotherapy with gemcitabine
Maximum tolerance dose(MTD), MTD is detemined by the dose that is immediately lower than the dose that produced dose limiting toxicity （DLT）. If DLT occurs in more than half of patients at a certain dose level, the test will be terminated. If DLT occurs in 2 cases,another 6 patients will be treated with this dose. If DLT does not occur in 6 cases, the dose will continue to increase. If it still occurs, the next dose is MTD., 3 years
Dose limiting toxicity (DLT), We determined DLT: a) grade ≥ 3 anemia; b) grade ≥ 3 thrombocytopenia; c) grade ≥ 3 neutropenia no less than 5 days, d) grade 3 febrile neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count \< 1.0 x 10\^9/L, fever ≥ 38.5℃) despite therapy with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor; and e) any other grades 3-4 toxicity (except alopecia and nausea)., 3 years|Tumor response rates, Tumor response rate was evaluated according to the RECIST1.1. After induction chemotherapy, radiotherapy and 3 months, 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years of radiotherapy, nasal endoscope and magnetic resonance imaging results were used to evaluate the efficacy. And chest CT scanning, abdominal ultrasound, bone scan or PETCT examination were used to exclude the distant metastases. Pathologic biopsy can be performed for patients who are suspected of locally residual or recurrence., 3 years
Diagnosed as locally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma (stage III-IV), and pathologically confirmed as a differentiated or undifferentiated non-keratinizing nasopharyngeal carcinoma, the patient is eligible to participate in the study. Patients receive gemcitabine (1000mg/m² d1,8) and cisplatin (80mg/m², d1) every 3 weeks for 2 cycles before radiotherapy. And then intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) is given a total dose of GTVnx 70Gy, GTVnd 66Gy, CTV1 60Gy and CTV2 54Gy for 33 times in total, concurrently with gemcitabine. The initial dose of gemcitabine is 25mg/m² once a week for 6 times. The patients are divided into 9 groups (25mg/m², 50mg/m², 100mg/m², 200mg/m², 300mg/m², 350mg/m², 400mg/m², 450mg/m², 500mg/m²) with 6 patients in each group. Considering about 20% of the cases of dropout, withdrawal, and loss to follow-up in clinical trials, a total of 65 cases are needed in this study. The efficacy is evaluated according to the European Solid Tumor Efficacy Evaluation Standard (RECIST1.1). After induction chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and 3 months after radiotherapy, nasopharyngeal endoscopy and magnetic resonance imaging of the would be reviewed for 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years to evaluate the curative effect. The chest CT, abdominal B-ultrasound, bone scan or PETCT examinations are reviewed to exclud distant metastases. Biopsy diagnosis can be performed for patients suspected of local residual and recurrence.