MK2206 in Treating Patients With Advanced Liver Cancer That Did Not Respond to Previous Therapy
This phase II trial is studying how well MK2206 works in treating patients with advanced liver cancer that did not respond to previous therapy. MK2206 may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth.
Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Advanced Adult Hepatocellular Carcinoma|Localized Non-Resectable Adult Liver Carcinoma|Recurrent Adult Liver Carcinoma
DRUG: Akt Inhibitor MK2206|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker Analysis
Progression-free Survival, Estimated using the product-limit method of Kaplan and Meier. Progression is defined using Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1), as a 20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions (the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm), or a measurable increase in a non-target lesion, or the appearance of new lesions., Until disease progression or death, up to 26 months
Objective Response, Per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors Criteria (RECIST v1.1) for target lesions and assessed by MRI: Complete Response (CR), Disappearance of all target lesions; Partial Response (PR), \>=30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions; Objective Response (OR) = CR + PR, Evaluated for response every 2 cycles (8 weeks) with confirmatory evaluation at least 4 weeks following initial documentation of objective response, up to 26 months|Overall Survival, Survival will be estimated by the product-limit (Kaplan-Meier) estimator., Until death, up to 26 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the median progression-free survival in patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma treated with MK-2206 after failure of one prior line of anti-angiogenic therapy.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Evaluate the objective response rate (CR + PR). II. Evaluate the median overall survival. III. Evaluate the tolerability and toxicity profile of MK-2206 in this patient population.

IV. Explore, in a preliminary fashion, potential molecular predictors of efficacy.

OUTLINE:

Patients receive oral Akt inhibitor MK2206 on days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 weeks and then every 3-6 months thereafter.