Organoids-on-a-chip for Colorectal Cancer and in Vitro Screening of Chemotherapeutic Drugs
The individualized treatment of tumors has always been an urgent problem in clinical practice. Organoids-on-a-chip can reflect the heterogeneity of tumors and is a good model for in vitro anticancer drug screening. In this study, surgical specimens of patients with advanced colorectal cancer will be collected for organoid culture and organoids-on-a- chip. Use organoids-on-a-chip to screen tumor chemotherapy drugs, compare the results of patients' actual medication regimens, and study the guiding role of organoids in the formulation of precise tumor treatment plans. The investigators will compare the response of organoids to drugs in vitro with the patient's response to actual chemotherapy and targeted drugs and explore the feasibility and accuracy of organoids-on-a-chip based drug screening for advanced colorectal cancer. The project will establish a screening platform for chemotherapeutic drugs and targeted drugs based on colorectal cancer organoids to quickly and accurately formulate personalized treatment plans for clinical patients.
Colorectal Neoplasms|Organoids
OTHER: comprehensive treatment after MDT discussion
The accuracy, specificity and sensitivity of organoids-on-chip for drug sreening, The accuracy, specificity and sensitivity of in vitro drug sensitivity screening based on organoid-chips to predict the effect of chemotherapy (traditional chemotherapy, targeted therapy) for advanced colorectal cancer., 2 years
1. Establish and identify colorectal cancer organoid chip culture system: collect tumor tissues and normal tissues from patients with advanced colorectal cancer. Culture primary organoids, and organoids derived from normal mucosal tissues as controls. Validate tumor organoids and organoid chips by morphology (HE, immunohistochemical staining) and gene sequencing (target-seq) methods.
2. After each enrolled patient undergoes MDT discussion, chemotherapy is given to the patient according to the existing clinical guidelines and clinical pathways for colorectal cancer. Meanwhile, in vitro drug screening based on colorectal cancer organoid chips is conducted. Collect target gene sequencing results and common clinical medication plans. Local recurrence rate, disease progression-free survival rate and overall survival rate will be followed up for 2 years.
3. Compare the patient's response to the actual medication regimen and organoids in vitro drug screening based on organoids-on-a-chip, and evaluate the accuracy, specificity and sensitivity of organoids-on-a-chip for in vitro drug screening.