Immunotherapy of Cervical Cancer With V3-Cervix
The goal of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of immunotherapy for cervical cancer based on a fundamentally new approach. We will test new tableted preparation, V3-Cervix, obtained from hydrolyzed, inactivated blood and tumors of patients with cervical cancer. When administered orally, it should cause a specific anti-tumor immune response and an anti-inflammatory effect. Trial is planned to last 3 months, recruit 20 volunteers, administer daily pill of vaccine and evaluate effect on tumor size and tumor markers.
Cervical Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: V3-Cervix
Changes in tumor size and burden compared to baseline, Intravaginal ultrasonography of lower abdomen to measure changes, monthly for 3 months
Effect on baseline tumor markers, if any, Change in serum levels of a panel of tumor markers such as CA125, beta-hCG, CEA, SCC, СА19.9 and СА27.29 compared to baseline, Monthly for three months
Cervical cancer (CC) is a malignant neoplasm that occurs in the cervix. Histologically, there are two main types: adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. Cervical cancer is most common in middle-aged women (35-55 years of age), in 20% of cases it is found over the age of 65 years. Cancer of the body and cervix are the most common type of malignant tumor of female genital organs. It is believed that human papillomavirus (HPV) is the main risk factor causing cervical cancer. Cervical cancer combines surgical treatment, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Current immunotherapies did not show much success. The prognosis depends on the stage of the disease: 5-year survival rate at the first stage is 78.1%, at the second stage - 57%, at the third - 31%, at the fourth - 7.8%. There is no specific cervical cancer marker, usually a panel of markers is used including CA125, beta-hCG, CEA, SCC, CA19.9 and CA27.29. The goal of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of immunotherapy for cervical cancer based on a fundamentally new approach. We will test new tableted preparation, V3-Cervix, obtained from hydrolyzed, inactivated blood and tumors of patients with cervical cancer. When administered orally, it should cause a specific anti-tumor immune response and an anti-inflammatory effect. Trial is planned to last 3 months, recruit 20 volunteers, administer daily pill of vaccine and evaluate effect on tumor size and tumor markers.