Eribulin Mesylate in Combination With Intermittent Erlotinib in Patients With Previously Treated, Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is a Phase 2, multicenter, randomized study of two different dose regimens of eribulin mesylate in combination with intermittent erlotinib in patients with previously treated, advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: eribulin mesylate + erlotinib|DRUG: eribulin mesylate + erlotinib
Objective Response Rate (ORR), ORR was defined as the percentage of participants whose best overall response (BOR) was either a confirmed complete response (CR) or a partial response (PR) based on Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) v1.1 criteria for target lesions assessed by computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and based on investigator assessment. CRs and PRs had to be confirmed by a repeat assessment of response (CR or PR) separated by at least 4 weeks (28 days). CR was defined as the disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (target or non-target) had to have a reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeters. PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. ORR and the corresponding 95% two-sided confidence intervals (CI) were estimated for each treatment regimen using the Clopper-Pearson method for calculating the exact binomial CI. (CR + PR), From date of first dose of study drug until, or up to the date of data cutoff (07 Apr 2011)
Duration of Response (DOR), DOR was assessed for participants with a BOR of CR or PR, and was defined as the time from first documented evidence of CR or PR (whichever status was recorded first) until the first documented sign of disease progression or death (due to any cause), whichever was first. DOR was defined for participants with a confirmed CR or PR. For participants in the subset of responders who did not progress or die, duration of response was censored. DOR was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first document CR or PR (whichever was recorded first) until first documentation of disease progression or death due to any cause, or up to data cutoff (31 May 2013) up to 3.25 years|Progression-Free Survival (PFS), PFS was measured as the time from the date of first administration of study treatment until the first documentation of disease progression or death (due to any cause), whichever occurred first, as determined by investigator assessment based on RECIST v1.1. Disease progression per RECIST v1.1 was defined as at least a 20% relative increase and 5 mm absolute increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the smallest sum on study) recorded since the treatment started or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions. For participants who did not have an event (i.e. those who had not progressed, and were alive at the date of data cut-off or lost to Follow-up), progression-free survival was censored. Participants who did not progress in their disease were censored on the date of their last tumor assessment preceding the start of any additional anticancer therapy. PFS was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose of study drug until documentation of disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurred first), or up to data cutoff (31 May 2013) up to 3.25 years|Disease Control Rate (DCR), DCR was defined as the percentage of participants who had a BOR of CR or PR, or stable disease (SD; duration of SD lasted for at least 7 weeks). To be assigned a BOR of SD, the time from the first administration of study drug until the date of documented SD was to be greater than or equal to 7 weeks (49 days). A participant's tumor assessment had to be at least 7 weeks following the randomization date to be consider SD. DCR and the corresponding exact Clopper-Pearson 95% CI were computed by treatment regimen. (CR + PR + SD), From date of first dose of study drug until documentation of disease progression or death from any cause (whichever occurred first) or up to data cutoff (31 May 2013), up to approximately 3.25 years|Overall Survival (OS), OS was defined as the length of time in months from the date of first administration of study drug until the date of death from any cause, and was based on the data cutoff date. In the absence of confirmation of death, participants were censored either at the date that the participant was last known to be alive or the date of study cutoff, whichever came first. OS and the corresponding 2-sided 95% CI was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method., From date of first dose of study drug until date of death from any cause or up to data cutoff (31 May 2013), up to approximately 3.25 years
This is a Phase 2, multicenter, randomized study of two different dose regimens of eribulin mesylate in combination with intermittent erlotinib in patients with previously treated, advanced non-small cell lung cancer.