Utidelone in Third-line and Above Treatment of Small Cell Lung Cancer
SCLC has a very high degree of malignancy, and 60% to 70% of patients are diagnosed as extensive stage. The median survival of patients with limited-stage disease is about 15-20 months, and the median OS of patients with extensive-stage disease is about 8-13 months, and the 2-year and 5-year survival rates are about 5% and 1-2%, respectively. However, although the initial treatment has a high effective rate, most patients relapse or progress within 1 year, and the effect of re-treatment is poor and the prognosis is poor. The effective rate of SCLC second-line treatment is only 10-25%, and the median survival time is less than 6 months. After the third and fourth lines, there are almost no recognized treatment options. Therefore, improving the second-line treatment of SCLC has always been a difficult clinical problem, and new drugs are urgently needed to be explored. In small cell lung cancer, based on phase II clinical trials, paclitaxel is currently recommended by NCCN guidelines for subsequent systemic therapy in patients who relapse 6 months or less after initial therapy. Utidelone (UTD1) is an epothilone derivative with a similar mechanism of action to taxanes, but a completely different molecular structure.
SCLC, Extensive Stage
DRUG: Utidelone|DRUG: Placebo
The objective response rate (ORR) according to the RECIST 1.1, the objective response rate (ORR）of utidelone in the third-Line and above treatment of ES-SCLC, 24 weeks
Compared with paclitaxel, epothilones has higher water solubility and toxicity tolerance, and fewer side effects, these findings suggest that utidron may have better antitumor activity against small cell lung cancer. Therefore, to prospectively observe the treatment of extensive-stage small cell lung cancer with failure of second-line or above chemotherapy and receive Utilidron, so as to understand the efficacy, safety and tolerability of Utilidron in the third-line and above treatment of small cell lung cancer, which is a small Post-line treatment of cell lung cancer provides new directions and treatment options.

This study is an open, single-center phase II clinical study. Small cell lung cancer patients with disease progression or recurrence after second-line therapy or above, receive Utilidron injection. Utilidron injection 40mg/m2/d d1-5 q3w was administered until disease progression (PD), intolerable toxicity, initiation of new antitumor therapy, loss to follow-up, death, and the investigator decided to be tested Subjects who withdraw from the study treatment or the subject/their legal representative requests to withdraw from the study (whichever occurs first). After consultation with the sponsor, the patient will determine whether the treatment can be continued, observe and evaluate the preliminary efficacy and safety.