Helicobacter Pylori Eradication for Gastric Cancer Prevention in the General Population
The aim of this study is to define the role of H. pylori eradication in the prevention of gastric cancer and its precursors in the context of a population-based endoscopic screening program.
Gastric Cancer|Helicobacter Pylori Infection
DRUG: 10-day bismuth-based quadruple therapy|OTHER: Placebo
The incidence of gastric cancer between the intervention and placebo groups, Histologically confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma stage 1A or more advanced defined at endoscopy or through cancer registry, Up to 10 years After H. pylori eradication
Incidence of gastric dysplasia, Diagnosis of histologically confirmed gastric dysplasia, Up to 10 years After H. pylori eradication|Occurrence of adverse events caused by antibiotic treatment, Solicited/unsolicited adverse events, During 10 days of H. pylori eradication, and Up To 1 month after the treatment completion|Incidence and mortality from other medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes, circulatory diseases, oesophageal diseases as well as other cancers and cognitive impairment, Assessed through record linkage or direct assessment during screening visits, Up to 10 years After H. pylori eradication|Mortality from gastric cancer, Cancer registry or other reports, Up to 10 years after eradication|All-cause mortality, Korean National Health Insurance records or other reports, Up to 10 years After H. pylori eradication|Modification of atrophy score, Change in histologic atrophy grade from enrollment to subsequent endoscopic assessment, Up to 10 years After H. pylori eradication
Despite the decreasing incidence observed in the US and West European countries, gastric cancer is still an important global public health problem, especially in East Asian countries, where the burden of the disease is substantial. In the Republic of Korea, gastric cancer remains the leading cause of cancer in men and the fourth most common cancer in women. There is sufficient epidemiological and experimental evidence supporting a causal link between bacterial infection with H. pylori and gastric cancer development. However, evidence from clinical trials on the efficacy of H. pylori eradication with antimicrobial therapy to reduce the risk of gastric cancer is still limited. In addition, the beneficial or deleterious health impact of mass eradication at the population level has not been defined. In Korea, the prevalence of H. pylori infection in adults is still relatively high (\~60%, \>16 years old), and despite important reductions in mortality attributed to the screening program, incidence of gastric cancer remains elevated.

The investigators propose to conduct a randomized controlled clinical trial in Korea to evaluate the efficacy of H. pylori eradication to prevent gastric cancer incidence in different population subgroups including age and baseline gastric pathology. This study will be conducted in the context of the National Cancer Screening Program and the Korean Central Cancer Registry.

The proposed study will be a collaborative investigation between the National Cancer Center, Korea and the International Agency for Research on Cancer of the World Health Organization.