Promoting Smoking Cessation in Carpenters
The purpose of this study is to test an innovative and sustainable intervention to increase participation in a union-sponsored smoking cessation program among carpenters and floor layers. The investigators will conduct a randomized controlled trial comparing targeted messaging versus standard messaging. All subjects will receive information about the free, union-sponsored smoking cessation program. Subjects randomized to the intervention group will receive additional targeted materials to encourage enrollment in the union's smoking cessation program. The intervention will include monthly mailed and text messages. The investigators hypothesize that subjects who receive targeted messages will be more likely to enroll in the union-sponsored smoking cessation program, be more likely to show change in readiness to quit smoking, and be more likely to quit smoking compared to subjects who receive only standard messaging.
Smoking Cessation|Health Behavior|Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Targeted messaging|BEHAVIORAL: Standard messaging
Enrollment in Smoking Cessation Program, Enrollment records from the union-sponsored smoking cessation program, up to 12 months after recruitment
Quit Smoking, At follow-up, subjects will report current smoking status. ("Do you currently smoke (have you smoked in the last 30 days)?" \[Yes, I smoked within the past 30 days; No, but I have smoked in the past 6 months; No, and I have not smoked in more than 6 months\]). We will report the % of subjects who have not smoked in the last 30 days and will compare the intervention group with the control group., 7 months after baseline|Changes in Smoking Behaviors (Frequency and Quantity), At baseline and follow-up, subjects will report smoking frequency ("How often do you smoke?" \[everyday, at least 4 days/week, 1-3 days/week, less than one day/week\]) and quantity ("On days that you smoke, how many cigarettes do you have per day?" \[10 or less, 11-20, 21-30, 31 or more\]). We will report the % of subjects who smoke less frequently and smoke fewer cigarettes per day at follow-up compared to baseline. We will compare the intervention group with the control group., 7 months after recruitment|Changes in Readiness to Quit Smoking in the Next 6 Months, Subjects will answer the following question at both baseline and follow-up surveys: "Are you seriously considering quitting smoking in the next 6 months?" \[yes/no\]. We will report % of subjects who said "no" at baseline and "yes" at follow-up to determine changes in readiness to quit smoking and compare between intervention and control groups., 7 months after recruitment|Changes in Motivation to Quit Smoking and Thinking About Quitting Smoking, At baseline and follow-up, subjects will answer questions about motivation to quit smoking ("How motivated are you to quit smoking at this time? \[scale: 1 (not at all) - 10 (extremely)\]) and thinking about quitting smoking ("Each rung on this ladder represents where various smokers are in their thinking about quitting. Circle the number that indicates where you are now. \[0 (no thoughts of quitting) -10 (taking action to quit)\]). We will report the % of subjects who reported more motivation to quit and greater thinking about quitting at follow-up compared to baseline. We will compare the intervention group with the control group., 7 months after recruitment
Specific Aim 1: Develop targeted health messages based on audience segmentation to encourage smokers to enroll in a comprehensive union-sponsored smoking cessation program.

We will craft six specific health messages that appeal to four different audience segments: workers under 30 years old without children, workers under 30 with children, workers 30 years old or older without children, and workers 30 or older with children.

Specific Aim 2: Conduct a randomized controlled trial of targeted messaging based on audience segmentation versus standard smoking cessation messaging.

After conducting baseline surveys with union carpenters and floor layers, we will randomize current smokers (smoked within the last 30 days) into either the intervention or control group.

* Control subjects will receive one standard mailing informing them about the free smoking cessation program available to union members.
* Intervention subjects will receive the standard mailing in addition to six targeted smoking cessation messages delivered monthly by mail to their homes. Messages will be specific to one of four audience segments determined by age and parental status. In addition to a segment-specific anti-smoking message, each mailing will have contact information for the union smoking cessation program. Intervention subjects who consented to text messaging will also receive one booster text message each month with a shortened targeted message.