Comparison of Hepatic Intraarterial Versus Systemic Intravenous 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT for Detection of Hepatocellular Carcinoma
This phase 0/1 study evaluates intraarterial administration of gallium Ga 68 gozetotide (68Ga-PSMA) for the detection of prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positive liver cancer by positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT). 68Ga-PSMA is an imaging agent used with PET/CT scans to locate PSMA positive lesions. This study evaluates intraarterial administration of this agent, compared to intravenous administration.
Hepatocellular Carcinoma
RADIATION: Gallium Ga 68 Gozetotide|PROCEDURE: Hepatic Artery Embolization|PROCEDURE: Positron Emission Tomography and Computed Tomography Scan
Intraindividual intralesional difference in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax), Intraindividual intralesional difference in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) will be evaluated as fold change and absolute difference for a given lesion between intra-arterially (I.A.) and intravenous (I.V.) prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography (PET). Qualitative evaluation assesses the intensity of PSMA uptake in hepatic lesions, graded as follows: grade 1: uptake \< normal liver; grade 2: uptake = normal liver; grade 3: uptake \> normal liver; grade 4: uptake \> spleen or kidneys. Semi-quantitative analysis is undertaken by calculating intraindividual difference in SUVmax for each lesion between I.A. and I.V. PSMA PET followed by a two-sided one sample t-test. Maximum and mean standardized uptake value (SUVmax, SUVmean, SUVmin) of the lesion(s), and SUVmax of the background liver are noted., Up to 2 years
Intraindividual intralesional differences in tumor to background (TBR) of SUVmax, For each lesion, tumor-to-liver background ratio (TBR) of SUVmax will be calculated and the intraindividual intralesional difference in TBR of SUVmax will be compared on a lesion basis between I.A. and I.V. PSMA PET., Up to 2 years|Difference in PSMA uptake measured by SUVmax (fold change, absolute difference) in the kidneys, spleen and salivary glands between I.A. and I.V. PSMA PET., SUVmax will be measured for the kidneys, spleen and salivary glands and the difference in PSMA uptake measured by SUVmax (fold change, absolute difference) in the kidneys, spleen and salivary glands will be compared between I.A. and I.V. PSMA PET, Up to 2 years|Incidence of adverse events, Up to 2 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the tumor radiotracer uptake (first pass effect or regional advantage) of direct hepatic intraarterial (I.A.) versus systemic intravenous (I.V.) 68Ga-PSMA in patients with PSMA+ hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by PET/CT.

OUTLINE:

Patients undergoing clinically indicated hepatic artery embolization will receive 68Ga-PSMA intraarterially (IA) over 5 minutes. After 60-90 minutes, patients undergo PET/CT scan over 1 hour.