Group Advanced Care Planning Pilot for Veterans
The proposed research aims to engage participants with an advanced stage cancer diagnosis in group educational sessions to facilitate learning of topics related to advanced care planning. The investigators also hope to learn if conducting educational sessions in a group setting helps to create a more supportive environment amongst patients, caregivers, etc.
Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: Group Advance Care Planning Education
Goals of Care Documentation, Documentation of goals of care discussions will be analyzed for each patient at Baseline and Week 8 after enrollment., Baseline and Week 8 after patient enrollment
Change in patient activation using the Patient Activation Measure, Each patient will receive a validated patient activation survey (PAM-13) to assess their activation. This is a validated measure from Insignia Health. Responses are: disagree strongly, disagree, agree, agree strongly with higher activation correlated with responses of agree and agree strongly. Each item is rated on 4-point scale (1 strongly disagree to 4 strongly agree, with additional "not applicable" option). Higher scores indicate greater patient activation. It will be analyzed for each patient at Baseline and Week 8., Baseline and Week 8 after patient enrollment|Palliative Care Use (Self-reported and Chart Review), Palliative care use will be analyzed for each patient at Week 8., Week 8 after patient enrollment|Hospice Care Use (Self-reported and Chart Review), Hospice care use will be analyzed for each patient at Week 8., Week 8 after patient enrollment|Hospitalization Visits (Self-reported and Chart Review), Hospital use for each patient will be self-reported by each patient or abstracted by electronic medical record at Week 8., Week 8 after patient enrollment|Total Cost (Self-reported and Chart Review), Total cost use will be analyzed for each patient at Week 8., Week 8 after patient enrollment|End-of-life Acute Care Facility Death (Chart Review), Acute Care Facility Deaths for each patient will be abstracted by electronic medical record chart review and claims review for each patient who has died. We will evaluate comparisons of Acute Care Facility Deaths between study arms., 30 days prior to death
The purpose of this study is to compare usual care against a group advanced care planning intervention comprised of two sessions led by trained community health workers or health educators from VA Palo Alto. A total of 50 participants will be randomly assigned to either usual care (n=25) or usual care + group advanced care planning intervention (n=25). Those in usual care will be mailed some educational materials about advanced care planning that they may review independently. Those in the group advanced care planning arm will participate in two 1-hour educational sessions led by the community health worker/educator that will be on site, by VA-approved video conference, or a hybrid model. Topics will include an introduction to advanced care planning, goals of care topics, advance directives, and physicians order of life sustaining treatment. Both usual care and the group advanced care planning arms will also participate in pre/post surveys and/or interviews.