GEriatric Determinants of Curative RAdiotherapy Scheme Choice for Breast Cancer ELderly Patient Treatment Compliance and Tolerance
This study proposes an onco geriatric evaluation (Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities Of Daily Living, Mini Mental State Examination, mini Geriatric Depression Scale, Mini Nutritional Assessment, Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatric, and " timed get up and go " tests) for elderly breast cancer patients. The score obtained at this evaluation will determine the radiotherapy scheme.
Breast Cancer
OTHER: Onco Geriatric Evaluation
Measure of the tolerance, Tolerance is considered as " bad " if the score of the onco geriatric evaluation decreases of more than 20% from the initial evaluation to 6 months after the end of the rays. Tolerance is considered as "correct" in the other cases., Month 6
Tolerance, Specific tolerance will be evaluated by the number of radiation-induced toxicities (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events 4.4) of I, II, III, and IV grades., Month 6|Quality of Life Questionnaire, Quality of life will be assessed with the difference between the Quality of Life Questionnaire 30 of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) score obtained before the radiotherapy and 6 months after the end of the radiation therapy., Month 6|Radiotherapy compliance, Compliance is considered as "bad" if the treatment plan is interrupted for at least one day (for medical reason). Compliance is considered as "correct" in the other cases., Month 6|Correlation between tolerance and distance from the therapeutic center, Correlation will potentially be established between patient general tolerance and the distance between home and radio therapeutic center., Month 6|Correlation between tolerance and way of transport, Correlation will potentially be established between patient general tolerance and the way of transport used by the patient to go to the therapeutic center., Month 6|Correlation between tolerance and the number of concomitant treatments, Correlation will potentially be established between patient general tolerance and the number of concomitant treatments., Month 6|Correlation between tolerance and the nature of concomitant treatments, Correlation will potentially be established between patient general tolerance and the nature of concomitant treatments., Month 6|Correlation between tolerance and the supportive cares, Correlation will potentially be established between patient general tolerance and the supportive cares performed., Month 6
Breast cancer is the most frequent cancer for elderly women and represents the first mortality cause for them. Breast cancer incidence increases for elderly women and will become a major public health problem in the next years.

The principal therapeutic solution is the partial mastectomy associated to radiotherapy. However, the radiotherapy scheme and its role are debated for elderly patients. Hypo fractionated radiotherapy could be considered as an advantageous option.

The treatment duration (6,5 weeks) and direct and indirect fatigue (around 33 travels) are major cons. Thereby, for elderly patients, the selection of patients who will benefit from a shorter treatment could be really difficult. It would be interesting to define an objective scoring, predicting a bad or good tolerance and observance to the radiotherapy. Nowadays, onco geriatric evaluations are used to decide some treatment's decision, but no study compared different orientated radiotherapy schemes.

The present study proposes an onco geriatric evaluation leading to a score according to seven tests (Activities of Daily Living, Instrumental Activities Of Daily Living, Mini Mental State Examination, mini Geriatric Depression Scale, Mini Nutritional Assessment, Cumulative Illness Rating Scale-Geriatric, and " timed get up and go " tests). The score will then determine an adapted radiotherapy scheme.