The Use of Shear Wave Elastography, Transvaginal Ultrasound and Pelvic MRI in the Diagnosis of Adenomyosis
In this prospective cohort study, the patients who were diagnosed with either uterine fibroid (control group) or adenomyosis (study group), were examined with transvaginal ultrasound and shear wave elastography. Definitive diagnosis was established by pelvic MRI. Shear wave elastography data of both groups were compared. Features of adenomyosis on transvaginal ultrasound were also recorded for study group.
Adenomyosis|Elastography|Transvaginal Ultrasound|Fibroid Uterus
DEVICE: Shear wave elastography
Elastography data of adenomyotic lesions and fibroids, By using shear wave elastography, we can calculate the stiffness of selected region of uterine pathology. We use transvaginal ultrasound probe while performing shear wave elastography. The selected region of interest is defined as 10 mm circular area which is selected by the ultrasonographer. Stiffness of the tissue is calculated by elastography program which works by emitting acoustic radiofrequency impulses. These impulses creates transversely oriented shear waves which propagates through the tissue. The velocity of the shear waves is measured by the device and by using Young's modulus, shear wave elastography provides us a numerical value in kiloPascal. This value gives us important information regarding the stiffness of the tissue. For adenomyotic lesions and fibroids, shear wave elastography is performed and for each selected region of interest, a numerical value in kilopascal is given by the ultrasound and we aim to compare these data for adenomyosis and fibroid groups, First we visualize the lesion in B-Mode ultrasound, then with the help of shear wave elastography, a color map is formed over the pathological lesion. We select 3 regions of interest to measure tissue stiffness. This takes about 15 minutes.
Ultrasonographic features of adenomyotic lesions, To describe the features of adenomyosis seen during the transvaginal ultrasound examination, we perform a pelvic ultrasound using transvaginal probe in B-Mode. During the examination we analyze and record for the presence of certain features such asymmetrical uterine wall thickening, myometrial cysts, hyper echoic islands, fan-shaped shadowing, subendometrial buds and lines and irregular or interrupted junctional zone. We recorded presence and absence of each feature for every patient in adenomyosis group. At the end we we calculated the percentage of each feature's presence in patients diagnosed with adenomyosis. We listed the most common and least seen feature. We also recorded the presence of endometrioma or deep infiltrating endometriosis in order to calculate the percentage of patients in which adenomyosis and endometriosis coexist., This part consists of transvaginal ultrasound examination in B-Mode. This examination takes up to 20 minutes.
In this prospective cohort study, the patients who applied to the Gynecology and Infertility Outpatient Clinic in Istanbul University Faculty of Medicine between October 2018 and October 2021 due to abnormal uterine bleeding, pelvic pain, infertility were evaluated. The patients who were diagnosed with adenomyosis and uterine myoma according to clinical evaluation were included and grouped. Clinical diagnosis were confirmed with contrast enhanced pelvic magnetic resonance imaging. No histopathological confirmation were included in this study. 34 patients were included in adenomyosis group and 31 patients were included in myoma group. All patients were evaluated with shear wave elastography; 3 regions of interest were selected for each elastographic evaluation. Average shear values were determined automatically; then, minimum and maximum mean shear values were recorded accordingly. Elastography values of both groups were compared in order to detect any statistically significant difference between 2 groups. In addition to elastography evaluation, the compatibility of transvaginal ultrasound and magnetic resonance were evaluated.