Testing Olaparib for One or Two Years, With or Without Bevacizumab, to Treat Ovarian Cancer
This phase III trial compares the effect of olaparib for one year versus two years, with or without bevacizumab, for the treatment of BRCA 1/2 mutated or homologous recombination deficient stage III or IV ovarian cancer. Olaparib is a polyadenosine 5'-diphosphoribose polymerase (PARP) enzyme inhibitor and may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Bevacizumab is in a class of medications called antiangiogenic agents. It works by stopping the formation of blood vessels that bring oxygen and nutrients to tumor. This may slow the growth and spread of tumor. Giving olaparib for one year with or without bevacizumab may be effective in treating patients with BRCA 1/2 mutated or homologous recombination deficient stage III or IV ovarian cancer, when compared to two years of olaparib.
Fallopian Tube Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Fallopian Tube High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|FIGO Stage III Ovarian Cancer 2014|FIGO Stage IV Ovarian Cancer 2014|Ovarian Carcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Ovarian High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal Endometrioid Adenocarcinoma|Primary Peritoneal High Grade Serous Adenocarcinoma
BIOLOGICAL: Bevacizumab|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Computed Tomography|PROCEDURE: Magnetic Resonance Imaging|DRUG: Olaparib
Progression free survival (PFS) at least 360 days after randomization (PFS360), PFS will be tested using a one-sided, alpha = 0.05 level logrank test. Treatment hazard ratios and their 90% confidence intervals will be estimated using a Cox proportional hazards model specified with a main effect for the randomized treatment assignment and stratified using the stratification factors applied at randomization., From completing 360 days of maintenance therapy to disease progression (per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] version [v]1.1) or death, whichever occurs first, assessed up to 5 years
Overall survival (OS) 360, This endpoint will be supported by the modified intent to treat (ITT) population, which excludes progressions, deaths or withdrawals within 359 days of randomization. Will be summarized using treatment hazard ratio estimates (90% confidence intervals). These estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox-regression models specified with main effects for the randomized treatment and stratified by the factors included in the randomization. OS distributions will be summarized using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., From 360 days after randomization to death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|PFS, Will be analyzed in the ITT population and serve as a sensitivity analysis for the primary endpoint. Will be summarized using treatment hazard ratio estimates (90% confidence intervals). These estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox-regression models specified with main effects for the randomized treatment and stratified by the factors included in the randomization. PFS distributions will be summarized using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., From randomization to progression or death, whichever occurs first, or date of the last computed tomography scan if neither progression nor death has occurred, assessed up to 5 years|PFS2, PFS2 may be identified by objective radiological progression using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors version (v)1.1., symptomatic deterioration or death. PFS2 will be summarized using treatment hazard ratio estimates (90% confidence intervals). These estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox-regression models specified with main effects for the randomized treatment and stratified by the factors included in the randomization. PFS2 distributions will be summarized using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., From randomization to objective tumor progression on next-line treatment or death, assessed up to 5 years|OS, OS will be summarized using treatment hazard ratio estimates (90% confidence intervals). These estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox-regression models specified with main effects for the randomized treatment and stratified by the factors included in the randomization. OS distributions will be summarized using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., From randomization to death, assessed up to 5 years|Incidence of adverse events (AEs), Safety and tolerability will be graded using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events v 5.0. AEs will be summarized by system organ class and preferred term according to the maximum grade observed for each patient., Up to 30 days after last dose of study treatment
Effect of bevacizumab on PFS, The estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox regression models specified with main effects for the assigned treatment arm, physician-choice bevacizumab and the interaction term. The overall effect of bevacizumab will be described by the score test p value for the interaction term. Descriptively, the bevacizumab effect will be summarized using the randomized treatment hazard ratio estimates (95% confidence intervals) within the bevacizumab and no-bevacizumab subgroups (as stratified). PFS outcome distributions will further be described using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years|Effect of bevacizumab on OS, The estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox regression models specified with main effects for the assigned treatment arm, physician-choice bevacizumab and the interaction term. The overall effect of bevacizumab will be described by the score test p value for the interaction term. Descriptively, the bevacizumab effect will be summarized using the randomized treatment hazard ratio estimates (95% confidence intervals) within the bevacizumab and no-bevacizumab subgroups (as stratified). OS outcome distributions will further be described using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years|Effect of bevacizumab on PFS2, The estimates will be obtained from outcome-specific Cox regression models specified with main effects for the assigned treatment arm, physician-choice bevacizumab and the interaction term. The overall effect of bevacizumab will be described by the score test p value for the interaction term. Descriptively, the bevacizumab effect will be summarized using the randomized treatment hazard ratio estimates (95% confidence intervals) within the bevacizumab and no-bevacizumab subgroups (as stratified). PFS2 outcome distributions will further be described using methods developed by Kaplan-Meier., Up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine investigator assessed progression-free survival using Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version (v)1.1 (non-inferiority) for one versus (vs.) two years of maintenance olaparib.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate overall survival (OS360) in the modified intent to treat (ITT) population, with time at risk for progression/death starting 360 days after randomization.

II. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS), PFS2 and overall survival (OS) in the ITT population.

III. To evaluate PFS, PFS2, and OS in the as-treated population. IV. To evaluate toxicity, including rates of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), and other secondary malignancies, in the safety population.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate the moderating effect of physician-choice bevacizumab (as stratified) on randomized treatment effect estimates.

TRANSLATIONAL OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess BRCA reversion mutations in circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (ctDNA) as a predictor of poor response in the BRCA mutated (BRCAm) population.

II. To correlate a combined assay assessing quantitative BRCA1 and RAD51C promoter methylation and pathogenic variants in core homologous recombination repair (HRR) genes with clinical homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) testing and outcomes in the BRCA wildtype (BRCAwt) population.

OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I (REFERENCE): Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles of bevacizumab repeat every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection and computed tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) throughout the study.

ARM II (EXPERIMENTAL): Patients receive olaparib PO BID on days 1-21 of each cycle. Cycles repeat every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may also receive bevacizumab IV on day 1 of each cycle. Cycles of bevacizumab repeat every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo blood sample collection and CT and/or MRI throughout the study.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years, then every 6 months for 3 years.