Intra-operative Optical Imaging With MDX1201-A488 in Patients With Prostate Cancer
This pilot clinical trial studies the best dose of anti-prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) monoclonal antibody MDX1201-A488 (MDX1201-A488) given before surgery to aid in visualization of the prostate. Attaching a fluorescence, a substance that emits radiation that is visible, to the anti-PMSA antibody and injecting it into the body may help identify the tumor when specialized microscopes are used.
Adenocarcinoma of the Prostate|Stage IIB Prostate Cancer|Stage III Prostate Cancer|Stage IV Prostate Cancer
BIOLOGICAL: anti-PSMA monoclonal antibody MDX1201-A488|PROCEDURE: robot-assisted laparoscopic surgery|OTHER: diffuse optical imaging|OTHER: pharmacological study|OTHER: Laboratory Biomarker|OTHER: Questionnaire
Imaging ability of anti-PMSA monoclonal antibody MDX1201-A488, The main fluorescence metric will be the minimum fluorescence observed in 10 sampled high power fields from a single representative cancerous section taken per patient. Other metrics will be the mean fluorescence observed in the 10 sampled high power fields, and the median fluorescence observed. The minimum fluorescence is chosen based on the concept that the primary focus is on observing the fluorescence, and areas of peak fluorescence greatly influence the mean, and also have some influence on the median, yet may be of limited relevance., Up to 1 year
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the preferred imaging dose (if any), based on image quality and correlation with pathological findings, of intravenously administered MDX1201-A488 in a dose-escalating study (doses of 5 and 15 mg) in patients with moderate to high-risk prostate cancer prior to undergoing robotic assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP), subject to predetermined safety stopping rules.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: I. Correlate intra-operative optical imaging (IOOI) findings with pre-operative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings and clinical staging.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study. Patients receive anti-PSMA monoclonal antibody MDX1201-A488 intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1 and undergo IOOI during RALP on day 5.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-7 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 1 year.