Awareness and Attitudes Regarding Prenatal and Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis for Inherited Breast/Ovarian Cancer Risk
We are inviting you to participate in a study of how people who have had genetic counseling for breast/ovarian cancer risk feel about certain reproductive technologies, preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal genetic diagnosis (PND), that may reduce the chances of passing increased risk onto one's children. We would also like feedback from patients who have been to our clinic in the past on the best ways to talk about PGD and PND during genetic counseling sessions. We are seeking both the opinions of people who are interested in these technologies and those who are not. It does not matter whether you have heard of PGD or PND before - you can still participate. Your past experience with genetic counseling is valuable to us in deciding how to communicate this information during sessions.
Breast Cancer|Ovarian Cancer
BEHAVIORAL: questionnaire, interview
To explore the attitudes of BRCA1/2 mutation carriers about PGD/PND, most notably benefits and drawbacks, as well as ethical and emotional considerations;, conclusion of study
To elicit opinions from patients who have previously undergone BRCA1/2 genetic counseling as to when and how information about PGD/PND should be presented (e.g., timing, level of detail,etc), conclusion of study|To explore whether different themes emerge for subgroups of patients (completed childbearing vs. not; affected vs. unaffected)., conclusion of study|To gain preliminary data on themes that might be particularly important to male BRCA1/2 carriers., conclusion of study
We are inviting you to participate in a study of how people who have had genetic counseling for breast/ovarian cancer risk feel about certain reproductive technologies, preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal genetic diagnosis (PND), that may reduce the chances of passing increased risk onto one's children. We would also like feedback from patients who have been to our clinic in the past on the best ways to talk about PGD and PND during genetic counseling sessions. We are seeking both the opinions of people who are interested in these technologies and those who are not. It does not matter whether you have heard of PGD or PND before - you can still participate. Your past experience with genetic counseling is valuable to us in deciding how to communicate this information during sessions.