Lenalidomide and Ofatumumab in Treating Participants With Previously Treated Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia or Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma
This phase II trial studies how well lenalidomide and ofatumumab work in treating participants with previously treated chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as lenalidomide, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells, by stopping them from dividing, or by stopping them from spreading. Monoclonal antibodies, such as ofatumumab, may interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Giving lenalidomide and ofatumumab may work better in treating participants with chronic lymphocytic leukemia or small lymphocytic lymphoma
Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia|Fatigue|Fever|Hypogammaglobulinemia|Lymphadenopathy|Lymphocytosis|Night Sweats|Paraproteinemia|Small Lymphocytic Lymphoma|Thrombocytopenia
DRUG: Lenalidomide|BIOLOGICAL: Ofatumumab
Overall Response Rate, A Simon's two-stage minmax design will be used. Includes complete remission (CR) and partial remission (PR). Complete Response Requires the absence of disease signs and symptoms, and normalization of Peripheral blood and bone marrow. Partial Response it at lease a 50% reduction in disease signs and symptoms and normalization of peripheral blood., Up to 8 years
Number of Participants With Tolerance of the Medication Combination, Incidence of grade 3 and 4 non-hematological toxicity in more than 50 percent of the participants. Will be monitored based on the Bayesian model (beta-binomial)., Up to 8 years|Progression Free Survival, The time from the start of therapy to death, disease progression, or the initiation of the next therapy. Disease progression is the loss of response or transformation to a more aggressive histology., Up to 8 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate efficacy and tolerability of the combination of ofatumumab and lenalidomide in patients with recurrent chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

OUTLINE:

Participants receive ofatumumab intravenously (IV) over 4 hours on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1, day 1 of courses 2-6, and day 1 of every even course beginning course 8. Beginning day 9 of course 1, participants also receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily. Courses repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 6 months, then every 3 months thereafter.