Finding the Best Tamoxifen Dose for Breast Cancer Risk Reduction in Premenopausal Women, RENAISSANCE Trial
This phase II trial evaluates response-guided low-dose tamoxifen for reducing breast density in women who are at higher than average risk for breast cancer. Increasing breast density is a well established risk factor for breast cancer. Tamoxifen is a selective estrogen receptor modulator. It works by blocking the effects of the hormone estrogen in the breast. Tamoxifen has been shown to reduce breast density, even at reduced dosages, and is approved for the prevention of breast cancer.
Breast Carcinoma|Breast Ductal Carcinoma In Situ|Breast Lobular Carcinoma In Situ|Estrogen Receptor-Positive Breast Carcinoma
PROCEDURE: Biopsy Procedure|PROCEDURE: Biospecimen Collection|PROCEDURE: Mammography|OTHER: Questionnaire Administration|DRUG: Tamoxifen
Proportion of women who have a response at any time point, Tamoxifen response is defined as absolute dense area reduction (aDAR) of \>= 10% on mammogram compared to baseline mammogram. A one sample exact binomial test for one proportion will be used, and the exact two-sided p-value will be reported. Response rate for the entire study population, as well as for the group of women who were dose-escalated, will be estimated and reported with the corresponding 95% confidence interval. Absolute and relative changes in dense area will be estimated using descriptive statistics (e.g., mean and standard deviation, or median and interquartile range), and, as a sensitivity analysis, a paired t-test or the signed rank test will be used to determine whether there was a reduction in dense area. Similar descriptive statistics will be performed in each dose sequence group for both the response rate and dense area changes., At 6, 12, and 18 months
Plasma levels of major tamoxifen (TAM) metabolites, Will assess the association of plasma levels of major tamoxifen metabolites with tamoxifen dose and breast density changes from baseline. Metabolite levels will be summarized using standard descriptive statistics at each time point, and change patterns examined using graphical tools for longitudinal data. Will also examine the association of TAM metabolite levels in plasma with aDAR over time using exploratory graphical analyses of aDAR versus (vs.) concurrent metabolite level by time point and dose level. The overall analytic approach to determine whether metabolite levels are associated with aDAR will use linear mixed models., At 6, 12, and 18 months|Longitudinal change in serum biomarkers of tamoxifen response, Will evaluate longitudinal change from baseline in serum biomarkers of tamoxifen response at each dose level: sex hormone binding globulin, insulin like growth factor 1 and C-reactive protein. Biomarker values and changes from baseline will be summarized using standard descriptive statistics at each time point by response status. Differences in baseline levels of these biomarkers between different dose sequence groups will be analyzed using linear regression models with biomarker value as the outcome, and dose cohort as the predictor. Will also use linear mixed models to examine biomarker change patterns over time., From baseline up to 18 months|Baseline dense area, Will assess the association of baseline dense area (continuous variable) with tamoxifen response. Will be compared using linear regression models between 5 mg responders and non-responders at 6 months, and between dose sequence groups., Up to 18 months|Patient-reported symptoms, Will evaluate the impact of tamoxifen dose on participant-reported symptoms using the Breast Eight Symptom Scale. Will examine patient reported outcome (PRO) patterns over time using graphical tools for longitudinal data, and will use descriptive statistics to summarize PRO values at various time points for groups of patients based on their more recent TAM dose level. Changes in PRO from baseline will be summarized similarly. Linear mixed models will be used., At baseline, 6, 12, and 18 months|Adherence to final tamoxifen dose, Will evaluate the impact of tamoxifen dose on adherence to final tamoxifen dose. Adherence will be monitored during monthly participant contacts and by pill count and paper diary at each study visit. Will be summarized using descriptive statistics (mean and standard deviation, or median and interquartile range) for each time point and dose level and will be compared between dose levels at each time point using linear regression models. Adverse events will be summarized during each treatment period (0-6, 6-12 and 12-18 months) and dose level, as well as overall for each dose sequence group., Up to 18 months
Breast tissue-based biomarkers, Will evaluate breast tissue-based biomarkers and their association with tamoxifen response in participants who consent to the optional research biopsies. Will be compared between 5mg responders vs. non-responders at 6 months using a two-sample t-test or Wilcoxon rank sum test. In addition, logistic regression models may be used to determine the joint association between multiple baseline characteristics and tamoxifen response to 5 mg at 6 months., At 6 months|Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), Will evaluate the association between SNPs that overlap between risk of breast cancer and dense area of breasts. Others that relate to efficiency of tamoxifen metabolism will be explored., Up to 18 months|Change in breast cancer risk estimates, Will evaluate change in breast cancer risk estimates as assessed by an artificial intelligence tool and compare changes by dose group. Changes will be compared between dose sequence groups using a two-sample t-test. In addition, analysis of covariance models may be fitted with 12-month score as the outcome, and dose group and baseline score as predictors., From baseline to 18 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To evaluate whether the overall proportion of premenopausal tamoxifen responders (defined by absolute dense area reduction on mammogram of \> 10%) can be increased through a strategy of within-individual dose escalation among non-responders from 5 mg per day to 10 mg per day.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To assess the association of plasma levels of major tamoxifen metabolites with tamoxifen dose and breast density changes from baseline.

II. To evaluate longitudinal change from baseline in serum biomarkers of tamoxifen response at each dose level: sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), insulin like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) and C-reactive protein (CRP).

III. To assess the association of baseline dense area (continuous variable) with tamoxifen response.

IV. To evaluate the impact of tamoxifen dose on participant-reported symptoms (Breast Eight Symptom Scale, BESS).

V. To evaluate the impact of tamoxifen dose on adherence to final tamoxifen dose.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate breast tissue-based biomarkers (in research biopsy samples) that associate with tamoxifen response at six months, comparing within-person change in responders and non-responder.

II. To assess the association between single nucleotide polymorphisms that overlap between risk of breast cancer and dense are of breasts; and others that relate to efficiency of tamoxifen metabolism.

III. To evaluate change in breast cancer risk estimates from baseline to 18 months, as assessed by an AI (artificial intelligence) tool and compare changes by dose group.

OUTLINE: This is a within-participant dose-escalation study of tamoxifen.

Participants receive tamoxifen 5mg orally (PO) once daily (QD) for 6 months. Participants with absolute dense area reduction (aDAR) \>= 10% on mammogram at 6 months continue receiving tamoxifen 5mg PO QD for 12 months. Participants with aDAR \< 10% at 6 months are escalated to receive tamoxifen 10mg PO QD for 6 months. Participants with aDAR \>= 10% after 6 months of tamoxifen 10mg continue receiving tamoxifen 10 mg PO QD for 6 months. Participants with aDAR \< 10% after 6 months of tamoxifen 10mg are given the option of continuing tamoxifen 10mg or escalating to receive tamoxifen 20mg PO QD for 6 months. Participants undergo mammography and collection of blood samples at screening and on study. Participants may optionally undergo biopsy at screening and on study.

After completion of study intervention, patients are followed up at 4 weeks.