Acupuncture for Chemical Therapy Induced Nausea and Vomiting: a Cross-over Trail
This is a randomized, controlled cross-over trial. The hypothesis of this study is that the differences in manual acupuncture manipulation can impact clinical effect though the acupuncturists follow the same needling regimen. In this study, acupuncturist 1 (clinical experience \>15 years) and acupuncturist 2 (\<5 years) will give treatments to cancer patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy (n=36) for at least two continuous cycles, once per day, 5 days per cycle. Acupuncturist 1 determines all the treatment regimens (selection of acupoints and methods of needling manipulation, needle retention time). Randomly, half of the patients will receive treatments from acupuncturist 1 in the first treatment cycle and from acupuncturist 2 in the second cycle; while the other half will be treated in other way round. There is a washout period (21 days) between two cycles. The needling manipulation of two acupuncturists will be measured objectively during treatments. The clinical effect will be measured by the control of vomiting and nausea during and after chemotherapy treatments.
Chemotherapy-induced Nausea and Vomiting
PROCEDURE: Manual acupuncture implemented by acupuncturist 1|PROCEDURE: Manual acupuncture implemented by acupuncturist 2
NCI nausea and vomiting rating scale, day1-8 on each study period
Rhodes Scale, day1-5 on each study period|global assessment on effectiveness by patients (VAS), day 5 on each study period|patients' confidence towards acupuncture treatment(VAS), day 1,5 on each study period|global satisfaction for acupuncture treatments, day 5 on each study period|Acupuncture Expectancy Scale (AES), day 1, 3, 5 on each study period
patient communication satisfaction scale, day 5 on each study period|Acupuncture related adverse events, faintng during acupuncture treatment, sticking of needle, bleeding in the needling hole, broken needles, day 1-5 each study period|Adverse events (not acupuncture treatment specified), day 1-5 each study period|Needling manipulation parameters, Displacement Frequency (Hz) Displacement Amplitude (pk-pk) Rotation Frequency (Hz) Rotation Amplitude (pk-pk), day 1-5 each study period
This is a randomized, controlled cross-over trial. The hypothesis of this study is that the differences in manual acupuncture manipulation can impact clinical effect though the acupuncturists follow the same needling regimen. In this study, acupuncturist 1 (clinical experience \>15 years) and acupuncturist 2 (\<5 years) will give treatments to cancer patients receiving cisplatin chemotherapy (n=36) for at least two continuous cycles, once per day, 5 days per cycle. Acupuncturist 1 determines all the treatment regimens (selection of acupoints and methods of needling manipulation, needle retention time). Randomly, half of the patients will receive treatments from acupuncturist 1 in the first treatment cycle and from acupuncturist 2 in the second cycle; while the other half will be treated in other way round. There is a washout period (21 days) between two cycles. The needling manipulation of two acupuncturists will be measured objectively during treatments. The clinical effect will be measured by the control of vomiting and nausea during and after chemotherapy treatments. The manual manipulation of two acupuncturists will be recorded by device Acusensor.