Central Nervous System Efficacy of Capmatinib in NSCLC With Brain Metastases With cfDNA Positive MET Alterations
This is a phase II single-arm open label trial to evaluate the intracranial efficacy of capmatinib in advanced stage NSCLC with asymptomatic BM with positive MET amplification or METΔex14 detected on cfDNA.
Non-small Cell Lung Cancer
DRUG: Capmatinib
CNS Overall response rate (CORR) in, Proportion of participants in with confirmed central nervous system complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) per RANO-BM criteria. CR: complete disappearance of all enhancing measurable and non-measurable disease sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions; and stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions. PR: ≥50% decrease, compared with baseline; the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks; no progression of non-measurable disease; no new lesions; stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions on the same or a lower dose of corticosteroids compared with baseline scan; and the patient being on a corticosteroid dose not greater than the dose at time of the baseline scan and stable or improved clinically., Up to 36 months
CNS Duration of response (DOR), Median time (months) from central nervous system (CNS) complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) until progressed disease (PD: ≥25% increase in lesion of perpendicular diameter), per RANO-BM criteria. CR: complete disappearance of all enhancing measurable and non-measurable disease sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions; and stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions. PR: ≥50% decrease, compared with baseline; the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks; no progression of non-measurable disease; no new lesions; stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions on the same or a lower dose of corticosteroids compared with baseline scan; and the patient being on a corticosteroid dose not greater than the dose at time of the baseline scan and stable or improved clinically., Up to 36 months|CNS Progression-free survival (PFS), Median time (months) from central nervous system central nervous system complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) until progressive disease (PD) or death for the subjects whose best overall response CR or PR, per RANO-BM criteria. CR: complete disappearance of all enhancing measurable and non-measurable disease sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions; and stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions. PR: ≥50% decrease, compared with baseline; the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks; no progression of non-measurable disease; no new lesions; stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions on the same or a lower dose of corticosteroids compared with baseline scan; and the patient being on a corticosteroid dose not greater than the dose at time of the baseline scan and stable or improved clinically. PD: ≥25% increase in perpendicular diameter of any lesion., Up to 36 months|CNS Overall response rate (CORR) (in cfDNA MET ex14 positive), Proportion of participants in with confirmed central nervous system complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) per RANO-BM criteria. CR: complete disappearance of all enhancing measurable and non-measurable disease sustained for at least 4 weeks; no new lesions; and stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions. PR: ≥50% decrease, compared with baseline; the sum of products of perpendicular diameters of all measurable enhancing lesions sustained for at least 4 weeks; no progression of non-measurable disease; no new lesions; stable or improved non-enhancing (T2/FLAIR) lesions on the same or a lower dose of corticosteroids compared with baseline scan; and the patient being on a corticosteroid dose not greater than the dose at time of the baseline scan and stable or improved clinically., Up to 36 months|Systemic Duration of Response (DOR), Median time (months) from systemic complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) until progressed disease (PD - ≥20% increase in sum of lesions), per RECISIT 1.1. Evaluation of Target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Evaluation of Non-target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Non-CR / Non-PD: persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., Up to 36 months|Systemic Progression-free Surivial (PFS), Median time (months) from central nervous system central nervous system complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) until progressive disease (PD: ≥20% increase in sum of lesions) or death for the subjects whose best overall response CR or PR, per RECISIT 1.1. Evaluation of Target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Evaluation of Non-target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Non-CR / Non-PD: persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., Up to 36 months|Systemic Objective response rate (ORR), Proportion of participants in with confirmed systemic complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) per RECISIT v1.1 criteria. Evaluation of Target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Evaluation of Non-target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Non-CR / Non-PD: persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits., Up to 36 months|Overall Survival (OS), Median time from either the date start of treatment that patients are still alive., Up to 5 years|Overall response rate (ORR), The proportion of participants in with a confirmed complete response (CR) and/or partial response (PR) based on cross sectional imaging per RECIST 1.1. Evaluation of Target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all target lesions; any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to \<10 mm. PR is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of the longest diameters. Evaluation of Non-target Lesions (CR): the disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (\<10 mm short axis). Non-CR / Non-PD: persistence of one or more non-target lesion(s) and/or the maintenance of tumor marker level above the normal limits, Up to 36 months|Adverse Events (AEs), Incidence (frequency) of treatment-related adverse events (AEs) using NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, v.5.0), Up to 36 months
This will be a phase II single-arm open label trial of capmatinib at a dose of 400 mg orally twice daily in advanced stage NSCLC with asymptomatic BM with positive MET amplification or METΔex14 detected on cfDNA. This trial will evaluate the intracranial efficacy of capmatinib in cfDNA MET amplification or mutation positive NSCLC. Potentially eligible patients will undergo prescreening with Predicine's cfDNA assay to identify cfDNA MET amplification or mutation positive NSCLC patients. Radiographic assessments for cranial and extracranial disease response will occur every 8 weeks. Capmatinib will be given until disease progression or intolerability of treatment. A two-stage single arm design will be used to establish whether the proportion of responses is sufficiently high to warrant further testing and to allow stopping for futility at the first stage.