Ivosidenib in Treating Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors, Lymphoma, or Histiocytic Disorders With IDH1 Mutations (A Pediatric MATCH Treatment Trial)
This phase II Pediatric MATCH trial studies how well ivosidenib works in treating patients with solid tumors that have spread to other places in the body (advanced), lymphoma, or histiocytic disorders that have IDH1 genetic alterations (mutations). Ivosidenib may block the growth of cancer cells that have specific genetic changes in an important signaling pathway called the IDH pathway.
Recurrent Ependymoma|Recurrent Ewing Sarcoma|Recurrent Hepatoblastoma|Recurrent Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Recurrent Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Recurrent Malignant Glioma|Recurrent Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Recurrent Medulloblastoma|Recurrent Neuroblastoma|Recurrent Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Recurrent Osteosarcoma|Recurrent Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Recurrent Rhabdoid Tumor|Recurrent Rhabdomyosarcoma|Recurrent Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Recurrent WHO Grade 2 Glioma|Refractory Ependymoma|Refractory Ewing Sarcoma|Refractory Hepatoblastoma|Refractory Langerhans Cell Histiocytosis|Refractory Malignant Germ Cell Tumor|Refractory Malignant Glioma|Refractory Malignant Solid Neoplasm|Refractory Medulloblastoma|Refractory Neuroblastoma|Refractory Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma|Refractory Osteosarcoma|Refractory Peripheral Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor|Refractory Rhabdoid Tumor|Refractory Rhabdomyosarcoma|Refractory Soft Tissue Sarcoma|Refractory WHO Grade 2 Glioma|Wilms Tumor
DRUG: Ivosidenib
Objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in pediatric patients treated with ivosidenib, A responder is defined as a patient who achieves a best response of partial response or complete response on the study. Response rates will be calculated as the percent of evaluable patients who are responders, and confidence intervals will be constructed using the Wilson score interval method., From enrollment to the end of treatment, up to 2 years
Progression free survival (PFS), Progression free survival will be defined as time from the initiation of protocol treatment to the occurrence of any of the following events: disease progression or disease recurrence or death from any cause. PFS along with the confidence intervals will be estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method., From the initiation of protocol treatment to the occurrence of any of the following events: disease progression or disease recurrence or death from any cause, assessed up to 5 years|Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events, Percentage of patients experiencing grade 3 or higher adverse events will be evaluated according to National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 5.0. All patients who receive at least one dose of protocol therapy will be considered in the evaluation of toxicity., From enrollment to the end of treatment, up to 2 years|Preliminary estimates of the pharmacokinetics (PK) of ivosidenib in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory cancer, A descriptive analysis of PK parameters will be performed to define systemic exposure, drug clearance, and other pharmacokinetic parameters. The PK parameters will be summarized with simple summary statistics, including means, medians, ranges, and standard deviations (if numbers and distribution permit)., Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6-8 hours after dose on cycle 1, day 1; pre-dose on cycle 1, day 2; pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6-8 hours after dose on cycle 1, day 15; and pre-dose on cycle 2, day 1 and cycle 4, day 1|Preliminary estimates of the pharmacodynamics (PD) of ivosidenib in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory cancer, Pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6-8 hours after dose on cycle 1, day 1; pre-dose on cycle 1, day 2; pre-dose, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6-8 hours after dose on cycle 1, day 15; and pre-dose on cycle 2, day 1 and cycle 4, day 1
Biomarker analysis, Will evaluate other biomarkers as predictors of response to ivosidenib and whether tumors that harbor different missense mutations or fusions will demonstrate differential response to treatment. A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics. All of these analyses will be descriptive in nature., Up to 5 years|Profiling changes in tumor genomics, Will explore approaches to the profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid. A descriptive analysis will be performed and will be summarized with simple summary statistics., Baseline up to 5 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

I. To determine the objective response rate (ORR; complete response + partial response) in pediatric patients treated with AG-120 (ivosidenib) with advanced solid tumors (including central nervous system \[CNS\] tumors), lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor activating genetic alterations in the IDH1 pathway.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To estimate the progression free survival in pediatric patients treated with AG-120 (ivosidenib) with advanced solid tumors (including CNS tumors), lymphomas or histiocytic disorders that harbor activating genetic alterations in the IDH1 pathway.

II. To obtain information about the tolerability of AG-120 (ivosidenib) in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory cancer.

III. To provide preliminary estimates of the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of AG-120 (ivosidenib) in children and adolescents with relapsed or refractory cancer.

EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate other biomarkers as predictors of response to AG-120 (ivosidenib) and specifically, whether tumors that harbor different missense mutations or fusions will demonstrate differential response to AG-120 (ivosidenib) treatment.

II. To explore approaches to the profiling changes in tumor genomics over time through evaluation of circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).

OUTLINE:

Patients receive ivosidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD). Cycles repeat every 28 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.