Diagnosis of Renal Cell Carcinoma on 68Ga-PSMA PET-CT and Radioligand Therapy With 177Lu-EB-PSMA-617
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) is the second most common tumor in urology. Considering its origination from kidney, an organ with intense physiological uptake and excretion of 68Ga-PSMA, this study aims to evaluate the uptake of 68Ga-PSMA in RCC compared to 18F-FDG in the same patients, and assess the feasibility of 177Lu-EB-PSMA-617 treatment in patients with the advanced RCC.
Renal Cell Carcinoma
DRUG: 68Ga-PSMA|DRUG: 1.85GBq (50 mCi) of 177Lu-EB-PSMA-617
Diagnostic value, Sensitivity and Specificity of 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT for Renal Cell Carcinoma in comparison with 18F-FDG PET/CT, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Safety of therapy, the safety assessed by CTCAE v4.0, through study completion, an average of 1 year
Therapeutic effect, the therapeutic response assessed by PSMA PET/CT to 177Lu-EB-PSMA-617 in patients with Renal Cell Carcinoma., through study completion, an average of 1 year|Correlation between PSMA expression and SUV in PET/CT, to mearsure the SUVmax of RCC on PSMA PET/CT and to investigate the expression of PSMA on primary, recurrent and metastatic RCC tumour tissue using immunohistochemistry, and analyze the correlation between them., through study completion, an average of 1 year
Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) is the second most common tumor in urology. As one of the popular urinary tumors, the incidence rate increases by 2-4% per year. Localized RCC is generally cured by surgery, which has achieved good efficacy. However, advanced RCC are still the main factors influencing the survival of RCC patients due to its intrinsic resistance to conventional chemotherapy or radiotherapy. 18F-FDG PET/CT is considered to be a viable tool to assess RCC at initial presentation. However, FDG uptake in RCC is lower than most other solid tumors and is indistinguishable from benign lesions. So, it is necessary to find another effective way to detect RCC and its metastases. As in known, pro-angiogenic factors (VEGF, PDGF) are strongly upregulated in clear cell RCC, leading to high vascularized tumors. 68Ga-PSMA has been developed as a targeting imaging agent widely used in prostate cancer in prostate cancer. Thus, this prospective study is going to investigate whether 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT may be superior for diagnosis, therapy response assessment and follow-up of RCC than 18F-FDG PET/CT. Furthermore, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy has been widely used in the treatment of prostate cancer lesions that showed high PSMA uptake on 68Ga-PSMA PET/CT, we'll try to assess the safety and therapeutic response to 177Lu-EB-PSMA-617 in patients with RCC.