Low-dose Y90 Treatment Planning for HCC
The study proposes low-dose Y90 microspheres for therapy planning of HCC, as an alternative to Technetium (99mTc) albumin aggregated (MAA), to be a bioidentical therapeutic Y90 surrogate marker to better predict and thus achieve optimal therapeutic dosing.
HCC|Cancer of Liver|Cancer
DEVICE: SIR-Spheres microspheres
Lung Shunt Fraction (LSF) Ratio, Y-90 radioembolization treatment requires estimating the activity shunted from the liver to the lungs, referred to as a lung shunt fraction (LSF). It is expressed in ratios, with higher ratio meaning a higher transit of Y-90 to the lungs (worse outcome) and lower ratio, lower transit of Y-90 to the lungs (better outcome)., Baseline|Tumor to Normal Liver Activity Ratio (TNR), The ratios of the tumor-to-normal liver parenchymal radioactivity uptake count will be measured. TNR values will be calculated by dividing the mean count of the tumorous volume of interest (VOI) by the mean count of normal liver., Baseline
Number of Participants With Tumor Response Using Imaging Modified Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (m-RECIST) Post Y90 Embolization, To identify tumor dose response threshold (TDRT) using Imaging Modified Response Criteria in Solid Tumors (m-RECIST), that is a method for measuring treatment response and measure of antitumor activity of cytotoxic drugs. This is measured using imaging: CT or MRI. The overall response is a combination of responses in each category: complete response (disappearance of any intramural arterial enhancement in all target lesions), partial response (at least 30% decrease in the sum of the diameters of viable target lesions), stable disease (any cases that do not qualify for either partial response or progressive disease) or progressive disease (an increase of at least 20% in the sum of the diameters of viable, enhancing target lesions, taking as a reference the smallest sum of the diameters of viable target lesions recorded since treatment started)., 6 months post intervention
Hepatocellular carcinoma is a second deadliest cancer in the world with less than 20% of patients eligible for curative surgery at the time of diagnosis. Yttrium-90 (Y90) radioembolization is palliative treatment with promising result. However, one of the most important factors in the success of Y90 treatment is to ensure adequate dose of radioactive material is delivered to the tumor. The technetium-99 macroaggregated albumin (MAA) which is currently used for Y90 treatment planning and shunt study does not predict distribution of Y90 in the lungs, tumors, and liver. Therefore, accurate and personalized treatment planning cannot be performed using MAA. In this study, we are proposing using low-dose Y90 microspheres for the planning stage of the therapy to obtain an accurate estimation of distribution of Y90 therapy dose. This will in turn allow us to ensure adequate dose of Y90 is delivered to the tumor(s) while minimizing dose delivered to non-tumor liver and lungs in order to decrease the chance of treatment related toxicity to the liver and lungs.