Enalapril Maleate and Doxorubicin Hydrochloride in Treating Women With Breast Cancer
RATIONALE: Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin hydrochloride, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Enalapril maleate may help protect heart cells from the side effects of chemotherapy. It is not yet known whether giving enalapril maleate before or after doxorubicin hydrochloride is more effective in treating women with breast cancer.

PURPOSE: This randomized clinical trial is studying giving enalapril maleate together with doxorubicin hydrochloride to see how well it works in treating women with breast cancer.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|DRUG: enalapril maleate
Number of Patients With Doxorubicin Plasma Concentrations Demonstrating a Significant Increase or Decrease When Doxorubicin Was Given With Enalapril as Compared to When Doxorubicin Was Given Without Enalapril., Doxorubicin plasma concentration (DPC) is the primary pharmacokinetic (PK) measure of the exposure. Each patient will have serial PKs performed twice - once with enalapril and once without enalapril. A mean increase or decrease of more than 115 ng/ml in DPC will be considered significant., Baseline, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, 24.0 and 48.0 hours after infusion of doxorubicin
The Number of Participants With a Significant Increase or Decrease in the Baseline Levels of Btype Natriuretic Peptide, Cardiac Troponins, and Urine Microalbumin With or Without Enalapril, Doxorubicin can induce changes in troponin, b-type natriuretic peptide and urine microalbumin. This analysis will determine whether enalapril prevents any of these changes. Statistical significance defined as a p \< 0.05., Baseline, 4, 24 and 48 hours after infusion of doxorubicin|The Number of Participants With a Significant Increase or Decrease in Doxorubicin Hydrochloride Metabolite Levels With or Without Enalapril, Doxorubicin is metabolized to doxorubicinol. The effects of enalapril on doxorubicinol will be assessed. Statistical significance defined as a p \< 0.05., Baseline, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0, 24.0 and 48.0 hours after infusion of doxorubicin
This study is a drug interaction study designed to study the effects of enalapril on doxorubicin metabolism. Women with breast cancer for whom at least two cycles every 14 day doxorubicin is planned will be considered for enrollment. Study participation will be for 2 treatment cycles of doxorubicin or approximately 4 weeks. Patients will receive a 14 day course of daily enalapril in association with one cycle of doxorubicin and receive no study agent during the other cycle allowing patients to act as their own control. The sequence of enalapril dosing will be assigned by randomization at study enrollment. Blood samples for pharmacokinetics will be drawn before and at 7 time points after each of the two doses of doxorubicin. For each patient, serum doxorubicin and doxorubicinol concentrations both on and off of enalapril will be compared.