Immunotherapy and Carbon Ion Radiotherapy In Solid Cancers With Stable Disease
Immunotherapy has become the standard of care in different advanced malignancies. Its effectiveness in the palliative setting was demonstrated by several phase III trials. However, the response rate varies according to the cancer under study and to the line of treatment. A potential way to improve the activity of single agent immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) is to enhance the clinical response through further antitumor agents, including radiotherapy. Studies showed that carbon ions may lead to a broader immunogenic response; for their dosimetric characteristics it is possible to reduce integral dose sparing immune cells to direct and sustain a tumor specific immune response.

Considering the available preclinical and clinical evidence together, the goal of this study is to explore the feasibility and the clinical activity of adding carbon ion radiotherapy (CIRT), employed with a fractionation strategy comparable to stereotactic body radiation, to ICIs in advanced malignancies where immunotherapy is currently the standard of care.
Non Small Cell Lung Cancer|Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma|Melanoma|Urothelial Carcinoma
RADIATION: Carbon Ion Therapy|DRUG: Immunotherapy (Pembrolizumab)
Objective response rate assessed by RECIST V1.1, To estimate the effect, in terms of clinical response, of immunotherapy associating carbon ion treatment (CIRT) in the palliative setting across different malignancies, for which immunotherapy is currently the standard of care. Objective response rate (ORR) will be evaluated after CIRT administrated during immunotherapy maintenance in patients with stable disease. ORR will be assessed in the whole population according to RECIST v1.1. The proportion of ORR will be estimated within each disease., At least 8 weeks
Treatment-related adverse events assessed by CTCAE V5.0, To describe the safety profile of the association of carbon ion radiation therapy and systemic immunotherapy in the palliative setting across different malignancies, for which immunotherapy is currently the standard of care. Treatment-related adverse events will be evaluated according to CTCAE version 5.0., At least 8 weeks|Efficacy in terms of survival, To estimate the effect, in terms of survival, of immunotherapy with the association of carbon ion radiation treatment in the palliative setting across different malignancies, for which immunotherapy is currently the standard of care.

Progression-Free Survival (PFS) will be calculated as the time between the start date of immunotherapy associated with carbon ion and the progression of disease, or death or last-follow-up. PFS will be estimated, within each malignancy, by Kaplan-Meier product limit method.

Overall survival (OS) will be calculated as the time between the start date of immunotherapy associated with carbon ion and the death for any cause or last follow-up. OS will be estimated, within each malignancy, by Kaplan-Meier product limit method., At least 8 weeks
This is a multicenter, open label, non-randomized phase II clinical trial aiming to assess the feasibility and the clinical activity of adding CIRT to ICIs in cancer patients that have obtained a disease stability (SD) with pembrolizumab administered as per standard of care. At study entry, hypofractionated CIRT will be delivered to one measurable lesion previously untreated with local approaches.CIRT will be performed at Fondazione CNAO, Pavia