An Open-label Extension Trial of Cannabidiol (GWP42003-P, CBD) for Seizures in Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (GWPCARE6)
This trial consists of 2 parts: a double-blinded phase and an open-label extension phase. The open-label extension phase only will be described in this record. All participants will receive the same dose of GWP42003-P. However, investigators may subsequently decrease or increase the participant's dose until the optimal dose is found.
Tuberous Sclerosis Complex|Seizures
DRUG: GWP42003-P
Number of Participants With Any Treatment-emergent Adverse Events, Discontinuations Due to AEs, Serious AEs, and Treatment-related AEs (TEAE), An adverse event (AE) was defined as any new unfavorable/unintended signs/symptoms (including abnormal laboratory findings), or diagnosis or worsening of a pre-existing condition, which occurred following screening and at any point up to the post-treatment safety follow-up visit, which may or may not be related to the IMP. An AE that started, or worsened in severity or seriousness, following the first dose of IMP was considered a TEAE. A serious AE was defined as any AE that results in any of the following outcomes: death, life-threatening adverse experience, inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, persistent or significant disability/incapacity, congenital anomaly/birth defect, or cancer, any other experience that suggests a significant hazard, contraindication, side effect or precaution that may require medical or surgical intervention to prevent one of the outcomes listed above, or an event that changes the risk/benefit ratio of the study., OLE Day 1 up to 4 years|Number of Participants With Any TEAE, by Severity, An adverse event (AE) was defined as any new unfavorable/unintended signs/symptoms (including abnormal laboratory findings), or diagnosis or worsening of a pre-existing condition, which occurred following screening and at any point up to the post-treatment safety follow-up visit, which may or may not be related to the IMP. An AE that started, or worsened in severity or seriousness, following the first dose of IMP was considered a TEAE.

Grade 1 (Mild) is defined as asymptomatic or mild symptoms; clinical or diagnostic observations only; intervention not indicated. Grade 2 (Moderate) is defined as minimal, local or noninvasive intervention indicated; limiting age appropriate instrumental activities of daily living (ADL). Grade 3 (Severe) is defined as medically significant but not immediately life-threatening; hospitalization or prolongation of hospitalization indicated; disabling; limiting self care ADL., OLE Day 1 up to 4 years
Percent Change From Baseline in the Number of TSC-associated Seizures During the OLE Treatment Period, TSC-associated seizures include: focal motor seizures without impairment of consciousness or awareness; focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness; focal seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures and tonic-clonic, tonic, clonic or atonic seizures. A negative percent change from baseline indicates improvement., OLE Day 1 up to 4 years|Number of Participants Considered Treatment Responders During the OLE Treatment Period, Treatment responders were defined as those participants with a ≥50% reduction from baseline in TSC-associated seizure frequency, during the treatment period, for participants who had not withdrawn from the trial during the treatment period. TSC-associated seizures included: focal motor seizures without impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 1 focal motor); focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 2 focal); focal seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures (Type 3 focal); and tonic-clonic, tonic, clonic, or atonic seizures that were countable. Participants who withdrew from the trial during the treatment period were considered non-responders., OLE Day 1 up to 4 years|Caregiver Global Impression of Change (CGIC) and Subject Global Impression of Change (SGIC) Score During the OLE Treatment Period, The CGIC comprised the following question to be rated on a 7-point scale (1, Very Much Improved; 2, Much Improved; 3, Slightly Improved; 4, No Change; 5, Slightly Worse; 6, Much Worse; 7, Very Much Worse): "Since your child started treatment, please assess the status of your child's overall condition (comparing their condition now to their condition before treatment)." The SGIC comprised the following question to be rated on a 7-point scale (1, Very Much Improved; 2, Much Improved; 3, Slightly Improved; 4, No Change; 5, Slightly Worse; 6, Much Worse; 7, Very Much Worse): "Since you started treatment, please assess the status of your overall condition (comparing your condition now to your condition before treatment)." The average CGIC and SGIC scores are being reported, with higher values indicating worse condition., OLE Day 1 and up to 4 years|Percent Change From Baseline in Total Seizure Frequency During the OLE Treatment Period, Total seizures included all seizure types, eg. combination of TSC-associated and other seizures. TSC-associated seizures included: focal motor seizures without impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 1 focal motor); focal seizures with impairment of consciousness or awareness (Type 2 focal); focal seizures evolving to bilateral generalized convulsive seizures (Type 3 focal); and tonic-clonic, tonic, clonic, or atonic seizures that were countable. A negative percent change from baseline indicates improvement in total seizure frequency., OLE Day 1 up to 4 years
This trial consists of 2 parts: a double-blinded phase and an open-label extension phase. The open-label extension phase only will be described in this record. All participants will receive the same dose of GWP42003-P. However, investigators may subsequently decrease or increase the participant's dose until the optimal dose is found.