Adapted Fencing in Breast Cancer: a Pilot Study
Literature have shown the benefit of practicing regular physical activity during and after cancer treatment, particularly in terms of improving quality of life. The French Fencing Federation has thus developed an adapted physical activity program (Solution RIPOSTE) specially intended for patients with breast cancer. Adapted fencing sessions (saber) are thus offered to these patients in a perfectly secure context (i.e. compulsory medical-sports evaluation and trained fencing master). Since 2016, this RIPOSTE program has been implemented in several fencing halls in Lorraine. Our research project (controlled, randomized trial) aims to assess the impact of the practice of adapted fencing on the quality of life of patients, the functional capacities of the operated side (shoulder) and on the reduction of the sides effects of treatments. Our hypothesis is that such an adapted fencing program improves quality of life as well as functional abilities.
Breast Neoplasms
OTHER: Adapted Physical Activity
Change from baseline score of Quality of Life Questionnaire Core 30 (QLQ-C30) at 3 months., Questionnaire. 30 items. minimum value = 30. Maximum value = 120. A high score means a worse outcome (i.e. poor quality of life), Baseline (J0) and at 3 months (M3)
Change from baseline score of Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand measurement tool (DASH) at 3 months, Questionnaire. 30 items. The score ranges from 0 (no disability) to 100 (most severe disability)., Baseline (J0) and at 3 months (M3)|Change from baseline score of Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory (MFI-20) at 3 months, Questionnaire. 20 items. Minimal value = 20. Maximal value = 100. A high score means a worse outcome (i.e. high level of fatigue), Baseline (J0) and at 3 months (M3)|Change from baseline score of Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale at 3 months., Questionnaire. 14 items. The score ranges from 0 to 100. a high score means a worse outcome (i.e. high level of anxiety and depression), Baseline (J0) and at 3 months (M3)
Literature have shown the benefit of practicing regular physical activity during and after cancer treatment, particularly in terms of improving quality of life. The French Fencing Federation has thus developed an adapted physical activity program (Solution RIPOSTE) specially intended for patients with breast cancer. Adapted fencing sessions (saber) are thus offered to these patients in a perfectly secure context (i.e. compulsory medical-sports evaluation and trained fencing master). Since 2016, this RIPOSTE program has been implemented in several fencing halls in Lorraine. Our research project (controlled, randomized trial) aims to assess the impact of the practice of adapted fencing on the quality of life of patients, the functional capacities of the operated side (shoulder) and on the reduction of the sides effects of treatments. Our hypothesis is that such an adapted fencing program improves quality of life as well as functional abilities.