Pemetrexed Disodium and Gemcitabine in Treating Patients With Stage IIIB or Stage IV Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
RATIONALE: Pemetrexed disodium may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking some of the enzymes needed for cell growth. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as gemcitabine, work in different ways to stop the growth of tumor cells, either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing. Giving pemetrexed disodium together with gemcitabine may kill more tumor cells.

PURPOSE: This randomized phase II trial is studying two different schedules of pemetrexed disodium and gemcitabine to compare how well they work in treating patients with stage IIIB or stage IV non-small cell lung cancer.
Lung Cancer
DRUG: gemcitabine HCL|DRUG: pemetrexed disodium|DRUG: gemcitabine HCL
Number of Patients With Confirmed Responses, Confirmed tumor response (complete and partial) as measured by RECIST(Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors) criteria on 2 consecutive evaluations at least 6 weeks apart.

\>

\> Confirmed tumor response is at least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions and no new lesions., Two consecutive evaluations at least 6 weeks apart (up to 2 years)
Progression-free Survival, Progression-free survival was defined as the number of months from registration to the date of disease progression or death, with patients who are alive and progression free being censored on the date of their last evaluation., Time from registration to progression or death (up to 2 years)|Overall Survival, Overall survival time was defined as the number of months from registration to the date of death or last follow-up, Death or last follow-up (up to 2 years)|Adverse Event, Number of patients that experienced adverse events (grade 4 or more) as measured by NCI CTCAE (Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) v3.0, Gemzar x2 Arm every 21 days, Gemzar x1 Arm every 14 days (up to 2 years)
OBJECTIVES:

Primary

* Compare response rates in patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small cell lung cancer treated with two different treatment schedules of pemetrexed disodium and gemcitabine hydrochloride.

Secondary

* Compare time-to-event efficacy variables in patients treated with these regimens.
* Compare progression-free and overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.
* Determine the overall toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, open-label, randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease stage (IIIB vs IV) and ECOG performance status (0 vs 1). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

* Arm I: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
* Arm II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium IV over 10 minutes and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 14 days for up to 9 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.

PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 80 patients will be accrued for this study.