Secondary BRain Metastases Prevention After Isolated Intracranial Progression on Trastuzumab/Pertuzumab or T-DM1 in Patients With aDvanced Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 2+ brEast Cancer With the Addition of Tucatinib
Patients with advanced HER2+ breast cancer on maintenance trastuzumab/pertuzumab or T-DM1 with 1st or 2nd intracranial disease event (brain metastases) and stable extracranial disease will be enrolled. They will receive local therapy with stereotactic radiosurgery ± surgical resection if indicated followed by enrollment. Patients will continue standard of care trastuzumab/pertuzumab or T-DM1 with the addition of tucatinib. Hormone receptor positive patients requiring endocrine therapy should continue. Study treatment will continue until disease progression or intolerable side effects. Patients on trial with extracranial disease progression with stable intracranial disease should continue tucatinib into next line of therapy.
Brain Metastases|Human Epidermal Growth Factor 2 Positive Carcinoma of Breast|Advanced Breast Cancer
DRUG: Trastuzumab|DRUG: Trastuzumab Emtansine (T-DM1)|DRUG: Pertuzumab|DRUG: Tucatinib
Progression Free Survival (PFS), Evaluate the ability of tucatinib in combination with trastuzumab/pertuzumab or TDM-1 to prolong intracranial progression free survival (PFS) in patients compared to historical controls. PFS is defined as the time from the day of study treatment initiation until evidence of intracranial disease progression per RANO-BM or death from any cause., 3 years
Progression Free Survival by RECIST 1.1, Evaluate the progression free survival by RECIST 1.1 criteria. PFS is defined as time from the day of study treatment initiation until evidence of disease progression per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause., 3 years|Progression Free Survival of Extracranial Disease, Evaluate PFS of extracranial disease. PFS is defined as time from the day of study treatment initiation until evidence of extracranial disease progression per RECIST v1.1 or death from any cause., 3 years|Distant Versus Local Intracranial Progression Free Survival, Evaluate distant versus local intracranial PFS., 3 years|Site of First Progression, Evaluate the site of first progression (CNS vs non-CNS). Site of first progression (CNS vs non-CNS) is defined by first site of progression on trial either within the central nervous system or extracranial disease as defined by investigator, 3 years|Overall Survival (OS), Evaluate OS. OS defined as day of study treatment initiation until death from any cause., 3 years|Assess Adverse Events, Evaluate the toxicity profile of agents in patients with brain metastases. Toxicity will be classified and graded according to the National Cancer Institute's Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE, version 5.0), 2 months
Patients with advanced HER2+ breast cancer on either (1) first-line trastuzumab/pertuzumab OR (2) second-line T-DM1 in the metastatic setting OR (3) adjuvant trastuzumab-based therapy or T-DM1 with isolated intracranial recurrence will be included. Patients with de novo metastatic disease and brain metastases or isolated intracranial recurrence can enter upon initiation of maintenance trastuzumab/pertuzumab after chemotherapy if deemed necessary by treating oncologist and meeting other inclusion criteria. Patients with 1st or 2nd intracranial disease event (brain metastases) and stable extracranial disease will be enrolled. Third intracranial progression would be considered if \> 12 month interval between second and third intracranial progression. They will receive local therapy with stereotactic radiosurgery ± surgical resection followed by enrollment. Patients will continue standard of care treatment trastuzumab/pertuzumab or T-DM1 with the addition of tucatinib. Hormone receptor-positive patients requiring endocrine therapy should continue.

Study treatment will continue until intercranial disease progression or intolerable side effects. Patients with extracranial disease progression while on trial with stable intracranial disease should continue tucatinib into the next line of therapy as described in protocol. If a subject continues tucatinib into the next line therapy they are still considered on study treatment and will be monitored according to the protocol. Cycles will continue consecutively and not restart. Once the subject comes off tucatinib they are considered off study treatment and will enter the follow up period.