MEtronomic TrEatment Option in Advanced bReast cAncer
This is a multi-center, randomized phase II trial that will randomise women with ER-positive, HER2-negative (Human Epidermal Growth factor Receptor 2-negative) metastatic or locally relapsed breast cancer in a ratio of 1:1 to receive a metronomic regimen of vinorelbine plus cyclophosphamide and capecitabine, or the conventional paclitaxel monotherapy.
Breast Cancer
DRUG: Paclitaxel|DRUG: Cyclophosphamide|DRUG: Capecitabine|DRUG: Vinorelbine
Time to Treatment Failure (TTF) Compared Between Treatment Groups., Efficacy and tolerability, measured by time to treatment failure, of metronomic oral vinorelbine plus cyclophosphamide and capecitabine (VEX) versus weekly paclitaxel, using an intent-to-treat analysis approach., Assessed at the start of every 4-week (28-day) treatment cycle from randomization to the end of treatment date or discontinuation; median follow-up was 29 months, with a minimum of 0.2 months and maximum of 48.5 months.
Frequency of Targeted Adverse Events (Safety and Tolerability)., Frequency of adverse events by type and worst grade experienced., Time from day 1 of cycle 1 until 28 days after stopping trial treatment.|Disease Control, Defined as best overall response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR), or stable disease (SD) (or non-CR/non-PD in the case of non-measurable disease only) lasting for at least 24 weeks (at least 2 scans), measured from randomization until first documentation of progressive disease. Best overall response was defined as best response recorded from randomization across all time points until disease progression. Confirmation of partial or complete response by an additional scan was not requested in this trial. Disease response and progression were assessed according to the revised Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST version 1.1), Tumor measurements were assessed at baseline, and every 12 weeks (± 2 weeks) from randomization until first disease progression on the basis of clinical and radiological tumor assessments, on average approximately 9 months.|Progression Free Survival (PFS), PFS was defined as time from randomization until documented disease progression according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST 1.1) criteria or death, whichever occurred first; the death must have occurred within an interval of time corresponding to the interval of tumor re-evaluations. For patients without progression, follow-up was censored at the date of last disease assessment., Tumor measurements were assessed at baseline, and every 12 weeks (± 2 weeks) from randomization until first disease progression on the basis of clinical and radiological tumor assessments, on average approximately 9 months.|Overall Survival, Overall survival from time of randomisation will be summarised for each treatment group., From day 1 of cycle 1 until death from any cause (censored at date of last assessment of vital status for patients lost to follow up), assessed up to 36 months from the enrollment of the first patient.
The prognosis for patients with locally advanced or metastatic disease (ABC) remains poor, with a median survival of 2-4 years. About 10% of newly diagnosed BC patients present with ABC, and 30% to 50% of patients diagnosed at earlier stages will subsequently develop metastatic disease.

In the first-line treatment of HER2 (Human Epidermal Growth factor Receptor 2) negative ABC patients, various chemotherapy regimens can be used including taxanes, which are among the most active agents in BC. Single agent response rates range from 20 to 50%. However, eventually all patients will progress with a median time to progression of 5 to 7 months. A weekly (qw) over a three-weekly (q3w) administration schedule of paclitaxel has been shown to be more effective in the metastatic as well as in the adjuvant setting after standard chemotherapy

The VEX regimen was recently investigated within a phase II trial currently ongoing at the European Institute of Oncology (IEO) (IEO number IEOS582/111; EudraCT Number: 2010-024266-21; title: "A phase II study of metronomic oral chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide plus capecitabine and vinorelbine in metastatic breast cancer patients"). Patients received vinorelbine 40 mg orally on days 1, 3 and 5 every week, cyclophosphamide 50 mg daily and capecitabine 500 mg 3 times a day.

Given the promising activity of the VEX regimen in a pre-treated population of advanced breast cancer patients and the good tolerability, the aim of the present trial is to investigate whether the VEX schedule may improve efficacy and tolerability as compared to standard paclitaxel treatment in advanced or metastatic ER-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer patients.

The concept of the VEX metronomic treatment is to administer the combination for as long as the patient has the possibility of deriving a benefit from it. The time to treatment failure (TTF) has been chosen as primary endpoint for this trial. TTF is defined as time from the date of randomization to the date when the final dose of trial treatment is administered. Chemotherapy may need to be stopped due to lack of tolerability, lack of efficacy or patient preference through subjective symptom assessment. TTF is a composite endpoint combining all these feasibility aspects of a treatment. It is therefore uniquely suited to the research question of the current trial. The secondary endpoints progression-free survival, disease control and safety will allow further assessment of the feasibility of the VEX metronomic treatment versus the paclitaxel monotherapy regimen.