Targeted Therapy With Gefitinib in Patients With USP8-mutated Cushing's Disease
The USP8 gene and its downstream target, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), is a potential therapeutic target of Cushing disease. The EGFR inhibitor, Gefitinib, has been shown to reduce the production of ACTH both in vitro and in vivo, especially in USP8-mutated corticotrophin adenomas. The investigators hypothesize that Gefitinib will suppress pituitary corticotroph tumor ACTH production and normalize urinary free cortisol levels in patients with USP8-mutated Cushing's disease. Gefitinib is an FDA approved drug used to treat non-small cell lung cancer. However, in this study, the drug will be used to treat corticotrophin adenoma.
Cushing's Disease|Corticotrophin Adenoma
DRUG: Gefitinib
Change in levels of 24 hour urinary free cortisol after 4 weeks, Full response is defined as the reduction of 24 hour urinary free cortisol more than 50% or normalized. Partial response is defined as the reduction of 24 hour urinary free cortisol between 25%\~ 50%. Poor response or resistance is defined as the reduction of 24 hour urinary free cortisol less than 25%., Baseline, Week 4
Number of participants with a normalized 24 hour urinary free cortisol after 4 weeks, 4 weeks|Change in levels of Late-Night Salivary Cortisol after 4 weeks, Baseline, Week 4|Change in levels of pituitary hormones （a composite of pituitary panel), Pituitary Panel (TSH,FT4, FT3, PRL, IGF-1, FSH, Testosterone Total, Free Testosterone, Estradial, SHBG), Baseline, Week 4|Number of Participants with Adverse Events as a Measure of Safety and Tolerability, 4 weeks|Changes in tumor size, Baseline, Week 4|Changes in clinical signs (the typical signs of Cushing's Disease such as facial rubor, hirsutism, striae, bruising and supraclavicular and dorsal fat pad), The following symptoms will be evaluated using photographs taken at baseline and at the end of the study (Week 4):

facial rubor, hirsutism, striae, bruising and supraclavicular and dorsal fat pad. The photographs will be assessed (scored) by the investigator as well as a second qualified physician at the site, who is blinded to the timepoint at which the photographs were taken., Baseline, Week 4
The USP8 gene and its downstream target, epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), is a potential therapeutic target of Cushing disease. The EGFR inhibitor, Gefitinib, has been shown to reduce the production of ACTH both in vitro and in vivo, especially in USP8-mutated corticotrophin adenomas. The investigators hypothesize that Gefitinib will suppress pituitary corticotroph tumor ACTH production and normalize urinary free cortisol levels in patients with USP8-mutated Cushing's disease. Gefitinib is an FDA approved drug used to treat non-small cell lung cancer. However, in this study, the drug will be used to treat corticotrophin adenoma.