A Window of Opportunity Study of Patritumab Deruxtecan in Patients With Brain Metastases
The purpose of this study is to determine if the study drug, patritumab deruxtecan (HER3-DXd), can be measured in brain tumor tissue after recieving one dose of patritumab deruxtecan before surgery.
Brain Metastases, Adult
DRUG: Patritumab deruxtecan
Determine the concentration of DXd in brain metastasis tumor tissue after one dose of the HER3-targeted ADC patritumab deruxtecan (HER3-DXd) administered via IV 1-3 days prior to craniotomy., The mean concentration of the DXd payload from patritumab deruxtecan will be computed. In addition, the distribution of the concentration will be examined, 3 days
Characterize the pharmacokinetics of ADC in serum, including ADC concentration and DXd concentration, collected at screening, pre-infusion, post-infusion, 4 hours post-infusion, 24 hours after patritumab deruxtecan administration, and at craniotomy., Changes between screening and each follow-up assessment in pharmacokinetics measures will be computed. All patients who have at least one post-infusion serum sample will be included in these analyses., 3 days|Assess the evidence of tumor cell death via histopathological examination and measurement of γH2AX levels in tumor tissue., Among those patients who have an evaluable Brain Met tissue, the level of γH2AX in the resected BrM tissue will be described with means, standard deviations, and other statistics if needed., 3 days|Assess the safety of patritumab deruxtecan in patients with brain metastasis after the single dose and up to 40+7 days., The proportion of patients who experience each type of adverse event will be tabulated by the maximum grade experienced. The first summary will reflect all adverse events; whereas the second summary will reflect only adverse events that are possibly, probably, or definitely related to treatment with patritumab dereuxtecan., 40 days
This peri-operative window of opportunity study in patients with brain metastases will provide a single dose of the antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) patritumab deruxtecan (HER3-DXd, formerly U3-1402) prior to craniotomy to investigate pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, intra- and peritumoral immune activation and responses, safety and explore potential biomarkers. This study will measure the level of the released payload DXd (MAAA-1181a) of patritumab deruxtecan, in resected brain metastasis (BrM) tissue.

Patients will receive a single dose of patritumab deruxtecan intravenously before surgery. Patients will also have procedures such as medical history review, blood draws, MRI scans, ECGs, and lumbar punctures. The amount of time patients are expected to be in this study is approximately 40 days.

Some of the risks of patritumab deruxtecan are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, fatigue, headache, interstitial lung disease, and low blood counts.

All participants who are administered patritumab deruxtecan as part of this peri-operative window of opportunity study will be included in analyses summarizing adverse events.