3-AP and Doxorubicin In Treating Patients With Metastatic or Refractory Solid Tumors
This phase I trial is studying the side effects and best dose of 3-AP and doxorubicin in treating patients with metastatic or refractory solid tumors. Drugs used in chemotherapy, such as doxorubicin, work in different ways to stop tumor cells from dividing so they stop growing or die. 3-AP may stop the growth of tumor cells by blocking the enzymes necessary for tumor cell growth and may help doxorubicin kill more cancer cells by making them more sensitive to the drug.
Unspecified Adult Solid Tumor, Protocol Specific
DRUG: triapine|DRUG: doxorubicin hydrochloride|OTHER: laboratory biomarker analysis|OTHER: pharmacological study
Number and severity of toxicity incidents categorized via Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) standard toxicity grading, Hematologic toxicity measures of thrombocytopenia, neutropenia and leukopenia will be assessed using the continuous variables as the outcome measures (primarily nadir and percent change from baseline values). Nonhematologic toxicities such as diarrhea and stomatitis will be evaluated via the ordinal CTC standard toxicity grading only. Frequency distributions and other descriptive measures will form the basis of the analysis of these variables., Up to 4 years
Number of responses, Responses will be summarized by simple descriptive summary statistics delineating complete and partial responses as well as stable and progressive disease., Up to 4 years
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To find the maximal tolerated dose for the combination of doxorubicin and Triapine® in patients with refractory solid tumors.

SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To find the severity and frequency of toxicity associated with this combination and to observe for and record any antitumor activity.

TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

I. To evaluate the effect of Triapine®/doxorubicin on the ribonucleotide reductase tyrosyl radical in vivo by EPR spectroscopy in buccal mucosal cells, peripheral blood lymphocytes and in tumor biopsies. Formation of low molecular weight iron-Triapine® chelates will also be assessed by EPR.

II. To evaluate the effect of Triapine®/doxorubicin on cell cycle in vivo by measuring S-phase arrest in buccal mucosal cells.

III. To evaluate the effect of Triapine®/doxorubicin on MDR gene expression and polymorphisms in blood.

IV. To evaluate the effect of Triapine®/doxorubicin on ribonucleotide reductase R2 mRNA and immunohistochemistry.

V. To evaluate the pharmacokinetic profile of the combination. VI. To measure the formulation of circulating isoprostanes as an indicator of oxidative stress with this combination.

OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of 3-AP (Triapine\^®).

Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 15 minutes on day 1 and 3-AP (Triapine®) IV over 2 hours on days 1-4. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of 3-AP (Triapine®) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Once the MTD is determined, an additional 6 patients are treated at that dose level.

Patients are followed until disease progression.