Breast and Cervical Cancer Educational Intervention for Latinas in Western New York
This pilot clinical trial studies a breast and cervical cancer educational intervention for Latinas in Western New York. An outreach program may help minority cancer patients overcome problems that keep them from receiving cancer screening.
Breast Cancer|Cervical Cancer
OTHER: educational intervention|OTHER: educational intervention|OTHER: questionnaire administration
Screening rates, Intervention-group screening rates will be compared for evidence of increase over control-group screening rates using the Chi-square test, conducted as a one-sided test at alpha = 0.05. And in stratified analysis, screening rates across both states will be compared for evidence of an overall increase with intervention using the Cochran-mantel-Haenszel (CMH) test, conducted as a one-sided test at alpha = 0.05., 2 months|Screening rates, Intervention-group screening rates will be compared for evidence of increase over control-group screening rates using the Chi-square test, conducted as a one-sided test at alpha = 0.05. And in stratified analysis, screening rates across both states will be compared for evidence of an overall increase with intervention using the CMH test, conducted as a one-sided test at alpha = 0.05., 8 months|Knowledge acquisition, Knowledge acquisition within the intervention group will be assessed using the 1-sided paired t-test at alpha = 0.05, while differences in knowledge acquisition between groups will be assessed using Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA)., 2 months|Knowledge acquisition, Knowledge acquisition within the intervention group will be assessed using the 1-sided paired t-test at alpha = 0.05, while differences in knowledge acquisition between groups will be assessed using ANCOVA., 8 months
PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

I. Investigate the extent of linguistic and cultural tailoring necessary to adapt Esperanza y Vida outreach programs for Hispanics in Western New York.

II. Evaluate the effectiveness of the Esperanza y Vida program intervention to increase breast and cervical cancer knowledge and screening behaviors in Hispanic participants compared to a control health education program on diabetes.

III. Determine the factors associated with and/or predictive of screening of Hispanics in Western New York (WNY) as compared to New York City (NYC) and Arkansas to describe how the intervention impacts barriers and motivations for screening in diverse Hispanic populations.

OUTLINE:

Key informant interviews with local "gatekeepers" of Hispanic culture groups in WNY and focus groups with Hispanic cancer survivors with screened and unscreened participants are conducted during the first phase of research. Participants are then randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

ARM I: Participants engage in the Esperanza y Vida educational information session for breast and cervical cancer.

ARM II: Participants engage in an educational information session for diabetes.

After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 2 and 8 months.