R2-MTX With Lenalidomide Maintenance in Newly-diagnosed PCNSL：a Multicenter Phase Ib/II Stuty
This is a multicenter prospective single arm phase Ib/II study, and the purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety and efficiency of R2-MTX regimen (rituximab \& lenalidomide \& methotrexate) combined with lenalidomide maintenance in newly-diagnosed primary central nervous system lymphoma. 2-year Progression free survival (PFS) of the cohort is the primary endpoint.
Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma
DRUG: Methotrexate|DRUG: Rituximab|DRUG: Lenalidomide
2 years progression-free survival, 2 years progression-free survival was calculated from the date of therapy until death from lymphoma or 2-year follow-up without relapsing, From date of signing the informed consent until the date of first documented progression or date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years
2 years overall survival, 2 years progression-free survival was calculated from the date of therapy until death from lymphoma or 2-year follow-up alive, From date of signing the informed consent until the date of death from any cause, whichever came first, assessed up to 2 years|dose-limiting toxicity（DLT）, all treatment-related, critically relevant grade 3/4 adverse event (AE) that occured in the first 21 days after the start of the first treatment., from the start of the first dose of lenalidomide to the finish of first cycle of induction(21 days for each cycle).
There are 2 section of this trial. Step1 is a phase Ib study.The patients will be treated with R2-MTX regimen （Rituximab 375mg/m2 IV d0, methotrexate 3.5g/m2 civ d1, lenalidomide 15-25mg d1-14, 21 days per cycle) as induction regimen.The dose of rituximab and methotrexate is fixed dose. This is a 3+3 design Ib phase dose-escalation study to determined the maximum tolerated dose(MTD) of lenalidomide dose in combined regimen. 3 levels of lenalidomide dose will be investigated, 15mg, 20mg and 25mg. If the DLT is not found, the dose of 25mg qd will be used for phase II trial.

\[update 02-Jun-2020：the recommended phase II doses is 25mg d1-14\]

Step 2 is a single-arm phase 2 study with fixed does of R2-MTX regimen in newly-diagnosed PCNSL patients. The response will be evaluated every 2 cycles. Patients who achieved complete remission (CR) or partial remission (PR) will receive further treatment, and there are 6 cycles of R2-MTX regimen for the induction. The patients with stable disease (SD) or progressed disease (PD) will withdraw from the trial and receive salvage regimens. After total 6 induction cycles, the investigators evaluate the efficiency again, the patients with CR or PR will go to lenalidomide maintenance for 2 years or until progression of the disease (PD), unacceptable toxicity, or patient/investigator discretion. And the patients with SD or PD will receive salvage regimen.

\[update 02-Jun-2020：Younger patients(≤60 years) who achieve PR after 6 cycles of induction therapy will be candidates of high-dose chemotherapy and stem cell rescue. Lenalidomide maintenance will be administed after the high-dose chemotherapy. Older patients(\>60 years) who achieve PR after 6 cycles of induction will go to lenalidomide maintenance directly.\] During following-up, surveillance examination and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans can be performed every 3 months up to the first 2 years, followed by doctor visit every 6 months up to 5 years or the disease relapses.